How has 2007 been the year for Columbia's prevalence within the mainsteam media? Let Bwog count thy ways... Ahmadinejad's remark about homosexuality in Iran (namely lack thereof) was noted in Salon's Year in Sex. The same comment was also included in City Room's 2007 synopsis under the heading "Widely noted denial of sexual identity", as well lists of 2007's most memorable quotes according to The Guardian, AP, and Dave Barry. Gothamist also included Columbia in its Top News of 2007. As well as the requisite nod to Ahmadinejad, the University was also noted for its rampant hate crimes and foray into Manhattanville. Go Lions? In brief pockets, the press also recognized Columbia for its academics and not for its Ahmadinejad. We landed the #9 spot on US News and World Report's annual ranking of America's Best Colleges, while a right-wing resource for matters concerning American families, the succinctly-named Family Security Matters, honored Issues Dividing America as the 8th "Most Dangerous College Course in America." All the godless communists out there with competitive streaks take note: You're going to need to step it up a notch in order to match DePaul University's Islam in Global Contexts course that was honored as #1. To the protesters, supporters, studiers, slackers, liberals and conservatives, a warm thank you from the press. The above picture is from The New York Times' year in pictures.&nbsp; 
 From Hawaii to Times Square to the depths of suburbia, Bwoggers from across the country are writing in about their New Year's Eve.&nbsp; Let Bwog know how you kicked off your year...be it naughty or nice! Every year, my family and I fly up to my Grandma's house in Honolulu for New Years.&nbsp; My friends back home in LA tell me how jealous they are of my Hawaiian islands vacation, but I always try to tell them (in my conscious effort to separate myself from your average-obsequious-holiday-tourist), that my Hawaii is equivalent to your Iowa, your Arizona, your upstate New York. We visit thousands of family members, eat food, give gifts, "talk story," get in the car, and go back to Grandma's house.&nbsp; On other days, we visit dead family members, give them flowers, "talk story" with their headstones, get in the car, and head back to Grandma's house.&nbsp; This is not a Hawaii vacation of scuba diving, parasailing, hotel waterslides, and other "western" pamperings.&nbsp; It's a pilgrimage that we take almost twice a year. But it is on New Year's Eve every year when I realize how much I've taken these islands for granted.&nbsp; As I sit in front of my computer, on an unofficial 15-minute "bathroom" break from setting up the tables, I can here the thousands of aunts and uncles and cousins (whose names I can't recall) filing into the backyard.&nbsp; I can hear them cooing over my sister's recent weight loss, pouring compliments over my mother's new Hawaiian dress, laughing over my father's infinite supply of wonderfully exaggerated stories, asking whether I will again be lighting the big noisy firecracker this year.&nbsp; And suddenly, I realize how wonderfully fulfilling it is to have such a supportive group of people genuinely interested in my happiness, my family's happiness.&nbsp; Though Hawaii will still remain somewhat of a monotonous excursion, taking me away from the debauchery occurring back home in LA, every New Year's Eve, listening to the commotion outside, I am reminded of what a blessing my family can be, what a blessing my family is.&nbsp; And so, here's to you family.&nbsp; Happy 2008! - Kurt Kanazawa New Jerseyans, like me, just can't seem to get enough of New York. It had been just over a week since I had come home, yet I was already back in the city for the second time--this time to ring in the new year. While most people were out partying with their heads tilted back to down shots of green liquid, I was in the third row of Avery Fisher Hall with my head tilted back to watch Joshua Bell play with the New York Philharmonic. The music, first and foremost, was spectacular--the highlight being his touching rendition of Manuel Ponce's "Estrellita." Bell, as usual, was looking lovely (some critics may debate his playing ability, but none can deny that he is indubitably good-looking). To celebrate the holiday, the NY Phil succumbed to a bit of cutesy kitsch with color-changing lights, arrangements of fake flowers, and players dressed in (sometimes embarrassing) evening-wear rather than their classic all-black staples. There was even an encore performance of "Auld Lang Syne" with the entire hall clapping in unison--except for my mom, who insisted on clapping off the beat as loudly as possible. When I got home to New Jersey, I watched Dick Clark's Rockin New Years Eve (hosted by rockin Ryan Seacrest) on my couch, wished I had gotten a pair of 2008 glasses and made a New Year's resolution to have a less lame New Years 2009. - Catherine Chong The worst New Year's Eves are spent at home, with family, but last night, a blanket of snow and a ridiculous cast of family friends elevated the evening to a sort of zany Sam Shepard play.&nbsp; The snow, which surrounded our rented vacation home, was novel to us temperate weather-loving San Francisco Bay Areans.&nbsp; The cast was: Bwoggish me; my loud father; my hip sister; our sweet not-blood-cousin from deep suburbia; her Mormon ex-Army Ranger quasi-fiance; her foul-mouthed, rat-tailed, and sage mother; and their Brazilian exchange student.&nbsp; Obviously, conversation flowed easily.&nbsp; The former soldier told the vegetarian foreigner about how he wants to exact revenge on the entire bear species (exact reasons are a long story) by killing a grizzly with a cross-bow.&nbsp; The suburban teenagers reported on their heroin-dealing neighbor and his popularity at their (prestigious) high school.&nbsp; My razor-gaydared sister told my flabbergasted father that at least two male family friends have crushes on him.&nbsp; Eventually, it got to be too much.&nbsp; We four adolescent girls withdrew to our snow fort for a respite.&nbsp; After some cathartic star-staring and snow angel-making, and after the Brazilian inadvisedly fell asleep in the snow, we trudged back to the house.&nbsp; It was an exhausting night.&nbsp; I was asleep by 11:30. - Alexandra Muhler New Year's Eve seems to be a great time for parents to leave their homes and allow their offspring to reign free.&nbsp; Because of this, my night began at my friend's beach house. I arrived to the sound of a blender and a few of my high school friends drinking to every oral sex reference made in the movie Clerks. &nbsp; I cursed the California urban sprawl that mandated me to be sober enough to drive home.&nbsp; I could only pass on so many fresh margaritas before I felt the need to find someone else who was sharing my driving responsibility. &nbsp; &nbsp; By eleven I had texted around and found my friend Ryan.&nbsp; Together we moved on to Spudnuts, the 24-hour doughnut shop, and eventually ended up at a small birthday shindig with some other high school acquaintances. We rang in the New Year with sparkling apple cider and tape-delayed and somewhat frightening footage of Dick Clark in Times Square.&nbsp; &nbsp; Post-midnight, I ended up at the local roller skating rink.&nbsp; I always end up at Skating Plus on New Year's, though usually in the signature referee stripes of an employee. &nbsp; After an hour of catching up with former co-workers, I tired of watching twelve-year-olds grinding with one another in the "dancing corner" and drove home to the comforting warmth of my larger-than-twin-sized bed. - Shane Ferro I used to think Cranium was just another crappy board game. Although Cranium's slogan "the game for your whole brain" kind of rhymed, I have been cynical of "educational" board games ever since Battleship was inadequate in preparing me for naval combat. But everything changed when I played Cranium for the first time last night with five other awkward Asian-American youths in a lodge cabin in Woodstock, Maine. The story of how we all arrived there is uninteresting, but just take as fact that when four first-generation Chinese families living in the Boston area begin eating dumplings and taking ski trips together, their kids are going to play Cranium someday. The brilliance of Cranium lies in its ability to draw powerful emotional investments from its players. Cranium achieves this in two ways. For one, you play on teams. When your personal performance determines the success or failure of others, you fear mockery. You fear rejection. You fear death. With all these factors, our well-behaved group of Asian students quickly degenerated into a bunch of cheating, arrogant jingoists. You just don't get that kind of shit with Connect Four. The other reason Cranium guarantees an emotional game is its variety of game play. Between Pictionary, trivia questions, charades, and dictionary smarts, there are many causes for mental anguishes in Cranium. Like, four. And trust me, few things are more frustrating in life than failing a challenge because your teammates couldn't guess Dances with Wolves from your wolf impression. It was a great wolf impression. - Tony Gong As one of the last civilized places to ring in the new year and lacking other wild occasions like Mardi Gras, Seattle takes on a kind of giddiness as December comes to a close--even crunchy non-profiteers trade in their Birks for high heels and find themselves crawling the streets in paper hats. My own night began with a self-guided tour through downtown, observing tipsy parties of three or four stumbling from bar to bar through the darkness. Belltown's new crop of clubs overflowed, with Goths and girls with highly impractical amounts of clothing spilling onto the sidewalk. As the hours ticked towards midnight, stragglers migrated to the Space Needle, that iconic relic of World Fairs past, which draws people in like a magnet. My childhood largely missed this part. Curious and seeking warmth, I entered the Fun Forest, a warehouse full of rides and the most diverse crowd I've seen in this superficially diverse but really quite segregated city: kids and parents, gaggles of teens, older couples, people of every ethnicity and tax bracket, hugging, fighting, lost, ecstatic. Less than a half hour before midnight, the merrymakers filtered out under the broad sky, waiting for it to explode. If you manage to resist the gravitational pull of the Needle, you flee instead to the highest ground available, usually a roof, a bridge, in the case of my small band, a perch on the top of Queen Anne hill almost at the same elevation as the Needle's UFO-like tip, with the sweep of downtown laid out below. The fireworks themselves, late on account of technical difficulties, were underwhelming by all accounts. Predictably, already sodden with celebratory champagne and swigs from an assortment of smaller bottles, no one seemed to mind. Seattle, despite liking to think of itself as the young hip thing on the West Coast, is no New York. Walking home through my own neighborhood of Fremont, the bars had all closed and expelled their revelers, leaving only the dregs of the night to weave home at 3 AM. Leaving the commercial strip, I passed one man sitting swathed in blankets at the base of a sidewalk tree, playing a bongo drum with soft pats in sync with whatever he was listening to on headphones. For him, New Years was just another night, perhaps a little more eventful than most. - Lydia DePillis Photo stolen from the Seattle Post-Intelligencer 
 A new breed of badass is rapidly replacing the sedans of yesteryear. Here, a salute to Public Safety's new-ish fleet of customized, hybrid SUVs. SUVs, you know, for speed.&nbsp; UPDATE 3:38 PM: Sources are reporting the existence of CU Public Safety magnets in the shape of the new SUVs. They're available at the security desk at Woodbridge. The magnets are presumably powered by magnetism and are therefore also environmentally friendly. 
 Bwog, having watched the progress of the Iowa caucus from its comfy couch for the last week, decided to check in with a few Columbians spending their vacations stumping the Hawkeye state for their candidates of choice. Considering it's - 4 degrees outside, you'd have to be insane, or, well...insane. One note: those featured are all working for Democrats. For this, we apologize. If you know any Columbia Republicans slaving away on campaigns, please let us know.&nbsp; With less than 24 hours to go, Iowa is buzzing! It seems as though the major focus, not just for the Hillary campaign but for all of the campaigns, is to make sure our supporters show up. Only 6% of Iowans caucus and as a result, we are attempting to reach every single supporter either on their door or on their phone before tomorrow at 6:30 to implore them to show up. I have spent a great deal of time over the past week with voters and crossing the state and you can feel the energy--Iowans are excited! What I also find remarkable is the seriousness with which they take their role as the first state and their historic mission of caucusing. Earlier in the week when we were on the doors attempting to sway the undecided it was apparent that Iowans know their stuff! They follow these campaigns very closely and are more than willing to talk about what they observe. For example, many people, even those who were firmly supporting another candidate, would invite you in to talk politics for 10 minutes, which was very refreshing to hear! As the excitement builds, I am eager and anxious for tomorrow! - Stef Goodsell, CC ’09, Intern Coordinator, Hillary Clinton for President Ten days of my vacation spent in Iowa, and of my own volition! Fresh from exams and after a brief detour to Boston, I hopped on a plane to Des Moines to help Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) win the Iowa caucuses, or, more precisely, to help him get a strong finish. Consistently polling at 2% in statewide polls, Dodd is not causing Senators Clinton, Obama, or Edwards to lose much sleep. Nevertheless, the bold policies which Senator Dodd advocates and his principled stances on civil liberties issues convinced me to support his candidacy. One nice thing about working for a campaign that has no delusions of running the tables on caucus night is that the candidate is more accessible. Upon arriving in Des Moines on Christmas Day, I met up with the campaign at an ice skating event with the Senator and his family. Afterwards, the Dodds invited staffers and volunteers back to their house (they have temporarily relocated to Iowa) for chili and hot chocolate. At the house, I chatted with the Senator about his recent 11-hour filibuster of the FISA bill, which would have granted retroactive immunity to telecom companies that wrongfully disclosed private information. Since this exciting intro to the Iowa caucuses, I have been canvassing, phone-banking, and staffing the Senator’s events in both Des Moines and Dubuque. Today, the day before the caucus, I canvassed at the home of former Congressman Mike Blouin. This was exciting because he and his family were still unsure whether they would support Senator Dodd or Senator Biden. Experiences like this have demonstrated just how meticulous and patient a campaign must be to cultivate supporters in the Iowa caucus. The support of a former Congressman can make or break a candidacy in certain parts of the state, and campaigns must work tirelessly to secure important endorsements, even in the last days of the campaign. - Jonathan Backer, CC ’10, volunteer for Chris Dodd, Columbia College Dems Media Director. Jonathan also blogs at Veracifier, and shills on the Dodd site. &nbsp; Some Columbians were a bit too busy to give Bwog the time of day. The following is a response to our request from an anonymous Obama staffer. From: to: Lydia DePillis &lt;lbd2102@columbia.edu&gt; date: Jan 1, 2008 9:27 PM subject: Re: Bwog dispatch? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; BEFORE CAUCUS DAY! ARE YOU OUT OF YOUR MIND!!! YES, IT IS -4 DEGREES AND YES I WAS OUTSIDE CANVASSING FOR FIVE HOURS. I NEVER LEAVE THE OFFICE BEFORE 3AM AND I NEVER GET THERE AFTER 9. THERE ARE 12 DIFFERENT PEOPLE ASKING ME WHAT TO DO AND 12 DIFFERENT PEOPLE TELLING ME WHAT TO DO EVERY SECOND. AND NO, MY CAPS LOCK IS NOT BROKEN. I AM SHOUTING. BEFORE CAUCUS DAY! HA! Sincerely, &nbsp; 
 Hats off to childrens author Jon Scieszka (interviewed by Bwog here), MFA '80, who has been named the first national ambassador of young people's literature! Apparently it's like a poet laureate for kids. Mr. Scieszka, as lifelong Stinky Cheese Man fans, you are an alumnus who makes Bwog proud. And a kick in the shins for actor, economist, and former presidential speechwriter Ben Stein (interviewed by The Blue and White here), CC '66, who has made a completely bizarre movie bemoaning a stated lack of freedom to talk about creationism in schools. Mr. Stein, you are an alumnus who makes Bwog ashamed--how dare you treat Richard Dawkins so. - thanks to Jason Patinkin for the tips 
 The Crimson has broadened its coverage area--it's now taking a look at Columbia's expansion, but only as far as Alma's project relates to its own. Some of the paper's conclusions, in Bwog's expert opinion, turned out a little whack. The Crimson calls Harvard's proposed expansion an "even more ambitious plan" than Columbia's (because all comparisons must turn into contests). But is it?&nbsp; OK, Harvard's plans extend over the next 50 years. And yes, they plan to expand over 200 acres. Columbia's plan happens to be 25 years and cover 17 acres. But Allston is no West Harlem. If Harvard really wanted to be more ambitious than Columbia, it would have expanded 200 acres into downtown Boston. In its second botched conclusion, the piece goes on to say that Columbia's $150 million community benefits agreement will pressure Harvard to offer more to the Allston community.&nbsp; Allston may have its share of problems, but because it doesn't have the race factor or a history of an ugly relationship with the University, Bwog's going to take a bet that Harvard won't budge much.&nbsp; Harvard has other places to throw its cash around.
 Photo snapped by Brendan Ballou in St. Paul, Minnesota 
 Thai Jones, CU American history Ph.D. candidate and son of Weather Underground founder Jeff Jones, has written a piece in today's New York Times about the University's most recent hunger strike and the history of self-imposed starvation as a means of political activism. Jones compares much of the campus's anti-hunger striking sentiments of just a few months ago with the similar frustrations of 1960s students towards Students for a Democratic Society. Jones interviews several Columbia students, one postulates that the hunger strike was an argument “that our education has us starving intellectually"—the apparent appetite of the affordable housing-eating octopus non-withstanding. Jones also speaks to his own parents (hi Mom!), who also agree with his favorable comparison of Mark Rudd et al. to 2007's hunger strikers. Top right photo from NYT via Getty. &nbsp; 
Join us in welcoming Bwog's first ever Senior Year Correspondent, St. Louis native Cindy Gao, CC'12, who says she has wanted to major in history "since the day I first laid eyes on Eric Foner." Here, Cindy recalls finding out she was accepted Early Decision.&nbsp; I am a fraud. The test scores, the transcript, the essay – yes, it’s true, these are all my own. I didn’t bribe anyone, didn’t fake a recommendation, didn’t lie about anything on my resume. I didn’t have inside connections with Columbia, my parents aren’t alumni, and I’m not a sports recruit. But I had an unfair advantage over all of the other 2000 or so early decision applicants. Turtles. One, to be specific. The number is important. I know a kid who had to set free four frogs to get into Stanford. It varies. It all happened rather quickly. There we were, sitting at dinner with this old man I’d never met, who didn’t speak a word of English but still managed to make me feel bad about taking AP Stat, and he’s telling us the truth about how his son got into Yale. A month before the decisions came out, he told us, he went to the stream behind his house and released a live fish into the water. He was confident after that, he said. It was a done deal. He said it required a phone call to a fortune teller back home in China, to determine what kind of animal necessary. Before I had a chance to put down my fork, my parents had already written down my information (birthday, gender, address) on a napkin to give to this potbellied man. A week later we heard back. A turtle, he said. PETCO had them for twenty dollars. We left immediately. After telling the pimple-faced clerk at the counter that no, we didn’t need an aquarium for our water turtle, we ended up standing in front of the pond behind my house, my mother coaxing the turtle into the water before it finally straggled in and swam away. Ten days later I viewed my acceptance letter online. The first person we called was the man I now call “turtle guy,” who accepted our offer to buy him dinner, and made it a point to tell me that I was not allowed to eat turtle for the rest of my life. So to answer your question, what was it like for me to find out that I had been accepted? To tell you the truth, I was relieved. Imagine how embarrassing it would have been otherwise. Turtle guy would have never let me live it down. 
 A rare bit of apolitical tenure news at Columbia arrived today in the form of an email from Urban Studies program director Owen Gutfreund, who announced that he had been denied tenure and will be leaving as soon as next year. Gutfreud, an expert on urban sprawl, had the reputation of being an engaging lecturer and remarkably accessible: "His door was literally always open," recalls one Urban Studies major. Though of course no professor is without faults (reportedly attempting to convince an entire class to purchase Sim City, for one) Gutfreud's departure is a great loss to the Urban Studies department and to the University. Full email after the jump. To all Urban Studies students: With great regret, I must tell you about some upcoming changes to the Urban Studies Program. &nbsp;I will not be staying at Barnard. &nbsp;This was not my decision -- I would have liked nothing more than to continue my work here. However, I was not awarded tenure at Barnard, and will now be looking for a job elsewhere. I'll still be here at least until the end of the spring semester; my plans for next year, though, are still up in the air (according to faculty rules, after this tenure decision, I have an option to stay for a maximum of one more year). &nbsp;Of course, until I leave, I'll continue as Director of Urban Studies. &nbsp;Professor David Weiman has agreed to assume responsibility for running the Program afterwards. &nbsp;In the meantime, he and I will work together to ensure the smoothest transition possible. I have made arrangements to ensure that all of you will have as much advising support as possible during this transition. &nbsp;Of course, while I am still on the Barnard faculty, I will hold regularly scheduled office hours each week. &nbsp;In addition, the following other faculty and administrators will be available to advise Urban Studies students (both current and prospective majors): Professor David Weiman (dfw5@columbia.edu) Professor David Smiley ( ds210@columbia.edu) (on leave 2008-2009) Professor Greg Smithsimon (gs228@columbia.edu) Professor Lori Minnite ( lminnite@barnard.edu) Barnard Associate Provost Flora Davidson (fdavidson@barnard.edu) Columbia Dean of Academic Affairs Kathryn Yatrakis ( kby1@columbia.edu) Of course, if you have any questions about all of this, please contact me. I have truly enjoyed the years I've spent working with Urban Studies students from Barnard and Columbia. &nbsp;I will miss the Program and -- most of all -- its students. yours, Owen Gutfreund 
 Stephen Colbert's guest on his WGA strike-breaking show tonight is none other than Chris Beam--former B&amp;W senior editor, V112 writer, co-founder of Ivygate and writer for &nbsp;Slate's&nbsp;political blog Trailhead (see iconic depiction at right). Watch it at 11:30 p.m. He's blonde and articulate. Update: an interview with Beam, who's in Manchester, NH in a noisy cafeteria. After the jump. Bwog: You taped the show a few hours ago--how'd it go? Beam: I don't think I truly humiliated myself.&nbsp; We talked about the New Hampshire primary--he asked about the Edwards campaign.&nbsp; It was all sort of a blur.&nbsp; He was sort of, ribbing me at the beginning about my beard and I told him it was my strike beard. Were you worried about being a guest on a strike-breaking show? Beam:&nbsp; I was a little bit concerned but then I realized that he dedicated almost his entire show yesterday to the strike.&nbsp; He's trying to use his show to argue on the writers' behalf. What's it been like covering the campaign? Beam:&nbsp; It's been great.&nbsp; Kind of wild, fairly exhausting.&nbsp; I did this 36 hour bus tour with Edwards and I think he slept an hour.&nbsp; You wonder why anyone in their right minds would run for president and that's probably why so many aren't in their right minds.&nbsp; What are you working on now? Beam: I'm typing up a post about animals on the campaign trail.&nbsp; I saw a Great Dane with a Richardson sign draped over him.&nbsp; I saw an Obama goat.&nbsp; The goat appeared to be sedated. -AMP 
 The New York Times' Election Guide 2008 is a handy tool for figuring out the political affiliations of tight-lipped professors, distant cousins, and friends. Entering in a zip code will yield a listing of all the political donors in that area, including to whom that money was donated and how much. Here are some Columbia names: Name, Affiliation: Dollar Amount, Candidate Hillary Ballon, CU: $2,300, Barack Obama Jean M. Bollinger (yes PrezBo's wife): $500, Hillary Clinton John Coatsworth, SIPA interim dean&nbsp;$1000, Chris Dodd&nbsp; (Coatsworth's wife has given $450 to Obama) Deborah Coen, Barnard: $350, Hillary Clinton Edward Coffman, CU: $150, Barack Obama Jonathan Cole, CU (Former University Provost): $1000, Hillary Clinton Geraldine Downey, CU (V. Provost for Diversity Initiatives): $2000, Hillary Clinton David Epstein, CU (Political Science): $250, Hillary Clinton Bruce Greenwald, Business School: $2300, Mitt Romney Lance Liebman, Law School: $250, Joe Biden Thomas Pogge, CU (Political Science): $300, Barack Obama Leo Spitzer, CU (History): $350, John Edwards Joseph Stiglitz, Business School: $2300, Barack Obama Tim Wu, Law School: $500, Hillary Clinton Richard Bulliet, CU (History): $4600, HIllary Clinton Maxine Griffith, Executive VP for Government and Community Affairs: $250, Hillary Clinton M. Dianne Murphy, Athletics Director: $2250, Hillary Clinton Judith Shapiro, Barnard President: $1000, Hillary Clinton David Weiman, CU (Economics): $258, Barack Obama Priscilla Ferguson, CU (Sociology): $856, John Edwards&nbsp; &nbsp; For the full list of all Columbia employee donors, just search for yourself.&nbsp; Click "more search options" then scroll to "employer" and enter "Columbia University." Thanks to Julia Kalow for the tip. 
 Bwog was puzzled when news of a delegation of Columbia professors going to Iran to apologize to President Ahmadinejad for PrezBo's performance in September appeared in our inbox yesterday. The article by the government-sponsored Mehr News agency cited only one anonymous source and seemed completely improbable, Bwog brushed it off as Iranian propaganda and went about its day.&nbsp; The New York Sun, however, ran a whole article (followed by a pro-PrezBo comment signed as CB9 chair Jordi Reyes-Montblanc) about the "visit," which also made it into the pages of such reputable news outlets as the New York Times and Michigan Daily, as well as a handful of blogs. No professors confirmed the story, Richard Bulliet didn't know anything about it, and a Columbia spokesman said the university "has no knowledge or information about the claims being made in the Iranian media." Now City Room has a fat post on the non-story, consisting of multiple denials of the rumor and a rehash of the whole affair. If any professors are planning to head east, they might not be professors for much longer, since PrezBo apparently banned official visits last month. Bwog suggests a telegram. - LBD 
 Sure pre-frosh can be a little irritating, but their idealism and eagerness can be charming... right? For 2012, Arianna was courageous enough to jump-start the pre-frosh profiles. Hometown: Paukakalo, Maui, Hawaii Prospective Major: Sustainable Development, International Relations, Political Science, History Prospective Dorm: John Jay or Carman (I am still torn, but recently I have wanted a single) How long do you think it'll take you to lose your... Dignity? This is a bit tricky, because I generally don't care what anyone thinks of me. So as far as my dignity is concerned, I may have already lost it or I will never lose it or possibly I have never had it. Moral compass? I have a pretty strong hold on my moral compass, so hopefully never. Sanity? I am already ridiculously crazy. 2010 had the myspace, 2011 dominated on facebook, but 2012 went above and beyond, ED on facebook. Does this milestone make you proud? I would not say I am particularly proud, but with one of my friends' encouragement, I joined the facebook group 45 minutes after I found out, so I am definitely a part of the group's enormous success. To be honest, joining the group oddly made my going to Columbia next year a reality. I am completely addicted to procrastinating on the internet, so seeing the growth and activeness of the CC '12 group made me feel comforted that my future classmates have my same vice. The group has actually made me slightly pessimistic about next year because people's comments seem sort of lame. I hate it when people abbreviate excessively such as "how r u?" and "lmao" and I want to vomit whenever someone writes ";)".&nbsp; At first I found it humorous that a bunch of 2011 kids were sarcastically giving advice, but then it sort of made me sad that the current freshman at Columbia have nothing better to do than haze younglings. How many of the Lit Hum books have you already read? Or are planning to read? In my world history and literature courses I have already read excepts from The Iliad, The Odyssey, Oresteia, Oedipus Rex, Genesis, Aeneid, Confessions, Inferno, Decameron and two summers ago I read Pride and Prejudice. I was not intending on prereading any books, but from this question I guess I probably should . . .&nbsp;&nbsp; Maybe I will read Crime and Punishment.&nbsp; A few yeas back my ex boyfriend read that book for his senior novel and to complement his reading we also rented it.&nbsp; The version that we rented was terrible, it would switch from subtitles to dubbing frequently and at the oddest times.&nbsp; Now I am looking forward to renting that dreadful film again and sharing it with my new peers.&nbsp; I will probably also read Don Quixote, Hamlet, and To The Lighthouse. What are you doing with the rest of your senior year? My first thought was "drinking liquor, drunk, smoking weed", but I guess because I am not a member of Three 6 Mafia, those will not exclusively be my only activities.&nbsp; My second thought was "sex on the beaches . . ." even continuing to all of Peaches raunchy lyrics, but that too is probably not what I am only going to do. In reality I will probably not change my daily habits very much, but my mentality might relax.&nbsp; I hate being clich&#233;, but I have the urge to scream out "Carpe diem!" I truly want to live my life to the fullest, appreciating Maui and my current friendships as much as I can.&nbsp; Also instead of only doing homework on Sundays, I am going to devote the first half of every Sunday to going to the beach or on a hike. You're from Hawaii, have you ever heard of Anton Glamb (myspace.com/antonglamb)? No, I have never heard of him. I am not madly in love with the tunes, but they are ok. I would be more impressed if he was from Maui. Oahu sucks, I only feel pride for Maui specifically, and even on Maui I feel prejudice against super touristy places such as Lahaina and Kihei. 
In which Ashish Kundra, bringer of news from around the net, passes on a friendly warning. A few months ago, Microsoft handed Facebook a $240 million wad of cash. Microsoft’s new equity boosted Facebook’s estimated value to $15 billion (by comparison, that’s three times Monster.com's market cap of $4.8 billion). At the moment, Facebook's ad revenues don't come close to a $15 billion dollar value, so there's something up their sleeves that we probably don't know about. We do know that they will be racing to justify that ambitious valuation by doing some more edgy—and profitable—stuff&nbsp; Here are a few things I've noticed or heard of unfolding on Facebook. Newsfeed Owns You: The newsfeed was designed to increase the time of the average visit. Clearly, increasing this number means is directly increasing ad revenue. And guess what? Just weeks after launching, Newsfeed doubled the average visit time for Facebook users. Hot damn. Makes you wonder how they do it? The content that shows up on your Newsfeed is selected to keep you on the site. That means, either you have found these people interesting in the past, or other people have found this stuff really interesting. Think about it next time you login. The people you stalk will probably show up more often than not. Gifts are for charity. For now. Facebook invented the notion of a virtual gift and has done extremely well with it. For the time being, it seems to be all for charity, but Facebook’s intentions are far from philanthropic. When you buy a gift for a dollar (or buy an ad), you have the option of saving your credit card info with your account info. This is a BIG DEAL. Heard of Amazon's One Click Checkout? I am sure we will one day see Facebook-sponsored stores like GAP complete with a One Click Checkout. Gotta stay fly. Skimming off the top: Speaking of Amazon, Facebook got in bed with the company on its Marketplace Book Exchange. When you fill in the ISBN of whatever book you are looking for, Facebook readily points you towards a link to Amazon. This is because they see anywhere from 4% to 10% in referrals from that book you purchase. Targeted Advertising: Every 10 or 20 times I log in, I see the same Facebook ad for Union Square Ventures - a venture capital firm based in New York. A technology VC firm would probably be smart enough not to waste time advertising to all the kids at Columbia. But this is the perfect example of Facebook's recently-launched advertising platform: in my profile, "start ups" is listed as one of my interests. And since Facebook is getting paid per click, they allow advertisers to target their ads with user's personal profile content. It's kind of like Adwords--but we're talking about our personal information here. What are these applications about? Be careful when you install an application. It is too easy to install an application, you’re giving away a lot of information, and the application developer can pull all of your personal data from your profile. They can also pull a ton of data from your friends’ profiles. And here's the real danger: anyone can develop a Facebook application and launch it. There are sites that will even do it for you. So with a decent application name and a cute picture, a developer could compile a lot of personal data very quickly, which can be used for all kinds of identity theft. And since it’s an open platform, Facebook cannot place any technological constraints on this data (they do place legal constraints on it, however). I think we will eventually see a lot of really useful applications developed. For the time being, a lot of cheesy applications aim to gain tons of users and sell their adspace. Others want to make money through less legitimate ways—this one gets paid every time they get you to download a worm that will then send information from your desktop to advertisers. Takeaway point: as much as Facebook “friends” aren’t necessarily real friends, Facebook itself is no pal either. Treat it like the acquaintance you enjoy once in a while, and watch out for its tricks. 
 Book Culture (or "Labyrinth" for the stubborn) has joined The Internets in the form of a new-ish blog, aptly titled Book Culture. The blog features genuinely informative posts about upcoming readings in the area, Q&amp;As with visiting authors and tips for purchasing textbooks—though one disgruntled student explained that the best tip on buying coursebooks from Book Culture is not buying coursebooks from Book Culture. Photos of empty shelves, the storefront's Gothic exterior, and their new sign constitute a fair number of posts too, but of course a blog wouldn't be a blog without some geeky self-indulgence. 
If it slipped your mind to register last month &mdash; or if you got stuck with bad TAs &mdash; be aware that registration appointments for spring start again tomorrow.
 For many of us, it's difficult to even imagine a Morningside Heights without Pinkberry and West Side Market—not that we would ever want to. What would such a haunting reality even look like? Bwog Webmaster Zach van Schouwen stumbled upon a collection of historical photographs of the neighborhood that will give you a good idea. It is the middle ground between light and shadow, between science and superstition, and it lies between the pit of man's fears and the summit of his knowledge. Enjoy! &nbsp; (Above photo is of the 110th St. El train.) 
 It's moment you've all been waiting for because this spring all of you baby-blue donning lions and lionesses will be able swipe your parents' money away in a smorgasbord of local vendors.&nbsp; Because The Powers That Be want to test run the program before they expand to "any/all interested vendors" in Morningside, they asked we the people to vote for the places that we visited most.&nbsp; And because all of the award shows are&nbsp; being canceled, Bwog will be giving out the 1st Annual Roaree Awards to the vendors winners of the survey.&nbsp; Results after the jump. The 1st Annual Roaree Awards for Morningside Heights Vendors The Roaree for Groceries and Markets The Winner:&nbsp; Westside Market where Columbians voted overwhelmingly for star fruit and paninis, crushing the more convenient MoWi, the Italian specialty store Milano Market and other bodegas. The Roaree for Rapid Eating Establishments The Winner: HamDel.&nbsp; Barely edging out Chipotle, Starbucks and Nussbaum, it seems to be the favorite 24-hour eatery.&nbsp; Sorry Spicy Special lovers, the 109 St Deli pulled up 18th out of the 20 places polled. &nbsp;The Roaree for Less Rapid Eating Establishments The Winner: Deluxe.&nbsp; The one word restaurants pulled most of the top spots (Ollie's, Swish, Tom's), but the adjective stole the show.&nbsp; &nbsp;The Roaree for Everywhere Else The Winner: Duane Reade.&nbsp; Everyone's favorite, convenient pharmaceutical store earned over 85% of votes and crushed the more specialized Kim's and Book Culture.&nbsp; This just in: CU Bookstore voted 7000 times. &nbsp; &nbsp;-JJV 
Vote for Bwog as U.S. News and World Report's Best College Alternative Media Outlet. Right now we're a few points behind the Michigan blog. But the Michigan blog is making campaign promises it can't fulfill. The blog from Michigan said, "If I win, I'll buy everyone a puppy. That's a promise." Bwog's not about to make promises it can't keep; you deserve better, Columbia. And so does America.&nbsp;
 An insider at ResLife just sent Bwog a very helpful tip provided on the condition of anonymity—"I don't want to lose my bulletin board decorating privileges," explained the source. &nbsp;"RA Winter Recharge training starts at 5 PM today . From now through Sunday, ALL RAs, CPAs, and, this is key, RESLIFE STAFF, will be in horrible soul destroying training seminars from 8 AM until 9 PM. No breaks. Nobody will be policing the dorms. Nobody. Go nuts." 
Blue and White Managing Editor Katie Reedy spent her winter break in Guatemala with a nascent NGO called DreamWeavers. Here, her dispatches from Nebaj, Guatemala City, and San Pedro. (Ed. note: All images from Google, since there are no camera cords in San Pedro.) Nine days ago, we ended up in Nebaj.&nbsp; Up blind curves with no guard rails, swerving to avoid the 'chicken buses,' the 1970's-era American school buses festooned with colorful paint and religious slogans that are used for common transportation in Guatemala, our van climbed higher into the altiplano. Windows open, bachata and salsa blasting, duffle bags rolling around on the roof, the van ascended the mountains at an alarming speed, stopping only to let girls vomit and shit in the woods to rid themselves of the queso they ate on the streets of San Pedro the night before.&nbsp; Nebaj, one of most remote villages in Guatemala, is so high up that there are clouds in the streets. The people rarely speak Spanish (Mayan Ixil and Quiche, instead), old ex-guerrilla guides sadly point out hills where their fellows fought and hid during the decades-long civil war, and maintaining standards of sanitation is a distant priority after hauling enough wood for fires and reaping maize from steep mountainsides. The whole place was dark and corroded, faces more taut than in the warm lake towns-- probably due to the fact that more than 100,000 people in the area were killed in a genocide that ended just 13 years ago.&nbsp;The plan was to arrive in Nebaj, stay at a Peace Corps-built hostel, hike for two days to visit even more remote settlements in the mountains, and then book it back to the warm recesses of San Pedro La Laguna, our home base.&nbsp; Our optimistic 24-girl group set off up the trail mountain. We had come to Guatemala for various reasons-- some for the volunteer work, some to document local cooperatives and fair trade movements, some for vacation-- but all under the auspices of DreamWeavers, an NGO put together by Kai Zhang, BC '09. We had bonded after a week of hanging out with schoolchildren and exploring Lake Atitlan, and it was time to test our bonds by hiking the Cuchumatanes. Our bus dropped us off on the side of a desolate hill road when its gas ran out, and seven children appeared out of what seemed to be a boarded-up stall nearby. We left the children and soon the path itself. After an hour of scrambling on our hands and knees up a mule trail, our 50 lbs backpacks seeming heavier with every foot of altitude we gained, four of us threw in the Mayan artesan-crafted towel. Remarked one traveller, "I've been smoking Marlboro reds for six years, I don't think I can do this." Remarked another, "What the fuck were we thinking?" Disgusted, the rest of the hikers abandoned us to find our way back to Nebaj proper.&nbsp; And so we waited for a van. Villagers came out to stare and sheep bleated as they passed. We met an 11-year-old shepherd named Diego who carried a machete larger than his body and gave him a granola bar and some colored pencils. A 15-seat public van rattled around the bend and we piled in, though there were already 12 occupants, including a Marxist rural female doctor who asked us, sternly, "Proyectos o vacaciones?" to which we replied, correctly, "Proyectos?" A small old man eyed us warily and a very small boy fell asleep on one girl's lap.&nbsp; &nbsp; Two days ago, we ended up in Guatemala City.&nbsp; The Dominican SIPA student in our group had befriended a group of tour guides who offered to take us to see the presidential inauguration. Cut off from the internet and newspapers, none of us had realized the mortars and bottlerockets sounding all day&nbsp;marked the election of new political&nbsp;heads across the country. We found a daily broadsheet with the details of the festivities: Every leftist Latin American leader worth his weight in tamales was going to be there-- Chavez, Lula, Ortega, Morales-- and the whole day trip was going to cost us twelve dollars.&nbsp; At 4 a.m., six of us hopped in a van. By 8, we were in the city, full of soldiers with machine guns, police with dogs and rifles, colonial palacios, futurist art and parks, and revelers of every stripe. Our tour guides, chuckling together in Tzutujil the whole time, myteriously attempted to pull into a blocked driveway at the national airport. "Que pasa?" we asked. "Chavez esta aqui," they replied,&nbsp;yelling out to an annoyed and armed police officer, "Donde esta Chavez?" He shook his head and we pulled out of the driveway.&nbsp; In the national central plaza, the people were waving banners, climbing structures, playing marimbas, selling ice cream for American prices. We waited for the ceremony; it was happening inside instead, we heard. The&nbsp;officials&nbsp;would be coming outside to do their addresses to the crowd. We waited more. A Barnard Spanish professor showed up to meet her student in our group. At 6 p.m. we left. The roads around the lake are pitch-dark after nightfall, which makes hijacking vans a fairly common pastime, and neither we nor our guides wanted to take the risk of returning too late at night.&nbsp; On the way back, we listened to the president's speech. He&nbsp;addressed the indigent and the indigenous (65% of the population), to much fanfare. After, a reporter out in the streets spoke of the excitement in the city that night. The crowds behind him started shouting something about "la vida," and he was drowned out. The radio station went to static, then cut out altogether.&nbsp; &nbsp; Last night, we stayed in San Pedro.&nbsp; One NYU girl in the group had gotten a gig singing opera at a local bar called The Buddha, and we all went to in support. She wore gold face-paint, a pink boa, and a red chemise. At 1 a.m., five of us walked up the hill into the actual town, where the people were still celebrating the new mayor and president.&nbsp; The usual marketplace had been emptied out, leaving bare the Mara Salvatrucha graffiti on the walls and providing ample space for two stages and a mass of dancing villagers. A color-coordinated salsa-bachata-merengue band performed at the main stage, and we did our best to keep up with the the music. Our male escort fended off a dozen drunk and mentally challenged men who exposed themselves and pawed at us. The band leader pointed us out immediately, asked us where we were from, and demanded that we all jump on stage with him. Four of us were inclined to do so, and we soon had nicknames-- La chinita, La morenita, La orita, La alta, La mas alta (yo).&nbsp; And so we danced with the band, even if we felt we were not inclined. They called out commands-- A bajo, arriba, vuelve la cintura-- and La chinita, La morenita, and La orita obeyed, laughing and avoiding the angry stares of the poor, worn women on the side of the stage holding babies wrapped in hand-made blankets.&nbsp; 
 It appears that Morningside Heights coffeeshops took winter break as an opportunity to shake things up.&nbsp; In the case of Saurin Park Café, a coffee and sandwich shop with free wireless located on the corner of 110th and Frederick Douglass Blvd, the cafe's ownership has changed.&nbsp; It's now called Cafe Amrita and is owned by "some Chinese man" according to the cashier.&nbsp; The new owner is considering small alterations to the menu and prices (read: it will get more expensive) but otherwise the cafe is virtually untouched.&nbsp; The same grad students and Morningside moms are there, and the easy-listening music is still just a little too loud.&nbsp; Hungarian Pastry Shop update after the jump. The Hungarian Pastry Shop is currently under construction--half of the store is blocked off as workers build a new kitchen.&nbsp; This should all be over by Monday but, in the meantime, you can still sit in the front half of the store and drink coffee in paper cups. 
 The winds of change (and frigid, seasonal air) are a'blowin' in Morningside. Beginning with Toast, everyone's favorite spot for a second or third date. Toast has relocated from its previous location on Broadway between LaSalle and Tiemann (right near 125th) and has taken up residence in Carne's old spot on Broadway and 105th. With Manhattanville's development in the works, this seems a bit counter-intuitive to Bwog, as property values in precisely Toast's old location are sure to skyrocket. Nonetheless, we look forward to schlepping just as far to Toast, this time in the other direction. Farther up on Broadway, big news for Pinkberry devotees in the form of its latest flavor addition: coffee. Bwog picked the brain of Pinkberry cashier Shadenia who explained that many customers have been sampling coffee, but not many have been ordering it. "They have to get used to it." Those quickly-adapting coffee converts are enjoying the new flavor with chestnuts, a new seasonal topping. (To those following Pinkberry's seasonal ingredients, winter's chestnut is replacing fall's pomegranate seeds.) "I'm not really a coffee person," said Shadenia, quite seriously. Bwog observed six customers in Pinkberry, none with coffee. Melanie and Angela ate original and green tea, respectively.&nbsp; They seem underwhelmed about the addition of the coffee flavor and had no plans to try it. "It's the same category as green tea," Angela explained. Bwog asked for clarification. "There's original. And then the other flavors are green tea and coffee." Brows furrowed, Bwog exited Pinkberry. And no recapitulation of developments in Columbia and its environs would be complete without a salute to the new EC elevators. The vaguely space station-y silver elevators are just as sterile and ugly (metal mesh!) as the old EC elevators, the design of which Bwog can barely remember. &nbsp; - JNW 
Scott, the treasurer of the organization formerly known as Model UN (now called Columbia International Relations Council &amp; Association, apparently), has just informed Bwog that in about ten minutes there will be "tons" of leftovers from a high school conference in Lerner. Scott boasts of cheeses, deli meat, and "some random cranberry stuff that Nussbaum and Wu gave us." Nussbaum and Wu (and Scott) has giveth, go forth and taketh!
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Last night, a Columbia band called The Stolen Cars played a show at the Lower East Side bar Fontana's. Bwog ventured 45 minutes south-east to catch them play with five other bands as part of a larger battle of the bands-type competition. The all-Columbia, all-Beta Theta Pi band is composed of John Luna (SEAS '08),&nbsp; Matt Pruznick (CC '09), Taylor Eichenseer (SEAS '09), and Danny Ferarro (CC '09). &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; They specialize in catchy alt-rock, and Luna's idiosyncratic and poppy vocals engender comparisons to Something Corporate. The Stolen Cars played a handful of songs, the best of which was "Home Run", a crescendoing homage to ska that features a clever mix of electric guitar (Luna played both electric and acoustic at the show) and electric piano. The band ended with "Abbey and Audrey"—at which point, Matt Pruznick had removed his shirt that helpfully read "Matt"—a favorite among the growing group of CU students in the crowd, many of who started singing along.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The Stolen Cars were followed by a band called Cocaine, the members of which resembled a terrifying cross-pollination&nbsp; between Don Johnson circa 1989 and Perez Hilton (see documentation at left). The lead singer began throwing baby powder at the audience, at which point Bwog left. Later that night, The Stolen Cars were announced as the winners of the competition and they were invited to play again in the next round of the contest. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - JNW &nbsp; 
 In an effort to control the vitriol in the comments section, we're adding another mechanism to keep an eye on anonymous commenters. From now on, if a comment was posted from a campus computer, you'll see the icon. We're hoping this will help cut down on abuse without unnecessarily impinging anyone's privacy. Naturally, we're still looking for feedback on the comment system, in the threads or by emailing bwog@columbia.edu — and as always, you can find our full comment policy here. Welcome back, Bwog Staff 
 Wien residents may have noticed catered goods and earnestness currently occupying the first floor lounge. The cause celebre is a buffet dinner to mark the completion of successful year of a conference of acronyms aplenty: CIRCA, is the Columbia International Relations Council and Association, and they hosted the Columbia Model United Nations Conference and Exposition, or CMUNCE, which is pronounced like the novelty pet.&nbsp; There were 362 high school participants in this year's conference, which differs from typical Model United Nations conferences because the committees are not UN-based. Jon Hollander, CC '10, explain that this gave organizers the freedom to create more interesting situations. One example from this year: The Israeli committee was instructed to purchase weapons from the plastic gun-toting Mafia committee. "The weapons were to fight the Arabs," said Hollander. However Israel inexplicably wound up entangled in a Middle Eastern drug ring, and "the Mafia kidnapped Israel instead." There were nearly 80 Columbia University students who organized the conference and one from City College. "He's dating someone from Columbia," Scott St. Marie, CIRCA's treasurer, explained. For four days, the high schoolers and organized capitalized on what was described as a copious fake-blood supply, took turns riding a broom-turned-horse ("Everyone rode that horse this weekend," said St. Marie), and used fake guns to their advantage. The one rule? According to St. Marie: "Don't touch the delegates; you can't touch the high school students." Andrew, another organizer, walked by and made air quotes with his fingers. "Touching," he laughed. Hollander and Maria Insalaco, CC '09, cited this year's CMUNCE as the most successful in its seven year history. "Should we tell her about the door?" Hollander asked Insalaco under his breath. "No, Hamilton facilities will just find that out," she answered. - JNW 
 Earlier this evening, and sporadically throughout the day, the East Campus elevators--yes, those shiny new transport cells--stood frozen in place for hours on end, forcing residents moving in to shlep their stuff up dozens of flights of stairs. According to the security guard on duty, a big moving bin had slammed into one of the doors, knocking it out of commission during one of the busiest times of the year. Bwog surmises that it may also have to do with the elongated time the new doors take to close--those waiting may well have kicked them a little too hard (which used to do the trick with the old ones!).&nbsp; Unrelatedly, at about 10:20 p.m., Bwog also noticed a very excited security guard shouting into an intercom near the Broadway gates: "We beat Green Bay! In overtime! Overtime! The Giants are going to the Super Bowl!" Having had multiple conversations with other security guards in recent days about the game, and considering the number of Patriot partisans on this campus, it appears we may be in for an exciting Bowl day. - LBD 
 First big news of the semester: Columbia just got the ball rolling on this "Manhattanville" thing... Police find the man behind the Brooklyn Heights hate crimes, and his pipe bombs. (See also here.) Four-alarm fire destroys building on W. 113th Men's basketball no longer undefeated in Ivy League play, but still untied!&nbsp; Alumni committee spearheading the effort to reconnect students with the activist spirit of '68 after uneventful, apolitical fall semester. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Much in the news today about paying for college and college paying for you. American studies director Andrew Delbanco and former dean of students Roger Lehecka co-wrote a New York Times article about Harvard and Yale's distribution of financial aid. Our Ivy brethren to the north, in an attempt to make attending college possible for "families across the spectrum", have re-calculated their financial aid allocations to benefit families earning between $120k and $180k per year. They argue that this decision will compel other universities to do the same--helping out more middle class and upper-middle class families. The problem is that most (read: all) schools simply do not have Harvard or Yale's budget.&nbsp; In all likelihood, the money going towards funding an upper-middle class student's education is going to prevent many poorer students from receiving aid at all. The article also argues that most upper-middle class and middle class students are deserving of aid, but most "find a way to attend college." Most poorer ones do not. At $5.94 billion, Columbia's endowment is paltry compared to Harvard ($35 billion) and Yale ($20 billion)—Kluge non-withstanding. It will be interesting to see if Columbia follows suit—after all, Yale only did this as a response to Harvard, with whom they knew they would be competing for students. But Columbia can't afford to compete in the same financial league as Harvard and Yale, and poorer students can't afford to have CU try. Meanwhile, on the shadier side of business deals, the Associated Press is reporting that the relationship between study abroad programs and universities (including dear Alma Mater), is coming under fire. The New York Attorney General's office has found links between colleges choosing certain programs and receiving perks—for instance, a program financing school administrators to stay in Rome for two weeks in order to check up on the program for four days. Columbia is one of 15 schools that has received subpoenas. The article was published quite serendipitously, as many students are heading en masse to JFK in the next week to go overseas for the semester. Bon voyage! - JNW 
 The new East Campus elevator cabs have been a popular topic of discussion among the dorm’s residents (one is very shiny and very slow, and the other one still isn’t operational), but Bwog noticed another transportation snag just a few feet away. Someone has switched the “Stair Up” and “Stair Down” signs on the EC highrise’s stairwell doors, resulting in several double takes, and double door openings, by students, parents, and assorted bystanders. One incredulous young man opened the “Stair Up” door, saw the stairs leading down to the basement, looked back at the sign and defiantly announced, “This is the stair up” several times before walking away in disgust. 
Bwog gastronomic correspondent Cyrena Lee offers Columbia vegans a healthy, environmentally-conscious dining option outside Morningside Heights.&nbsp; Morningside Heights doesn't have much of a reputation amongst epicures, but for vegans and even vegetarians, there is a disheartening lack of restaurants that abstain from using any meat in their kitchens.&nbsp; Fortunately, New York City is a haven for veggie eaters, and delightful restaurants who cater to them, ranging from healthy organic fare, macrobiotic Japanese,&nbsp; to mock meats, laden with all the greasy fried goodness of regular American fare—sans the actual flesh. I ventured to Angelica's Kitchen, an old-time favorite of mine, located on the Lower East Side. (A sign between 1st and 2nd Ave. on 12th street indicates Angelica's, in a neon-lit, loopy script.)&nbsp; In addition to being completely organic vegan, Angelica's Kitchen also has an environmentally conscious ethos: A minimum of 95% of all food used to prepare the menu has been grown ecologically.&nbsp; Credit cards are also not accepted as a form of payment, as greenbacks are more natural than cold plastic. That said, all of these trendy green-factors are really beside the point if the food doesn't hold up, but luckily this is not the case. For raw foodists, or for those who aren't exceptionally hungry, the Thai Me Up raw entree consists of strands of daikon radish, butternut squash and carrot on a bed of garlic-lemon marinated kale, dressed with Thai tahini sauce. However, if one is not accustomed to unadulterated vegetables and greens, the decadent tahini sauce only does so much for this dish.&nbsp; This shouldn't necessarily be anyone's first vegan meal, but is better suited for an experienced vegan health fanatic. A friend of mine ordered the Hot Open Face Tempeh Sandwich, which consists of&nbsp; slices of sourdough baguette with marinated and baked tempeh (a protein source made from soybeans) and mushroom gravy. In the middle of the sandwich, there's a scoop of surprisingly creamy mashed potato, all resting on a bed of spinach glory. And no visit to Angelica's would be complete without ordering Southern-style fluffy cornbread. (For those who suffer from celiac disease, there is a gluten-free version available as well.)&nbsp; Either way, the deliciousness of the cornbread is not compromised due to a lack of eggs or dairy. Finally, there's dessert. We sampled a daily special: upside-down pineapple cake served with lemon creme.&nbsp; It was devoured within a matter of seconds. Angelica's Kitchen has daily special entrees as well as desserts, and though the former tend to be a bit pricier than the standard everyday fare, usually they're worth the few extra dollars.&nbsp; The cozy seating is a bit cramped when busy, but it's a great place to people-watch and eavesdrop, especially when the vegan lexicon proves a bit confusing to the virgin ears of the omnivore. 
 First came the lice. They invaded the heads (and sheets, and clothes, and pillows) of the girls of the Barnard Quad back in October. Next up on the nuisance continuum: "racist" graffiti.&nbsp; It's barely eight hours into the first day of the semester, and controversy has already erupted in the form of graffiti scribbled on dry-erase boards in Hewitt. The nature of the graffiti is first described as "racist", but later as "targeting feminism." Perhaps the correct term might have been "sexist"? In any event, the entire Barnard community received an email alerting them to the events and subsequent series of meetings to discuss the code of conduct.&nbsp; Frankly, we're a bit nostalgic for the lice. Full email after the jump. To the Barnard Community -- As some of you may know, several incidents of racist graffiti were found over the weekend on memo boards on the 6th floor of Hewitt Hall. &nbsp;Whether or not these actions of blatant bias were committed by a member, or members, of our community, they were committed within our community and therefore affect us all. This is a deeply distressing start to the new semester, and insofar as the graffiti appear to target feminism, it is appalling to encounter this at a women's college. It is my hope that we will not allow these senseless acts to begin a cycle of anger and response. Instead, there is an opportunity here, as we return to campus for the spring, to commit to a positive and open exchange of thoughts and ideas, and a culture of respect for all members of our community. Last night there was a floor meeting for Hewitt Hall residents and this Thursday, at 7:00 p.m. in the James Room, an important community forum will be held to address a new Barnard Community Code of Conduct. The discussion will be facilitated by a committee of administrators and students and I strongly encourage you all to attend. Judith Shapiro &nbsp; 
 Bwog mentioned the recent arrest of Ivalyo Ivanov, who admitted to a rash of anti-Jewish vandalism that occurred last September in Brooklyn Heights, in today’s QuickSpec. &nbsp; But in case you missed it, here’s a quick recap: Ivanov approached the police claiming to have been shot in the finger, but soon admitted that he had shot himself. When the justifiably suspicious officers searched his apartment, they discovered bloodstained walls and a stockpile of weapons that included a sawed-off shotgun, a crossbow, and several pipe bombs. Columbia, which had its own problems with anti-Semitic graffiti last fall, was drawn into the controversy when the NY Sun claimed that Michael Clatts, Ivanov’s roommate, and an AIDS researcher currently in Vietnam, was a Columbia professor. Columbia’s administration debunked that when it informed the Spec that Clatts is not paid or employed by the school, and has only a “voluntary affiliation.” So, Columbia is only vaguely in the picture, but here's the coup de grace: Ivanov is Jewish, or claims to be, leading an unconvinced rabbi to question whether he has the proper matrilineal Jewish descent. Regardless of his religion, let’s be glad he’s in custody and away from his crossbow. 
Hey, remember the Oscars? They happened last year? They might get cancelled? Sometimes women win them by pretending to be ugly, even if they aren't ugly, and sometimes if they are? Well, the nominations came out today (surprise! No Country for Old Men and There Will Be Blood led the tally) and Bwog awards show correspondent Daniel D'Addario puts on his best Mary Hart to tell you that there will indeed be blood - and Oscars! First up: the acting categories. Best Actor George Clooney, Michael Clayton Daniel Day-Lewis, There Will Be Blood Johnny Depp, Sweeney Todd Tommy Lee Jones, In the Valley of Elah Viggo Mortensen, Eastern Promises Will Win: While I'm glad that Oscar voters looked past the general hackiness of Paul Haggis's film to see Jones's great and dignified performance, this is Daniel Day-Lewis's to lose. His delivery of the line "I drink your milkshake!" alone would have earned him a SAG Award. Should Win: I drink your milkshake! I drink it up! Robbed: This category seems pretty solid - although I haven't seen, and will not likely see, Sweeney Todd, and think that George Clooney has gone from being an affable, good-looking guy to an awards-season threat that must be contained (fuddy-dud Michael Clayton for seven nominations - really?!). If I had to toss another nominee on the pile, I'd take out Clooney and nominate Emile Hirsch for his nature-obsessed, Thoreau-spouting man-child whose glaring immaturity provides Into the Wild with a welcome dose of moral ambiguity (seemingly against the director's will, making Hirsch's performance a masterful act of subversion). Or perhaps Javier Bardem, who was nominated for supporting but played the lead role as a superhuman killer in No Country for Old Men. Especially on the men's side, 2007 was nothing if not a year of obsessions. Best Actress Cate Blanchett, Elizabeth: The Golden Age Julie Christie, Away From Her Marion Cotillard, La Vie en Rose Laura Linney, The Savages Ellen Page, Juno Will Win: Wow. Although it's good that Angelina Jolie didn't get nominated (I love her as a person and a persona, but A Mighty Heart was ill-advised in every way), I still think all the movies with good parts for actresses in them were released last year. Of this list, I've only seen two and about a tenth of the movies (I turned off La Vie en Rose twenty minutes in, after about the third scene involving a good-hearted prostitute). So, the legend takes it - Julie Christie, take your Oscar and go; Marion Cotillard, making ugly faces into the camera as you lip-synch is not acting, and seriously, just go. Should Win: Seriously, this list is like the multiplex from hell for me - except The Savages, which was good, and Laura Linney good in it - the times she was onscreen were the times when the movie didn't just feel like a reprise of Todd Solondz's Happiness. So, you know, go Laura Linney, and don't make a sequel to The Nanny Diaries. Robbed: I would say Nicole Kidman, who was so fantastically Upper-West-Side-witchy in Margot at the Wedding, but I have utter faith that this time next year, the bitch will be back. Tang Wei, unlike Kidman a total newcomer, owned Lust, Caution in a way that was almost unfair to whomever she shared the screen with - her journey from cynicism to lust to something like love was the most remarkable trajectory I've seen in years, and certainly could stand up against Cate Blanchett in a ruffled collar. Best Supporting Actor Casey Affleck, The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford Javier Bardem, No Country for Old Men Philip Seymour Hoffman, Charlie Wilson's War Hal Holbrook, Into the Wild Tom Wilkinson, Michael Clayton&nbsp; Will Win: Javier Bardem; this is so obvious that I can't think of anything witty - or even "witty" - to say about it. &nbsp;&nbsp; Should Win: Javier Bardem is great but really more of a lead performance; in terms of a true supporting performance that contributes to the film without pulling focus, Hoffman and Wilkinson are fine if uninspired choices, but Holbrook shows up, seemingly at random, two-thirds of the way into Into the Wild, does a fine little acting duet with Emile Hirsch, and then leaves, having fundamentally altered the film - which to that point had been a capable tearjerker lacking a human touch. I suppose he's a legend (though I'd never seen him on film before), but his performance is the kind of thing Hoffman will be doing in forty-five years, and Wilkinson in twenty-five (I guess?). Robbed: Nothing comes to mind right now - this truly is a very solid category. If Javier Bardem were moved up to the Best Actor category, it might make room for Vincent Cassell, who gave a performance as good as Viggo Mortensen's in Eastern Promises, with the added bonus of being sleazier, and a total sociopath in a way that Bardem's Anton Chigurh wouldn't even get. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Best Supporting Actress Cate Blanchett, I'm Not There Ruby Dee, American Gangster Saiorse Ronan, Atonement Amy Ryan, Gone Baby Gone Tilda Swinton, Michael Clayton Will Win; A personal note about Cate Blanchett: I sort of think the backlash to her performance, such as it is, has been "It's a woman in a man's role," which leaves unsaid but implies that every performance of hers is something of a parlor trick. Of her five Oscar nominations, four are for playing real people (Elizabeth I twice, Katharine Hepburn, Bob Dylan) and one is for playing a female pedophile from a widely-read novel. I don't think that Cate Blanchett could have played the Tilda Swinton part in Michael Clayton, or the Laura Linney part in The Savages - women who are interesting because of how they are played rather than who they just inherently are. I respect Blanchett, but she's very hard to like as an actress because all you see are the gears working, the spectacle of Hepburn or Dylan or the Queen recreated either magically or ghoulishly. That said, parlor tricks do inspire slavish devotion (as her random double-nomination this year, not to mention the entire career of Meryl Streep, can attest), and I do think she will win. Should Win: How random is that Ruby Dee nomination? American Gangster feels like a lifetime ago. Tilda Swinton and Saiorse Ronan are both very good choices - if I were pressed, I guess I'd go with Swinton, who is the best part of Michael Clayton by a mile and really sells every sweaty, guileful inch of her character. The scene where she's rehearsing her interview about how fulfilling her work is should become a small classic. Robbed: Jennifer Jason Lee was quite good in Margot at the Wedding - all neediness and weird sublimated spite. She'd be a perfect fit for the spot Ruby Dee sits in right now - she did more to impress me than just slap Denzel Washington, and she fits the tone of the year as a woman driven less by her own emotions than by an obsession - in this case, with what others think of her. &nbsp;The hour draws late - in part two, I'll talk about Best Picture and Director and the screenplay, animated film, and foreign film categories. Welcome to the inner recesses of my mind, where the constant, chilling refrain is "Oscar, Oscar!" &nbsp;-DPD 
 Cupcakes: The all-purpose graphic! Perfect for film reviews. And articles about cupcakes. Barnard flooded with drawings of stick figures burning bras Also: an actual flood GSSC VP resigns, explains "I have an off-campus apartment now I can only do so many things at once." 
“You need to attend a concert. A classical concert. No...” "No Spice Girls. I know, they’re coming here next week, but it’s all sold out—but they added another show, but that’s sold out too. Anyway, you’re all too old for that stuff.” --Carl Bettendorf, Music Humanities It’s the first week of spring semester, and that means welcoming remarks from Columbia’s finest minds. E-mail bwgossip@columbia.edu, or post a comment, if you hear anything funny, surreal, demented, horrifying, or otherwise memorable. 
 Check back throughout the day for a continually updated list. Post-Modernism, Prof. Vandenberg In post-modernism yesterday, fifty or so tightly packed, Derrida-hungry kids waited for Prof. Vandenburg to arrive. When she still hadn't shown up after 25 minutes, a few witty comments started to fly about how "post-modern" it would be for Vandenberg to let the class teach itself. Vandenburg walked in unhurriedly a few minutes later, only to announce, "I'm sorry...it was very post-modern: I was using my computer clock, which I shouldn't have done. Of note: As of the first class, no one had yet used the abbreviation "po-mo." Music Hum, Prof. Loo Loo started class out by attempting to goad some students into sharing their current music preferences. There was a smattering of unenthusiastic "Kanye West"'s and "Radiohead"'s before one eager listener declared, "Classic rock." Loo asked for some elaboration. "You know," the kid shrugged, "Like Kansas...Boston. Oh...Elton John." Film Noir, Prof. Douglas Ann Douglas was doing a roll call in her Film Noir seminar and this occurred:&nbsp; Douglas: Richard ? Kid: I go by Chad. Douglas: I'm sorry... Kid: Chad, like the country. Douglas: Ah, Chad like the country. Well, at least its not Charred. &nbsp; At least it sounded like she said "charred." People at my end of the table gave each other a lot of "WTF" looks. 20th Century Lyric Poetry, Prof. Strand A girl in Mark Strand's 20th Century Lyric Poetry seminar admitted she hadn't applied or registered (there were way too many people in the class), and he looked at her, squinting, with a look of mild disgust, and asked, "What were you thinking?" Seminar in Political Economy, Prof. Morelli Girl: Hi, I'm not actually a student here. At Columbia. Morelli: Oh. You should audit. Boy: My name is and I'm a Ph.D hopeful. I was hoping to research with you. Morelli: I don't know anything about that topic, but I would like to collaborate. Introduction to Poetry and Poetics, Profs. Golston and Murray Murray: "Occasionally we will dissolve into bouts of barely concealed rage that will hopefully be pedagogically interesting." Introduction to Literary Theory, Prof. Robbins He walks in and writes on the board: Everything is X X is a construct &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "One is not born a woman; but becomes one" He never explains or references either the first part or the Simone de Beauvoir quote. Soil Mechanics, Prof. Ling Professor Hoe I. Ling, a professor of Soil Mechanics in the CEEM Department opened his class today with a photo of the surface of Mars taken by the 150 million dollar Sojourner rover. Ling has a thick Chinese accent. "Yes. Many of you might remember when a little device went to Mars. This is the first photo that the toy gave us." Readings in Jewish Humor, Prof. Dauber Jeremy Dauber from Readings in Jewish Humor said of Phillip Roth's Portnoy's Complaint: "It's a filthy book and I hope you enjoy every filthy moment of it." Christianity, Prof. Somerville Somerville: "You all are Christians, were Christians or are not Christians." 
Spotted on the Barnard Quad. A stage? A stage with capabilities to transform into portable dressing rooms? Qu'est ce-que c'est? Let us know! Email bwgossip@columbia.edu &nbsp; UPDATE 5:59 PM: A tipster explains, "The panels are not a stage. The architects (Weiss/Manfredi) brought them to the sight to select which panels would be used for The Nexus. The one on the right has a masking tape "x" on it signaling the choice. By the way, my friend who interns for them was just complaining about&nbsp; how they have been there since before the break. Someone should remove&nbsp; them before they get vandalized. They are quite expensive from what I hear." 
 Until this week, the Wallach Skylounge’s zippy name was its only appeal to studiers in search of space. It was notorious for its smell – a dank bouquet of mouse droppings and sweat – and its furniture – one backless couch and a couple of spinecurlingly low tables. But Housing has worked its magic and transformed the attic-dungeon into something new and sparkly. For the scavengers among us, some old furniture may be left in the Wallach basement. More photos after the jump The room’s excessive heating requires open windows and flying fans, even in January.&nbsp; And lo, there are lights!&nbsp; And rolly-comfy chairs!&nbsp; And garbage cans! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 This sign was spotted atop the muffin display case in Cafe 212. Coming soon: a crumpled piece of notebook paper tacked up next to the sandwich menu, reading, "Do u like me? Check box yes or no. Luv, Turkey." 
 Harvard, Yale, and Princeton are showing theirs off, but Columbia is underendowed&nbsp; When you've finished your CTV marathon, switch to this! Snoop Dogg: proponent of Lazy Sundays or ambitious multitasking? Over winter break, women's basketball goes 1-4, and they still got more done than you did. And next year, the swim team is recruiting Frederick Douglass, Columbus, and St. Nicholas!&nbsp; Also, a QuickRichmondPost-Dispatch Columbia does something admirable, and the New York Sun is nowhere to be found. &nbsp; 
 In light of yesterday's startling revelation about the $1.59 price tag on a Hershey's bar, Bwog decided to do a little comparative shopping. The same Hershey bar can be purchased for just 75 cents at the kiosk on 116th and Broadway. In fact, while candy prices at 212 skyrocket upwards of $2 for Reese's candy hearts, prices are stable at the kiosk, where all candy is just 75 cents. Gum also retails for $1.25 at the kiosk and $1.49 at 212. On the ethnic food front, a California Roll at 212 is $5.99 and a Spicy Shrimp Roll will set you back an unbelievable $6.79. The same rolls at m2m go for $3.50 and $4.50, respectively. 212's bubble teas are also roughly the same prices as Swish's. Orange juice proves the most egregiously over-priced 212 item. A 15 fl. oz. bottle of OJ is $2.25, while at Morton Williams it's just $1.59.&nbsp; In fact, a 64 fl. oz. bottle of Tropicana OJ at MoWi is only $3.99—that's 6.2 cents an ounce. At 212 you're paying 15 cents/an ounce. UPDATE 1:39 PM: Brownies, (the Avery basement cafe), has reportedly raised most of their sandwich prices by a dollar, a tipster reports. 
 Bwog was stumbling around in the nether-regions of Craig's List, a confusing place brimming with possibilities of love, sex, and felony. We've filtered out the best (and worst) of Columbia-related posts. Dear Professor Amazing The way you tear into a argument-- you pounce on the main points, you toy with the subtleties-- makes me weak. When you take off on one of your brilliant analyses of 19th c. literature, I absolutely swoon. I love the animation of your face, the delicacy of your hands, the precision of your language, the suddenness of your laughter. Yes, I admit it: I have tuned out seminar discussions to wonder what kind of underwear you might have on. And yes, I have allowed myself a couple ridiculous fantasies in which, through some truly transparent plot device (costume party, your late-night lamp-lit office), I have found an opportunity to kiss you. But this is reality. So, I shall quietly show up to class tomorrow, make a small remark about James, and be on my way. Respectfully yours, The Smitten Graduate Student&nbsp; More PG-13 Columbia-centric findings after the jump! Blonde Columbia General Studies Student on the Downtown 1 Hello. You were the adorable girl with the blue general studies messenger bag. I was the tall guy in the blue striped shirt who kept making eye contact with you. We both got off at Columbus circle. You had a fantastic half-smile on your face and you kept looking down at your feet. I would have said something if I wasn't immersed in conversation with my friends. Well, shucks, you seemed swell. Where are Columbia Girls ! The situation is this... I'm involved in a serious long distance relationship that gives me emotional fulfillment but leaves me sexually deprived. So I'm looking to have a good time with someone that is cool and drama free. I am an intelligent, and attractive european guy who is open and creative. However, I've never done this before. Well, if you want to share time with me, let me know ... Maybe You Can Tell From This Mix I Made...&nbsp; (Incredibly detailed and lengthy playlist—with descriptions!—that might be of interest to some, but is too long to post.) Actor to Play Police Officer (and has uniform already) I am shooting a Columbia graduate film on Sunday, 1/20 and need an actor to play a police officer. The role is short, but very funny and important to the film. Please respond ONLY if you are both free on Sunday and HAVE A POLICE OFFICER'S UNIFORM which you can wear. This is vital. Thanks for your time. Hair/Make-Up for Short Film (Columbia MFA) Hair/Make-Up pro needed for fun short student film (Columbia University MFA Film program). The film is called "RESOLVE" - about a pregnant woman and her cranky neighbor on New Year's Eve. Shooting 2 evenings: Sat Jan 19th &amp; Sun Jan 20th Make-up needed for only two cast members (1 male and 1 female) - both need to look tired, with realistic under-eye circles. May also need to ADD FACIAL HAIR to the guy, for a scruffy look. Great friendly crew, no pay but meals, transportation and a copy of the film will be provided. Please be in touch to join this project! Thanks! 
 The scene: Tasti D-Lite in Lerner. Yesterday, mid-afternoon.&nbsp; Girl 1: So in my class, this guy was like laughing when the professor was talking about like, women and misogyny. Girl 2: That's so ridiculous. Girl 1: And then he tried to flirt with me after class and I was like, "I'm not going to flirt with you after you like laughed about women." Girl 2: (nods approvingly) 
 It's the beginning of the semester and lines are out of control at the Barnes &amp; Noble and, occasionally, at Book Culture, where the line has snaked up the stairs (or alternately, has been non-existent, like every time Bwog goes there to take a photograph of the line).&nbsp; For a shorter trip to the bookstore, don't head over right after a class lets out. Or, just skip the whole headache and head to Butler, which is nice and empty this time of year.&nbsp; One tipster did and saved $600 on textbooks, sadly reminding Bwog of (Good) Will Hunting's dressing-down of a Harvard snot: "you wasted $150,000 on an education you coulda got for a buck fifty in late charges at the public library." 
Scrabulous devotees beware: Bwog newcomer Mariela Quintana shares a cautionary tale of addiction, rehabilitation, and quasi-salvation in the form of a charity Scrabble tournament. For many a puzzler, the insatiable need for crosswords can spiral into an addiction.&nbsp; Like any nasty habit, crosswording starts as a leisure activity and spawns into an all-consuming compulsion, driving its victims to steal crosswords from waiting room magazines, to desperately horde their goods for private use and to deny any need of help. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The satisfaction that completing a crossword provides makes this at once an appealing activity and also a deadly one.&nbsp; The perfect X-word may, in fact, may seem impossible at first, but in the end the solver should triumph and think: Oh, how clever I am! Is it any surprise then, that this self-indulgent assurance of one’s own acumen is a favorite pastime among members of the Columbia community? I should think not. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; By New Year’s, the level of my crossword consumption had surpassed satisfaction and reached disgust. For 2008, I resolved to cut-down on crosswords.&nbsp; I was nervous, but as any crossword addict would know, a challenge is only an occasion to harness our signature mental dexterity and cerebral savvy. In past weeks, I have found new ways to utilize the time I had once devoted to my addiction. I’ve come a long way; I visit museums, I catch up with old friends—I even began performing community service! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A wordgame-free future seemed well within in my grasp. That is, until I received an email from 826 NYC, a Brooklyn-based, after-school program where I volunteer.&nbsp; They were organizing a Scrabble tournament to raise money to fund writing and literacy programs. The tournament was dubbed Scrabble for Cheaters and not playing by the rules was essential to winning the game. In the weeks prior to the tournament, teams could purchase the ability to use specific cheats: rejecting opposing teams' words, buying vowels or the letters q, x, or z, or the most expensive cheat of all—for $500, the ability to make up a word. Use of the latter resulted in gibberish words that spanned the width of the Scrabble board. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The tournament took place this past Sunday at the 826 headquarters on Brooklyn’s 5th Avenue. The intensity of the competition varied from cutthroat crossword combat to all in the name of good fun. The more light-hearted competitors embraced the team uniform requirement. One team dressed as “Geishas Gone Rock n’ Roll Glam” while another opted for Dolly Parton and Kenny Rogers.&nbsp; The final four favorites, many of who hailed from the local chapter of the National Scrabble Association (NSA), seemed to take the sport as seriously as I had taken crosswords in my darker days. The Vow-wow-els, a team c omprised of two NSA members, studied quietly from the official NSA dictionary.&nbsp; Another team shot obscure two letter words back and forth in preparation for the games ahead.&nbsp; In these competitors, I observed the familiar feverish flush and quickened speech that reminded me of the uppity rush of crosswording. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Unfortunately, transitioning from crosswords to Scrabble is not always entirely seamless. The most salient difference between Scrabble and crosswords is also the most challenging and the most beneficial for the recovering puzzler: Scrabble involves direct social interaction where Scrabble does not. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Where the former puzzler once found stimulation and comfort in isolation, now he finds them in the company of others.&nbsp; The group participation involved in Scrabble safeguards the activity from the dangerous addiction that X-words are wont to become. A familiar admonition applies to Scrabble that applies to other vices: Friends Don’t Let Friends Play Alone.&nbsp; 
 "Imagine that you're eating a hamburger." Columnist mathematically proves that 90% of fans of The Wire are faking Heath Ledger our generation's James Dean, but in more than three movies Finally, Barnard's relationship with Columbia is explained in just ten paragraphs AM New York BONUS: Ken Jackson notes that "in New York, space is precious" and "Nobody wants to live next to falling down drunk 20-year-olds." 
Looking for a chance to wait forty minutes to get your neglected bike onto the McBain elevators, then ride many miles in the freezing cold? Read on, my friend. Staten Island is probably foreign ground to the vast majority of Columbia students, and with good reason -- even on a good day, it's an unbelievable trek. However, it's often worth it to travel out there. If you're looking for weird and little-known places, well, Manhattan is no longer the place to find them. But Staten Island is a vast expanse of empty, unpopular, and abandoned wonders. Case in point: the boat graveyard. Tucked away on a forgotten corner of the island's west shore is a swampy little plot of land where wooden and steel boats have been haphazardly rammed into the shore and left to decay. A continuous string of craft lets you walk hundreds of feet out into the water. Photos and more narrative after the jump. I found the graveyard more by dumb luck than anything else; although I knew it existed, I was heading to Staten Island to travel to some unrelated sites. However, the only other person with a bike on the ferry was enthusiastic enough about it to convince me to join her trip. The payoff is big. Getting into the yard is a little tricky (and that's after you manage to travel 11 miles from the ferry terminal, mostly by bike or bus). If the tide isn't low (and it wasn't), you have to wade across a shallow (and disgusting) stream to get to the boats from the improvised trail that leads to the road. I avoided this fate by walking a few blocks down the road and scaling a ten-foot steel fence, with the help of a nearby tree, to enter an adjacent NYPD dump. This worked well and kept me dry, but ended up forcing me to explain myself to a couple of very annoyed police officers as I dangled from a high branch on the way out. Once you're in, though, it's a terrific sight. The sheer mass of the beached boats is unbelievable, and although you have to pay close attention to your footing, it's not terribly difficult to walk out onto the outermost barges and take in a panoramic, post-apocalyptic view of the Arthur Kill. Even the most seasoned Manhattanite would be impressed by the strangeness of post-industrial Staten Island. If you feel like freezing your face off, I highly recommend it. Staten Island Boat Graveyard Arthur Kill Road near Rossville Ave (map) Take the 1 train to South Ferry From the ferry, take the S74 or S84 bus, or take the SI Railway to Prince's Bay station and ride your bike two miles —ZvS 
 Columbia's current favorite sons, Vampire Weekend, seem to be doing pretty well for themselves lately. With their full-length album coming out in three days and two sold-out shows at Bowery Ballroom kicking off a national tour next week. "Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa" was Rolling Stone's 67th best song of the year, and a snarky Pitchfork review can't be more than two weeks in coming, considering the backlash that we've seen -- without an album even having been released! On the local front, Columbian Jared Hecht passed along his interview with the group, over at Jambands. The phrase "Upper West Side Soweto" appears more than once. (If you still haven't heard VW, there are some pretty good free samples on Daytrotter.) 
Economics Prof. Joseph Stiglitz (who has recently filled in, on occasion, for Nicholas Kristof on his New York Times blog) may be January's most-quoted man -- and he's well on the way to claiming the same role in February. On Wednesday, he wrote a guest column in the Times preaching economic gloom, offering a suggestion to address pretty much every economic problem America is facing. He also appeared on Monday in the Times of London (Day of Reckoning in the US Glasshouse) and, earlier in the month, in the Guardian (Stagflation Cometh). The winning quote? Describing the Fed's recent rate cuts as "pushing on a piece of string."
 In an attempt not to be outshone by the European Commission's plan to make the Earth a greener place, Housing Services (in conjunction with the Office of Environmental Stewardship, Facilities, and RecycleBank), announced today in the form of an email an "innovative new program...that rewards you for recycling while helping to improve our campus-wide recycling efforts." In an email simply abloom with exclamation points, Housing Services explained that all CU first-years will receive a "barcoded key fob," which in this context is not a racial slur but a reusable recycling bag from John Jay Dining Hall. Who knew? After activating their account from a website, one would presumably place their recyclables (which materials are recyclable within the program weren't specified in the email) in his/her bag, take it to a designated area in the Furnald laundry room; the 1st floor of John Jay and Wallach; or the 4th, 8th, and 11th floors of Carman, and then recycle to his/her (green) heart's content. Each bag will be weighed, and this weight will allow the student to accumulate points that can be redeemed for Chipotle gift cards (!) and of course the obligatory iTunes gift certificate, among other things. - NB 
Valiant Bwog reporter Dan D'Addario tries coffee-flavored Pinkberry... so you don't have to. The week before classes started was idyllic. I had moved back into my dorm early and my days went from movies to dinner to bar to bed. And yet, one thing happened that left a bad taste in my mouth, a literal bad taste. &nbsp; An employee standing on the sidewalk was offering free samples of coffee-flavored Pinkberry, the latest flavor to "swirl" from the minds of those twisted L.A. geniuses. I'd actually enjoyed the original and green-tea flavors, so I tried it, and was swept into tastebud hell. &nbsp; Imagine the worst aspects of coffee - old coffee, that's been sitting on the pot for hours and been reduced to charred, bitter, coffee ashes, that clench your intestinal tract with a single sip. Now make it a sour yogurt. Mmm. &nbsp; The chocolate chips were the only redeeming factor on my small yet unfinishable sample - I attempted to use them to cleanse my palate, a feat that took hours, and a toothbrush. Fortunately I was spared the sample with mushy, Gerber-esque bananas, and other samples were topped with strawberries and raspberries, as though the complement of berries would help the vomit-inducing yogurt be palatable. &nbsp; Now, when I walk by Pinkberry, I want to warn the people inside, to tell them that they're making a huge mistake. I only ate a few bites, and I will never look at coffee, yogurt, or the color pink the same way - what will an entire Large serving, eaten in the pursuit of novelty, do to their souls? Then, I consider the scariest notion of all - maybe they'll like it. &nbsp; 
Capitalist extraordinaire Zach van Schouwen shows you how. Textbook buyback is probably the most depressing time of the year. Ten minutes after exams end, a human wave seems to descend on the bookstore, hoping to get $18 back on their $70 purchase. On a good day. The more inventive resort to taped up flyers across campus, hoping against hope that someone passing through some dimly-lit stairwell in the basement of Lewisohn will really need to buy "Proto-feminism in 18th Century East Asian Critique." Or, worse yet, hoping for a stranger to pass through your dimly-lit Facebook profile. So, the options are dismal. But I made a profit on my textbooks this semester. How is this possible? It barely is. The first step was to get four of the books from the CU, Barnard, and city library systems. (All three.) Sounds like a waste of time, but it's probably worth spending two hours of your life on the train to the Jamaica branch if it saves you $150. The others I scavenged off the Internet, checking maybe a dozen used-book sites and buying dirt-cheap a couple months in advance. At the end of the term, I sold them back to the web, but set the prices near the high end of the spectrum and they sold anyway. My Graph Theory textbook fetched $78 on a site I won't name to avoid sounding like an ad (it rhymes with Calf.com). All this after the bookstore had made me wait in line for twenty-five minutes (while six or so people sat behind the counter, drinking coffee and performing various personal hygiene tasks) offered me $11. Other books fared similarly. The Internet is a big free market economy, and the bookstore is Uncle Pennybags. An incompetent, overpriced monopolist that thrives on information asymmetry and your inability to sell books anywhere else—in a top hat. And he knows that having a cashier hand you a stack of singles still feels pretty satisfying. So here's a hint: Media Mail, even to the West Coast, is only $3. It's just a small gift, from globalization to you. 
 Columbia men’s basketball came into this evening’s game against Cornell with high hopes—after all, some sports prognosticators and portents had picked the Lions in the preseason as league champions, and opening league play with a hard-fought six-point loss at Ithaca against Cornell, there seemed to be no reason that the senior-studded lineup couldn’t better their performance at home in the veritable high-school gym that is Levien. A win would mean a respectable 1-1 record with twelve ostensibly easier league games to go; a loss would consign Columbia to the cellar of the Ivy League, with a pitiful record of 0-2 and prospects for a league championship dim for not just one but probably several years. So how did the Lions respond to what may have been the biggest basketball game in years? In a word, poorly. Cornell came out of the gate strong by scoring ten unanswered; Columbia’s clunky offense failed to score until more than six minutes had elapsed. Given the Lions’ slow, methodical, halfcourt-oriented mode of scoring points, an early-game deficit is always bad, and an early-game deficit against a superior team even worse. Easy interior points were impossible against Cornell’s corn-fed frontcourt, and on the rare occasions when the drives drew fouls, horrible free-throw shooting ensured that the deficit remained as huge as ever. Meanwhile, the defense, which forced a number of turnovers, would play solidly and smotheringly for the first fifteen or so second of every possession before breaking down at the most inopportune of times and surrendering an unfortunate trifecta or layup off the glass. Impassioned cheers from the student section were squelched whenever Cornell scored a basket, which was frequent: every exchange seemed to result in either a preservation or a widening of the deficit, and by halftime, the score was Cornell 40, Columbia 22. Like in the non-conference home opener against Fordham, the Lions were able to recover their poise during the second half, but it was already too late: Cornell simply answered every Columbia basket with a basket of their own—Columbia never came within less than a dozen points—and in doing so cruised to an easy victory, far easier than their effort at home a week earlier. The referees, at times complacent and at others fickle, failed to help either side, the accurate three-point shooting of the Lions capitulated to the relentless interior attack of the Bears, and the game grew ever more out of reach as time elapsed and expired. In the end, Columbia succumbed to what Camus might have called “the indifference of the universe,” lost the game by a score of 72-54, and forfeited the better part of their chances for a share of the league title and an NCAA tournament berth. The general agreement was that it’s not fair to have a state school in the Ivy League, which is, after all, no more than an athletic conference. But with twelve games left against mostly inferior opposition in a league with a lot of parity, we can still hope, right? - Christopher Morris-Lent The grisly details can be viewed here 
Bwog's resident gastronomic correspondent Michael Snyder serves up (!) advice on where to go and how to get seated during restaurant week.&nbsp; Some say Christmas is the most wonderful time of the year; I say it’s restaurant week.&nbsp; Although this winter’s restaurant week is already halfway finished, you still have five days left—January 28-February 1—to enjoy three-course prix fixe lunches and dinners ($24 and $35, respectively) at some of the city’s best eateries. Below, some simple advice for the remaining days of the best thing to happen to penny-pinching foodies since sliced whole-grain bread. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Start out by consulting a list of the restaurants participating this season on the restaurant week website.&nbsp; Some restaurants only offer the restaurant week deal for lunch or dinner, others for both.&nbsp; Similarly, some places take reservations, others don’t.&nbsp;&nbsp; As you make your list of places you want to go, there are several important things to keep in mind.&nbsp; First of all, be aware of the restaurants’ typical prices.&nbsp; Don’t waste restaurant week on anything but the most expensive places; you want to use this opportunity to eat at restaurants you would not be able to afford otherwise.&nbsp; And be sure to look carefully.&nbsp; Some places that appear unaffordable offer lunch deals throughout the year.&nbsp; An example: Jean-Georges Vongerichten’s wonderful restaurant Perry St. in the West Village offers a $24 prix fixe lunch all year.&nbsp; It’s a wonderful restaurant, but go some other time. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Also, if you have the time and flexibility to wait, restaurants that don’t take reservations may be your best bet as they can’t fill up ahead of time.&nbsp; That said, prepare yourself for a line—most of these places don’t take reservations because they don’t need to. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If you don’t have such a flexible schedule, you should start by trying your luck on opentable.com, a free, online reservation site.&nbsp; Registering is free and takes all of five minutes and it makes finding tables much easier.&nbsp; While looking for reservations, you should check first at odd times, either very early or very late.&nbsp; A good time to try is toward the end of lunch.&nbsp; Many of the nicest restaurants that participate in restaurant week close their kitchens at 3:00 to prepare for dinner, so if you aim for a 2:30 lunch reservation, you might have a better chance of getting a sought after table at a place like Aquavit Café or Aureole.&nbsp; With respect to dinner, you’re more likely to find a table before 6:30 pm or after 9:00 pm.&nbsp; (The same goes for restaurants that don’t take reservations; the stranger the time, the better your chances.)&nbsp; If you can’t find anything on opentable, call the restaurant directly.&nbsp; Some places don’t put all of their tables online. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If you want to keep your meal cheap, avoid drinks.&nbsp; Beverages are not generally discounted during restaurant week and that $30 lunch quickly doubles in price once you add a bottle of Pinot Noir to the bill.&nbsp; Some restaurants include bottles of wine on their restaurant week menus, but even at slightly lower prices alcohol can totally throw off your budget. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have only been to about a quarter of the restaurants that participate in restaurant week, but among those I have had some wonderful meals, so for my last tip I will suggest a couple of places that I really like in addition to those already mentioned.&nbsp; A Voce, in Gramercy, serves perfectly made Italian classics in a particularly elegant setting.&nbsp; It earned a Michelin star this year and three stars from the New York Times.&nbsp; Celebrity chef Tom Colicchio’s celebrated Craft is actually as good as people say.&nbsp; The menu aims to showcase the finest possible ingredients and succeeds admirably with simple preparations of amazing food. For impeccably cooked seafood, Estiatorio Milos, an elegant Greek restaurant in midtown, is a good choice. The Bar Room at the Modern, the more casual half of the restaurant situated on the first floor of the MoMA, features small plates inspired largely by French cuisine, but avoids the boredom of the city’s many too-traditional brasseries and bistros. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wherever you go, be sure to take friends and share.&nbsp; With a group of four you can often order just about everything on the menu and have a chance to taste everything. Happy Dining! 
Bwog is totes jealous of this tipster, who recently discovered another reason why Westside is superior to Morton Williams: "Yesterday, I went shopping at West Side Market. Apparently, if you buy a certain amount of stuff, you get a free WestSide tote/grocery bag. There are signs at each register encouraging you to use these bags instead of their plastic bags to reduce waste. But then instead of appropriately reducing waste by putting my groceries in that tote bag, the cashier put all my food in plastic bags. Then she put my tote bag in another bag and handed it to me. Truly visionary environmentalism." 
 Have you been wondering why the Lerner Box Office has been boarded up for weeks? Chad Miller, Events and Outreach Manager of the Columbia Arts Initiative, has all the answers - CUArts has been working with the Office of the Provost, Columbia College, and Student Services to create an all-new Ticket and Information Center, which opens tomorrow. According to Chad, the TIC will be selling "tickets to on-campus productions and events, discounted tickets to Broadway, Off-Broadway, first-run films and events at major cultural and arts institutions as well as information on how to connect to the arts here and around town." Tickets can be purchased with cash or credit card, and www.tic.columbia.edu promises that students will be able to use flex to pay for tickets soon. As an added bonus, anyone who buys or reserves a ticket with the TIC by March 7 gets a FREE subscription to Time Out New York. Exciting! 
 As the New Year is still dawning, the Council is coming back with a renewed vigor that only 31 blissful days can create.&nbsp; No new resolutions, however, events and notices abound. To the dismay of many a late-night glutton, the University's survey on JJ's Place determined that it would not be financially viable to expand the establishment's hours on weekends or weekdays. In partnership with EcoReps and the Office of Environmental Stewardship, CCSC is sponsoring a school-wide Go Green Initiative where dorms compete in the months of February, March and April to see who can decrease their per capita energy consumption the most.&nbsp; Prizes have not been officially announced, but Bwog has reason to believe that each winner will be given a brand new 2008 Ford F-150. In the same vein, you can now recycle books, light bulbs and batteries in Lerner by Café East.&nbsp; At this point the books are going to schools in Africa at the request of Bono. And while saving the environment is fine and dandy, the real news of the day is that the Council has finally received personalized light blue T-Shirts (sported above by CCSC's Next Top Model contestants Exec Board) ending a long, systematic injustice.&nbsp; Part of the never ending fight against the negative atmosphere on campus in light of recent hate crimes (remember those? Or these?), you can also expect free cupcakes and cookies on February 4 and a commemoration of the 1968 protests in April.&nbsp; &nbsp; -JJV 
 Since when has Columbia been politically active anyway? Kanye now collaborates with... stuffed dinosaurs? &nbsp;Apparently Communism is one of the faiths espoused by Columbia students. Now we finally know for sure: "every Muslim isn’t a terrorist, or white person a racist, or black person with a hoodie a gangster." Is it at all telling about our athletic conference that we are proud of a near victory in the NCAA tourney over 20 years ago? 
 A reminder to register to see everyone's favorite worst presidential candidate Howard Dean on Monday, February 25th. College Dems say the event is filling up quickly, so register by sending an email to dean@cudemocrats.com with your name, class year, and school. Yipee!&nbsp; 
 Tonight marks the first Blue and White and Bwog meetings of the semester. Come to St. Paul's chapel basement at 9:30 PM to pitch stories for the March issue, perhaps engage in a game of Pokey, and meet our new editor-in-chief Anna Phillips and managing editor Katie Reedy. Bwog also hears rumors of ginger snaps.&nbsp; 10:30 PM in the same location is the Bwog meeting. New writers and old welcome—nay, encouraged—to attend. We'll throw around ideas for stories, features, sports and arts coverage. There may even be left-over ginger snaps. 
 In which a Bwogger gets in way over his head. It is relatively intuitive that the goal of any college student is to attain some sort of meaning from the classes they take, so I thought that Philosophy Professor Akeel Bilgrami's graduate seminar on the topic would be enlightening.&nbsp; I sidled into a Philosophy Hall penthouse this morning with twenty students, all sitting around an enormous oblong wooden table that seemed like it belonged in Bilgrami's Oxford alma mater. The first few minutes of the class seemed relatively safe, going over administrative business and a brief introduction to the work of the main philosopher being studied, John McDowell.&nbsp; While I knew that my limited Core knowledge of philosophy would be insufficient for any real analysis of Frege's Puzzle or practical reason, Bilgrami's presentation of the concepts seemed dangerously simple and instinctive. For the first 30 minutes of class he lectured on some of his own ponderings on the weakness of will (essentially when people decide they ought to do one thing and do something else in a rational mode).&nbsp; What came as such a surprise was Bilgrami's willingness to accept the ideas of his students when in certain Culpa reviews would indicate something entirely different. &nbsp;At the end of class he implored the student who was to present on the topic in an upcoming class to help him on the topic, which he is wrestling in the book he is currently working on.&nbsp; In what seemed to be one of the most honest moments of academic humility that I've seen at Columbia, there seemed to be some sort of authentic meeting between teacher and student on a plane unpretentious and entirely indicative of some sort of basic scholarly morality.&nbsp; Perhaps this is indicative of a higher level of academia that I have only begun to witness or a certain pedagogical strategy, but I couldn't help but feel dejected that I will not be able to return to the class next week. -JJV 
Poverty-hating concert-goers have already begun lining up for Jeffrey Sachs' and John Legend's totally bitchin' "Poverty Action Tour." Check back with Bwog for continued updates, we have a staffer embedded in Roone who will be covering the event in detail.&nbsp; CTV (channel 37) will also be airing the event live. &nbsp; 
 
 The State of the Union airs tonight at 9 PM. For the interested yet TV-less, it'll be broadcast live on C-SPAN. In addition, one tipster alumnus sent Bwog a link that might make watching a bit livelier.&nbsp; Cheers!&nbsp; 
 The world of community service opened wide today in Earl Hall, where student group Community Impact held an open house in an attempt to rope in volunteers.&nbsp; Bwogger Tony Gong reports. Presenting yourself at community service group fairs can be tricky. Ideally, you should display a certain level of enthusiasm. But how eager can you appear about visiting senior citizens before people start thinking that you're kind of weird? I could just imagine: "Why does he love old people so much?" "What does he have against the children?" "Oh, he's thinking about volunteering for them too?" "Shit, this kid is doubly messed up." The first group I surveyed was the Asian Youth Program, which seemed to be clearly directed towards me, an eighteen-year-old Chinese American who has shaved approximately three times in his life, once with the help of his mom. "Your hands are cold," was the first thing a student mentor told me, as I greeted her with a handshake. Yikes. I couldn't understand why she was in charge of a group for "developing one-to-one relationships" with kids and activities "to build self-confidence." Needless to say, my self-confidence plummeted, and my heart became as cold as my hands. Columbia Kids, by its title, sounded just right for me too. And really, it was: "If parks, The National History Museum, Chuck E. Cheese, the movies, the children's museum, and ice skating sound like fun to you," (yup, especially Chuck E. Cheese) "then we would love to have you join us!" I jotted my name and e-mail address as quickly as I could, which, because of my cold hands, was pretty slow. But then, I saw the group next to it. "Harlem Restoration Project (HRP): weekend field trips throughout NYC for Harlem children, aged 5-12. Saturday, daytime, 5 hours/week." Something clicked, and my eyes darted back to Columbia Kids: "Field trips for children ages 5-12…5 hours a week, on Saturdays." What were they playing at?! It was all the same thing! Feeling duped, dejected, and not as, but still pretty excited about Chuck E. Cheese, I scuffled out of the auditorium and tried to imagine a happier time in the future, when I would be mature enough to endure the lies of the Community Impact Open House and my mom would let me shave without her supervision. 
 Tonight Roone was witness to what at first appears like quite the odd couple: Columbia economist Jeff Sachs and Grammy winner John Legend.&nbsp; And no, Jeff was not there for a duet.&nbsp; These formidable giants of academia and entertainment were brought together by an ambitious goal: to eliminate global poverty. While Sachs is no neophyte when it comes to tackling problems of global consequence (being a special adviser to the UN Secretary General and all) but Legend's recent world tours prompted his investigation into what he could do to end poverty in many of the places he visited.&nbsp; The result: the Show Me Campaign, aimed at permanently lifting the village of Mbola, Tanzania, from poverty with $1.5 million invested in seven key agricultural, educational and public health initiatives, in conjunction with Millennium Promise, an organization that helps villages all across Sub-Saharan Africa.&nbsp; Photos follow the jump. Sachs' speech, however, moved more than Legend's talk towards political, systematic problems that perpetuate this extreme poverty in the world.&nbsp; Instead of tackling the problem in Darfur as a military conflict, Sachs claimed that the issue was fundamentally humanitarian and the conflict was caused by a lack of a stable supply of water. After a brief Q&amp;A section that included the Dean of and students from the Mailman School of Public Health, Legend concluded the presentation by playing a short, 6 song set that included "Show Me", a spiritual song meant to inspire the audience and a cover of R&amp;B standard "Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood."&nbsp; CCSC Junior Class President George Krebs proudly belted out every last syllable in unison with Legend much to the dismay of those in his general vicinity. &nbsp; -JJV &nbsp; 
 It's a Harvard professor named Debora Spar (more to come soon)&nbsp; Chuck Norris Fact #401: He will not hesitate to sue your sorry ass Why Columbia may have to allow ROTC back on campus next year An exhibition on female printmakers in the Wallach Art Gallery is worth it, but only if the weather's cold This article promises a justification for hedonism, but also "long-ish thought experiments." Bwog skipped to the end and stuffed its face with Count Chocula&nbsp; 
 Barnard has announced its new president, months earlier than expected. Debora L. Spar, the Spangler Family Professor at Harvard Business School, will replace Judith Shapiro and become the 11th President of Barnard College. Anna Quindlen, BC'74, the popular writer who chairs Barnard's Board of Trustees, made the announcement in an e-mail sent this morning to Barnard students. Spar has also been Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Research and Development at Harvard Business, and her most recent book, The Baby Business, is, according to her faculty website, about how "the acquisition of children—whether through donated eggs, rented wombs, or cross-border adoption—has become a multibillion dollar industry that has left science, law, ethics, and commerce deeply at odds." Congratulations to Professor Spar and the Barnard community. Update: The NYTimes is the only city daily that cares.&nbsp; Wait a few hours and The Sun will have its say. Quindlen's full letter after the jump: &nbsp; To the members of the Barnard community: I am delighted to report that the search committee has unanimously recommended and the Board of Trustees has unanimously approved the appointment of Debora L. Spar as the next president of Barnard College. Professor Spar is the Spangler Family Professor and has been Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Research and Development at the Harvard Business School, two roles that made her candidacy particularly compelling for us. In one, she epitomizes the teacher-scholar model that is the linchpin of Barnard's superb faculty. In the other, she has been a stellar administrator who has brought innovative leadership to governance issues. And despite the demands of both, she has also devoted herself to the concerns of social justice that are so important to our students, as chair of the Harvard University Committee on Human Rights and as the creator of a program to develop leaders in both the private and public sector in African nations. As Senior Associate Dean, Professor Spar was responsible for distributing nearly $20 million in research funds by working closely with faculty on their project goals and demands. She instituted a fellowship that allows faculty members to live abroad to work on international research, and a program that brings visiting scholars from other countries to Harvard. Professor Spar also developed a new policy on family leave and led the effort to develop a part-time tenure track. Professor Spar has been awarded the Student Association Faculty Award for Outstanding Teaching and often serves as an advisor for students on research projects. She is the author of dozens of the case studies that are used in Harvard Business School classes. These reflect her expertise in both international affairs and ethical issues, and include "The Pharmaceutical Industry Responds to AIDS," "Union Carbide's Bhopal Plant," and "Nike and International Labor Practices." She frequently acts as a consultant for multinational corporations, government agencies, and non-governmental organizations. Professor Spar has written four books and co-authored two. Her most recent, "The Baby Business," was published in 2006 and explored the economic, political and social issues surrounding reproductive technologies. She has appeared on 60 Minutes, the NewsHour, the ABC Evening News, and in many newspapers and magazines. Her own articles have appeared in publications ranging from The New England Journal of Medicine to Foreign Affairs to the Review of International Political Economy. Professor Spar received her doctorate in government from Harvard; her thesis on international commodity cartels was published as a book in 1994. She is a 1984 graduate of Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service. She is married to Miltos Catomeris, an architect whose specialty is campus buildings. They are the parents of three children. In their meetings with Debora Spar, the members of the search committee found themselves continually impressed by her prodigious intellect, her global expertise, her ability both to build consensus and introduce innovation as an administrator, and her devotion to acting as mentor and resource for female faculty and students. During extensive referencing with colleagues, we were told many times that Barnard could find no better leader for the future. All of us agreed. While we initially thought we would conclude our work in late spring, we were able to make our decision somewhat earlier than we had expected. Over the last 14 years we have had many opportunities to admire and respect President Shapiro, and no more so than now, when she has seen this as an opportunity for a collegial exchange of information and transfer of leadership before she steps down on July 1, 2008. When I announced this search I told all of you, "The 11th leader of the College must be someone with considerable gifts of both mind and heart, a charismatic intellectual deeply committed to the value of single-sex education for women." I have no doubt that we have found just such a person in Debora Spar. Sincerely, Anna Quindlen '74 Chair, Board of Trustees 
 This past Thursday the Columbia art crowd was abuzz at the opening of "The Leisure Suite," a new group show curated by 2008 MFA student Martin Basher. High-minded conversation, M.F.A. gossip and Bud Light flowed readily as visitors ate cheese cubes and made their way around the small space of the LeRoy Neiman Gallery, taking in work by featured artists Colby Bird, Divya Mehra, and Ben Turner, among others. Despite a wide array of media, low-culture seems to be the theme of the hour at "Leisure Suite." Striking, large-format photographs depict bedroom corners and closet contents; a hamburger with the works and then some is feted in bright, bold paint; masquerading as back-up refreshments, a mini-fridge full of 40s steams away in the middle of the gallery floor. The tennis court is the subject of two other pieces in the show. As a whole, "Leisure Suite" doesn't engender a whole lot of serious contemplation, which may explain the laid-back feel of the opening, not to mention the exhibition title. But if you're hoping to drop by Dodge to check out the work, do it soon. There's nothing leisurely about the wall-life of these pieces. By the February 14th closing, its likely all the work will be snapped up by prescient collectors. One long-haired young man, already in possession of an unassuming, carefully framed sheet of recycled paper, gestured towards a piece composed of wall-mounted text: "I'm trying to buy that," he expressed, with some consternation. I'm betting that when the 40s go, it won't be for $1.99. - Merrell Hambleton 
 The smell of fried catered goods wafted along the 4th floor of Barnard Hall. The nauseating, yet somehow homey smell emanated from the James Room, in which there was a very large, very joyful celebration in honor of Barnard's new president, Debora Spar.&nbsp; There was a thoroughly unsurprising percentage of septuagenarians in the crowd. They munched on shrimp and gossiped about Judith Shapiro as their husbands stared blankly ahead. One Shapiro-centric gossipy tidbit: "She just came in here with all these expectations!" Ooh, juicy! Also in attendance were over a hundred Barnard students. "They made very mysterious," observed Elizabeth, BC '08. A perilous hired photographer also roamed the crowd, confusing the more senior members of the banquet with his camera flash. "Is that a shot list there?" he asked, jealously eying Bwog's nearly blank reporters' notebook. With the help of Elizabeth ("She has bangs. And a red jacket."), Bwog located Anna Quindlen, the mastermind behind the reception and member of the Presidential Search Committee. Quindlen said that the decision to hire D.Spar was made back in the middle of December, but even the BC faculty weren't notified until this morning. And what of Judith Shapiro? Shapiro and Spar "haven't met yet," explained Quindlen. "But they're having martinis on Thursday." SGA Presidet Laura Stoffel, BC '08, was one of the two students who served on the Presidential Search Committee. Stoffel gushed of Spar, "She's amazing. Wonderful." The crowd came to a hush as Quindlen took the podium. Quindlen introduced Spar "for the fifth time today," according to her own calculations, and provided&nbsp; some background biographical information: "She graduated form Georgetown in 1984, but don't let that fool you. She's one of us." Also, D.Spar's husband is an architect specializing in designing campuses for universities. Serendipitous! Then at once, whispers began fluttering through the crowd. And suddenly, as if he had appeared from a heated serving dish, Bollinger had materialized behind Quindlen. "Bollinger!" exclaimed Stoffel. The speeches ended and Bollinger, Quindlen, D.Spar and D.Spar's be-hatted preteen daughter retreated behind some foliage. Photographers (and one frazzled-looking videographer) lunged towards the group. Bwog snapped one last picture, made note of Bollinger's particularly dapper canary yellow tie, and left. - JNW 
 Yes, it's technically the December 2007 issue, but the latest installment of the Columbia Political Review just hit newsstands this week. Look for it around campus, download the pdf, or follow the links below: Was Abu Gharib a crime only Americans could have committed? Romney embraces Buddhism, Huckabee adopts postcolonial, para-disciplinary ethical philosophical theory, etc.&nbsp; Race relations still thorny in South Africa, a whole fifteen years after the downfall of apartheid! The federal government admits that 1001 Ways to Eat My Jizz is a work of art Bloomberg has hairy pits ...or if you prefer, CPR editor-in-chief Mark Krotov's email to Bwog, which is something of a QuickCPR unto itself: "If I may be so bold as to highlight a couple of pieces, Karen Leung's article on torture and pornography is, in my opinion, the best piece we've ever run, from the best writer (and managing editor) we've ever had. A few of the pieces pertain to academic affairs, a theme that we tried to approach from a few different perspectives, and Sara Doskow's piece on different pedagogical approaches to history and Sajaa Ahmed's exploration of the tenure process are, I think, particularly insightful." 
 With the second most delegates of any state, New York promises to be a critical part of Super Tuesday on February 5th. Here’s a brief rundown of what to expect; be sure to keep your mice on the refresh button a week from today and watch as shit gets consequential. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;For most of the primary season Giuliani has been considered a shoo-in for the Republican nomination, but our fair fascist former-mayor’s campaign has been nose-diving for about a month now, and it’s starting to look like he’s not going to make it to Valentines’ Day—the most recent Gallup Poll showed McCain stomping him with an 18% lead, whereas a month ago Quinnipiac showed Giuliani leading McCain by 23%. New York GOP Primaries are winner take all, so McCain is almost guaranteed to pick up 101 delegates. &nbsp;&nbsp; Things should be a bit more interesting for New York Democrats. Though Clinton’s lead over Obama has been fluctuating between 20% and 30% since January of last year, in New York Democrats award delegates proportionately. Well, kind of: because of ancient election policies, if Obama wins 30% of the vote in any district he is guaranteed to receive 40% of that districts delegates, so Obama organizers have been campaigning hard, particularly in New York City, to ensure they get their (un)fair share of the 281 NY Democratic delegates. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Newsday.com, however, thinks that Obama may not do as well in New York as he may like to—in South Carolina and Iowa Obama relied partially on the votes of independents, but in New York only registered Democrats can vote in the primaries. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Also, Ted Kennedy’s endorsement may have tickled Obama pink, but it sure didn’t tickle some feminists’ pinks: the New York chapter of the National Organization of Women described it as the “ultimate betrayal.” CNN reports. &nbsp;&nbsp; In Mike Bloomberg news, there is still no news, sort of. The mayor has been flirting with the media for months, and he likely wouldn’t declare his candidacy (if he does decide to run) until after primaries end and the GOP and Democratic candidates are picked, but check out Seo Hee Im's article in the Spec investigating the issue, and for more election fun, be sure to check out USA Today’s poll tracker, which maps the results of all major presidential polls beginning in January 2007. - Joseph Meyers 
 Debora Spar, pioneer of the economics of fertility, loves babies.&nbsp; How does one transform the face of the Barnard woman? Columbia is a national treasure, and Barnard is its jewel. Ted Kennedy's new best friend still hates his alma mater. How do you cure administrative schizophrenia? Next time you think about getting a haircut, consider splitting hairs. 
 Homeboy Jeffrey Sachs’s love-fest, more commonly referred to as the Show Me: Poverty Action Tour, continued last night in Lerner Cinema, striking a far less harmonious chord than the previous night's concert.&nbsp; While Monday’s kick-off event offered a serenade by none other than the Grammy award winning singer-songwriter John Legend who sang “Show Me,” a piece written in response to his qualms about witnessing poverty in Tanzanian villages, Tuesday’s event entitled New Directions: Critical Interpretations of Sustainable Development left the music behind in order to pack a more somber and academic punch. &nbsp; Indeed, the event served as a forum for an all-star cast of professors and activists to suggest alternatives and criticisms to Sachs’s approach to sustainable development.&nbsp; While the previous night’s festivities were merely an homage to Sachs’s work in the field of economic development, Tuesday’s event offered an opportunity to rethink the current strategies of sustainable development and offer serious criticism of the anti-poverty movement (Sachs is arguably the most dominant voice in this field). Critical Interpretations of Sustainable Development brought together the likes of former Irish President and UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson (now the Executive Director of the Ethical Globalization Initiative, SIPA development economics professor Sanjay Reddy (a former student of Jeff Sachs), Saskia Sassen a Columbia sociology professor and member of the Committee on Global Thought, and David Harvey an urban studies theorist and professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, to approach the study of sustainable development from a few different areas of expertise, including&nbsp; human rights, anthropology, economics, and sociology. Regal in both appearance and diction, Robinson began the event by recalling her experiences at the recent Davos World Economic Forum.&nbsp; She recounted her experience of seeing a sign that read “No sustainable development without human rights.”&nbsp; She then described the importance of water as a natural resource that in years to come will determine many people's economic fate.&nbsp; Robinson wondered whether wars would be waged over water in the future and questioned whether one can truly consider water a human right.&nbsp; She argued that only South Africa has taken the lead in considering access to potable water for citizens a necessary human right.&nbsp;&nbsp; Through monitoring mechanisms and peer review programs, Robinson suggested that African nations would be able have checks on each other and better offer a more robust human-rights based approach to the eradication of poverty.&nbsp; “We need to hold those in power to accountability,” Robinson suggested.&nbsp; The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights continued by discussing what she understands the eradication of poverty to be.&nbsp; She put it very simply by saying that the eradication of poverty is merely, “access to water and freedom from violence.”&nbsp; Robinson suggested that without a special attention to human rights by governments when conducting anti-poverty campaigns, sustainable development projects are merely an “empty promise to 800 million people.”&nbsp;&nbsp; Next up: economics professor Sanjay Reddy’s soft-spoken yet harsh critique of the practicality of Sachs’s approach to poverty reduction.&nbsp; Reddy (a student of Sachs’s at Harvard) grilled Sachs about his philanthropy-based view of poverty reduction that's outlined in the Millennium Development Goals.&nbsp; According to Reddy, this approach is a far cry from one based on global justice and the Millennium Development Goals need to be restructured.&nbsp; Citing the Millennium Project as a philanthropic effort dominated by the Washington consensus, he described the project as merely being a Northern endeavor that focuses on the development of the South according to Northern standards.&nbsp; Reddy noted, “The ideas is to encourage countries to pursue their own development plans.”&nbsp; While Reddy and Robinson defended the need for a project of sustainable development in order to combat poverty worldwide and merely questioned the assumptions behind the technical aspects of that project, professors Sassen and Harvey approached the issue of poverty from a different angle - by critiquing some of the larger philosophical assumptions behind capitalism, a system that they both suggested engenders poverty.&nbsp; Sassen suggested, “Our economic system produces poverty as part of how it functions.&nbsp; The more you allow that deep flaw in the system, the more the challenge builds.”&nbsp; Moreover, the sociology professor suggested that in modern industrialized and rich countries, enabling the poor is simply becoming a fashion and “there is something corrupt in saying that we can give them crumbs.”&nbsp; Sassen asked students about the effectiveness in promoting awareness about poverty and environmental destruction by asking, “How do we make the current system legible, can the brutality of a system engender change?”&nbsp; Sassen wondered if we would ever arrive at conditions that are bigger than our difference, forcing us to act decisively.&nbsp; She left the stage by asking, “Does the world have to be that grim?” Finally, David Harvey closed the evening’s discussion by passionately echoing the sentiments of professor Sassen, noting that the fundamental issue to consider is not poverty itself but capitalism.&nbsp; He argued throughout his speech that capitalists feed off one another and build off of the system, therefore compounded poverty is a natural consequence of this economic system.&nbsp; The urban studies theorist opened by discussing income disparities in the United States, noting that bonuses on Wall Street in 2007 totaled over 32 billion dollars, while there are over 2 million Americans that will lose their homes due to foreclosures caused by the errors of these traders, many of them African Americans and single women in impoverished parts of cities.&nbsp; Speaking of what he termed a “political economy of dispossession,” Harvey shouted, “I think it is obscene!”&nbsp; He even drew a large applause from the crowd when he suggested that these displacements are precisely what is happening in Manhattanville. Q and A was rather tame at the conference, as organizers struggled to get questions to the panelists and both Robinson and Sassen opted out of the question period as the night wore on.&nbsp; In the end, Critical Interpretations of Sustainable Development offered a very unique look at the assumptions behind the poverty action project.&nbsp; Indeed, at a university very committed to the Millennium Development Goals, it was refreshing to see an evening of panelists that were willing to offer heavy criticism of Professor Sachs’s project.&nbsp; Reddy noted at the conclusion of Q and A that this was one of the rare occasions on Columbia’s campus that he was aware of critical debate occurring on the implementation of poverty eradication goals that are frequently touted without contention.&nbsp; The evening provided one more opportunity for CU students to inform themselves about the issues that face the world today, ultimately supporting Professor Reddy’s contention that “Informed politics is what matters today.” &nbsp;PHS Special thanks to Daniel Yeow for pictures. 
Spotted in a Broadway laundry room by tipster Jacob Kriegel:&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 A tipster alumnus points out this article in the Village Voice from last week in which local writers name their favorite writer-y watering holes. The Sabotage Cafe author Joshua Furst selected Columbia standby 1020, and explained: "Not that many bars in the city where you can talk about Foucault for two hours." Of course, while actual conversation at 1020 is less Foucault and more fou-cking, Bwog offers accolades to the bar for making the cut. - JNW 
 In which Bwog theater correspondent Michael Snyder ruminates on Broadway's take on familial destruction: In our post-post-modern world of narrative tricks and linguistic games, it is easy to forget that a meticulously constructed, intelligently written, and vigorously performed family drama can still pack a powerful emotional and intellectual punch.&nbsp; If you need proof, look no further than Tracey Letts’ spectacular new play August: Osage County.&nbsp; Not since my first encounters with Williams and Albee have I been so wildly entertained by viciousness, and not since Long Day’s Journey Into Night have I been so completely invested in the lives of a family on stage.&nbsp; At this point, August has been so showered with praise that to write another rave review seems redundant, and yet it is difficult not to get excited over a play so clearly poised to become a classic for our generation of theatergoers. August opens quietly, with a marvelous monologue delivered with understated dignity by the play’s patriarch, Beverly Weston.&nbsp; The act that follows introduces with incredible wit and economy most of the Weston clan, gathered at in their rural Oklahoma home after the sudden disappearance of Beverly Weston.&nbsp; The first Act flies by as the Westons reveal to us, though not one another, their secrets, lies, and past pains. In Act II, Letts takes perhaps the most conventional setting in American drama—the dinner table—and transforms it into a whirlwind of breathtaking cruelty.&nbsp; You could hear the audience wincing, cringing, and recoiling with each passing attack.&nbsp; This familial battle ground is realized in the mayhem that brings the nauseating humor and ecstatic fury of the second act to its climactic close. In stark contrast to the brutality of Act II, Act III unfolds almost languorously as the Weston family confronts the aftermath of its dinner from hell.&nbsp; My only complaint might be that the play seems to reach its final cadence several times before its close.&nbsp; Then again, after three astonishing hours, I can’t help but feel that Letts and the Westons are entitled to a long-winded farewell. In August: Osage County, Letts has created a play for the canon, a play as vast and as stifling as the land it describes, a play about a family and a world approaching the brink of destruction and finally, breathlessly, falling in.&nbsp; In the middle of Act II, Violet Weston shrieks, “It’s a damn fine day for telling the truth!”&nbsp; When in the play’s final moment Beverly’s opening allusion to Eliot is brought full circle in the chilling, sung refrain “this is the way the world ends,” our joy and our terror is in knowing just how right Violet is. 
 Starting at a few minutes before six, students began to file in. There were name cards to fill out, a buffet to be devoured. Barnard had pulled out all the stops for tonight's Town Hall: note the pristine white table clothes. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; According to Kate McNamara VP of Communications for the SGA, tonight's Town Hall was a response to fall's Town Hall, which unfortunately (or fortunately?) occurred when hate crime season was in full bloom. Students had expressed concerns about the hate-filled, crime-ridden environment that was fall 2007, and Barnard felt that “maybe what needs to change is what happens in our classroom,” according to McNamara. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The official presentation began with Dean Denberg, the Dean of Barnard College. With trusty PowerPoint at her side, Denberg provided background information about BC's general education requirements. There are nine total GERs, and they are called, fittingly enough, The Nine Ways of Knowing. Implemented in 2000, each has broad-ish objectives ("Literature", "Historical Studies", etc.). But the single most troubling requirement, (from its inception and up to and including today), is that of Cultures in Comparison. Initially, the Committee on Instruction (the panel of 4 students and 6 administrators that's comparable to the Core Review), decided that this category should be one unto itself and should specifically focus on something not contained in the other requirements: explicit comparison of two or more cultures and societies. Establishing the boundaries of cultures, and when students are in fact, comparing them suitably, proved harder than expected. "It's impossible to have a requirement that talked about the Other," said Denberg cryptically. Denberg then presented the findings of GER focus groups comprised of second-semester seniors. There were summaries of the findings regarding all the requirements—for Quantitative Reasoning: "There were a few comments, but many recommendations to take statistics." And finally, the denouement of sorts: COI (which was partially influenced by the findings of the focus group sessions) recommends that: "Race, ethnicity and socio-economic status should be integrated into the curriculum, similar to gender. The College is requesting funds for a wider assessment to flesh out both student and faculty perspectives on including more critical analysis of these things." Will be interesting to see how newly-appointed D.Spar conducts the "wider assessment." Bwog has a suggestion, if you will: Focus groups consisting solely of anxious, ennui-filled, dissonant second-semester seniors might not make for the most representative results. Poll a sampling of students from all years, especially sophomores and second semester first-years regarding the First Year Seminar and First Year English requirements. - JNW &nbsp; 
 In which Bwog lecture hopper Phil Crone reports back from the Heyman Center's discussion on climate change&nbsp; Altschul Auditorium was host last night to a panel discussion featuring PrezBo, Joseph Stiglitz, and various experts on the ever more apocalyptic science of climate change. What exactly PrezBo, a freedom of speech scholar-cum-university president, was doing heading a discussion on climate change was anyone’s guess, but by the end of the evening it was clear that he had taken on the position of moderator mainly to provide comic relief for an audience presented with the grim scientific and political realities surrounding the topic. Comedy, however, was not the first item on the agenda. The main event began shortly after eight with PrezBo introducing the four members of the panel: James Hansen, head of NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies; R.K. Pachauri, the chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC); Cynthia Rosenzweig, an adjunct professor at Barnard who also works on the IPCC; and Columbia’s favorite Nobel laureate, Joseph Stiglitz. Hansen spoke first and made heavy use of a PowerPoint presentation with many graphs and charts like those of An Inconvenient Truth, only ten times more complicated and with no accompanying explanations. While the details of Hansen’s presentation were muddled, his main point was clear: “We have to get on a completely different track in the next several years” if we’re going to return the planet to equilibrium. That, and the shocking revelation that animals can neither talk nor vote, so they’re more or less screwed. Rosenzweig seemed to be a bit too enthusiastic about the whole proceeding. A smile plastered on her face, she explained the inner world of IPCC working groups and explained how her own group had clarified that there are already observable effects of climate change. She also introduced the convention of referring to Hansen, Stiglitz, and Pachauri as Jim, Joe, and “Pachi” respectively. Stiglitz addressed how the costs of climate change can be paid more fairly. A carbon tax is his answer to the problem, but its likelihood seems slim since it was last championed by Chris Dodd. He was also the most overtly political, noting that the Bush plan of voluntary emissions caps “makes no sense” and equating H.W. Bush’s “Precautionary Principle” with the sort of driving that got our current president’s license suspended back in the 70s. After Stiglitz had spoken, PrezBo initiated the panel discussion and began to show off his comedic prowess and revealed his inner plebeian by showing concern for the cost of cornflakes under a proposed carbon tax. While the audience chuckled, Stiglitz could not give an answer. Add rising cornflake prices to your list of economic woes. Members of the audience then directed their questions to the panelists. The final question of the evening was again directed at PrezBo and concerned legal routes to combating climate change. While acknowledging that it was not his area of expertise, PrezBo noted that such issues have been debated for decades with no consensus. Professor Bilgrami, sitting in the second row of the audience, raised his voice about the liberal notion of rights as being protected by the government, but PrezBo seemingly wanted to avoid a philosophical discussion. Finally, Stiglitz jumped in with an anecdote about a WTO ruling in favor of a US trade sanction to protect turtles. (Yes, the United States was trying to protect turtles.) This had set a precedent, Stiglitz argued, and “if you can use trade sanctions to save turtles, certainly you can use them to save the world.” PrezBo, perhaps worried that he had been drawn into an overly serious dialogue without any openings for a final one-liner, closed the discussion there. 
 Change the country or change from Mister to Madam President? Pray that these curriculum-changers won't need a hunger strike Barnard's hole in the ground now has stuff in it! But Alexander Hamilton's house is about to become a hole in the ground A concerned citizen attacks Spec's "faux-journalistic exactitude".&nbsp; What would he call Bwog? &nbsp; and a QuickReuters: Fat to Fit Edition Other vaguely Columbia-related news on the mind-body problem 
 In which Courtney Douds communes with the poet of misspent suburban youth. I predict this to be the least ironic post ever written for Bwog. This past Tuesday, I attended the first of two concerts given by the band Marilyn Manson and their infamous frontman of the same name at the Hammerstein Ballroom. And though he played a fairly long set, I could have handled having my upper body crushed by a thousand people for ten more hours for him to perform his whole repertoire. I went as a princess of darkness, with black eyeliner, bright blue eyeshadow, and red lipstick smeared across my face. Manson is old enough to be my Daddy, but he is at his physical and sexual peak. He wore a black tank top with a white ribcage print and magenta eye makeup. During the new single “Heart-Shaped Glasses,” Manson walked behind a mannequin of his current girlfriend, Evan Rachel Wood, lifted up her skirt and sang to her ass a bit, rubbing his face in it. Then he decapitated the dummy and serenaded the severed head. For his grand finale, Manson performed “Antichrist Superstar” from a pulpit, flailing like a possessed marionette. Then he pulled out the Bible and lit it on fire. But contrary to perceptions of violence and hatred in his music, the concert was a place of harmony and acceptance. I had been a little bit worried for my safety going to the show, but the crowd lovingly picked up each fallen mosher. After returning to Columbia, I woke up half my suite by blasting Marilyn Manson at two in the morning. I was coated in my own and other people’s sweat. I felt like a goddess. I could have pole danced naked for of a room full of strangers. I spent yesterday daydreaming through my classes about sitting on Manson’s lap, licking his teeth, having him smear his lipstick all over my neck. Seriously. &nbsp;The author before (l) and after (r) the show.&nbsp; Photos by Alexandra Muhler. 
 Turns out we're not the only Manhattan university looking to expand.&nbsp; According to Washington Square News, NYU has proposed adding 6 million square feet to its campus, and is looking outside the Village for about half of that space.&nbsp; The current candidate neighborhoods are Midtown, Northwestern Brooklyn, and, most intriguingly, Governor's Island, the perpetually-redesigned, super-historical former military base on the banks of the charmingly-named Buttermilk Channel.&nbsp; No word yet on who NYU's plans will be displacing. 
 Come summer, 113th street residents are going to have a new neighbor: Delta Sigma Phi. The fraternity was recently awarded an open brownstone, a step up from their current EC digs where space was reportedly tight. "Ultimately, we believed our chapter needed a centralized place to meet if our activities were to remain unhindered, and with the&nbsp;acquisition of a brownstone, we know this can be achieved," said Josh Milstein (yes, Milstein), CC '10 and DSP's president. But sources within Columbia's Greek netherworld speculate that the acquisition of said brownstone was not without strife or scandal. Apparently, Alpha Chi Omega (also currently housed in EC) was first in line to move into the 113th st. location. But the fates (or the reportedly unpopular Victoria Lopez-Herrera, Assistant Director of Greek Life and Leadership Development) intervened and the gods of real estate smiled upon DSP instead. It also probably doesn't hurt that Columbia's Inter-Greek Council's President and Chair of Judicial Affairs are both DeltaSigs. Just sayin'. - JNW Know something? Send tips to bwog@columbia.edu. Anonymity guaranteed. 
 * = free! Thursday * Cheeky Bastard Presents: The Teenagers and 66Sick at Hiro – Russian accent-faking London band on their first trip to New York, open bar, merrymaking, etc. Hiro Ballroom at the Maritime Hotel, 363 W. 16th St, 10:30 pm. Free with RSVP: http://newyork.going.com/teenagerssluttt. Friday Composer Portrait: George Crumb performed by So Percussion – A tribute to the modernist who famously dropped marbles into pianos. Miller Theatre. 212-854-7799, 8 pm. $7 for students. Sunday * Winter Trek through the Woodlands of Fort Tilden – Take a two-hour tour through a decomissioned army base-slash-forest in Rockaway, Queens. Call the Visitor Contact Station at 718-318-4300 for a 10 a.m. appointment. Friday, Saturday, Sunday * Jasper Johns: Drawings 1997-2007 – See these and feel prepared for the Met’s Jasper Johns exhibition, opening on Tuesday. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 W. 22nd St. Runs through April 12, reception on Friday from 6-8 pm. “Trojan Women” – Euripides’s war tragedy is superimposed on modern-day West Africa. Harlem Stage, 150 Convent Ave. at 135th St. Friday and Saturday shows are at 7:30 pm, Sunday show at 3 pm. $40. 212-281-9240. Envisioning Russia: A Century of Filmmaking – See “Tractor Drivers,” “a girl-boy-tractor romance” at 3:30 pm on Sunday. Other marvels, including Tarkovsky’s classic “The Mirror,” are on the festival calendar. Walter Reade Theatre at Lincoln Center, 70 Lincoln Center. Opened Wednesday, running through February 14. $7 for students. 
 Editorial board dissatisfied with performance of escorts All engineers experiment in College Some sort of joke about the word "busts" This guy wrote songs for Shortbus, a movie that features Ed Koch at an underground sex club 
Columbia is more than just "Upper West Side Soweto." Chromeo's performance at Bowery Ballroom Monday night showed off the cheekier side of Ivy League music. Despite the recent flurry of hype surrounding Vampire Weekend, they are not the only Columbia-related band selling out Bowery Ballroom. Chromeo anyone? A French grad student and T.A. by day, David Macklovitch has amassed a number of glowing CULPA reviews. However, he also doubles as Dave 1, and along with bandmate P-Thugg, the duo is known as the (somewhat ironic) electrofunk group Chromeo. Making the night family affair, Dave 1’s little brother, A-Trak DJed between sets. Spinning mash-ups from Dirty South Dance ensured the crowd never had to stop dancing. Opener Kid Sister bemoaned her current cold and lack of health insurance, perhaps as a reference to the upcoming elections. Though her bumping and grinding masked any symptoms of illness, and her sequined beret and flashy nails also helped. Vivacious and brash, but not overtly sexual, Kid Sister is a b-boy’s wet dream. Image-wise, Chromeo is slick and smooth. After all, their name is a combination of chrome and Romeo, and the sound doesn’t stray far from its heavy-duty lovin’ origins. Chromeo completely embraces their over-the-top image with a similar show, replete with flashing lights, two plastic pairs of shapely gams, and a disco ball. The crowd went wild at the first strains of&nbsp; “Intro” and chanted “Chromeo” in unison. The energy remained at a high for the entire show; even during slow jams like “Momma’s Boy” and “100%” people were still eagerly bopping around. Although the infectiousness of the music is certainly enough to keep people dancing, Chromeo hammed it up. Dave 1 is a showman, playing his guitar back-to-back with P-Thugg Van Halen-style and even pulled a few moves reminiscent of Prince and Rick James. Admittedly, my personal highlight was when Chromeo performed a medley of bombastic 80s power anthems, classics including The Outfield’s “Your Love” and Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing.” These days it’s rare to see so many people so unabashedly air-pump to The Outfield, even if it is with a dash of irony, so big ups to Chromeo for bringing out the fun in people. &nbsp; -LT (Photos by baonguyen)&nbsp; 
It's raining. You're not going outside. Good thing we've got a bunch of videos shot on the campus in sunlight. 1. You never thought you'd see a homemade Radiohead video shot in John Jay. Well, OK, maybe you did: 2. A poetry reading at the Sundial in 1987. The fashions -- they're unbelievable! 3. Lastly, we have a middle-aged man ranting about last month's "living room full of weapons" in what appears to be his own living room, although the giant mike indicates differently. 
 And so the plot thickens. It seems our maiden brownstone had not two but four suitors: Delta Sig, AXO, Lambda Phi Epsilon, and Fiji.&nbsp; Each of the four had applied to occupy the space, a process which included explaining what they intend to do with the house, how their occupation within said house would improve campus life, how their theoretical new living situation would incorporate philanthropy, etc.&nbsp; "I somehow doubt that DeltSig put beer pong on their 'what you intend to do with the house' document," retorted one Greek regarding DSP's victory. The applications were presented to committees of students and administrators, but ultimately the final decision rested with Dean Sholleberger. AXO also received endorsement letters from 5 of the 8 InterFraternity fraternities that weren't running and 2 of the 3 Panhellenic sororities, according to our source. AXO also felt that their application had a better shot than most (and certainly than DeltSig's) because their charter mandates that all AXO property to be alcohol-free. "We weren't ever promised the house, but we did feel like we had the strongest application," said the source. "However, we didn't donate any money to Columbia either, and gossip sure points to DeltaSig dumping a lot of money." - JNW Completely unsubstantiated gossip... or scandal? Let us know! Email bwog@columbia.edu, anonymity guaranteed.&nbsp; 
 Courtesy of Facebook, Bwog happened upon the following exceptional message from CQA, which we feel requires no introduction: Hey folks! So in case you haven't heard the news, Britney Spears has been hospitalized again for the second time this month for a mental health evaluation (it is also the second time this month the Reserve Board has cut interest rates...coincidence? We think not). CQA's prayers go out to her during this difficult time as she works to get better and, well yeah, STRONGER!&nbsp; Even better after the jump. Yes, the First Friday Dance will still go on during this national tragedy. Britney would have wanted you to come. She would have wanted you to come before 11, because it'll be free--Unlike her, because she's forcefully confined against her will for 72 hours in a "welfare-hold". Here at CQA, we think Columbia is sort of like Britney-spears, and not in the fabulous coked-up former-child celebrity sort of way, but in the sense that we're always being exploited and suffering etbacks which play out in the national media for everyone's amusement. But, like Britney, we always seem to turn it around, in our own idiosyncratic way. So tonight, bring your sexy-ass selves, come out and dance with us as we honor Britney and Kanye West, 10pm at Lerner Party Space. Yours in solidarity with Britney during this difficult time, CQA P.S. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdJeYKTpEb4 
 An anonymous tipster forwarded Bwog an invitation to the PBK initiation ceremony (and reception!) on February 4th in Low. Hypothetically, if you have a 3.4 and you're forwarded an invitation, that does mean you're welcome to attend, yes? Complete list of this year's inductees after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Jason Bello Devika Bhushan Thomas Dumitrescu Geoffrey Fudenberg Julia Kalow Thomas Langer Jeremy Lopez George Olive Andrew Ollett Maxim Pinkovskiy Jack Porter Hans Renata&nbsp; Jason Resnikoff Margie Rosebrock Shoshana Schwartz Lauren Schy Jonathan Siegel Julian Smith Newman Matthew Spinelli Sarah Wansley Rodrigo Zamora&nbsp;
Well, there's still time for you to concoct a ridiculous special interest housing application! They're due at noon on Friday. If you can generate a reason you need to live together as legitimate as the one that “Urban Economic Perspectives” must have come up with (in their words, “to engage the community in dynamic dialogue”), you too can have a brownstone or a suite in Claremont or EC for the next three years. A home like Inquiry House (“community engagement”) is a legacy that lasts a lifetime, probably, if next year's rising sophomores are wise enough to keep the dream alive. You also need to push your story past a faculty advisor and survive a number of other trials (listed in full on the Residential Programs site). Bwog recommends an application tactic that appears to work: Make sure your mission statement has the word “community” in it. Of the ten houses active this year, only one failed to use the appropriate shibboleth – ironically, it's Students for Substance Free Space, who at least have a pretty good case for being issued a padlock. 
 In other Special Interest Housing news: Art House is no longer. The decision to disband came after Special Interest Community administrators wanted Art House to maintain its current location in Wallach for next year. Alas, Art House members were seeking better digs. Philosophized one soon-to-be-ex-A.H. denizen: "It's a shame that Columbia is losing this because we were making some great headway this year and had a lot of momentum for future projects." Ah, such is life. Welcome to the housing lottery, kids. 
 I am not pretentious!! Maybe it's because Columbia is pretentious.&nbsp; This movie is not pretentious.&nbsp; Stephen Merritt, on the other hand, is a touch pretentious. Wine does not have to be pretentious! 
 Of 2008's PBKers, five did not have visible Facebook accounts, and eleven had their privacy settings activated so that Bwog could not see their profiles. But of those who did have Facebooks, see if you can match the PBKer to their favorite Facebook quote. No cheating—it's PBK. A. "I would give the greatest sunset in the world for one sight of New York's skyline" B. "4 mg is still quite a large scale anyway" - boss C. "it is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a jolly roll-around." D. "O, che sciagura d'essere senza coglioni!" -Voltaire, "Candide"&nbsp; E. "From now on, ending a sentence with a preposition is something up with which I will not put." Winston Churchill 1. Hans Renata 2. George Olive 3. Julia Kalow 4. Jason Resnikoff 5. Sarah Wansley&nbsp; The winner of this game gets a job at McKinsey. Of the PBKers who were listed in the Columbia directory (and two were mysteriously absent), the majors breakdown is as follows: Economics: 5.5 (one is a double-major in Environmental Studies and Econ) English: 2 Physics: 2&nbsp; Chemistry: 2 Architecture: 1&nbsp; History: 1&nbsp; Classics: 1&nbsp; Comparative Literature: 1 Italian Literature: 1 Biological Sciences: 1 Mathematics: 1 Environmental Studies: 0.5 A: 5; B: 1; C: 2, D: 3; E: 4 
 The Muslim Student's Association decided that it was better late than never to celebrate Eid al-Adha or Al-Hijra, so weeks after both the festival of sacrifice and the Islamic New Year, general merriment was had in the auspices of Low Memorial Library. Below the colossal classical pillars and Greco-Roman statues, a completely different tradition commemorated two of their most sacred holidays. But the MSA Eid Formal Dinner was not simply a display of cultural remnants--two traditional prayers, Isha and Duaa, bookended a program full of stand-up routines, oud performances and a movie short. MSA President Adil Ahmed opened the event describing his purposes in holding this somewhat belated event using this same language of old and new in the types of formal dress that appeared in crowd--including tuxedos, jeans, and traditional Arab and Turkish garb--to old and new members who worked to put the event together. &nbsp;Next, a Quran recitation and translation by CC Junior Faisal Khan and a theological speech by Haroon Moghul, a MEALAC Ph.D candidate explained the meaning of Ibrahim's sacrifice of Ismail, comparing it with the Prophet's journey from Mecca to Medina.&nbsp; Following dinner, which consisted of fantastic Pakistani and Turkish food, the performance section of the program began.&nbsp; First was a video by MSA students in a setting that looked suspiciously like Carman training Rocky-style, complete with Eye of the Tiger.&nbsp; Afterwards, oud virtuoso Zafer Tawil serenaded the crowd with classical Arab music with an instrument that resembled a 12 string fretless Portuguese guitar, followed by an awkwardly hilarious stand up routine with "Allah Made Me Funny" performer Azhar Usman, who complained about "performing in a planetarium" and that his religion did not market their religion well enough.&nbsp; "Eid sucks, it's die spelled backwards."&nbsp; Unlike Christmas and Halloween, which involve giving free stuff to kids, "In Islam, you starve for a month!"&nbsp; Before the crowd of almost two hundred filed out, Chaplain of Muslim Life Imam Sayeed said that in the 37 years he has been at Columbia, "This was the first night that was really funny".&nbsp; Adil Ahmed, who stood anxiously on the stage after the show, said that it exceeded his expectations in every way. - JJV 
 Happy Super Bowl, Columbia! It's still the beginning of the semester, so there's a good chance that many of you will be watching the game instead of the sky turning from light to darkness from inside the depths of Butler. So in the spirit of procrastination and camaraderie, Bwog presents a few neighborhood game-watching options. New-ish Japanese restaurant Tokyo Pop is tuning their television to the game and offering student sushi specials. $14/person (for 10 pieces of sushi). The Heights (for when 1020 is just too far) is offering happy hour all day (4pm-11pm) and wings are going to be half price. As a not completely unrelated side note, according to The Heights' website, the bar's slogan is: "Quenching babes is what we thirst." Havana Central is featuring a $19.95 all-you-can-eat buffet $6 pitchers of beer during the hours of the game, plus $2 shots during halftime (Tom Petty!) Toast, Deluxe, and AmCafe, while not offering any reduced-price food or drinks, are still turning into the game on television. And of course, there is going to be a party and television at the Kraft Center, from which Bwog's embedded sports correspondent Christoper Morris-Lent will be periodically dispatching about the game. 
 Akeel Bilgrami inspired Bwogger Justin Vlasits to pontificate on the differences between undergraduate and graduate education&nbsp; John Legend and Jeffrey Sachs teamed up to slow-jam against poverty Shapiro out, Spar in We also learned about the baller after-party of the Poverty Action Tour Barnard might have discovered another way of knowing The Greek scene: Not all fun and games. Just mostly fun and games Phi Beta Kappa was announced and subsequently stalked 
 Because we know you haven't heard enough about Phi Beta Kappa lately, Bwog investigates how one becomes a member of the illustrious society in the first place. The bad news? There doesn't seem to be any magic formula for becoming a member of the elite squad known as Phi Beta Kappa. According to the PBK Society's incredibly thorough website, "The ideal Phi Beta Kappan has demonstrated intellectual integrity, tolerance for other views, and a broad range of academic interests." More specifically, to be eligible for PBK, "students must have pursued a broad program of study in the liberal arts and sciences and met other academic criteria as required by the electing chapter." What does that mean at Columbia? The Course Bulletin tells us that the distinction goes to the top 10 percent of the senior class, with 2 percent elected in November and the other 8 notified in the spring. This webpage for directors of undergraduate studies makes the distinction between those two groups a little clearer: the first is elected "on the basis of academic achievement (high GPA) and support through faculty recommendations," while the second is elected "on the basis of academic achievement, as determined by GPA and the rigor of a student's academic program, as well as on evidence of intellectual promise, character, and achievements outside the classroom." The criteria for Phi Beta Kappa election at Barnard are even more vague. All the online course catalog tells us is that "Barnard students of exceptionally high standing are eligible." Evidently, there's no such thing as a cutoff GPA for Phi Beta Kappa membership. Since some classes have higher grades on average than others, the PBK standards must change every year. Because faculty recommendations play such a big role in the process, Bwog's advice to you is to start buttering up the heads of Columbia and Barnard's PBK chapters as soon as possible: Michael Pippenger and James Hope Runsdorf. Got a burning question only Bwog can answer? Email us at bwgossip@columbia.edu. &nbsp; 
 
 There'll be laughin' and singin' and music swingin' and dancin' in the streets How we gonna pay, how we gonna pay, year's rent?&nbsp; Here in my car, I feel safest of all.&nbsp; But for now I find it's only in my dreams that I can change the world. I want to wake up in a city that doesn't sleep and find I'm king of the hill, top of the heap. Now what's the matter buddy, ain't you heard of my school? &nbsp;It's number one in the state… 
So the Super Bowl is over, but New York is getting ready for another showdown. Bwog wakes up early to catch the solicitors in action! Snow on Christmas Eve is so trite, but snow on SuperTuesday Eve?! It's just a harbinger of things to come. Volunteers from the rival Obama and Clinton factions have been stationed outside the 110th Cathedral Parkway 1 stop since 7 am handing out fliers and reminding people to vote in the New York primaries tomorrow. The solicitors are braving the elements during both morning and evening rush hours, stop by later to show your support. &nbsp; -LT &nbsp; 
 A few tipsters have sent Bwog links to a website called EveryBlock. Users can search by zip code or address to find out all sorts of neat things about a neighborhood like elevator malfunctions, construction work violations and grossest of all: restaurants' health code violations.&nbsp; Kitchenette scored a moderately upsetting 14 points, the most nauseating of which was "food surface not washed." Other points came from the failure to "post signs" or have a working thermometer. &nbsp; An impressive 29 points were awarded to Subconscious. Apparently they're still serving NYC-banned trans fat, among other things. But today's big winner is John Jay. During its inspection at the end of January, John Jay Dining Hall racked up a positively baller 32 points for everything from inadequate lighting to "food not protected from contamination" to mice. &nbsp; In comparison, Hewitt Dining Hall only had 9 points of violations, the most egregious of which were "flying insects" and the cryptic "Other/Employee in separate smoking room." And the rest of the best: Deluxe: 11 points &nbsp; Tom's: 7 points&nbsp; Java City: 12 points&nbsp; Roti Roll: 41 points (Watch your back John Jay!) Starbucks: 10 points&nbsp; Tasti D Lite: 2 points Blue Java: 12 points Artopolis: 17 points V&amp;T: 15 points Ferris Booth: 33 points Am Cafe: 6 points Bwog has just two questions: Ham? Del? - JNW 
In which Bwog factotum and freelancer CML travels to the promised land—Hillel and AEPi—in search of the perfect Super Bowl experience.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It’s a fairly well-known fact around campus that Robert Kraft, who is apprently not America’s favorite magnate of mediocre cheeses but the largest shareholder of Israel's biggest packaging plant (who knew?—Ed.), and generous donor to the things that really matter, is the man responsible for Hillel’s fairly newish and lavishly palatial center for Jewish life, located between Broadway and Riverside across 115th street from the less opulent Schapiro residence hall.&nbsp; What is less known amongst a school composed mostly of sports philistines is that Kraft is also the owner of the New England Patriots, the most dominant team in not just the NFL but all of professional sports over the last decade.&nbsp; Last night, in honor of his team’s ongoing quest for the NFL’s first perfect season since 1972, Kraft footed the bill for a Super Bowl party in the Kraft Center, thereby uniting two of the more incongruous parts of his empire into one: Hillel and football. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I alighted upon the fifth floor of the Kraft Center at around 5:50, about half an hour prior to kickoff.&nbsp; Chairs—roughly enough to seat, say, seventy—were arranged around an expansive projector, which was already tuned to FOX.&nbsp; As the analysts prattled away on the pre-game show, more gentlemen clad in yarmulkes and jerseys ranging from the Redskins to the Raiders filed into the space. Trailing the revelers was a smorgasbord of free food.&nbsp; Bags of Chips Ahoy! and Ruffles gave way to classier refreshments like kosher pizza and guacamole, but my raging fever prevented me from surfeiting my gluttony.&nbsp; Seeing me sipping my miso soup from a Nalgene, a random guy walked up to me and said, “Hey, I’m Harry.&nbsp; What’s your name?”&nbsp; &nbsp;“I’m Chris,” I admitted. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Chris,” he said.&nbsp; “Sababa.” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Sababa indeed,” I responded, desperately wishing I knew what the word meant as I took another draught from my bakbuk. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“Which year are you?” he said, continuing the conversation in the vein of orientation week. &nbsp;“Um, I write for the Current,” I answered in desperation.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;--- &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At 6:20, the coin was flipped, the teams lined up, and the Giants received the Patriots’ kick.&nbsp; Ten game-minutes and maybe fifteen real-minutes later, the Giants kicked a field goal, prompting raucous cheers from the guys in the front.&nbsp; “JTS freshmen,” explained my chaperone.&nbsp; I put five bucks on the Patriots –12 to give myself a vested interest in the game; my chaperone takes the points. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Five game-minutes and maybe twenty real-minutes later, as FOX sought desperately to recoup its ad revenue, the Patriots’ juggernaut offense responded with a touchdown.&nbsp; More cheers from the front.&nbsp; “Also JTS freshmen,” said my duenna.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It seemed as if there were more or less an even distribution between Giants and Pats fans, but both factions were vastly outnumbered by the number of people that couldn’t have cared less either way.&nbsp; In the row behind me sat a gaggle of girls.&nbsp; “Third and seven means…” intoned one of them. “It means that you have three tries to get seven yards,” responded another. “I don’t know much about sports,” said a third feminine voice. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This discourse propagated itself until the next commercial break, when the room was filled with a reverent silence.&nbsp; A stupid Pepsi ad elicited a few chuckles.&nbsp; Oy!&nbsp; What dreck.&nbsp; Then the game started again, and the kibitzing resumed with increased ferocity. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;--- &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My chaperone and I vacated the premises at the end of the second quarter, with the Patriots still up 7-3.&nbsp; A few minutes later we arrived at the threshold of Alpha Epsilon Pi.&nbsp; A few hardy souls puttered around the vestibule, grazing on pizza, drinking Root Beer and Coors carbonated horse urine, and schmoozing amongst themselves.&nbsp; The common room was festooned with couches and chairs, splayed across which were the&nbsp; of AEPi and their friends, all of them transfixed by Tom Petty’s lackluster halftime show.&nbsp; (Whatever happened to The Artist Formerly Known As Prince?)&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;--- &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Seeing as there was nowhere to sit down at AEPi, my companion and I absquatulated after Tom Petty ceased to murder silence with a vulgar, ferocious energy, and made our way back to my suite in East Campus, a suite populated with Giants partisans.&nbsp; Conversation flowed as easily as the Sam Adams.&nbsp; Corn chips dipped in all sorts of exotic dips were downed with relentless regularity. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Patriots received the kick and drove up the field before promptly turning the ball over on downs after failing to convert a questionable fourth-and-thirteen within field goal range. The Giants’ pressure on Tom Brady remained incessant; combined with his ailing ankle, which was clearly bothering him, throwing down the field was a complete impossibility.&nbsp; FOX aired a marginally racist ad featuring a panda bear, prompting a suitemate of mine to comment, “Wow, this is just the year of racist ads.”&nbsp; The Giants scored, the Patriots responded, and soon there were but five minutes left in the fourth quarter.&nbsp; Eli Manning drove up the field, and with 35 seconds left completed a 13-yard pass to sports portent Plaxico Burress for the lead.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Patriots’ last-ditch effort at making history is quashed, I lose five dollars on my bet, and the joyous screams of women and men emanate up from the lower strata of EC.&nbsp; It’s a very cathartic and blissful conclusion to a very Semitic Super bowl. 
 Tipster alumnus from down under Tao Tan passed along a helpful reminder that starting today until February 10th, all NJ Transit tickets will be free with a student ID and this coupon.&nbsp; Bon voyage. &nbsp; 
A curious mention of a Columbia "alum" in the news today in the form of a police report. High school dropout and apparent puppy enthusiast Esther Reed stole the identity of a missing South Carolina woman named Brooke Henson. Using Henson's name and personal information, Reed took her SATs and GED and gained entrance to Harvard and Columbia. Reed dropped out of school and was on the lam for more than a year before she was arrested on Saturday on charges of fraud and identity theft. Henson—who has been missing for nearly eight years—is still missing. While at Columbia, Reed is believed to have nabbed $100 grand of financial aid. CU administration has admitted that she was enrolled up until last year, but did not provide any details. Did you know Brooke Henson/Esther Reed or know any details of her time at Columbia? Let us know, email bwog@columbia.edu
On December 19, two days before potentially returning Resident Advisors had to submit their applications for the 2008-2009 school year, rising junior and senior RAs received an email from Dean Kromm, Director of Residential Programs, detailing changes to their duties. Specifically, when on-duty, they must be closer to campus at all times and cannot be in the subway. The rationale provided by administrators, according to several current RAs, is that after the Radio Perfecto shooting, RAs should be available immediately to talk to their residents and can never be more than a ten minute walk from their residential area or building and cannot be on the subway at all. Kris Alspach, CC '09 and Wien RA, wondered what they, as RAs, could do in a situation like that of the Radio Perfecto shooting. "They're turning us into police officers. They're making our responsibility for our jobs greater than our responsibility as students," he said. RAs are primarily in charge of directing students to the proper authorities in emergency situations rather than taking an active part in resolving violent incidents. They are not trained to "strap on a gun" and go out in the middle of the night, Alspach said. The timing of the announcement (it was sent after all first time applications were due, during the middle of finals and after many potentially returning RAs had submitted their preferences sheet) aroused concern among several current RAs, including Alspach, who felt that the decision was being pushed under the door. He thought that his suspicions were confirmed when, during recharge week before spring semester classes started, there was a 9:30 pm meeting where the administration explained the decision. Only 15 to 20 out of the approximately 60 junior and senior RAs were in attendance, and several RAs felt that the meeting was simply a technicality so that the administration could later say that they had listened to student concerns. "It was very clear within the first three minutes of the meeting that there were not going to be any changes," said Chris Daniels, CC '09 and EC RA. Several RAs spoke up at this point, trying to find a suitable compromise in the new policy where they could be responsible for their jobs and as students and drafted a letter of complaint. Afterwards, RAs who signed on to the letter found that when their assignments were not what they had asked for when returning RAs almost always get their first choices of dorms. One RA who was in East Campus as a junior will be in a Woodbridge walk through double, despite the fact that he had received no complaints and knew other EC RAs that were drunk multiple times on duty and got reassigned to "prime real estate." Another was moved from EC to Broadway. Kris Alspach was in Wien this year and had a verbal agreement with Darleny Cepin, Associate Director of Residential Programs, to go to EC with another Wien RA as a senior, but when he was told when he received another Wien assignment, he found out that Cepin said that he had "communication issues" and that she wanted to have special opportunity to help him with these issues in Wien. No one had mentioned that he had communication issues prior to his complaints about the new policy. This year, the second year that rising sophomores could apply to be RAs, saw an astronomical increase in the number of applications, according to several RAs. In 2007-2008 there are only six or seven sophomore RAs according to Alspach and Daniels. Next year, most buildings will be far more new RAs than returners, as opposed to in the past when it was closer to 50/50, with returners mostly in freshman dorms and the LLC, which require more active work. While at this point Alspach and Daniels are certain that the policy will not be changed for next year, they do not think that such a large influx of new, younger RAs will be able to keep control over the dorms with older students and are disappointed that the staff, which they thought of as "really supportive" this year, will be disbanded. Stay tuned for the administration's reaction later in the week. -JJV 
 Vampire Weekend not worth the $10 you didn't pay for their CD on iTunes Breaking: Super Bowl more popular, lucrative than environmentalism &nbsp; No asterisk for the vowel? &nbsp; It's a walk-off! CC's got Obama, GS has about what you'd expect The cookbook that Americans...er, New Yorkers...er, diet-conscious East Harlemites can't get enough of! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Last week, first-years received an email from AlcoholEdu announcing a contest. Alcohol Edu, always on top of the latest zeitgeist-y cultural references asked: "Is college really like Old School or Animal House?" Responses could take any form of expression (hear that, you creative types?) from essays to drawings to videos.&nbsp; Bwog found this quite coincidental, as we have actually decided to hold the exact same contest. Is college really the drunken, orgiastic clusterfuck of attractive people and endless parties that the teenagers in the Animal House film tell us it is? Well, of course! But we want to know why. Send photoshopped creations, videos, songs, essays, haikus and the like to bwog@columbia.edu by this Sunday at midnight. The best will be posted and subsequent voting will ensue—unless you guys are like, too waaaasted. Bwogger Justin Vlasits' submission hangs proudly above. 
In Brooklyn, Bwog editor Zach van Schouwen extemporizes on electioneering, and inadvertently gets disenfranchised. The lines weren't terribly long by 8 AM at P.S. 110 in Greenpoint, where a few disheveled hipsters joined the contingent of elderly Polish men to cast a vote for one or more candidates. Stumbling blindly around the outside of the school, we eventually found the one door, with a sign on the inside, noting where the polling place was.&nbsp; Having made my choice, I headed for the L train to make my morning classes. Reading some blogs in lecture hall, however, revealed a disconcerting fact (which reveals my party affiliation): Apparently, if you're a Democrat and you want to vote for a candidate's whole slate of delegates, you have to check multiple boxes in the same column, and not just the one next to the candidate's name. OK, actually, we've heard a correction, and you don't have to vote down the delegate column, contrary to many people's beliefs. I'm proud to have had the chance cast 1/8th of a vote for America's future, though. Columbia students looking to vote a little closer to campus, here's the skinny (because Jeebus knows NYC's voting information website isn't much help): in general, Columbia students' polling station is Lerner Hall (the west entrance, on Broadway below the revolving doors) Wien lounge, although New York isn't offering same day registration, so if you haven't already signed up you're out of luck. Polls close at 9PM, and you need your voter registration card or a photo ID. SUPER-DUPER BONUS: In the Lerner Piano Lounge, the College Democrats and Republicans are co-sponsoring a primary watching party (with free pizza) that starts at 8. More to come. 
 Sustainable development loving John Legend fan Jeffrey Sachs and incredibly wealthy person Jeff Flug were recently photographed at Tom's Restaurant for an article on CNN.com about the faces of philanthropy. Faces aside, we're actually more drawn to Flug's hand, which appears disturbingly huge. "Like his commitment to charity!" observed a Bwog contributor.&nbsp; The article points out that since the Jeffs joined forces, "the two have raised more than $100 million from donors like George Soros - who recently pledged $50." George Soros: underwhelming, miserly billionaire? Or copy error? We report, you decide. - JNW 
 Bwog contributor and newly-experienced voter Mariela Quintana polls former virgins of the democratic process and reflects on ballots cast and chances lost.&nbsp; Today was my first time. As I was walking to class this morning, I felt a bit jittery and apprehensive—and it had nothing to do with the two cups of coffee I had with breakfast.&nbsp; I realized that I would not only be casting my first vote today, but that I would be casting it in a very close race. After today, my vote would no longer be my opinion alone. After today my vote would be an action, something that might just have a consequence. Sure, before today my politics had mattered, but there was room for apathy and second guessing myself. I had never thought of my politics or my right to vote in this way: Could my vote really matter? Am I really sure my candidate will make the best president? Am I just being swayed by popular opinion? If I don’t trust my own ability to vote wisely, then how can I trust the ability of any other American to do so? It was still before lunch, and I was already beginning to question the very foundation of our democracy. This afternoon in Lerner, I talked to numerous first time voters.&nbsp; I was surprised by the different reactions students had to the monumental rite of passage.&nbsp; Most students were glad to talk about the election and were even willing to divulge for whom they were voting, though most did opt to remain anonymous.&nbsp; One of the difficulties for undergraduate voters is not just registering to vote, but obtaining absentee ballots from their state of residence.&nbsp;&nbsp; The students I spoke with showed a determined dedication to cast their votes today. They all felt strongly today is an important election and are willing to make the effort to make their voices heard and make their vote count.&nbsp; Three students were traveling home to New Jersey to vote for their candidates.&nbsp; Two girls I spoke to plan on going all the way to Virginia to vote in the state’s primary next week because their absentee ballots have not come through yet. Many students, unfortunately, did have the time to get their absentee ballot act together.&nbsp; One sophomore from San Francisco was especially nervous about tonight’s results.&nbsp; He felt voting would have resolved some of his worries, but with so much of both Clinton and Obama’s campaigns focusing on the need for change, he simply didn’t know what to expect.&nbsp; Many students mentioned that voting for the first time made them more confident in their support of their candidate.&nbsp; I was relieved to find that most first-time voters had a generally positive experience, with the exception of one sophomore girl who mentioned that the electronic voting machine at her voting location were broken.&nbsp; She told me the gaffe did not ruffle her too much, “It was kind of like filling out SAT bubbles back in the day,” she laughed.&nbsp; 
 Last night, the ESC and their political colleagues assembled for its second formal meeting of the semester. Policy, Glass House Rocks, and mystery were aplenty. Bwogger Tony Gong reports. The meeting began unremarkably as several representatives of outside groups began to brag about all the things they had done. First up was the CC '09 Class Council, who used the time to present its "Art of Community" campaign, which is a series of projects that aim to "utilize aspects of the vibrant culture present in our community in the form of art, and performance." One initiative involves Columbia students attaching their crayon drawings of "personal images of Columbia" onto Low Steps, fulfilling the important two-pronged objective of community expression and community pollution. I immediately began working on my personal image, which involved PrezBo holding hands with a dinosaur in front of Hamilton Deli. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Directly following that, a student services representative insightfully explained to us that stress was "not a good thing." To remedy student stress, the Student Mental Health Services may be installing an online forum where students reveal secrets for public display, which sounds like it will cause even more stress. &nbsp;&nbsp; And in somewhat related news, as part of a 21st birthday campaign, students turning 21 in the following months will be receiving gifts and free dinners from Health Services. The campaign and gifts will be "alcohol-based" to "let you know what alcohol can do for you." Things began to heat up as the four class councils gave short presentations about their agendas: The class of 2009 revealed their plans for a Lego-Jenga-themed Glass House Rocks room, which I predict will last approximately six minutes before someone accidentally knocks something over, perhaps killing everyone in the vicinity. And while the class of 2011 had nothing of substance to say, the council dropped the fact that they had had walkie-talkies during Winter Wonderland, which is pretty legitimate. &nbsp;&nbsp; Right before the end of the meeting, the ESC council announced that the "non-elected council members" would have to leave the room for their final point of discussion. This referred specifically to me. What exactly was the ESC hiding from a curious public? After a sleepless night and afternoon of frustrated deliberation, I have accumulated the following theories: They have invented the technology that will finally enable my image of PrezBo holding hands with a dinosaur in front of Hamilton Deli to become reality. Or they discovered what the three-headed dog on the third floor of Lerner is guarding. Or most plausibly of all, the council—naturally all fans of the hit movie Homeward Bound— had had plans to watch Homeward Bound II: Lost in San Francisco, which, as they discovered last night, isn't nearly as good. 
 O Fortuna, ye who spins your wheel to decide the fate of those who would seek the highest office in the land. And o mainstream media, ye whose color-coordinated interactive maps and expertly crafted graphics enrapture the most Butler-weary soul. As of 8 p.m. on Tuesday night, the Lerner piano lounge was filled with nearly 100 students who arrived in their political finest (suit jackets and tucked-in casual wear) to bear witness to the spectacle of Super Tuesday. Sponsored by the Columbia Political Union, along with the Dems and the Republicans, the event brought out supporters of Obama, Clinton, and, apparently, Romney, who camped out like teenage girls waiting for Backstreet Boys tickets circa 1999 to see which candidate would sweep nearly half the states in the union. Chris Daniels, CC'09, veep of the Dems, said his group represented both Clinton and Obama supporters, though, he commented, "There's definitely more of a presence of Obama supporters on campus, they seem to be more fervent." Marisa Gorovitz, BC'10, a Democrat supporter, was camped next to the small circle of College Republicans that claimed the Northwest corner of the room. The most humorous event of the night as of 8:30, she claimed, occurred when, "someone made a funny reaction when it was announced that Hillary Clinton won Oklahoma... like oh Oklahoma!" The Republicans themselves proved reticent, with refusals to speak with a Bwog reporter and nary a word but an extemporaneously gleeful cry of of "Go Romney!" from one GOP member. The room was full of quick-typing bloggers, emailers, and homework do-ers, in addition to Aaron Goodman, a UPenn sophomore who had been sent from the Daily Pennsylvanian with a team that included "a reporter, a photographer, and a videographer," another set of which had been dispatched to Princeton. "Our primary isn't until, like, April..." he offered by way of explanation. CPU general manager Alastair Shearman, SEAS'08, was pleased with the turnout. "This is the biggest event we've had... It's a festive atmosphere," he said, grinning and then looking back at his computer, where he was checking the stats. "I put my projections up on Facebook, if you want to look at that," he advised.&nbsp; Over at the computers in the room, Marc Castaneda, CC'09, frantically checked the New York Times and CNN.com websites against the coverage of CNN on the television. "I'm listening to it in my ear and checking it online at the same time," he said. "I get really obsessive about elections. I should be a pollster." A man next to him swore, "fuck...fuck" under his breath when it was announced that Hillary had pulled through in New York state. Jason Eckstein, SEAS'09, was unimpressed by the statistical methodologies espoused by Wolf Blitzer and his cohorts on the tube. "They have a big check that says who won and the votes haven't even been counted," he said in disgust. Nick Serpe, CC'10, read Leviathan while keeping an eye on the action. "It's like watching an ice cube melt," he quipped, adding, "I just wish Hobbes was running for president, but I don't know how he would feel about representative democracy. He would probably just declare martial law." He added that Anderson Cooper should consider a run, which would be fabulous. -KER 
 Super Tuesday, almost as good as the Superbowl!&nbsp; Even better if you watch at 1020. Super Tuesday, almost as cool as Wolf Blitzer's beard! What more can you ask from the frats?&nbsp; More Nikolai and cheap beer please. RA's, Chateau D'If style.&nbsp; C'mon, who hangs their milk in a plastic bag outside of their window? &nbsp; 
Thanks to an email from a Bwog tipster, it seems that recent shenanigans at John Jay's Blue Java Express are coming to an ignominious end.&nbsp; It appears that the wool has been pulled over one too many Columbian's eyes, as this tipster put an end to recent Blue Java trickery... &nbsp; Bwog Editors, I thought those caffeine-charged, cost-conscious Columbians like myself might want to know: Housing and Dining has been overcharging students for several weeks now on coffee purchased at the John Jay Blue Java Express. I recently noticed that their large-size cups were actually medium-size, but I still was being debited the large-size price. Despite adamant denials from Blue Java employees that my smaller cups were anything other than full-sized, 20-ounce tankards of coffee, I took my case to H&amp;D administrators. Yesterday I finally received notice that my suspicions were correct: I have been paying more for less. Fortunately, H&amp;D has pledged to fix the problem, and I did indeed see 20-oz. cups for sale -- as advertised -- at the John Jay Blue Java Express this morning. - Jon Hill CC '11 See the tipster's swashbuckling and heroic save of large coffee cups after the jump! To sir or madam - I have noticed that the paper coffee cups sold at the John Jay residence hall Blue Java Express do not match the size of cups sold elsewhere on campus. At locations like Ferris Booth and the Butler Library Blue Java, the biggest cups available hold 20 ounces and are sold under the "large" label. If I order the same size cup -- a "large" -- at the Blue Java Express, however, I receive a smaller cup holding only 16 ounces.&nbsp; This seems strange to me, since this type of cup is normally sold at other campus cafés as the "medium" size. Because I have noticed this size discrepancy occurring repeatedly, and because I have been assured by Blue Java Express staff that the 16 ounce cup is indeed the largest available at that location, I wish to know whether cup sizes do vary between locations. If so, why does Housing and Dining not keep a standard sizing policy for all its campus venues? If this size discrepancy is an oversight, how soon might Housing and Dining be able to stock the appropriate cups at the John Jay Blue Java? Thank you for your time and attention, - Jonathan Hill CC '11 Bwog begs to ask, how could the Butler weary ever survive without their 20 ouncer instead of a mere 16 ounce cup of joe? 
An anonymous tipster let Bwog know that the rock bands scheduled at everyone's favorite ramped building will not be playing "for security reasons."&nbsp; The bands that Bwog knows were nixed include Beta Theta Pi's The Stolen Cars, jazz/metal Columbia band Wizards of the Coast and Bowie-imitating Brooklyn rockers Dasher.&nbsp; Bwog is disappointed that we will now have to listen to that annoying kid fumbling through Moonlight Sonata and chromatic scales in the piano lounge. 
Michael Snyder, Bwog's resident off-campus theatre critic, serves up his thoughts on the Broadway rendition of Harold Pinter's The Homecoming. Now that Harold Pinter has been awarded the Nobel prize, his plays have officially entered the canon, and yet a play like The Homecoming, now in a wonderful revival at the Cort Theatre on 48th Street, in many ways feels far more modern than most new plays you’re likely to see on Broadway. The story of The Homecoming is simple: the curtain opens on an ordinarily unpleasant day in the blue-collar, north London home of Max, his two sons Lenny and Joey, and his brother Sam.&nbsp; The drama really begins when Max’s oldest son Teddy returns for a surprise visit from America where has been a philosophy professor for nine years. He brings with him his wife Ruth, about whom he has told his family nothing. Needless to say, Pinter did not become famous as a master storyteller. Eschewing exposition, Pinter allows us only the most vital details of his characters lives, presented intermittently throughout the play’s spare two hours. Thanks to Pinter’s brilliant and meticulous craftsmanship, it is in piecing things together after the play ends that you realize just how much information he has given you and in so few words. Even in such an outstanding cast, two performances stand out: James Frain as Teddy and Eve Best as Ruth. Frain, in his Broadway debut, is the picture of English restraint and academic arrogance.&nbsp; Without raising his voice, Frain delivers the play’s most hurtful speech, and even then he remains a study in elegant removal, a chilling example of a man who has had all humanity educated out of him.&nbsp; As Ruth, Best gives a perfectly austere performance. Whenever she glides on stage Best commands absolute attention with her unsettling combination of studied primness and searing carnality. The surprise in this production, though, is neither the quality of the performance nor of the play itself; these are well-known actors in one of the most celebrated plays of the last fifty years.&nbsp; The surprise here is in The Homecoming’s continued ability to shock even jaded theatergoers.&nbsp; Although the play’s explicit sexuality may not elicit gasps from the audience anymore, by the play’s end I found myself breathless at this all-too-civilized depiction of humanity in a state of such refined decay. For more information check here. 
 Barnard's 2011 Class Council is offering $1 Valentine's Day candygrams. They had a booth set up in the lobby of Sulzberger on Monday and Tuesday from 5-7 PM, and the same booth will also be there tonight and tomorrow (Thursday) evening from 5-7. The $1 buys a personalized message and a selection of sweets. A young woman manning the booth promised Bwog Hershey's Kisses, and that all candy would be kosher. "Pork," she answered, when Bwog asked what ingredients were commonly found in non-kosher candy. The grams will be delivered on Valentine's Day, but only to the Barnard Quad, so too bad for those pining away for a Plimpton hottie, or, you know, someone who's not a female living in the Quad's dorms. But one buck for some pork-free candy sounds pretty sweet. &nbsp; 
 Mariela Quintana reflects on a day of reflection and offers suggestions to make this year's Lent the most productive (and honest) one yet.&nbsp; Ash Wednesday marks the beginning of Lent, a 40 day period of prayer, penitence and self-denial before Easter. &nbsp; Lent is a theologically complex and profoundly spiritual time for Christians and requires a much more thorough explanation than I am capable of giving or than you, most likely, are interested in hearing. I am sure, however, that many of you are familiar with Lent's most prominent tradition: the 40 day period of abstinence.&nbsp;&nbsp; For both Christians and heathens alike, Ash Wednesday raises numerous questions, Why does everyone seeming to have schmutz on their faces? How long do I have to wait to wipe the ash off?&nbsp; Can I celebrate Mardi Gras on Ash Wednesday if I campaigned for McCain last night?&nbsp; And the most common question of all is, of course: what should I give up? Forgoing alcohol, meat or chocolate are all common options. But I think it would be far more meaningful to come up with something more original. Below, a top ten list of things that I, and all Columbia students, might consider giving up for Lent. The unbaptized and the atheistic should not shy away, everyone's a candidate for self-improvement! 10. Using Wikipedia as a scholarly resource. 9. Getting HamDel to deliver to your dorm room in Hartley. 8.&nbsp; Allowing the housing lottery to destroy friendships 7. Smoking when you are drunk if you don't smoke sober (Why would you do it drunk?) 6. Feeling guilty about smoking. 5. Telling Barnard jokes 4. Using Hume as a substitute for religion. 3. Claiming to be a Pynchophile after only reading The Crying of Lot 49 2. Abbreviating bourgeoisie, Le Corbusier and Nabokov to bougie, Le Corb and Nabs, respectively 1. Charging your bar tab to your parents' credit card. 
 Come on Spec copy editors, what's a Legistation? &nbsp;&nbsp; This article needs a more descriptive title: how about One Step Closer to Robot Soldiers? This Mexican restaurant needs a better name: how about Chipotle's Ugly Cousin? Bwog's not all criticism, though!&nbsp; A gold star to the very appropriate alliteration in this title!&nbsp; And a crime &amp; punishment teaser for a report on the subject later today And a QuickChristSciMon: For most Columbians, statistics classes are soul-numbing, idealism-crushing experiences, but for this alum... 
This is for a very narrow section of the population, namely for those of you bored in class, reading Bwog, and contemplating a shower on your return to your dorm in EC.&nbsp; Tough luck.&nbsp; There will be no running water in EC for an indefinite period of time.&nbsp; The reason?&nbsp; Only the delightfully intriguing "emergency repairs" was given. 
 Bwog newbie Sahil Vora goes Beyond the Hype of India and China to investigate the mysterious trend of "panda-hugging." The Heyman Center for the Humanities joined up with the Committee on Global Thought and put on its second event of the spring semester, a forum entitled "India and China: A Comparison of their Past, Present, and Future." The event attracted an illustrious panel of globalization economists: Ngaire Woods, of Oxford; Prabhat Patnaik, an Indian economist; and our very own Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel laureate and chair of the Committee on Global Thought. &nbsp; Prabhat Patnaik, the first speaker of the day, presented his thoughts on India and China's internal economic affairs rapidly, precisely, and without the aid of notes. He acknowledged the popular consensus that India and China were emerging as global economic powers, but remained surprised by "the hype about India and China" because both countries suffer from incredible poverty. Ngaire Woods shifted the topic of discussion to an analysis of "Western hysteria emerging from Chinese donations to Africa." According to Woods, Western nations interpret Chinese donations to other developing countries as a threat to Western influence. China purchases a substantial amount of U.S. debt, exports more merchandise than any other country, possesses over a trillion dollars in its reserves, and owns nationalized energy markets. Established Western donors criticize China for making reckless loans without encouraging good governance or environmental stewardship in developing countries. However, Woods argued that the West's use of controversial conditionalities, which restrict loans or debt relief based on the borrowing country's adherence to certain good governance or development goals, fails to produce either growth or good governance. "You might accuse me of 'panda-hugging,' which is a term I just heard, my point is not to be a Chinese apologist, my point is to dissect the Western response to Chinese aid, which has become hysterical, and bring the debate down to a more sensible ." Like Woods, Stiglitz argued that Western donors, especially the International Monetary Fund, treat aid as a "white man's burden." Western governments use conditionalities, "as if they know best how to create growth," even though their methods tend to fail in practice. Finally, Stiglitz opened the floor for questions, during which well-dressed businessmen and women scrambled over each other to get the illustrious panelists' view on the anticipated economic downturn. The evening ended on a note of optimism, however, when Stiglitz argued, "These global economic changes affect how we run global governance. It's an exciting period in which we'll have to rethink the foundations." 
The bloated acronym-octopus-- so confusing it needs a bloated, meaningless metaphor to represent it-- that is OoSA/OSGA/SGB (Office of Student Affairs/Office of Student Group Advising/Student Governing Board) has a new dean. Todd Smith's job is to guard SGB (recently gobbled up by OoSA/OSGA) from administration influence.&nbsp; His credentials include eight years as NYUDotOoLGBT/TSS (New York University's Director of the Office of Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender/Transsexual Student Services).&nbsp; SGB reps are giddy about their new defender, who starts work February 25th.
 Did you know the Spectator editors have a blog? Well, they do! And they have selected a winner! Apparently, Spec conducted a completely necessary survey to examine the relationship between Bwog and Spec, among other things. Some findings? For one thing, we do, in fact have a relationship. "Though its effects haven't been researched, Bwog's QuickSpec seems to help our paper (and possibly Bwog?) reach readers and stimulate dialogue about the content and presentation itself of the news we cover," explained EIC Tom Faure. In other words, QuickSpecs... help. Spec? Maybe Bwog. In some way. Probably. Participants in the survey were automatically entered into a lottery, the winner of which received standby-Columbia-free-prize an iPod. Bwog caught up with John Gardner, the lucky winner, to get a sense of what life was like pre-iPod and now. "Like most Columbians, I've had only one dream over the last 3+ years: to make headlines in the Spec. Is there anything else worthwhile at Columbia? And yet I had all but given up hope. Then I go and fill out a little survey and Spec puts my name in Ahmadinejad-size font on the website and gives me a new iPod to boot!" Everyone's a winner here! Spec, Bwog, the statisticians, John Gardner, and most of all Steve Jobs. - JNW 
 Columbia security guards have been going all vigilante of late, patrolling the neighborhood (or at least Broadway and Amsterdam between 111th and 116th) on foot.&nbsp; Apparently, the new security protocol is a response to two recent muggings at 112th and Amsterdam.&nbsp; One tipster reports seeing ten police officers and security guards on a single walk on Broadway from 114th to 106th.&nbsp; If the plethora of patrollers isn't making you paranoid yet, Barnard is alerting its students to neighborhood crime through ubiquitous posters. A search of the Spec's archives shows only one report of a mugging in the past five months, but a Public Safety account reveals a spate of crime in the new year.&nbsp; It's starting to feel a little early '80s here on the Upper West Side, don't you think? Edited, 5:30pm: Apparently the Spec has quite a bit of coverage of recent crimes in the neighborhood.&nbsp; Sorry, Spec! &nbsp; 
 Money + Money + Money + NYU = Culture ? New Museum + School - Pedagogical Method = Art ? Teenagers + Live Music = Club Revenue - Bar Tabs = Out of Business&nbsp; Misery + Exhaustion = A Great Way to Live ? Bacteria + Yeast + "A Few Days of Growth" + "Loving Care from its Health-Conscious Parents" = Something Edible ? 
 Bwog Lecture Hop editor Pierce Stanley observes as religion is reconciled with just about everything, for once. Coming on the heels of a Super Duper Tuesday that saw former Arkansas governor turned evangelical preacher Mike Huckabee decisively win five Republican primaries in the South and the recent dropping out of Republican contender Mitt Romney—a figure previously under the heavy scrutiny of the public eye for his devout Mormonism—the intersection of religion and politics has never been more apparent than in the current election cycle. Yesterday’s nationwide Veritas Forum proved to be a well-timed and informative event for the throngs that showed up in Roone to flesh out the tensions between religion and politics. Washington Post columnist Dale Hanson Bourke led Columbia professors Andrew Delbanco (director of the American Studies program) and Religion and Humanities professor Mark Lilla, as well as the Senior Pastor of Redeemer Presbyterian Church Timothy Keller in a discussion about the tensions between religion and pluralism. The always dapper and bespectacled Lilla, author of The Stillborn God, kicked off the night by arguing that society faces a continuous struggle of trying to reconcile different spheres into an integrated whole that he termed pluralism. Moreover, Lilla suggested that exclusive religion was very simply orthodox religion, in which someone has very comprehensive views about what God, life, reality, and the world are that they are unable to reconcile with others. The discussion quickly moved to the presidential campaigns and the question of whether candidates are going too far in their use of religion to win votes. Lilla suggested that a balance needs to be kept between religious rhetoric and politics. Delbanco, his usual wry spunk in place, chimed in by wondering if politics are even more humane because of religion. “I think not,” the American Studies professor suggested.&nbsp; When the discussion of the political exterior was exhausted, the speakers tackled a more nuanced discussion of the internal later in the night as they tossed around questions of conversion and evangelism. While many entered the evening believing that Delbanco and Lilla would clash heartily with Pastor Keller on the more technical issues of Christianity, the men seemed to agree about most of the topics they discussed. Delbanco even suggested that he is an evangelist to some extent in the classroom, arguing that the fervor to which he puts forth his ideas in the classroom and professes his faith about certain ideas that he believes to be true is in a sense an “evangelic transaction.” Keller agreed that evangelism is a two way street. He criticized Christians that he believed to be unwilling to accept other viewpoints and “exhibit enough humility to think in someone else’s shoes.” The Veritas Forum provided for brief a moment some keen insights into the role of exclusive religion in a pluralistic society while commenting deeply on the nature of American democracy. More importantly however, last night’s event showed that the debate over the role of religion in politics will be something we will have to confront for years to come.&nbsp; 
 * denotes free events! "Network" Friday, Saturday, Sunday: 2pm, 4:30pm, 7pm, 9:30pm - Film Forum - 209 W. Houston St. - A better study of media than you'll ever get in a Media Studies class, this '70s classic is being shown on a new 35 mm print. Bwog is not sure what's so special about that, but apparently it's worth a revival! Manhattan Vintage Clothing Show Friday: 1pm-7pm, Saturday: 10am-6pm - Metropolitan Pavilion - 125 W. 18th St. - Bring your sewing scissors to jab competitors nabbing the one-of-a-kind vintage clothing and textiles. * Robert Mapplethorpe: Certain People Saturday, Sunday - Sean Kelly Gallery - 528 W. 29th St. - See a portrait of Cindy Sherman that she didn't photograph herself! Forty-some other portraits will also be shown. * Lunar New Year Parade Sunday: 1pm - Mott St. &amp; Hester St. - Cacophonic street revelry…happy year of the Golden Rat! * Lee Friedlander: A Ramble in Olmsted Parks All weekend &amp; beyond - The Met - 1000 5th Ave. at 82nd St. - Bored of the barren trees in Central Park? Tired of dreary trots down Riverside Dr.? Check out one photographer's homage to Central park and its designer Frederick Law Olmsted at the Met.&nbsp; * Arte No Es Vida All weekend &amp; beyond - El Museo del Barrio - 1230 5th Ave. at 104th St. - Be the first in your Major Cultures section to see this show, which brings together photographs, texts, video and ephmera, in a panoramic look at Latino and Caribbean culture. It will surely expand your notion of contemporary civilization.&nbsp; 
 In which Bwog daily editor Alexandra Muhler examines whether enormous infusions of the administration's money can make a Thursday night on campus enjoyable. The crowds were thick at Lerner tonight for an event excessively fond of wink-wink references to wink-wink cultural icons (event t-shirts had "Glass House Rocks" on the front and "Best Thursday Ever" on the back). Stepping into the packed building, I fretted over whether the awkwardness of running into half the people I know would be worth campus clubs' booths, snacks, and performances. A number of the club-dedicated tables and rooms were terrific. Alongside inappropriately sober community service clubs playing videos of starving children in Third World nations were spicier groups like Conversio Virium, which distributed a connect-the-dots worksheet inappropriate for publication on a family-oriented blog. Also notable was the Chinese Student Club's tea-pong room, and the noticeably diminished skill of all its abstemious (2 IDs to drink) players. The snack tables were many but had been torn through within an hour of doors' opening. Still, Hershey's kisses, and occasionally the finer bite-size candies, were plentiful on group tables. The Society of Undergraduate Chemists (who knew such a thing existed?) ingeniously prepared a mixed-berry ice cream, which tasted so mysterious that neither I nor any of the people I ate it with can describe it. The performances were of mixed quality, though some were exhilarating.&nbsp; The three northern walkways of Lerner made a bizarre stage. Larger groups used the space to great effect, working every level of the building and asserting their raunchiness all over the audience from every direction. Smaller groups seemed still more shrunken by the scale of their stage, and the detail of their movement was lost in the haphazard lighting. Sabor's bunny-tailed spandex exertions were a veritable dance-extravaganza. Among the periodic performances in the smaller rooms, CU Belly Dance elicited real audience enthusiasm, culminating in a belly dance breakdown with the lights out. But none of these small delights could match the miraculous transformation of drab Roone Arledge Auditorium into an inflatable wonderland. The blow-up realms of fun were out of bounds for wristbanded over-21s, and amply compensated for the enforced sobriety of us minors. Inflatable twister was unexpectedly challenging. American Gladiator-style combat and excessively-large-gloved boxing were a perfect way to blow off steam at the end of the week. Best of all was a game in which two competitors run as fast as they can down a lane while attached to a bungee-corded vest. Technically, the one who makes it furthest along the lane (marked by a Velcro bobbin attached to the median) wins, but the pleasure of jumping back at the furthest point of one's run makes it a neck-spraining good time for all. Glass House Rocks, surprisingly, was a blast. But would it be too much to make a request for next year? Because a bouncy castle would be terrific. - ACM 
 Indie rock... and the election! TC... and the Peace Corps! Manhattanville... and the Super Bowl! (And the phrase "iron curtain of safety!") Judy Shapiro... and a vaguely mean knitting joke! &nbsp; 
 CUAssassins, ESC's finely crafted squirt-gun war, is returning to campus next weekend. Although we don't have a web link this time, VP Kim Manis wrote in to inform us that registration takes place next Friday and Saturday (February 15th-16th) on the ramps at Lerner. The games begin on Thursday, the 21st. It's $20 for a team of four to play. It's not an event to miss -- unless you enjoy feeling safe and relaxed. And who does, really? 
 Tipster Mariela Quintana, who volunteers at Park Slope's 826nyc (a tutoring endeavor of Dave Eggers &amp; Co., and previously featured on Bwog for its Superhero Supply Store), was kind enough to pass along a link to a new blog, "Fish Slaps A Baby," started and run by their elementary-school-age students. Here you'll read on such topics as Rock Jellyfish! Rock Hot Dogs! Penguins!&nbsp; Bwog is ever-so-pleased. Pleased enough to plug their excellent opportunities to volunteer as well. Plus, you can tell your friends that, in four years in New York, you managed to visit another borough at least once.&nbsp;&nbsp; — ZvS 
The free New Jersey transit fares (with a student ID and this coupon) continue until Sunday. Take advantage and see the Jerz -- here are some suggestions, and directions, from the Bwog Staff. Medieval Times Lyndhurst, NJ Catch the 192 Bus at the Port Authority Bus Terminal and take it to Polito Ave. Then look for the giant castle. This olde tymeie fortress is perhaps the best-known member of the knights-and-ale theme restaurant chain that started on the Spanish island of Majorca thirty-five years ago. Watch&nbsp;this&nbsp;badical intro movie. A regular ticket is a steep $55, but groups larger than fifteen get a sizable discount, and admission includes a two-hour show, a hearty, utensil free meal, and flagons of mead straight from the serving wench's pitcher. Princeton Record Exchange 20 South Tulane St, Princeton, NJ New Jersey Transit Northeast Corridor Line from Penn Station to Princeton Junction; change for Princeton Shuttle Though it may seem like Columbia is the majority share-holder in hipsters and their goods, Princeton certainly holds its own. Watch audiophiles congregate in their natural habitat between rows of Yo La Tengo European imports (on vinyl, natch) and more jazz that you ever thought you wanted to know about. Bonus local points for referring to it as "Prex." Asbury Park New Jersey Transit North Jersey Coast Line from Penn Station to Asbury Park Visit the iconic wonderland popularized by Bruce Springsteen's debut album and numerous Sopranos shootings, then ruined by thirty years of brutal urban decay. Remember Madame Marie's and Big Pussy's nautical misfortune? Do you want to see the cladding fall off an unfinished skyscraper over an abandoned boardwalk? Grounds For Sculpture Hamilton, NJ New Jersey Transit Northeast Corridor Line from Penn Station to Hamilton, then a five minute taxi ride A 35-acre public sculpture park, with $8 admission for students. Museum of Contemporary Russian Art 80 Grand St, Hoboken, NJ PATH to Hoboken (OK, that's not a free fare, but it's only $1.50) No trip to Hoboken would be complete without a visit to the only museum around that's dedicated exclusively to Slavic art. Dippin' Dots Machine, Newport Center Mall Jersey City, NJ New Jersey Transit 86 bus, or PATH to Newport/Pavonia You remember Dippin' Dots! The ice cream of the future! From Six Flags! Well, you can also get it at a vending machine in a mall in Jersey City! 
Welcome back to Cooking with Bwog! After a learning sabbatical, Cooking has returned with a whole slew of new ideas to make your culinary experience at Columbia cheap, healthy, easy and/or really cute! This week, tasty and weird Valentine’s Day gifts that are not bacon chocolate chip cookies. Also, if you’re not in the mood for sweets this Valentine’s, check out last year’s recipes. French Toast for the Morning After 1 loaf bread, sliced (Bwog recommends challah from Silver Moon) 6 eggs ½ cup whipping cream, unwhipped Sprinkle of cinnamon Sprinkle of nutmeg 1 orange, with 1 tsp. of the skin shredded (zest), then cut and juiced. Supplies: veggie oil, pan, bowl Crack eggs into a bowl and add the cream, cinnamon, nutmeg, orange juice and orange zest. Make sure it’s all evenly mixed. Then heat the pan on medium heat on the burner and add a tablespoon of oil. When the pan is hot, immerse a slice of bread in the egg mix and then toss it into the pan to cook. Turn as needed, the toast should look slightly browned. Serve hot with caramel, jam, syrup, peanut butter, or anything else you like. Whipped cream, twinkies and chocolate chip cookies after the jump. Whipped Cream (to eat with berries) Note: it’s worth it to whip the cream yourself and not buy a bottle. 1 pint of whipping cream 2 tablespoons of sugar Bowl and wire whisk Second bowl and some ice (just in case it gets hot) Pour the whipping cream into the bowl and add the sugar to taste. Use the whisk to beat the whipped cream until hard – you should be able to lift cream out of the bowl on the whisk. It should take around 5-20 minutes to whip the cream up depending on how warm it is in the room. If you’re in a very warm space, try putting another bowl with ice in it underneath the bowl with the cream to make the cream colder. Homemade Twinkies Note: this is a pretty hard recipe. Cake: 1 16-oz. box of golden pound cake mix (or any white cake mix) 4 egg whites (separate the yolks out) 2/3 cup water Filling: 2 Tbsp. butter 1/3 cup veggie shortening 1 1/3 cups powdered sugar 1 Tbsp. granulated sugar (regular table sugar) 1/3 cup evaporated milk (this comes in a can and they should have it at the local grocery stores) 1 tsp. vanilla 2 drops lemon extract&nbsp; Supplies: oven, sheet pan, aluminum foil, bottle with the diameter of a twinkie, a big Ziploc bag, and a toothpick, non-stick oil (must be spray). Preheat oven to 325. Make pieces of aluminum foil that are around a foot long (or buy the kind that are pre-cut to that length) and fold each piece in half. Wrap the folded foil around your twinkie-sized bottle to create a mold. Fold one end over and leave the other open so you can get the batter and filling in. Make twelve molds and spray the insides with non-stick oil.&nbsp; Ignore the directions on the cake mix box. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff (if you don’t know what this means, see here). Combine the stiff egg whites with cake mix and water and beat until thoroughly blended (2 min). Pour the batter into the molds, filling each about ¾ inch. Bake in the oven for around 30 minutes until the cake is golden brown and a toothpick comes out clean.&nbsp; For the filling, blend the butter and shortening (use a mixer if possible). Add the sugars slowly while beating, then add the evaporated milk, vanilla, and lemon extract. Mix all of this until smooth and fluffy.&nbsp; When the cakes have cooled off, use a toothpick to make three small holes in the bottom of each one. Move the toothpick around the inside of each cake to make room for the filling. Using the Ziploc bag, fill with filling and cut a hole in the corner of the bag so you can squirt the filling into the inside of the cakes.&nbsp; Val Morris-Lent’s Oatmeal Chocolate Chip Cookies*&nbsp; 1 cup brown sugar 1/2 cup white sugar 2 sticks butter 2 eggs 1 splash of vanilla extract 1 teaspoon of baking soda 1 1/2 cups flour 3 cups oats 1 bag of semi-sweet chocolate chips Instructions: Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Grab a fat mixing bowl, such as would be used to make the witches' brew in Act I of "Macbeth."&nbsp; Blender optional but invaluable for the more indolent among us.&nbsp; Otherwise, bludgeoning the ingredients together with a wooden spoon or wire-whisk is sufficient. Beat sugar and butter together into homogeneous pulp.&nbsp; Beat resulting mixture + eggs/vanilla/baking soda into homogeneous pulp.&nbsp; Be careful that when you add the flour it doesn't spray everywhere.&nbsp; Beat flour + mixture into pulp.&nbsp; Beat oats + mixture into pulp.&nbsp; Add chocolate chips and distribute equitably.&nbsp; Taste dough to ensure deliciousness. Dollop resulting dough onto cookie sheet, twelve cookies to one sheet.&nbsp; Shove into the oven for about 10 minutes; rotate to promote equal heat to each cookie.&nbsp; Bake until somewhat crispy but not sapped of doughy moisture.&nbsp; Serve.&nbsp; Avoid burning your tongue on renegade chocolate chips. Makes like 30-50 cookies. &nbsp;*Recipe by CML. 
 Bwog noticed a link to a Craigslist post in the comments of the Cooking with Bwog article. The link brought us to an advertisement for Five Star Puppy Transportation, a canine shipping business that will "TAKE YOUR DOG DOWN TO FLORIDA IN A VERY NICE, ROOMY, AND SAFE SUV."&nbsp; Sounds tempting! But how credible is the Five Star Puppy Transportation service? "I NEVER TAKE MORE THAN TWO DOGS IN ONE TRIP, AND I HAVE A HELPER THAT WILL SIT IN THE BACK SEAT WITH YOUR PET. DONT LOCK YOUR DOG UP IN A CAGE AND LET THE AIRLINES BANG HIM AROUND." But when finally convinced Bwog of the quality of the Five Star Puppy Transportation service was the owner's side job: "I AM THE BBALL COACH AT COLUMBIA." Bwog called the number provided and it went to voicemail, the outgoing message in the voice of 2004's ROLM phone messages. And though we don't have any immediate (or foreseeable) need right now to transport a puppy down the eastern seaboard, when the occasion arises—and there's no doubt that it will—our search for five star services is over. - JNW 
 While Coach Jones of the Columbia men's basketball team may or may not be running a side puppy taxi business, the women's team is certainly seeing great success! Last night, the girls stunned UPenn 70-61. Currently at 3-2, another win will set Columbia to tie for first place in the Ivy League division. Tonight the team faces off against Princeton at its home court. Take advantage of free NJ transit tickets and go show your school spirit! Face painting recommended but not required. CORRECTED: Coach Jones is not the women's basketball coach. Apologies. 
Like a phoenix, Columbia rises from the ashes of defeat. CML reports.&nbsp; On Friday evening, thousands of faithful Columbia students poured into Levien gymnasium to watch the Lions take on conference powerhouse Penn. Despite losing the best player in recent Ivy League basketball history, Ibrahim Jaaber, to graduation, Penn came into the game with a 2-0 conference record, which recalled their three consecutive league titles, as well as the brief lead they held in the second half against Texas A&amp;M in the tournament last year. A raucous rooting section, consisting of a squadron of cheerleaders, a smidgeon of a marching band, and a few regular Penn students were also in attendance.&nbsp;The Quakers had entered enemy territory. For the first ten and the last thirty minutes, Columbia dominated the game. Penn’s once-respected perimeter D proved to be about as effective as the Maginot Line as K.J. Matsui and Niko Scott jacked up three after three.&nbsp;Meanwhile, the Quaker offense was fittingly pacifistic, missing almost all of its long-ranged shots and meeting with little more success as it closed in towards the basket. The Lions led by as many as 15 in the first half, and by halftime, it was 38-29. Try as they might, Penn’s best offensive and defensive efforts couldn’t close the gap. It was reminiscent of the game against Cornell a couple weeks ago, except now Columbia was the team relentlessly maintaining and adding to the deficit.&nbsp;Stifling perimeter D and bad shooting limited the Quakers to a miserable 2-11 behind the arc, and a series of good possessions erased the dent made in the Lions’ lead by turnovers before halftime.&nbsp;A few quick interior passes to John Baumann led to a few glorious dunks, and soon enough the Quakers – who never led – were down by 20.&nbsp; A hard foul against Baumann prompted cries of “This is not West Philly, Penn – this is basketball.&nbsp; There are rules!”&nbsp; A makeshift display of skill from the coterie of Penn cheerleaders drew the mantra of “FALL! FALL! FALL!” from the student section.&nbsp; A defiant feminine voice in the Penn section cheered a Quaker lay-up, then someone yelled, “The only reason you’re at an Ivy League school is because of your father’s money!”&nbsp; After several more minutes and several technical difficulties involving the clock, the game ended with the decisive score of 74-58, and all was good in the universe. Everything except the results around the league: regrettably, Cornell eked out an 11-point victory over Princeton, leaving the Lions three games behind in the conference with nine contests left. The gory details can be found here. 
 The first in a sporadic series of nightlife reports from our seasoned partygoer and would-be Carraway.&nbsp; "I wasn't even going to go out tonight. I need to get a snack." So said co-best-dressed female Lauren Fabiano, on Saturday night's "Gatsby" sophomore class semi-formal. Emphasis on semi; tonight's guests seemed more James Gatz than Jay Gatsby, both in garb and in girls-over-here-boys-over-there- now-we-can-dance-a-foot-apart middle-school social networking. Fabiano's statement was further fulfilled, though, by the truly sumptuous spread of snacks. The planning committee did due diligence to our palates. The most luxurious crudite platter I had ever seen was buttressed by rich cheeses, tasty grilled chicken, and two chocolate fountains that somehow struck this correspondent as something other than a sugary trough, something a bit more West Egg. There was even a selection of juices and Italian sodasï¿½an homage to the two hundred citrus fruits Gatsby's butler must eviscerate? The musical selections were very au courantï¿½surely Fitzgerald did not conceive of the unique spectacle that is "Souljah Boy." But then, in the echoing space that is Low Library, even the best song of the decade got lost to the rafters. There were some bright spots. The chocolate fountain, juice selection, and flower arrangements were Trimalchian in their elegance. Some of the female guests went all-out Daisy Buchanan flapper glamour, which was really fun. Best-dressed ladies: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Best-dressed chap: The young man who exuded such an aura of sexual tension and pent-up anger that your correspondent was unableï¿½or afraidï¿½to snap a photo of him. He wore a grey v-neck t-shirt and a gold chain. Who needs Gatsby in a world of Stanley Kowalskis? There were a few more transcendent moments to this dance: The young man named Innokenty, who insisted that my friends and I were freshmen, and that we did not belong at this dance, but he'd let us stay. For a moment, I wanted to join an eating club - the feeling passed, thank heaven, but at least "Gatsby," for me, had a moment of Jazz Age splendor. As we walked back around the rim of Low Library, I could see that the dancefloor had filled with my classmates. "Thriller" was playing, and the crowd seemed into it. In Gatsbyï¿½the novel this time ï¿½Fitzgerald wrote: "Itï¿½s a great advantage not to drink among hard-drinking people. You can hold your tongue, and, moreover, you can time any little irregularity of your own so that everybody else is so blind that they donï¿½t see or care." While I had had fun, and held my tongue, perhaps the real fun was to be had among the revelers doing the Souljah Boy. Am I too jaded, too Nick Carraway in my complaining about the lighting and sound system and crowd, when what I really need to be is that guy in the library marvelling that the books are all real? (This is all ludicrously college-sex-column writing, I know, but I was always more Carrie Bradshaw than Carry Nation. I had to wonder...) I don't know, and maybe I'll figure it out as I report on more parties. But I do know that if everyone's blind to my irregularities, I'll be standing by the chocolate fountain. &nbsp; 
 Tuesday was super.&nbsp; The Glass House rocked, didn't rock.&nbsp; Elementary schoolers were adorable.&nbsp; Religion and politics didn't mix. &nbsp; A Columbia sports team actually won a game... ... even though Coach Joe Jones was splitting his time between the court and his on-the-side puppy transport business. This one is maybe not so obvious. 
 A quiet, relatively reserved oasis in Lerner's weekend Dance Marathon and Egg and Peacock craziness rests on the 5th floor, adjacent to the Satow Room. The National Union of Jewish LGBTQ Students, or NUJLS.&nbsp; Bwog caught up with Zach Scholl, 21, who traveled from LaGuardia College by way of D.C. to attend the group's annual meeting. It's was Scholl's first year at the conference, which has been in existence since the mid-90s and was held last year in St. Louis. Since Friday, the group has been in Lerner in workshops—discussing everything from "religious texts to queer people in the Torah," according to Scholl—and eating Shabbat dinner (separate dinners for conservative, orthodox and reform Jews). White poster-board hung outside the Satow Room with the sentence: "At NUJLS I discovered..." And though the conference (and learning!) isn't quite over, markers were provided for attendees to finish the phrase. Answers included, "Sarcasm will only get you so far" and "It's cool to be a Judith Butler fanatic." 
 And speaking of gay Members of the Tribe, here's a tip that sounds like it may have been written by your Bubbe: &nbsp;"Mountains of KOSHER Chinese food left over from Gayava's National Union of Jewish LGBTQ Students conference in Lerner lobby. Bring your tupperware - eat well for days!" &nbsp; 
In case you missed it, Bwog freelancer Thomas Anawalt summarizes Egg and Peacock, a theater festival in which ten plays were written, casted, and performed in twenty-four hours.&nbsp; Shall I compare thee to a Latenite anthology? Thou art more zany and whimsical. And a tad longer. The Egg and Peacock playwrights were given starting lines, and had to hand off their plays' last line for the next writer to start another another play. The imposition of the start/end through-lines didn’t add anything to the drama or the comedy, but only dictated where the jokes would turn.&nbsp; The night opened with "Demographics," (written by Chas Carey, directed by Will Scheussler), which was essentially a power play between women. Enter highlight number one, Gabe Miner in frump-dragg. The third play, "The Abolition of Compassion" (written by Matt Herzfield, directed by Ameneh Bordi) featured a terrorist, played by David Iscoe, who waltzes into a ladies room with thundering heavy metal and blood red light, but can't bring himself to look at possibly naked women. The first act ended with Michael Molina's nightmare-sitcom "The Merit Badge." Lakshmi Sundaram and Katherine Atwill played convincing boy scouts and received some of the biggest laughs of the 2 1/2 hour quasi-impromptu play marathon. Molina's play ended with the line, “Last time you said that I was holding two sausages”, and this is exactly where the second act picked up. "Two Sausages" (written by Jonah Block-Johnson, directed by Mark Holden) featured more jokes about sausages than you'd ever expect or want. Overtly sexual content was also present in the elaborate if not rather linear "Ruses are Red" (written by Abby Rosebrock, directed by Jake Green). Eventually, the marathon reached a point where the length of the individual plays started to become apparent. Fresh out of the 24 hour writing process, its hard to deride any of the plays for slapping the art of theater in the face or anything so dramatic—even the worst of the plays had its merit. Though it looked like the writers had fun with them, the rules seemed to limit rather inspire dialog. 
 Another free food tip, courtesy of Student Council President Michelle Diamond: "CCSC is kicking off our "I am light blue" campaign tonight at 10 pm in the Lerner piano lounge.&nbsp; We'll have delicious FREE light blue desserts from Kitchenette along with FREE t-shirts." Bwog is counting down the hours. 
 Happening right now, in the Lerner piano lounge, an explosion of light-blue frosted baked goods and free Columbia apparel. The event is designed to kick off a season of CC school spirit. "After everything that happened last semester, we want to remind people what they love about Columbia," explained Michelle Diamond, CCSC Preisdent. She stood in front of a table overflowing with light blue t-shirts that appropriately advertise "i am light blue." It's meta-spirit! Because the shirt is light blue. CCSC officers frantically distributed the shirts to a line that wrapped up the Lerner ramps, nearly reaching Ferris Booth. Newly be-shirted CCers snacked on cookies catered from Kitchenette. Next up on CCSC's flourishing cookie distribution agenda? "Frosting with Alexander Hamilton on it," said Diamond. Until then, we wait. Bwog made a detour to the ATM in 212, and on our way back inside Lerner the security guard manning the front desk inquired about the mob scene. "Oh what! You mean this is all about cookies? People are coming out of their dorms just to get cookies?! This is Columbia—you guys pay like 30 grand! Aren't you fed enough?" - JNW 
 The Minotaur also felt these emotions.&nbsp; Screw you Daedalus! &nbsp;Chicken finger imagery will become a staple of the 21st Century canon, even though it has been around since the time of Homer. &nbsp;Levian's roof, like the Bloodhound Gang predicted, is on fire.&nbsp; Quite the fire indeed. There is no mention of Marquez in this article.&nbsp; Robin Williams, however, did perfect the art of magical realism. 
 Bwog cultural correspondent Mariela Quintana heads to Chinatown for the Chinese New Year Parade. Standing on the corner of Bayard and Mott yesterday afternoon, I could see Chinese and American flags flapped in the air.&nbsp; Red and gold banners hung overhead.&nbsp; Knots of people snaked through narrow streets.&nbsp; Parents perched their kids precariously on their shoulders. Every other second the flash of a digital camera or a sparkler would ignite. The cracks of confetti poppers broke through the afternoon air and could be heard clearly despite the blaring music that seemed more appropriate for a European techno club than Chinese New Year. Seconds later, the sky was full of boldly colored confetti and curlicues of gold and silver ribbons. A pair of Chinese boys had suited up in a black dragon costume and began doing acrobatic leaps.&nbsp; In unison, they sprung into the air and then sunk to the ground heaving and twisting with snake-like movements.&nbsp; The M.C. called to the crowd and the crowd called ba ck with delight.&nbsp; A group of boisterous twenty somethings started getting rowdy near me and attempts to crowd-surf were made. After the Dragon act had taken their bow, the parade's M.C. and a Chinese woman wearing enormous furry earmuffs, entered the stage. Speaking first in a accented English chirp and then transitioning quickly into Chinese, she introduced some “traditional musical Chinese entertainment” for the crowd’s entertainment.&nbsp;&nbsp; A twangy tonal interlude began and soon a duet of middle age Chinese women began to sing a ballad titled, “China, I Love You.” I overheard a man whisper to his wife “They need our support up there.”&nbsp;&nbsp; They began clapping their hands and cat-calling. To be perfectly honest I usually find Chinatown overwhelming. The ducks hanging in the shop windows, the smell of too many bodies,&nbsp; the multi-colored flashy lights of electronic gadgets—it’s sensory overload to be avoided at all costs. But the Chinese New Parade&nbsp; was entirely different New York than I have ever experienced.&nbsp; I gladly talked to strangers, I climbed over barricades, and I didn’t mind that a random old lady was using me as a balance support; all instances of the city-dweller's usual M.O. of detached irony were suspended.&nbsp; 
 Not quite Eyes Wide Shut, but close enough. A more appropriate REM song title reference is perhaps On The Street Where You Live. Infinite regression alert!&nbsp; If this generation really is Post-Everything, then isn't it also Post-Post?&nbsp; And Post-Post-Post? I drink your milkshake! I drink it up! 
 Like it or not (and you probably don't), the unstoppable frustrated mess that is Valentine's Day is fast approaching. And with it, bags of pink and pretty candy have already hit stores. The most iconic mid-February sweet is perhaps the Candy Heart, the mostly gross and chalky tiny hearts with zeitgeist-y sayings like "Page Me" and "You + Me 4ever" on them. Bwog's interested in what phrase (twenty characters or less) you would choose to put on a Candy Heart. Email bwog@columbia.edu with as many suggestions as you want by February 13th at 11:59 PM. We'll post the best and then vote. The winner will receive a Valentine's Day treat and will be successful in all their romantic endeavors this year. &nbsp; 
 Barnard, CCSC and Spec may entice their most willing and bored with chances to win a free iPod for participating in online surveys. But usually chances are low, and who wants to spend five minutes towards an iPod that you might not even win? Not SEAS!&nbsp; SEAS students, when they participate in the deliciously-acronymed APPLES survey will receive $4 deposited into their Pay Pal accounts. &nbsp; It would only take 75 engineers combining their $4 winnings to purchase a $300 20 GB iPod. That's math. And Bwog doesn't even go to SEAS. Impressed much? &nbsp; 
Have you ever rolled into da club wishin' that you could rep Fair Alma?&nbsp; Now you can sport the most intellectual ice you could dream of thanks to Columbia Jewelry, a company started by Columbia alumnus and visual arts major Philip Ehrlich, GS '88.&nbsp; Ehrlich's styles are limited mostly to lions and crowns-- however, these shiny pieces of gold and silver can be adorned in a plethora of ways, from cuff links for the gents to brooches for the ladies. Be prepared to pay up, however, as the site still has nothing on sale (business must be booming in the collegiate jewelery world). Bwog is hoping that the company branches into a more urban market, selling Go Lion grills, giant clock necklaces and spinners. 
 The latest installment from faithful NYU correspondent W.M. Akers, in which our diarist recites a history of the Square's chess-playing past. The recently commenced construction on Washington Square has consumed the middle of the park, disrupting the walking and sitting that are so important a part of NYU life. But it has been arranged to skirt the park's chess tables which are the public face of the game on southern Manhattan. They are dominated by a crowd of regulars, mostly young to middle aged black men who, when not playing each other, play strangers willing to ante five dollars. This isn't quite hustling, but one should expect to lose. The cold thins the crowd during the winter, but last Sunday, weather-be-damned, one remained by a table, his pieces set up before him. His name was Simon, and he pointed to the muddy fields and tarnished footpaths of the Square as evidence that the construction is necessary. "This must be the only park on Manhattan that hasn't been fixed up," he said. "I've heard numbers in the thirties of millions, and with that this place had better be the shit. Everything had better look good. The trees should look better. it will be just another notch in the belt of bullshit that people around here wear around their waists." While he was pontificating, a friend approached and asked for a quick game. "I don't want to sit down," Simon said. "It's too cold. Besides, do you have a clock?"&nbsp; "No," said his friend. "Let's play slow chess fast."&nbsp; "I won't play any 'slow chess fast.' Everybody's at the Forum. Go down there and play." The Forum is Chess Forum, the younger of the two clubs on Thompson Street, right below the Square where, "for a buck an hour you can sit someplace warm, play some chess, relax. You can't beat that." Simon plays in the park because he doesn't like being in a "controlled space," though some in the university community would suggest that the construction is evidence that the park is itself controlled.&nbsp; A dollar an hour is the going rate at the Forum. Chess Shop charges two an hour, but the store is handsome, and the environment is warmer. Tyler, who runs their register, says that the Shop has "a definite sense of culture, and family. The other chess club has only been there for seven years, and they don't have house masters or house regulars." The Village Chess Shop is what they call an "institution." This could be because its location--on Thompson Street, a block below the Square--puts it directly in the middle of the forgotten Bohemia of Greenwich Village. It could also be because it is old, older than Dylan's "Blood on the Tracks," or because it has been challenged, and something must be established before it can be contested. When Imad Khachchan, a then NYU student, broke off from the Chess Shop—it was actually in 1994—to open the Forum across the street, it was a testament to its predecessor as well as a challenge.&nbsp; The regulars at the Shop usually play in set pairs. They play silently, or trash talk in familiar patterns. On Tuesday night a young man, probably an NYU senior or grad student, darted in from the street to ask an elderly man for a few quick games. The student lost most of the rapid-fire games, but that didn't stop him from letting his opponent know when he was winning. "Did you know I'm writing a book, Teddy? It's called 100 Things I'm Going To Do To Teddy With My Extra Bishop. Do you see what I just did? That was just chapter one." Teddy went on to win that game, and like two aging pool sharks, they quickly re-racked their pieces.&nbsp; Both clubs rely not just on their regulars--some who go back to 1972--but on casual customers drawn by the displays of different sets in the window. David, who works at Chess Forum, says the construction in Washington Square has affected business by disrupting foot traffic. "Thompson is an extension of Fifth," he said. "And that's not true any longer...The worst part of it is that it reads like a joke: they're closing the park to move the fountain two inches to the left. That hurts chess culture, but also just business on the block."&nbsp; They're moving the fountain twenty-three feet, in fact, and the path from Fifth Avenue to Thompson Street will be blocked up for much of the next two or three years. Foot traffic will have to learn to walk around. Because the planning committee has been relatively receptive to community input, the chess area will be safe from the repairs. It's hard to see how it could be improved, except by installing Star Wars-style holographic tables. When the weather improves the usual crowd should migrate from Thompson Street back to their haunt. Any time you'd like to throw away five dollars, they'll be happy to take it. 
 RAs chained to their rooms, ten pound ball style, seriously Mark Zuckerberg and Jeremy Bentham, love-buddies. Wait, no Pinnacle? Wheat, no Nussbaum and Wu? Meet me on the Champ-Elysees of New York. Oh wait, you can't. You're an RA. It's all about the Ivy League and the Cotton Club.&nbsp; 
 Attention love-starved singles! Bwog is now (and always, really) accepting submissions for Bwog Personals. Volunteer yourself or a friend to answer our questionnaire and submit a photo. Bwog will even front the $10 (a 100% increase from last year's $5!) for you and your new love to go on a date. Hurry though, Valentine's Day is almost here. Email bwog@columbia.edu and start the rest of your life today! 
 The soap opera scene (and all of the many glories associated with it – remember The Gates?) has made a triumphant return to Columbia with the brand-spanking new release of The Exclusion Suite, touted by its creator as “Columbia’s newest dramatic web-TV series.”&nbsp; From the looks of it, The Exclusion Suite is off to a better start than its older sibling, The Gates, (the brainchild of Davide Barillari, CC'09) which failed to follow up its opening episode with a heartily promised sequel.&nbsp; &nbsp; While The Gates chronicled the exploits of a gaggle of first years as they encountered Carman move-in madness, hooked up rather awkwardly at a series of frat parties, and held pissing contests over who’s been to Egypt more times in his life, The Exclusion Suite seems to offer a far more sophisticated (or maybe just older) cross-section of social life at Columbia, focusing on the daily lives of what the show's website terms, “the awkward, funny, and sexy” residents of an EC Exclusion Suite. With the legendary watering-hole of 1020 sure to play a prominent role in the first episode, The Exclusion Suite looks like it will provide the, ahem, sophistication and quality that Columbia soap viewers have come to expect. With a snazzy new website, a free downloadable version of the show’s theme song, a mini-blog detailing production activities up to the day, and of course a plethora of production pictures on a Flickr slideshow of the fine establishment that is 1020, The Exclusion Suite is sure to pack a punch. Perhaps this means using more sophisticated editing technology than Apple iMovie, making sure that the boom does not appear in every other shot, and making sure that the show’s sound actually corresponds to the movement of the actor’s mouths. &nbsp;The only thing that is left for the production crew to do now is to actually put out a show.&nbsp; And according to The Exclusion Suite’s mini-blog, filming for the first episode just wrapped up and is in the final editing stages with a debut expected in the next two weeks. The only question remains is: can it compare to its Ivy rival soap, Campus, recently released in similar fashion at Princeton?&nbsp; From the looks of it, Columbia may just stand a chance this time. 
 A very special Bwog report on the Westminster Dog show from canine correspondent Emily Cheesman.&nbsp; Dogs just make everybody so happy. I’ve gone to the Westminster Dog Show, the Mecca of canine pageantry, for two years in a row and I can say that the world of purebred dogs and the people who love them is bizarre and culty, but it’s pretty hard to be too derisive about it because everyone loves dogs. And from the weirdo owners to their tense, be-sequined, panty-lined handlers, to the overall attitude of utmost reverence towards the canines it’s all sort of absurdly charming. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The peculiarities of this niche world are not necessarily foreign to the average person. I’m sure most people have seen Best In Show, which captures the atmosphere at a dog show like Westminster pretty well: the people directly involved are intense but there’s a completely harmless love for the purebred puppy that cushions it. Last year I sat next to the owner of a komondor named Gillian's Quintessential Quincy, a goofy looking dreadlocked behemoth (the dog, not the owner) in the working group. The owner had on a sweater with an embroidered portrait of her precious pup, and when the animals filed out to be judged for Best Of Group she ordered loudly that we all had to clap when her dog came forward, and when he did she held her hands in front of her face, crying out that they had just worked so hard for this. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Westminster sorts each breed into seven main groups: Sporting, Hound, Working, Terrier, Toy, Non-Sporting, and Herding. Two days of breed judging culminate in one victorious dog from each breed competing for their respective Best Of Group; day two closes with the coveted Best In Show. The “competition” involves the dog being checked out by a judge and then trotted back and forth in the ring, exercises which show off various aspects of their physique and how well they adhere to breed standards. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The audience picks predictable favorites: Dalmatians, German Shepherds, standard poodles, etc. They coo and aw as a unit when an animal jumps or yips or gets too excited, and every member of the audience has very specific ideas about what makes a good dog. It's impossible to stay above the fray of speculation, and by the end of last night’s rounds of judging I was loudly proclaiming how much I hate poodles and complimenting the gait of the Bouvier des Flandres. My personal favorites from tonight were the Norfolk terrier, the Parson Russell terrier, the longhaired Dachshund, and a breed newly admitted to Westminster called the Plott. To my chagrin, none of the ones I like ever place, except for the dachshund (named Solo’s Drag-Queen) who got second in the best of the Hounds tonight. The running theme seems to be that only ugly dogs win, like the poodles, which are apparently a favorite Westminster breed. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Everyone watching becomes a dog expert. The guy in front of me exclaimed that he knew the 15-inch beagle was a shoe-in for Best Of Group of the hounds, and I had the pleasure of sitting in front of an obviously well-informed British twenty-something who took it upon himself to educate his neighbors at every chance. More than once he could be heard repeating that all terriers are British, just like him. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I sat down to write about all the rattails and missing teeth I saw filing into Madison Square Garden and all of the people who have serious psychological complexes that they project and exercise via their relationship with their animals, but I’m having a pretty hard time getting past the puppies. There’s something about an arena filled with happy prancing dogs that just withers the snark. &nbsp; &nbsp; To catch the second half of the Westminster Dog Show, including judging of the Sporting, Working and Toy groups, as well as the judging of Best In Show, tune to the USA Network at 8PM Tuesday night. If you're interested in adopting or giving money to rescue dogs, here's a link to the Pedigree Adoption Drive. 
 Got a flair for writing narcissistic melodrama? The New York Times' Modern Love is looking for college-age students to write about "what love is now." Sample response provided by website: "I'm this century's answer to the last-minute prom date: the gay best friend." Ooh, edgy! Zeitgeist-y! So get to work, tortured yet insightful essayists. Winner receives $1000--or in Columbia online survey calculations 3 1/3 iPods-- and national fame/embarrassment. It's like therapy except completely exhibitionist and ineffective. But it's so much cheaper. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp; A tipster just emailed to say that at 9:30 tonight there will be free Indian Cafe food in 304 Hamilton, courtesy of the Blue Key Society.&nbsp; Get your knives and sporks! 
 So, what are you doing next year? Teach For America will make you an offer you can't refuse. Merrell Hambleton sat down to hear TFA alumni discus their two years of elementary school bliss. TFA pencils and Columbia Catering cookies abounded at last night's Teach For America Alumni Panel. But interested students were a little scarcer-- only 14 or so showed up, putting the TFA to non-TFA ratio at about 1:2. This seemed to simply make the personal attention even more...personal. Many seniors are by now familiar with TFA's aggressive recruitment tactics-- particularly those "please-meet-me-at-Hungarian-to-discuss-your-future"-type emails. Rolling deadlines and loud advertisements (the FINAL TFA deadline is his Friday, f.y.i.) don't hesitate to play into the collective, indecisive psyche of as-yet-unemployed second semester seniors looking for a chance to give back, or just a decent salary. And recruiters last night were no less direct. During the program, all students got a firm handshake and a "Are you thinking of applying?" After the initial meet-and-glad-hand, five TFA alumni from a variety of regions spoke enthusiastically about their experience. Keeping in stride with primary rhetoric, "change" was the theme of the hour: alumni stressed the opportunity for students to become "powerful agents for change" and "advocates for social reform." There was also a constant refrain of "TFA is the most important/meaningful/inspiring thing I've ever done." Of course, this was countered by the unanimous assertion that TFA is also "the hardest thing you'll ever do in your life." Alumni agreed that "Friday nights are rough" and the experience is, at times, downright "brutal." One panelist and CC graduate added, "It's not Columbia...people don't know how special you are." &nbsp; Though the in-your-face enthusiasm can be a little much at times, there's no doubt that all of the TFA alumni who showed up shared a genuine passion for their two years in the public education system. And it's hard to take issue with a program with such good intentions and equally positive results. Columbia students seem to agree. According to the head of New York recruitment, after just two rounds of applications (there are four in all), TFA had accepted 15 Columbia College students and 7 from Barnard. But it was the final comment of the evening that hinted at the real appeal of TFA for college graduates: "Who wants to be grown up when they're 22, you know?" 
&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Breaking: College student discovers ability to snack instead of eat meals&nbsp; John Jay is practically the new Whole Foods,&nbsp;except for its lack of organic food. Oh, and the whole rats and failed health inspection thing. Spec's photography columnist so minimalist. Was "Nada Surf '2.0'" really an "entirely different beast"? Was it? 
 Columbia events, in the national spotlight. Kind of. The New York Times ran an article about President Bush, who in a conference yesterday about race relations denounced incidents involving nooses and said: "The noose is not a symbol of prairie justice, but of gross injustice. Displaying one is not a harmless prank." The Times mentioned incidents in Jena, La. and our fair Alma Mater as inspiring President Bush to discuss racially-charged incidents and issues of injustice during a Black History Month press conference that is normally used to focus on contributions of black members of society.&nbsp; Columbia: partially kind of—but not really—changing the way things are done around the White House. - JNW 
 Ivygate: UPenn humor mag’s “Diversity Issue” is very very racist, and almost as unfunny.&nbsp;&nbsp; Columbia Cokane: One of a few CU blogs on the McCain backlash bandwagon&nbsp; Roar Lions Roar: Columbia football snags 6’8’’ 270-pound bruiser The Phlog: Mark Strand’s Mad Lib Homework Assignment&nbsp; The One Train: A picture of a fancy camera&nbsp; Queued Paper: Did you go to last weekend’s Egg &amp; Peacock, and what did you think? Discuss. &nbsp; 
 Happening right now, on the Lerner Ramps, the Fed's erotic bake sale. Plates of homemade chocolate chip and sugar cookies shaped like breasts, penises, and other anatomical delicacies are overflowing on blue plates. Bwog noticed a conspicuous lack of male genitalia, to which Fedster Sophie replied, "We both go to Barnard, so there's a bias," referring to fellow chef/saleswoman Hannah. In true Columbia fashion, both vanilla and chocolate frosting were used in creating the very multi-ethnic buffet. "That was my idea," said Sophie. All treats are going for a quarter, "though the twats might be worth more per size." Appetizing! And though the money isn't going towards any charitable ends, the bake sale is less a fundraiser and more of a Fedbash-awareness street performance. "Just come to Fedbash!" the three Fed editors manning the table yelled at Bwog. Bwog asked how to spell "come" for this article and we were told it was up to our "editorial discretion." So come to Fedbash, this weekend in Lerner Party Space. There will be burlesque dancers and perhaps leftovers. - JNW 
 Last weekend, in honor of NJ Transit’s “Free Student Week,” Bwog featured a list of fun things to do in New Jersey. We liked the list so much we decided to send staffers to actually go and visit the places on it. In what is hopefully the first in a bi-weekly series, Paul Barndt recounts his trip to the fantastical and slightly surreal Medieval Times. &nbsp; Medieval Times, the theme restaurant chain that owns a large castle in Lyndhurst, bills itself as a “Dinner &amp; Tournament” experience. You eat a meat heavy, utensil-free meal while watching men dressed as knights ride horses and beat each other senseless. All MT employees insist on calling you “my lord” or “my lady,” and you are encouraged to refer to them as “serf” or “wench.” &nbsp; If this sounds lame to you, I’m sorry. There’s no way to sugarcoat it. Maybe the next Jerz Adventure will be more to your liking. But if this sounds awesome to you, either ironically or unironically, do not hesitate to find a convenient weekend, pay the hefty $55 ticket price (or about $40 per person if you’re in a group of fifteen or more), and take the half-hour bus ride from the Port Authority out to Lyndhurst. Your $55 covers the “Dinner” and the “Tournament” portions of the evening, but what Medieval Times fails to mention in their advertising is the “We Will Try To Nickel And Dime The Shit Out Of You” part, and that’s where I come in.&nbsp; I won’t try to recap all the awesome and awesomely cheesy moments of my visit to Medieval Times, but I will try to illustrate some of the small eccentricities that make the experience worthwhile, and how I got some good bang for my buck in a place that is brazenly trying to empty your pockets. &nbsp; The large stadium, where you watch jousting and eat chicken breasts with your hands, takes up a large part of the Lyndhurst castle, but by no means all of it. Outside the stadium is a series of adjoining rooms that together form one amazingly tacky gift shop. Within minutes of my entering, dozens of preteens were beating each other with flimsy lightsaber-things ($8), and one guy about my age offered a girl one of those pink, conical Maid Marian hats ($18)…she gave him the stink eye in return. At the center of all this is a bar that serves the biggest margaritas I’ve ever seen (and I’m from Texas), and tropical drinks with names like “Maiden Kiss” and “Dragon Slayer.” &nbsp; Medieval Times tries to trap you in this gift shop wasteland for over an hour—their tickets ask you to show up at 5:30 for the 7:00 show, knowing that they won’t open the doors to the stadium until 6:45.&nbsp; One course of action would be to simply show up at 6:45 and skip all the preliminaries, but where’s the fun in that? &nbsp; One advantage of showing up early, at least from my experience, is that you get to cheer for a better knight—there are six knights in the Medieval Times tournament, and so the stadium’s seating is divided into six cheering sections. The first people who showed up (including myself) were rooting for the eventual champion. Other early arrivals got to root for the saucy, dastardly Green Knight. You don’t want to cheer for a first round loser, would you? &nbsp; But even if showing up early ensures a better time at the show, there’s still the matter of the hour outside the stadium. My saving grace here was the bar. I ordered a gin and tonic. It cost $10, but it came in a large holographic soda cup that was filled to the brim, so it was more like four (or five) gin and tonics. One of my friends was so tickled by the fact that this medieval restaurant served tropical beverages that he ordered a piña colada…and regretted his decision after about three sips. I, on the other hand, was set for the evening, and although I’m not a big “Let’s get drunk and do ____” person, being slightly unaware of one’s surroundings is well suited for the slightly surreal Medieval Times. &nbsp; If you are drinking, get one of these mammoth mixed drinks beforehand, because the only drink (and I mean the only drink besides water) included with your meal is Pepsi. I was expecting at least one flagon of mead, but the wenches let me down, and this was the one time at Medieval Times when I did feel ripped off. Good thing I had my 24 oz. G&amp;T. Expect to pay professional sports game prices for Miller Lite and the like, or even heftier prices for the shots of Patrón that a jaunty serf was offering near the end of the show (The best explanation I can offer for the unexpected appearance of top-shelf tequila is that Medieval Times got its start on the Spanish island of Majorca, but, like I said, it’s all a little surreal.) &nbsp; In any event, with drink in hand, the one worthwhile stop before the tournament is the “dungeon,” a mini-museum of medieval torture instruments of dubious authenticity. It is a macabre, incongruous corner of Medieval Times that merits the $2 entry fee (remember what I said about the nickel-and-diming?). The description of the “Judas Cradle,” a metal pyramid with a pointy top onto which people are lowered, informs us that this device is still often used in many third world countries. The picture next to the “Breast Ripper” is an Edward Gorey-ish tableau that shows a terrified, buxom damsel clawing her prison walls as a hooded man approaches, spiky clamp in hand. &nbsp; The second stop should be a table. Plop down with your friends and people watch. At one point, a few special boys and girls get their pictures taken with King Alfonso the Magnificent and become “knights of the realm.” They aren’t using a camera, a voice on the loudspeaker explains, but a magical, phoenix-powered device called “Merlin’s Box.” Behind me, one very frustrated kid sighs, “God, they only knight you if it’s your birthday or something. It’s so gay.” Then he hits his friend with his light-up sword. Ah, to be eight again. &nbsp; I haven’t talked much about the Medieval Times Dinner or the Tournament, but they are about what you’d expect, for better or for worse. If you’re in the “better” camp as I am, then do yourself a favor and go already. Just avoid the evils of the gift shops, be a cost-effective drinker, and enjoy the show, by which I mean both the people who dress themselves in velvet robes and peddle this wonderfully eccentric medieval fantasy, and the people who come to see it.&nbsp; 
 Columbia loves bureaucracy, burns employees Back in the day, Columbia was the love police Inhabitants of Sulzberger don't spend the night alone...they spend it together, in the gym Moral: If you only ever date people in the Spec office, your perspective on Valentines Day/romance/seduction is...different. Only today could a sentence like "ogling for an embarassingly long time" be fitting 
 Bwog daily editor Mariela Quintana floats into the surprisingly happy go lucky world of Ivy League fencing. The Columbia Fencing team did not carry themselves with the athletic aggression that one would expect at their final competition of the season. The mood Wednesday evening at Dodge Fitness Center evoked memories of the indoor soccer tournaments of my youth, where gossiping with the girls on my team was as important as our competition. Family and friends of the athletes comprised the majority of the audience. Fencing Moms chatted and younger siblings ran around, begging for attention from the fencers. The social atmosphere carried over to the athletes, who munched on Goldfish and joked with spectators between bouts. Had I only known about the informal milieu that fencing offers, perhaps I would not have given up on organized athletics. In the eyes of a novice sports spectator, the appearance of the fencing team did not reflect that of a typical organized sports team. They lacked a team’s most defining feature: its uniform. To my disappointment, there are no baby blue swooshes to unify the Columbia squad. As opposed to the matching maroon tracksuits of the Vassar squad, the Columbia fencers opt for a more subtle form of showmanship – a pair of knee-high socks, one white and one baby blue. Unlike the lanky rowers of the lightweight crew team or solid, square-shouldered wrestlers, fencers cannot be categorized by a general body type. Furthermore, the team members all hail from different areas of the country, some from east-coast prep schools, others from New York City public schools and still others from places as outlandish as Hong Kong and even Texas. As I was reflecting on the success I might have had as a fencer, I suddenly heard a loud bark and out of the corner of my eye I glimpsed a flash of metal surge into the air - it was the petite Issac Kim, CC '08, triumphing over his adversary from Sacred Heart University. Kim proudly grabbed at his mask and let out another roar to exhilarate him for the next bout in the set. Although Kim's aggressive performance did not match the laid back attitude of his team between rounds, the more I watched the Columbia fencers compete the more apparent their drive to dominate became. This year, the Lions' determination to dominate has proven successful. Both the Men and Women's fencing team has gone undefeated this year. To add to their prestige, both teams claimed the all-Ivy Title at last weekend's tournament in Princeton. I overheard two spectators intensely debating the merits of the NYU and Columbia teams. Although the two could not come to terms on which team was better, they equally acknowledged that "New York fencing teams are guaranteed to be number one." When I mentioned this to a pair of sophomore on the women's team, they laughed and said NYU was no competition. Who needs matching uniforms and formal pre-game warm-ups, when the toughest adversary can be dispelled with a laugh? Some teams, but certainly not the impressive Columbia fencing team. &nbsp; 
 The February issue is nigh, but a teaser is hither. You may have seen them walking together down Low steps, just a hair’s length closer than the average pair of professional colleagues. Maybe you sat next to them at Brownie’s, the architecture school’s classy alternative to Ferris Booth, as they nibbled on croissants and talked dryly of the Frankfurt School, or maybe, they even taught one of your classes together. Married professors: they’re everywhere on Columbia campus--there’s more love in Morningside Heights than you’d think. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;An informal investigation yielded about a dozen married professor couples, in a broad range of departments, as well as a pair or two of lovebirds rumored to be “shacking up” together. Getting face time with these power couples proved to be very difficult. As any undergrad is well aware, it is difficult enough to pin down one professor for a meeting, so busy is the academic life. Getting two in the same room at the same time is near impossible. Philosophy professors Philip and Patricia Kitcher are on leave together in Berlin. Professor Janaki Bakhle (history) is on leave as well and her husband, Professor Nicholas Dirks (Vice President for Arts and Sciences, Franz Boas Professor of Anthropology, and Professor of History) was in Davos, Switzerland when I requested a sit-down. Professors Andrew (English and American Studies) and Dawn Delbanco (art history) politely declined to be interviewed. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; But the ones who were in the country and willing to talk offered an interesting window onto the academic family. Professors Marianne Hirsch (English and women’s studies) and Leo Spitzer (history) have been together since the 1970s, when they were both teaching at Dartmouth. The first sparks of their romance flew as they worked side by side in 1978 on a committee for equal access admission for women there. They’ve been working closely together ever since, writing books—Ghosts of Home: The Afterlife of Czernowitz in Jewish Memory is their current project—and even co-teaching classes, though they are less than vocal about their nuptials in that context. A student who took their seminar “Voice of the Witness: History, Literature, and Law” last semester had no idea they were married, assuming that that they just had a “really close professional relationship,” until a classmate told him otherwise. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Students in one of English professor Michael Golston’s poetry seminars, however, figured out for themselves that he was hitched to someone in the room. Professor Golston and Spanish lecturer Cherrymae Golston have been married since 1985, and when Mrs. Golston decided to audit her husband’s class one semester, their relationship proved difficult to hide. “One day he got a splinter,” she said, laughing, “and he asked me if I had tweezers. Everybody thought that was a little weird.” Despite their ruse being up, they enjoyed the experience. “He’s really good at what he does,” said the female Golston. “I was just another student. I wrote papers, even.” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“I graded ‘em,” chimed her husband.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Though the Golstons go so far as to share an office, and philosophy professor Carol Rovane has been known to substitute-teach for her philosophy professor husband Akeel Bilgrami, other professor couples exist in entirely separate academic realms and even on different campuses. Genetics professor Ginny Papaioannou teaches and researches at the Columbia Medical School, more than 50 blocks north of the office of Professor Simon Schama (history and art history), her husband of 23 years. They met at the University of Cambridge and have moved together institutionally ever since—first to Oxford, then to Tufts (Papaioannou) and Harvard (Schama) respectively, landing finally at Columbia. “I followed him to Boston and he followed me to New York,” she said. “It was my turn.” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Unlike Professors Spitzer and Hirsch and the Golstons, their paths never cross during a typical workday, and they don’t share a commute. Papaioannou spends her time managing a mouse lab, while Schama does a lot of traveling and, at the moment, documentary filmmaking with PBS. “Columbia is big enough that we could pretend that we’re not at the same institution,” she said. That said, they are very glad to be at the same institution. “We take a lot of pride in being part of this university,” Papaioannou said. “It’s been good to us and we try to be good to it.” Their institutional loyalty is a family affair: their son Gabriel is a CC senior studying architecture and their daughter Chloe is studying at Cambridge after graduating from Harvard. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Of course, not all apples fall so close to the academic tree. Professors Hirsch and Spitzer have three sons, none of whom went to Dartmouth, where they grew up, and none who have shown any interest in professional academia; they work in computer networking, politics, and television, respectively. The Golstons’ daughter, who is a Wesleyan student studying abroad in India, where she’s focusing on South Indian dance and voice, aspires to be a pastry chef. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;All three professor-pairs seem to make a point of stoking the romantic fire. During our interview, Hirsch and Spitzer, who exude the warm glow of a couple aging well together, each turned to the other, deferent, before answering a question. The Golstons have a Wednesday night ritual: at 8 p.m., after his seminar lets out, they meet for a drink in the neighborhood (location undisclosed). Papaioannou spoke lovingly of her husband and avows that “the marriage comes before the institution.” Because Schama works with the BBC, they keep two apartments, one in New York and one in London, and spend as much time together as possible. Papaioannou denies any sense of competition. “I’m just immensely proud of him,” she said, and for his part she explained that he takes an interest in her work, describing him as a “scientifically educated layperson.” “I don’t expect him to know molecular details, but he knows the process and the political surroundings.” He defers to her completely in matters of fashion, however. “This morning he asked me what to wear on today’s shoot.”&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When asked if they could imagine being married to someone who wasn’t a professor, someone who worked—god forbid—a nine-to-five job, the answer seemed to be a resounding no. Professor Golston admitted that he’d never even dated anyone who worked within standard office hours. They all appear to revel in the academic lifestyle and the temporal and intellectual freedom it allows them. Professor Papaioannou thinks it would be difficult to be married to someone in another profession. “Our work life is our life,” she said. “We don’t put it down at 5 p.m.” The other two couples are a little wary of this idea, and careful to maintain a life apart from Columbia and academia. Professors Hirsch and Spitzer appreciate that living in New York makes it easy for them to have friends who aren’t academics. The Golstons rely on their 13-year-old son and dog to pull them away from their desks. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Undoubtedly, it takes a certain kind to be a full-time academic, and what emerges from these sundry love stories is that if you are that kind, you’re probably going to want to tie the knot with one of your breed. But, European pied-à-terres and dawn-to-dusk intellectualism aside—not to mention those weird vacations they call sabbaticals—a marriage is a marriage is a marriage. Professors…they’re just like us! - Hannah Goldfield, with illustration by Shaina Rubin 
 The now-notorious Saint Valentine's Day flood sure was dramatic, what with the entire Barnard quad being evacuated at 2 a.m., but it seems to have left little damage.&nbsp; Even at the epicenter of the leak, on the fifth floor of Sulzberger, only the lounge and hallway are affected.&nbsp; But a disarticulated radiator, a few holes in the wall, and a two-toned carpet barely hint at anything unusual around here.&nbsp; A maintenance crew is at work and expects to find the spot where the pipe burst soon. - ACM More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Because there's only one day a year and one candy medium that legitimate the claim that "heart" is a transitive verb, Bwog is celebrating candy hearts.&nbsp; With a poll!&nbsp; Here are the staff-selected finalists from the call for slogans we opened last week.&nbsp; Vote away! {{poll "12"}} 
 Bwog's senior year correspondent Cindy Gao, CC '12, reminds us of how good it felt to sneer at the kids who got candygrams and roses on Valentine's Day. Thanks to the efforts of one environmentally-conscious freshman biology teacher, it was announced this year that for the first time since its inception, the annual Valentine’s Day rose sale at my school would not be held by Student Council due to the environmental and global costs of procuring roses in February. Instead, STUCO has begun hawking dubiously named “Love Sacks” to send on February 14th, the contents of which are as yet unknown. This event sparked outrage among certain members of the student body, namely the girls who every year pretend to be surprised at the roses they receive in each class before daintily blushing and giggling while everyone looks on in disgust. I’ve never sent a rose and neither have any of my closest friends. They’re all awkward boys who spend more time talking to each other over Xbox Live than in real life. We refer to Valentine’s Day as “VD Day,” although most of us aren’t having the sex that would put us at risk for venereal disease anyway. While conservative parents and watchdog groups might be frantic with the assumption that high schoolers are sex fiends exchanging oral sex in the computer lab during free periods, I’ve yet to see evidence of it with any of my friends. And at this point most of them have stopped trying – it’s best to just wait until college when there’ll surely be a girl who can appreciate someone who knows all the words to Elliott Smith’s XO or is into Japanese pro wrestling…right? Unfortunately, of course, we know that isn’t always the case. One of my unlucky-in-love guyfriends started college last fall and we were both sure that his fortunes would change. Alas, he still spends his nights with Ashley Blue instead of Ashley from his Monday night drawing class. A couple weekends ago he hosted “Ladies Night” in his dorm room; I was the only girl that showed up and we ended up going out to a show at a neighboring university where we scoped out young, impressionable co-eds, none of whom we approached. I was taken to see “Superbad” three times upon its release in theatres. I guess it depicted life, liberty and the pursuit of sex (happiness?) in high school accurately enough, but in further discussions with my friends we all agreed that there were certain fundamental flaws. To us it seemed almost improbable that Seth could have a chance with Jules, or that Evan would have a near-score with Becca. “These are the kinds of things that give me false hope,” one of my friends remarked. For the record, I do have a significant other. I’m lucky to have bypassed the high school system and ended up with a boyfriend already in college, one with less than fond memories of his love life in high school. “It always seemed like I never had a chance with all the interesting or pretty girls because they all had older boyfriends who were already out of high school,” he tells me. “But then I got to college and all of a sudden I was one of those guys.” Perhaps there’s hope for my lovelorn friends yet. 
 As if you needed a reason to get out of Morningside Heights and into one of the greatest cities in the world. Nevertheless, Bwog offers a few. Joshua Bell and Jeremy Denk Thursday: 8pm - $28-$94 – Stern/Perelman Theatre at Carnegie Hall - Bwog’s heartthrobbingest interview ever will perform alongside another whippersnapper of the classical music scene. Works by Tartini, Prokofiev, Dvorak, and Grieg. Dawn of Japanese Animation Thursday, Friday, Saturday: 7pm Thurs, 7pm Fri, 5pm &amp; 7:30pm Sat - $4.50 for students – Japan Society - Combining anime and vintage status, this festival should be unbearably hip. Each night will feature a block of antiquated manga shorts organized around a theme like “Horror and Comedy” and “Propaganda.” Eddie Izzard Thursday through February 23: 10:30 - $40 – Union Square Theater – He’s funny stuff! And so pretty! And so British! The Films of Louis Malle: “Atlantic City” Friday, Saturday, Sunday - $10.75 – IFC Center – If the past week of New Jersey promotions on Bwog have you excited, but not quite excited enough to actually leave Manhattan, check out this classic about the Garden State’s sin shed. Film Comment Selects Thursday through February 28 - $7 for students – Film Society of Lincoln Center at Walter Reade Theatre – The supposed international best of movies from the past year will include zombies (George Romero’s Diary of the Dead), “a Belgian Spinal Tap” (Ex Drummer), and kookier still, 19th century French aristocrats (The Duchess of Langeais). Documentary Fortnight 2008 All weekend through March 3 - $12 for students – MoMA – For the serious-minded moviegoer, here’s a series largely about the environment, with a few films examining war, memory, and gender thrown in for good measure. Yelle w/ Kap10Kurt, Pash(ly), and DJ Lauren Flax Tuesday - $15 – Knitting Factory – Okay, so this isn’t a weekend event at all, but this spandexcellent French dance music would be a welcome break about midweek. If you must stay in, at least watch this positively aerobic video. 
 For the last minute planner, Bwog correspondent George Olive offers a well-educated selection of options for the elite diner in search of a romantic night out. Restaurants Porcão Churrascaria Though unconventional, a top churrascaria may be the perfect place to take your lover. At Porcão and similar establishments, diners pay a fixed price and then sit back as well-dressed waiters canvass the dining room with everything from bacon-wrapped filets to pork sausage to prime rib. The meat at Porcão is clearly the main attraction, and it delivers. The space itself is wholly recessed—as if you designed a dining room and then pushed all the walls back. Each diner is given a circular card—green for go, red for stop—that signals waiters to come by or pass by. Turn the “button” to red and the service will pause—turn back to green and you will be presented with fresh selections in seconds. Furthermore, turning both buttons to red guarantees an uninterrupted moment, conversation, or cross-table smooch, presaging the “Do Not Disturb” sign (or sock) that will hopefully adorn your door afterwards. A word to the wise? In this case, take Mom’s no-swimming-after-lunch advice and run with it—give yourself a few hours before you try anything heroic. Porcão is located at Park and 25th. Lunch is $35, and Dinner is $60. Reservations accepted, (212)252-7080 Mekong This Vietnamese restaurant, located just So of Ho at 6th Avenue, is another great place to consider for Valentine’s Day. The meal I had here was unpretentious and subtle, rewarding the discerning palate without beating you over the head.. In other words, this restaurant is more at home in San Francisco than New York. Dinner began at the bar. The bartender was beautiful and handled my order (stirred, dry Sapphire martini with a twist, thanks) with aplomb and cultivated downtown disinterest. We moved to a table in the front room, which was full of beautiful people. It was also noticeably awash in stranger-to-stranger eye contact. The fried dumplings are a standout first course. They had the surface texture of a perfectly cooked Tostino’s Pizza Roll—and I mean that in the best possible way. Inside, they were stuffed with pork, clear noodles, and mushrooms. The accompanying chutney set off the pork perfectly. Both main courses we tried were excellent, with special mention going to the Striped Bass. It was courageously seasoned with ginger and chili, and it was simply sensational. Mekong is located at King and 6th. Our dinner was $110, including 4 drinks. Reservations accepted, (212)343-8169 Bars and Coffee Shops Café Lalo This place is almost too easy, but sometimes that’s okay. Café Lalo is a little pastry shop at 83rd and Amsterdam. It’s small and manic and absolutely packed full of wobbly chairs, cases of cakes and pies, hanging copper pots, French and Italian posters, and, on weekends, people. Café Lalo is famous for its use in “You’ve Got Mail,” a charming little chick-flick that niftily manages to both bemoan the extermination of independent American bookstores by Evil Corporate Greed® AND feature in-title product placement for America Online. Be sure to buy her a Super Shake (White Russian ice cream, Bailey’s, Cognac, Espresso, and cream) or a Hum Dinger (Vanilla ice cream, Kahlua, and light rum), or both. Unfortunately, Lalo’s pastries aren’t especially exceptional, so stick to strong flavors—dark chocolate cake or a lemon tart, for instance. The coffee, on the other hand, is quite good, so grab a cappuccino. One last note: at Café Lalo the worse the weather, the greater the romance. Snow is absolutely jackpot. Shalel Lounge You know that hot cousin you have, with whom you’ve always had an unsettling amount of chemistry? Do NOT take this person to Shalel Lounge, or you will make out. Shalel Lounge is a secret, cavernous, underground, Moroccan lounge on the Upper West Side. Imagine Bruce Wayne’s Casbah Rouge. Stand on the northeast corner of 70th and Columbus. Take 10 steps east. You’ll see an unmarked metal stairway leading to an open-air corridor parallel to the street. Proceed down this hallway, step through the door, part the curtains, and enter the grotto. Imagine circular pounded-copper tables, low-slung loveseats, and candles everywhere. There is a moss-covered cascade in the back. Shalel is a small labyrinth of small, private rooms, most of which seem to be permanently reserved. It’s best to “accidentally” wander in—end up on a date in the neighborhood, and coyly investigate the strange subterranean passageway. Café La Fortuna A friend took me here, and as we opened the door he casually mentioned that his father had proposed in this café—and that it was a big mistake. It becomes obvious immediately that Café La Fortuna is the kind of place that might encourage fools to rush in. To dispense with the flowery language: Café La Fortuna gets it right. Take someone you love here, and tell them so. On my visit, I gazed at the pastry counter and started to point at something. “No, you’ll like this better,” the warm Italian matriarch behind the counter told me as she pointed to the almond biscotti. I asked her to recommend something else. She smiled and immediately pointed at the iced lemon cookies. “Try these,” she said. I grabbed two, ordered two cappuccinos, and sat down. The biscotto was superb, to be sure, but the lemon cookie was one of the best things I’ve ever tasted. I bought four more and took them home. The coffee, by the way, was perfect. I left Café La Fortuna completely enamored. (69 W. 71st St.) 
 Dreamy man-children, oh goodness, how endearing It's Hip! It's Culture! It's Cutting-edge! It's hip, cutting-edge culture!&nbsp; Hey, that sounds good, let's say it again! Cassette tape obsessives are the new vinyl obsessives! And it's no surprise that a little cucumber and some cinnamon buns make for aph-ro-deee-sia And that Saint Augustine...he was bringin sexy before it ever left! 
 Perhaps I'm a product of another era, but I'm pretty sure that bartenders used to be discouraged from sleeping with their drunk clientele. When I was young, smoking in dorms was not only tolerated, but encouraged, goddamnit! Call me old-fashioned, but everyone knows that the real meaning of Valentine's day is celebrating monogamous heterosexual relationships through capitalism. Maybe I'm just an old coot, but I liked condoms better before they were branded and free. I may be a ninety-one years old, but there is no way Henry Ford would ever have eaten sushi. 
 Kurt Kanazawa takes a journey into the realm of one of Career Services' less orthodox clients. On behalf of a dare, from myself mostly, I decided to actually open and critically consider a "Career Services" email. The Gmail crystal ball spun, and lo and behold I found myself staring at the career event of a lifetime — "FBI Information Session, TONIGHT @ 6 PM!" In the heat of the moment, I truly felt that Fate was beckoning me to take this epic journey to EC/Career Services. In a sense. Really, I shamelessly beckoned myself. But, on a rainy Wednesday night, I descended the stairs of the Career Services inferno and quietly slipped my way into the conference room. After positioning myself next to the extremely active radiator, I first began to take in my surroundings. Up at the front, standing ominously by the slide projector, were three middle-aged women, all wearing stately black suits. With my acute deductive skills, I deduced that these were the recruiters from the FBI, and presumably another attempt by our wonderful government to downplay the image of male-dominated workplaces — truly admirable. I first realized how out of place I was with a glance at the sign-in sheet. Under "Graduation Year," I came across mostly 2008s and 2009s and the occasional MA 2008, and even a PhD or two. Casually, I didn't sign-in. My second realization came as I scanned and judged the people sitting around the room. Suits were present, a couple ties were present, and classy black leather soles were very present. All that was present on your brave writer was a yellow rain jacket, a high-school Jansport, and ripped tennis shoes. To be honest, I looked great. The presentation began, and my attention was directed to the front. I must say, as cynical and embarrassed as I was about attending the event, I thoroughly enjoyed the whole thing. The first woman, blond and bird-like, was a specialist in Albanian Organized Crime in the United States. The second woman, Sandra Bullock's face crossed with Hillary Clinton's voice, was an analyst who had traveled all around the country (the FBI has a base in almost every state, and at least 4 affiliates in each state, including Montana?), and around the world (they have at least one base in every European/Asian country, and more than 10 on Africa and South America, respectively). The third woman had worked for the FBI for 25 years, starting right out of high school. Perhaps the highlight of the evening was the first woman presenting to us an ongoing case she is working on to bring back fugitives within Albania. She went into great detail about her initial assignment, her intelligence gathering, and her relationships with her field agents, all culminating in a trip to the Ukraine last month to bring back fugitives to be tried in US courts for theft and murder amongst other things. (If you're wondering, as one smart-ass kiddo in the back did, she did not carry guns in Albania — FBI agents can't carry weapons in foreign countries. Trivia!) For all you seriously interested in the career, the members of this particular recruitment team, and the FBI in general, have been actively seeking to recruit college grads and undergrads with no experience, majoring in fields applicable to the job — International Relations, Engineering, and Critical Languages amongst others. If you apply and are accepted, you must also undergo an intensive background check lasting from six to twelve months. Of the more uncomfortable restrictions, and of greater concern to most students that I passed judgment upon in that room, you cannot have smoked marijuana for three years, used any illegal drug for 10 years, and have no record of dealing. But, if you haven't been partying for three years, don't have Communist parents, and speak some rare language, then consider the FBI! They want you. In a non-Valentine's way. 
 Bwog is proud to announce the winner of our Valentine's Day candy heart contest, in which we asked you to provide the best slogan to emblazon on one such heart. We've tallied all the votes, and we're proud to announce the winning entry: YOU'LL DO Bwog congratulates Rob Trump for his ingenious wit and ability to garner 21% of 573 votes, and humbly asks that he contact us to claim his special Valentine's treat. 
 Bwog happened to be passing through the front doors of Hamilton, as we all do several times a month, and had a companion point out something very interesting. Outside the wooden doors that Columbians know and love are a set of enormous, bunker-style doors, engraved in brass, and slid sideways behind the cement facade. (They're visible between the door and the outermost metal frame in this photo.) No amount of force would dislodge them from their current position, but careful camera work revealed detailed brasswork and engraving. Bwog has a pretty good idea when the last time that these were shut were (it rhymes with fineteen-shmifty-eight), and, most likely, the reason that they no longer can be without some serious leverage. Engraving details after the jump. &mdash;ZvS 
Welcome back to Cooking with Bwog, the cooking column that brings you recipes that are healthy, cheap, easy and/or cute. This week, Cooking brings you a tasty recipe that she used to make with her mom. Before divulging the recipe, I think I should justify why I'm posting something that I got from Real Simple. My mom cut this recipe out of the magazine about 8 years ago and we fell in love with it. It's tasty, the ingredients are easy to find and it makes a great left over (breakfast, lunch, and dinner) and because of this it's traveled with me to boarding school, foreign countries, dorm kitchens, and boyfriends' houses. Since I lost the original recipe quite a while back (and Real Simple didn't archive their recipes online until recently), I haven't actually made it the same way as the original in years. A quick web search finds the Real Simple, though - you can read and compare here (mine is real simple-er). Chickpea Orzo Pilaf 1 big can of chickpeas, rinsed and drained olive oil 1 onion, diced 2 carrots, cut into nickels 1-2 cups of orzo - depends on how much you want to make 2 tsp. curry powder 3 garlic cloves 4-6 cups of broth - chicken or vegetable work best. 2-3 packets of ketchup - just steal it from a deli or something You need a big skillet or a pasta pot. It needs to be able to hold the 4-6 cups of broth. Crush the garlic with the back of a knife to get the juice out and throw it in the big skillet/pasta pot with some olive oil (2-4 tbsp. depending on how oily you want the food). Cook at medium low flame. After a few minutes add the onion and carrots and cook until the onion starts to look clear. Then add the dry orzo pasta and the curry powder and cook until the orzo starts to brown. This part might take a while, and depending on the pan, the orzo might not brown at all. If it cooks for more than 10 minutes (or the onions and garlic start to burn) just give up on browning the orzo. Then add the broth, chickpeas, and ketchup and turn the heat up to medium high. Leave it uncovered to simmer for around 1/2 hour. How long you let it simmer really depends on what you want to eat. If you want something more like a soup, just leave it to simmer until the carrots and orzo are done. If you want something more like a pilaf, let it simmer longer. It will make your whole house smell good and makes enough for four people to eat it as an entree. When it's done you can also put it in the fridge to chill and eat it cold. And as far as mixing it up, you can at hot chili powder, other veggies like peas, green onion or celery, a crazy broth of some kind, other beans, alphabet pasta or multicolored orzo. Serve with a salad or as a side with chicken. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Blogger Yelena Shuster reports on this weekend's production. If Valentine's Day didn't give you enough of an excuse to get vagina-happy, a good option is this year's campus production of the Vagina Monologues. For those of us who have seen the show for the past three years, prepare to be shocked. This is no traditional approach. The show started with a bang—complete with a marching band and its rendition of Salt N Pepa's "Push It." Girls in gold sequined dresses and purple leggings writhed, shimmied, and humped onstage, against the backdrop of a giant cut-out vagina (acting as convenient stage entrance as well as educational anatomy tool). The most powerful part of the show is the first hour. Director Casey Llewellyn included original monologues to broaden the conversation Ensler started. As our androgynous, suit-clad host said, "Some women face violence because they don't have vaginas. Some men face violence because they do." Ayala Danzing spoke about the shame of hating her body (sparked at a Loehmann's communal dressing room no less). Danaya Almenares spoke in poetic form about the poison of sex with her first female love. Tiffany Thomas spoke about the excitement of finally becoming a transgender woman and getting rid of that "lump" between her legs, "a constant reminder that something was wrong with me." The ensemble cast was diverse in age, ethnicity, accents, body sizes. Brightly colored raincoats alternated with a piano for props. There were orgasms onstage, offstage, and even David Bowie made a musical appearance. Your boyfriends will enjoy the occasional simulated girl-on-girl porn and your girlfriends will appreciate the hilarious tirade against gyno visits (complete with a symbolic use of oversized tampons). At times, Llewellyn's directions border on the absurd (fruit strap-on, anyone?), but her avant-garde redefinition of Ensler's masterpiece is worth a look—and perhaps an uncomfortable gaze or two. Friday, February 15th Saturday, February 16th 8pm, Roone Arledge Auditorium Tickets purchased at Lerner Box office or online at CUArts. $7 w/ CUID and $12 without. All proceeds go to Day One. 
 NYU diarist W.M. Akers returns with ruminations on love below 14th street and why you should get in on the action. From what I understand, the Columbia dating pool—men and women, straight and gay—is a shallow one. Your battlements keep you so well-contained that you bounce off them and into each other quickly, in a kind of sexual pinball that leaves most of the acceptable options exhausted by the end of freshman year. In the past I've found myself jealous of your closed social world, since it's necessary to have a close circle of friends in order to gossip properly, but the closed circles quickly run out of people to do gossip-worthy things with. So if Valentine's Day didn't see you trapped in a suffocating dorm relationship, consider a little sexual tourism down to Washington Square. After all, no one at Columbia is impressed that you go to Columbia. But if you get the right brand of NYU student—or New School student, if you want things even easier—he or she should be perceptive enough to recognize your natural, well-projected superiority. The child of the Village will thrill to see your name appear on caller ID, for a descent from Morningside Heights is no less an occasion than an angel's coming down from Heaven. (And whether your descent is voluntary or, like that most beautiful angel's, forced, we below cannot tell.) But where can you meet these darling downtown desirables? The Thompson Street chess shops are not the place to start. It helps, of course, to know someone at the University who can invite you to a party. Don't bother trying to meet someone in a dorm, since handing over your ID to get signed in is not sexy. Use your CC-honed intuition to sniff out a mid-size party in Alphabet City, in a dingy, ill-decorated apartment that costs more per month than your housing. Choose the surliest attractive person there—try to make sure they match your preferred gender and sexual orientation—and make a crack about how you're glad no one is playing beer pong or, if someone is playing beer pong, about how you hate this person. When that line of conversation flags, ask about your target's apartment and rent. No one below 96th Street can resist talking about rent. Let your inherent conversational deftness take over from here, and the night is yours. If you choose to keep seeing Mr. or Mrs. Downtown, it won't just be good for you. Columbia students aren't the only ones with something to prove, you know. Ours is an anxiety of consumption. We feel guilty for spending too much of our parents' money, and at the same time anxious that we're not consuming the city properly. We don't get out into Brooklyn often enough; we spend too much time in dorms; we eat at the same restaurants over and over again. Having you downtown is like having a friend come to stay; through your eyes we can see the city fresh. Wouldn't you like to go to a cool downtown restaurant, a fun downtown bar, and a beautiful downtown park? Your date should know exactly one of each, and once he or she's done showing you, well, you can see how much nicer our dorm rooms are than yours. For a moment your new friend will feel cool again because, next to you, we almost are. Eventually, of course, you must grow tired of your 8th Street piece. NYU students are a pleasant dalliance, but marriage material we are not. Most of us aren't even worth taking home to your parents. Our most interesting students are the artists and actors, and God knows you can't show up at the summer home with that. But if you keep it up until May then you can go home to your high school ex. By the time summer's over and you remember why you broke up in the first place, there will be a whole new freshman class to pinball off of. And so the cycle will begin anew. 
The erstwhile Barnard Bulletin website has gone missing! And not even 6 months since its grand re-(re?)-launch. The Bulletin's new Clip Art and edgy typeface is nowhere to be found on the interweb, and a Google search takes one to the Barnard website, which in turn takes one to the defunct site. Bwog will update with any information regarding the Bulletin's present whereabouts, until then, it's probably available in print somewhere west-ish of Columbia. A mystery for the ages to be sure! 
Beginning next fall, the School of Continuing Education will offer a Master of Science in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution. No word on the rationale for establishing the program (Continuing Education Acting Dean Peter Awn gives some vague PR speak here), but perhaps Columbia is molding a team of crack mediators to help it defuse the controversy it seems so good at courting. There’s an info session about the major in early April—will it train people for the corporate world, or for totally badass negotiating? Bwog imagines it’s the former, but holds out tentative hope for the latter. 
 Bwog correspondent Christopher Morris-Lent&nbsp; attends a Friendly Fire-Columbia Political Union-sponsored event and encounters a man who savors the taste of defeat . On Friday afternoon, a ragtag group of people streamed into the hallowed space at the top of Earl Hall to see Mike Gravel, once a senator from Alaska and now running a quixotic campaign for president, speak on a variety of issues ranging from why he dislikes all politicians to what you can do about it.&nbsp; The audience, which ultimately numbered about 70 people and consisted of about ninety percent males and at least fifty percent policy wonks, grew steadily in size until Gravel arrived, accompanied by his speechwriter and History department lecturer, Dave Eisenbach. Eisenbach is perhaps best known around campus as the founder of Friendly Fire, ostensibly a series of discussions targeted at deconstructing what he sees as Columbia's "problem" with free speech and featuring vocal critics of the University (Jim Gilchrist, Karina Garcia, Bob Podhoretz) squaring off against one another in a debate-style format. Yesterday, however, he eschewed his typical role as the impartial moderator and assumed that of a salesman, delivering a rousing introduction on behalf of the man whom he once called "an American hero." "I first became fascinated with Mike when I was watching one of the presidential debates last year," said Eisenbach, "and he asked Obama, 'Tell me, Barack, who do you want to nuke?'&nbsp; I knew I had to get this guy on Friendly Fire! Then one thing led to another," he continued, by way of explanation, "and I had a job." Minutes later, Gravel himself took the floor to enthusiastic applause. "One of the most common questions people ask me," he intoned, "is that, as manhandled by the media as I've been, why didn't I write a book?" At this point, much of the audience directed its attention to the pamphlets distributed at the beginning of the event, which doubled as advertisements for Gravel's new book Citizen Power and as catalogues of his accomplishments throughout the course of his political career: "As a United States senator," one line read, "he filibustered for five months, forcing an end to the draft." Another page listed part of Gravel's platform, a notable example of which was, "Build a new national electrical power grid for a national and urban maglev transportation system using existing wind and solar technology." Gravel's platform seemed to be a topic about which he was more than happy to speak, and, for the next forty-five minutes or so, that is exactly what he did, prompted by the occasional prompting question from Eisenbach. ï¿½What is making you do this?ï¿½ he asked rhetorically, the subtext being that Gravel is running a campaign on no money with little popular support or opportunity to influence leftward the discourses between the major candidates. Gravel responded phlegmatically, ï¿½What else am I gonna do? Itï¿½s like the analogy I drew in my book ï¿½ throwing a rock in the water ï¿½ itï¿½s gonna produce ripples. Iï¿½m too old to play tennis now, and Iï¿½ve got a lot of chutzpah. All you young men: you owe me two years of your life,ï¿½ he continued, alluding to his fastidious opposition to the draft in his days as a senator before launching into a record of his congressional accomplishments. ï¿½Thatï¿½s leadership!ï¿½ he said emphatically, before asking, ï¿½where have all the leaders gone? Have you seen the last Hillary ad? ï¿½We Americans can do this.ï¿½ What the hell does that mean? Obama is hardly better. Representative government is broken. What is the answer?ï¿½ The answer, at least according to Gravel, can be found at nationalinitiative.us. The National Initiative is Gravelï¿½s grand and overarching plan for fixing what he sees as the ingrained corruption and myopia present in Washington today. Essentially, it stipulates that legislative power be transferred from the Congress ï¿½ which is hopelessly far removed from the problems of everyday Americans and in the thralldom of special interests ï¿½ to the people. ï¿½There are twenty-four states with initiative power on the books today,ï¿½ declared Gravel, ï¿½and those states generally have better governance than the ones that donï¿½t.ï¿½ ï¿½Wonï¿½t this just lead to a tyranny of the majority?ï¿½ asked Eisenbach. ï¿½Well, if youï¿½re not ruled by the majority, youï¿½re ruled by a minority,ï¿½ responded Gravel, waxing Rumsfeldian for a second. ï¿½The American people are ruled by a minority as is. The National Initiative is the answer for the future.ï¿½ But the National Initiative is far from the only plank in Gravelï¿½s platform. Throughout the rest of the afternoon, as the topic at hand modulated from gay marriage to John McCain to Iraq, Gravel offered a seemingly inexhaustible number of aphorisms for curing what ails America. On gay rights and activism: ï¿½Get the hell out of the closet! Fight for your rights and win!ï¿½ On gay marriage: ï¿½I believe in marriage. If thereï¿½s anything we need, itï¿½s a lot more love.ï¿½ On federal jurisdiction thereof: ï¿½Hillary says that this is a matter of statesï¿½ rights. Well, thatï¿½s what John C. Calhoun said about slavery.ï¿½ On Hillary Clinton: ï¿½Sheï¿½s clearly more qualified than Obama to be president.ï¿½ On Barack Obama: ï¿½Initially he was like Hamlet ï¿½ thereï¿½s no ï¿½thereï¿½ there. Iï¿½m sure heï¿½s mesmerized many of you. ï¿½Thereï¿½s change. Thereï¿½s hope. Thereï¿½s change and thereï¿½s hope.ï¿½ï¿½ On John McCain: ï¿½Thereï¿½s no question ï¿½ John McCain is worse .ï¿½ On the impending apocalypse: ï¿½Weï¿½re in a war for the survival of the planet! Weï¿½re all going to be cooked in 100 years if we donï¿½t do anything. I can take us off of gasoline in five.ï¿½ On resilience: ï¿½Iï¿½m running all the way through November, as a Democrat until the convention, then as a third-party candidate.ï¿½ On why: ï¿½You need me as president worse than you realize.ï¿½ On his chances: ï¿½For me to become President of the United States, itï¿½d take an act of God.ï¿½ The time was nearing five oï¿½clock and the blue around Havemeyer deepening from turquoise to indigo. After Gravel finished his last genial and eloquent diatribe against the establishment, Eisenbach opened the floor to questions. Someone asked about McCain and his past; Gravel responded by fingering the draft dodgers as the true exemplars of ï¿½moral courageï¿½ in Vietnam, posited that McCain was ï¿½just following ordersï¿½ when he attacked the Vietnamese, and declared that ï¿½the same could be said of the Nazis at Auschwitzï¿½ before qualifying his position. ï¿½Those that fought in Vietnam were good Americans,ï¿½ he continued, ï¿½trying to do the best thing for their country.ï¿½ But if they failed, then what of the fate of the National Initiative? For another half an hour Gravel laughed, convinced, and parried his way through the rhetorical thicket. It was him at his very finest, as he displayed the cocktail of uncompromising maverick liberalism and completely impractical ideas that make him a darling amongst idealistic collegiate bleeding hearts and a hopelessly unviable candidate amongst the electorate. I found myself agreeing with Gravel more than Iï¿½d care to admit; itï¿½s as if he were the raging leftist id inside all of us nominal liberals, untempered by compromise, practical considerations and reality. Ralph Nader once called Gravel ï¿½a breath of fresh air,ï¿½ and as unsettling as that fresh air was, at times, there was something rejuvenating about seeing someone speak his mind so freely and lucidly, as if he had nothing to lose but, say, one-tenth of one percent of the primary vote. - CML, with apologies for the quality of the photographs 
 "If I couldn't get you finer things like all of them diamond rings bitches kill for, would you still roll?" "I don't wanna wait, for our lives to be over. I want to know right now, what will it be?" "If dogs run free, then why not we across the swooping plain?" &nbsp;"And I blamed you for my freezing and forgetting, and the nights were long and cold and scary. Can we live through February?" "Cinderella said to Snow White, 'How did love get so off course? All I wanted was a white knight, with a good heart, soft touch, fast horse.'" "Why am I feeling so wrong? My head's in the game, but my heart's in the song." 
 When friends go abroad, it's often tiresome and troublesome keeping in contact. Adding + 44 before dialing a ten digit number? Who has that kind of time? Luckily, we are living in the age of the internets, and maintaining overseas friendships is as easy as blogging. Take Off Broadway, a Wordpress blog chronicling the studies abroad of six Columbia juniors—including many Blue and White and Bwog alumni—in Amman, Cape Town, Kyoto, London, Ecuador, and Buenos Aires. Posts about standing on the zero degrees latitude mark, not bungy jumping, and Valentine's Day in Japan are lovely and interesting, and the diversity of the places discussed makes the blog very readable, even as you jump from Quito to Kyoto. Know anyone studying abroad and blogging about it? Email bwog@columbia.edu &nbsp; 
 While many Columbia students voted in New York or nearby states on Super Tuesday,&nbsp; others have voted, or will be voting, absentee.&nbsp; Bwog contributor David Iscoe recounts his experience voting absentee in the District of Columbia, where they get to vote for at least one branch of the government. Whether or not you believe in the Democratic party, registering Democrat in D.C. is essential to actually having a vote. The Democratic primary is pretty much the election for local officials, and no Republican presidential candidate has cleared 10% of the vote since 1988. This February 12th, I voted in my second primary, third election, and used my first absentee ballot. There’s no line to vote absentee, and you don’t have to go any farther than the nearest mailbox, but it is much more bothersome in that it has multiple steps.&nbsp; First, you have to either go downtown (rather than to your polling place) to pick up a ballot in person, or you have to navigate the internet (my generation kicks ass at this) and download and print your application form.&nbsp; I had to go with the latter, since I left town before the ballots were ready.&nbsp; Besides standard name and address info, the paperwork asked you to specify why you needed an absentee ballot.&nbsp; Choices range from the cover-all “temporarily outside the District of Columbia” to more detailed options like “confined to an institution but not judicially declared incompetent.” I went with the first one. The next step is mailing the letter: my generation sucks at this. I don’t have envelopes and stamps just lying around here, this is the third millennium A.D. After having to physically write the address on the envelope, I sent off my application, and didn’t get my ballot until February 12th, the day of the Potomac Primary.&nbsp; The next part was actually pretty easy; the D.C. ballot has a simple “draw a line to connect the arrow” system, and, for some reason, there were no delegates to choose from.&nbsp; But then, the return postage wasn’t included, so it required more fucking stamps. I didn’t have time to go the Post Office, so I overpaid at the Ivy League Stationers, where I bought two 40c stamps for $1.00 to cover $0.58 worth of postage. No poll tax my ass. Ultimately, the election wasn’t in doubt.&nbsp; Although the Clintons are pretty big around town, Obama had all the local endorsements, and D.C. has always elected a black mayor since the advent of home rule in 1975. The District voted overwhelmingly for Barack, and exit poll margins were so wide that CNN called D.C. for Obama with 0% returns. If my vote ever did get counted, (it wasn’t clear when the ballot had to be in) nobody was waiting for it on the edge of their seat. However, mostly because of Virginia and Maryland, the Potomac Primary actually ended up being big news, so it felt good to participate in some way. And feeling good in some vague way is reason enough for a lot of people to do a lot of things. 
 George Krebs, everyone's favorite CCSC '09 President is starting his Quixotic journey towards a possible E-board presidency.&nbsp; On this eve of President's Day, he could not discuss policy specifics but instead resorted to Obama-esque generalities.&nbsp; The ticket of this as yet unnamed the party is still in construction (Wanted: "Outstanding" candidate for VP Funding), but Krebs is confident that the group will be cohesive. &nbsp;No official word yet, but Bwog has heard through the grapevine that Krebs will be facing current VP of Policy Alidad Damooei.&nbsp; Campaign announcement after the jump. &nbsp;-JJV Dear Columbia College Students, We’re writing to personally announce to you our intention to run for Columbia College Student Council Executive Board. We have been working hard to improve our campus student life, and have started to churn the wheels on the community-building movement we are planning to create on this campus. Because the official elections timeline has not been announced, we are not allowed to publicize our platform’s specifics. Rest assured, we are currently working on some of our policies within the Student Councils and across campus. What we can say is that every idea we will bring to the campaign will stem from a core vision. We want all Columbia College students to feel united, embraced, and part of something larger than any individual campus organization. Our movement is going to be about collective action, not unilateral boardroom decision making. We have met many of you, and will continue to meet you and continue this dialogue in the coming months. We are still in the process of looking for an outstanding and dynamic fifth member, but our campaign will be about more than the five of us—it will be about a movement across the entire College. We have been standing with you, and we hope you will stand with us within the next couple months and for the next year. Together, we can. Let’s get it started. Yours, George Krebs, Adil Ahmed, Robyn Burgess, Ian Solsky &nbsp; 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Last night, the cast and crew of the 114th Annual Varsity Show performed two half-hour previews. Deep in the nether regions of the "dive bar" formerly known as the West End, students and parents, as&nbsp;per tradition,&nbsp;filed into seats and booths around&nbsp;in the&nbsp;open space and piano in the back. The preview was narrated by Judith Shapiro, played charismatically by Lauren Glover, BC ‘09. The plot was loosely based around the idea that this was J.Shap’s “last fireside chat” before Debora Spar, her newly-named replacement, takes over. D.Spar has some “large Birkenstocks to fill,” according to the ridiculously self-aggrandizing J.Shap. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The show shifted from the President’s office in Milbank to the BC Dance Department. Four girls in I &lt;3 BC shirts cracked mostly stale jokes about anorexia and bulimia—Barnard babysitters expressing jealously that their kids weren’t hungry and kept throwing up. The dance class, cleverly titled “Dancing for Change and Changing for Dance,” was one of the best scenes in the preview, due in large part to the perfect casting of Laura Kleinbaum, CC ’08, as theoried-out (post)modern dance instructor Anette Schneider who believes that Hitler’s minions “were dancing” when they marched for Nazism.&nbsp; Obviously infatuated with Schneider, the four dancers (most of who are adept physical comedians) blindly and vigorously followed Schneider’s instructions to dance “truth”, “transitional justice”, and “modernism… no! post modernism.” &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In the corner of the dance classroom, Sarah Dooley, BC '11, played a girl (who we’re led to believe is in the College)&nbsp;as Michael Snyder, CC '10 played a Swarthmore transfer named Dan. Dan was an obvious Morningside neophyte: He doesn’t think he’s allowed “up there" (referring to Pisticci), he (gasp!) ate at Pertutti, he’s not sure where LaSalle is. “It’s the number between 123 and 125,” the girl of nebulous school affiliation explained. This line was very well received, unlike many of the standard-fare Barnard jokes that followed as J.Shap ended the scene. In fact, much of the preview seemed to be one extended Barnard joke. This came off as lazy, as the jokes that were made weren’t daring or new and instead of using something just as relatable—Ahmadinejad comes to mind—the writers opted for the road more traveled. And because the show was narrated by Judith Shapiro, it was impossible to escape the Barnard-centricity. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Back in Dan’s room, we meet his fratty, misogynistic SEAS roommate (Tobin Mitnick, CC ‘10.) We quickly learn that the SEAS student has been having women troubles, an unfortunate circumstance not helped by the fact that he has a restraining order from Barnard College. Apparently, there was an incident involving “Jeffery Hunter Northrop, prescription pain pills, and Hewitt.” It was funny for the taboo of actually naming Columbia’s most lecherous Lothario, but could have been improved by adding specifics: Did JHN2 put date-rape drugs in Hewitt food? The audience, unfortunately, may never know. The two characters also sing the preview’s first song, a duet called “Well, Woman” (a pun on Barnard’s alliterative health services). The melody wasn’t very catchy, and the lyrics sounded like Facebook group titles (SEAS student singing about lying tangential to your curves and the like), but the talent of the actors was evident regardless. However, the first song of the night came over halfway into the preview, which is much too long for a preview show for a quasi-musical. The show catches up with J.Shap, who’s at some sort of Manhattanville development celebration hosted by Dean Quigley (Bollinger couldn’t attend because his hair was still in the dryer, Quigley explained). The guests, who include Will Snider, CC ’09, as Director of Public Safety Jim McShane, mill about as they sip from martini glasses. “You can consume these Manhattans without being labeled racist!” Quigley announced in a (perhaps unintentionally) overly-campy British accent. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Snider’s McShane was unquestionably the high-point of the scene, and perhaps garnered the largest laughs of the night. His re-enactment of Medea and his warning to J.Shap to “don’t let the door rape on the way out,” were brilliant in an oddball, un-P.C. sort of way, but McShane’s relative anonymity might hinder the success of the jokes. McShane, like Kieron Cindric’s wonderful Republican journalist, were undoubtedly the most interesting and creatively conceived characters of the show.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Things quickly turned political with J.Shap’s mention of Nadia Abu El-Haj, (or “Bu-Bu”). The hunger strikes (and the anti-hunger strikers, and the anti-anti hunger strikers) marched in with a white bed sheet and the night’s second song. This one was catchy and funny, and as the cast and chorus sang about anti-hate crime and anti-anti hate crime, they held clever signs with slogans like “Too Meta to Matter” and “Too Callow to Care.” The writers did an excellent job of covering a ton of topical material in only thirty minutes, and unlike West End previews of years past, the scenes were consistent; there were only one or two jokes to just fall flat. It was absolutely impossible to differentiate between the cast and the chorus, which maybe could have been avoided by only using the chorus sparingly. The cast—their singing and acting abilities and potential characters—should have been showcased. Based on the strength of the cast and creative team, the year’s Varsity Show looks as strong a show as ever. But it’s the talent of the cast (and the quality of the songs, of which there were too few) that’s such a large part of why people get excited for the Varsity Show and that should have been better exemplified. - JNW 
 Dear John, I know this will be difficult, but our budding relationship has reached a dead end.&nbsp; When I met you, it was your culinary skills that made you stand out of the crowd who just wanted to make penis jokes.&nbsp; I fell so hard for you. I felt my heart beating like a percussion quartet when your eyes met mine on a sideways glance.&nbsp; I should have known then...sideways glances never last. We were so cute together, I'm so sorry it had to end so soon! But last night, you really lacked control--although those few minutes were quite intense. Yes, I've met someone else--his gleaming head, fashionable scarves and straightforward talk about Lacan have swept me off of my feet!&nbsp; Lacan! It's hard for me to say this to someone that I care about so deeply, but I will have to cancel our date for tonight.&nbsp; I can't live a lie any longer. Best, Bwog &nbsp; 
 Newsworthy day for belly dancers and linguists, the Fall 2007 New Group Recognition process over at the Activities Board at Columbia comes to a close. There were five groups to make the cut: Columbia Ballet Collective, Columbia Bellydancing Troupe, Columbia Linguistic Society, Organization of Latin American Students, and Onyx.&nbsp; ABC also released their 2007-2008 budget, which includes the allocations and debts of each ABC-sponsored club, event, and publication. It's available for close reading here.&nbsp; More after the jump.&nbsp; &nbsp;Winners for most-in-debt: American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics ($3,941.04) The Blue and White ($3,510.41) (we can explain...) Notes and Keys ($1,931,56) Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers ($1,229.93) Club Bangla ($1,140.29) Total amount requested by CU organizations: $482,482.54 Total amount ABC bequeathed: $327,259.33 Percentage of requests honored to the exact amount: roughly 12% (forgive Bwog our errors, we're not econ majors) &nbsp; 
Presidents Day, that awkward Monday in between the birthdays of the two greatest Presidents born&nbsp; in mid-February.&nbsp; Bwog hears that Target has some great sales on right now, so if you don't mind trekking to the Bronx or Brooklyn on this lovely afternoon, you could save some serious dolla dolla billz on your next lamp, snowboard, or vitamin C supplement.
Caffe Pertutti, a mainstay of Broadway is closed forever.&nbsp; Apparently, no one ate $8.50 hamburgers.&nbsp;&nbsp;
 Like many of you, Bwog was curious and excited upon learning that ABC (unlike last year) had released their 2007-2008 budget and student group allocations. But what of the Student Governing Board, (the ABC of political and religious groups, among others)? According to Jon Siegel, a chair of SGB, the SGB has been in talks with various groups for about a year in attempts to publicize their budgets. This year, SGB will be releasing their full budget and all of their allocations. "The only reason we haven't published ours yet is because a member of a student council asked us not to release ours for another week or so so that they would be able to release theirs without appearing to have been pressured into it by us," Siegel said.&nbsp; Because SGB serves mostly religious and political student groups, clubs and events, the release of individual allocations to groups is a very sensitive and charged issue. Bwog will be publishing SGB's budget as it is released, check back for updates. &nbsp; - JNW 
Mark Johnson will be running for CCSC Class of 2009 President.&nbsp; Johnson, the current VP under Krebs, rounded out his ticket with Mallory Carr for VP and Heather Oh, Zahrah Taufique, and Brandon Shulman as class representatives.&nbsp; No word yet as to who they will be facing.&nbsp; Stay tuned for more announcements.
 In the continuing saga of ABC/SGB budget and group allocations, SGB has just released their budget, as well as a handy Powerpoint presentation entitled "Fun with Funds" (really!). "I apologize for the lack of animation, but we wanted to get it out quickly," explained SGB chair Jon Siegel. So let the comparisons begin: In the political arena, Democrats were allocated $7500, the Republicans $1500, the Libertarians just $350 despite a New Yorker write-up. CPU was a huge winner with a whopping $15,000. On the publications front, Ad-Hoc apparently still exists and apparently was allocated $800. Who knew? The Current also received $800. A group cryptically entitled "Catholics" received $8500, while Hillel took home $27,000. The Orthodox Christian Fellowship received $735, nearly double that of the Atheists and Agnostics, who received $350. This was a only small sampling, so head to the SGB website to see the full budget. - JNW 
 The Pellegrino splashed into champagne glasses and the trays of mini-burgers (already doused in ketchup) were stacked high on a circular table. Students and administrators milled about, waiting for Bollinger's first Fireside Chat of the semester to begin. Expectations for the Chat were high, as many students were anxious to voice their concerns about last semester's slew of Major Controversies, among other things. Adam Nover, SEAS '10, wanted to know, "Why we can't give money to the middle class like Harvard." Paige Thompson, CC'10, was concerned with space issues and possibly renovating older buildings like Pupin.&nbsp; At 6:20 PM the finger sandwiches were running low and there was still no sign of PrezBo. "If he gets fired, he gets evicted from this house right?" said Nover to a friend. Mere minutes later, PrezBo, dapper as always in gray-blue sweater and white collared shirt, entered the room and the audience quickly filed into chairs. The Fireside Chat began with something of a State of the PrezBo address, in which he discussed things that have been on his mind and his hopes for the future-- both immediate and distant. PrezBo stated that the Gym Controversy of 1968 is a major cause of Columbia's inability to expand before December 21, 2007. "Instead of hiding from the controversy of the Gym, say 'Remember the Gym,'" he said. PrezBo also assured the audience that while no current students would still be undergraduates when the Manhattanville campus is completed, plans for Phase One (the construction of a New York City public high school and SIPA, Business School, and School of the Arts buildings) has already begun. He also said that the northwest corner's Interdisciplinary Science Building will be the last new structure erected on the Morningside campus. As this is Fireside Chat and not Fireside Monologue, the floor then opened up to questions. Q&amp;A began with a question from GSer Ira about increasing support and academic opportunity for members of the LGBTQ community. "I can certainly make statements or raise money," PrezBo explained. But according to Bollinger, at the end of the day it's the faculty in individual disciplines who decide how and in what manner things are studied and funds are allocated. Next, a SEAS student and PrezBo entered a discussion about the erection of the Manhattanville campus and how much science you're getting per dollar. SEAS questioner suggested that building a campus outside of New York, where real estate prices aren't astronomical, might result in more lab space and more classrooms. PrezBo explained that "one of the great things about the Morningside space is how intensely populated it is." Except residents of virtually all Columbia dorms and members of perhaps every student group scrambling for space might disagree. The Chat went on as PrezBo mentioned he was currently re-reading Thomas Mann's The Magic Mountain and briefly explained the history of ROTC on law school campuses. Ahmadinejad's first mention came at 7:06 PM, as someone asked PrezBo to re-hash the history behind M.A. invitation. "I did not personally invite Ahmadinejad to speak," Bollinger explained, instead attributing/crediting/blaming Profs. Coatsworth and Bulliet. PrezBo opined that students "should be exposed to people who have power around the world. Even very very bad people." He paused. "I trust you." After Ahmadinejad, the denouement. One girl quizzed Bollinger about why he wanted to be a University president. "I was a perfectly happy scholar," he began. Another told an inappropriately complicated story involving her Comp. Lit./Sustainable Development double major, Morgan Stanley, and Stanley Fish. PrezBo told her that he thinks the "humanities are where life is." Bwog observed a few SEAS kids looking down at their laps. PrezBo instructed the audience to complain, and complain we did. "Middle class trap!" yelled one girl, referring to financial aid troubles. Two international students also reported that they'd like to see need-blind financial aid to those from overseas. Others cited housing for GS students, another for a stronger (read: competent) advising system. "I think we know we've got a lot of work to do on advising," PrezBo said. One girl wanted to know if PrezBo had any "favorite quotes that helped with life's difficulties." There was silence, then laughter. PrezBo, as it turns out, didn't have any favorite quotes that have helped him through life's troubles, but if Bwog had to choose one for him it might be the following, found in chapter five of PrezBo's book of choice, The Magic Mountain: "Six months at most after they get here, these young people-- and they are mostly young who come-- have lost every idea they had, except flirtation and temperature." - JNW 
 Fireside chats make PrezBo—ne JanitorBo—nostalgic for the good old days. GS Student Council, like grumpy old men, bickers about budgets. Some GS students actually live in Butler, no really.&nbsp; Two chairs, third-floor style. GS is expensive but worth it.&nbsp; Most of the time, methinks.&nbsp; Out with the old, in with the new.&nbsp; Even with the new lounge-bar experience, its still just mediocre Italian food. 
In which Bwog correspondent and past-life high school orator, Andrew Flynn, sojourns to a recent Harvard high school debate tournament and waxes philosophical about the current state of that ever so nebulous academic activity. &nbsp; When the wind-chills of February announce their arrival in Morningside Heights, when long papers and dry readings begin to weigh heavily on my soul, there is no respite I look forward to more than getting on a coach bus filled with rowdy 15 through 18 year-olds and making the seven and a half hour trip to Cambridge for the annual Harvard Speech and Debate tournament. Harvard is one of the kings of high-school forensics competitions. (Unlike at my local state tournament, Harvard does not need to remind its competitors that defecating in the classrooms is against the rules.)&nbsp; Here, thousands of high school speakers and debaters from across the east coast and Midwest (sometimes further) meet to match wits and spend their downtime wandering aimlessly around the Epcotesque tourist trap that is Harvard Square. But, “Harvard” is a bit misleading. A quick tour through Harvard Yard is all that most debaters will get (speakers, perhaps fare better), and if they are lucky, they will spend the bulk of their time in Cambridge Rindge and Latin High School, an educational establishment distinguished for having taught Patrick Ewing and for appearing to have been built improvisationally out of whatever materials happened to be lying around. (There were a lot of cinderblocks lying around). Eyes scan round postings for the black spots of the tournament, the ominous Van Serge, an isolated shack, and the equally howl-inducing Baldwin, a local elementary school. They will have to catch a shuttle to get there, and they will probably just miss the one returning. I used to stumble through this routine, but in recent years I’ve become accustomed to doing something similar (but with more bad, free food) as a judge for my high school. This time, I judged Public Forum, or “PF” as it is now called by proponents and detractors alike. It was almost called Ted Turner debate—when I was a senior in high school the brand new event was to be showcased with a televised final round at the NFL (National Forensic League) national tournament, judged by the big man himself. None of this came to pass, as Turner was loath to shell out cash, or was otherwise disabused of lending his name to a truly goofy event. For PF is the bastard of debate, an event dreamed up in an effort to reform the increasingly theoretical Lincoln-Douglas debate, or “LD.” (When I was in high school, the final round of LD at Harvard featured a Derridian deconstruction of the resolution, which played to a house of flabbergasted judges). LD was itself created as a reform of the fact-heavy, speed-intense Policy debate, or “CX.” Perhaps the next reform will simply feature a return to field hockey. As it stands, though, it’s hard to know what will happen. PF is team debate without real rules; the goal is persuasion, in the style of TV atrocities like “Crossfire”. I’ve seen kids show up in jeans and argue cases based on the economic thought of Ron Paul. “Grand Crossfire,” a free for all during which all of the debaters hurl questions at one another, now takes place seated, because during the first year of PF’s existence, an infuriated competitor stabbed his opponent in the hand with a pen. But, the kids at Harvard were a swift bunch—pantsuits and ties and real evidence, suggesting that PF is no longer simply the haven of the failures from other events. But, the resolutions have evolved little from the early days, when “The NBA should enforce a dress code” ravaged the brain cells of our youth. “Russia has become a threat to US interests” is better, but the Pros had a fairly easy time pointing to things that look a lot like threats, leaving the Con to hair split about the meaning of “threat,” “interest,” and “become.” I voted pro five out of six times, and took Amtrak home. 
True love is the best way to battle the sophomore slump. All interested parties should contact Bwog via email and we'll provide the $10 for the date. And as always, nominate your friends (or yourself) for a personal by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. &nbsp; &nbsp; Guy for Girl Name: Johnny Ruan Year: 2010 School: CC Major: Astrophysics Hometown: Windsor, Ontario, Canada Best Book You've Read for Class: This was in high school, but A Midsummer Night's Dream. Worst Book You've Read for Class: The Poetry of Mihai Eminescu, which I had to read for my Romanian class. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Rewatch episodes of Dawson's Creek on DVD, which I have for some reason. It's a very guilty pleasure. Beverage of choice: Green or chamomile tea. What are your most played songs on iTunes? The Get Up Kids, "Red Letter Day" Jimmy Eat World, "Sweetness" Sunny Day Real Estate, "Seven" What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? I'm content with what's on there, but I'd be open to some happier music. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Any crepe from Artopolis. The title of your memoir: Global Warming Melted my Igloo: Tall Tales of a Migration South to America Dream date 5 words or fewer: fine wine + stargazing = Champagne Supernova Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Actually getting a job this summer doing something I enjoy doing, for the first time. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Schmoozing professors in the astronomy department to get said job. &nbsp;Girl for Guy Name: Rachel Ziegler Year: 2010 School: Barnard Major: English Hometown: Lafayette, Louisiana Best Book You've Read for Class: probably To the Lighthouse Worst Book You've Read for Class: I wasn't a fan of Beowulf Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: puppywar.com; and this Beverage of choice: water What are your most played songs on iTunes? Joanna Newsom, "Sawdust and Diamonds"; The Microphones, "The Moon"; Clifton Chenier, "La Jolie Blonde"; Animal Collective, "Grass"; David Bowie, "Starman" What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? The Magnetic Fields' 69 Love Songs... all of them Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Symposium's Greek macaroni and cheese. They don't actually call it that, but they should--it's pretty much just pasta and lots and lots of feta cheese. &nbsp;It's wonderful. The title of your memoir: I'm far too boring and awkward to ever write a memoir Dream date 5 words or fewer: Medieval Times? Thing you're looking forward to most this year: learning to knit. &nbsp;Unless you mean calendar year, then it's going abroad in the fall. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: I have to do laundry tomorrow 
In which Bwog Lecture Hop Editor Pierce Stanley ventures into the cavernous confines of Low Library to corroborate the commotion sparked by last night's launch of Columbia's newest journal of Sustainable Development, Consilience. As the beat of African drums flittered through the four corners of Low Library last night, a diverse score of Columbia students, professors, affiliates, and members of the general public mingled heartily beneath the hallowed dome in anticipation of what would prove to be the next installment of the Jeffrey Sachs extravaganza.&nbsp; One could even say that a general sense of consilience filled Low last night, as a diverse group of people came together to celebrate that very principle, the unifying of knowledge and information across many disciplines to create a coherent framework for the better understanding of the study of Sustainable Development.&nbsp; With the mood as lighthearted as the drumbeats and a tangible sense of optimism pervading the lecture hall, the launch of the highly billed Journal of Sustainable Development, Consilience, did not disappoint.&nbsp; Nor did the keynote address given by one lectern-suave and gratuitously adored poverty-swashbuckler come up short. Dubbed by publication adviser and director of Columbia’s PhD program in Sustainable Development, Dr. Joshua Graff Zivin, as the most vigorous “grassroots, guerilla campaign I have ever seen in my life,” Consilience is a global online publication, primarily run by undergraduates which is dedicated to promoting the interdisciplinary dialogue on Sustainable Development by providing a public platform for discussion.&nbsp; The publication brings together the work of public health experts, economists, engineers, and activists (among many others) to offer suggestions for a more sustainable planet.&nbsp; Zivin noted that Consilience is a “coherent set of papers whose sum is greater than the parts.”&nbsp; Indeed, the publication is primarily composed of undergraduate papers dealing with topics as diverse as the African Millennium Villages, the future of bio-medical engineering, and the role of drought in contributing to civil wars.&nbsp; Professor Sachs spoke of the project as a real step forward in the “jumping together of human knowledge,” incorporating the science and humanities into a dialogue that can solve some of the problems that the world will face in the years ahead. After praising the editors of Consilience with an underhanded plug for his soon-to-be-released book Common Wealth (the editors got signed copies of the new book in a Sachsian sign of gratitude), Sachs isolated the three challenges that he believes will challenge that world most in the coming one hundred years.&nbsp; The economist noted that an interdisciplinary approach, like that offered by the pages of Consilience is the best way to begin raising public awareness about new ways to further the study of Sustainable Development in order to best “coexist in peace with others, live in harmony with nature, and ensure that the material needs of the impoverished are met.” The first assumption that Sachs forwarded was the idea that world problems are not packaged in a singular way, citing E.O. Wilson’s research, Sachs argued that world leadership, in the public and private sectors has been far too slow in understanding that the world operates in a bizarre combination of social interactions, genetic realities, and profound technological capabilities that can be tackled only through a holistic and interdisciplinary approach. Sachs followed his defense of interdisciplinary action up with his concern for widespread negligence of the human impact on the environment.&nbsp; Arguing, “climate change is already upon us,” Sachs suggested that something as “simple as dry soil can lead to civil wars.”&nbsp; Therefore the economist suggest that we attempt to further understand the links between environmental factors and neuro-biology in order to achieve the best solution to the problems created by human impact on the environment.&nbsp; Finally, Sachs suggested that biology itself provides a successful analytical framework by which to approach the social sciences, in fact having a bigger influence on the course of thought and the direction of decisions made in fields as varied as economics, sociology, political science, and philosophy than one initially assumes.&nbsp; Sachs suggests that biology offers key insights about how communities organize themselves, function day-to-day, and will operate in the future.&nbsp; This knowledge coupled with targeted innovation, including achieving the fourteen grand engineering challenges put forth recently by the National Academy of Engineering, Sachs suggested would give us hope for a better future, a future he hopes is defined less by the severity of the human burden on the planet.&nbsp; In all, Consilience and Professor Sachs offer a profound vision for the course of Sustainable Development studies.&nbsp; Getting this first issue of the journal off the ground provides hope for those interested in the intersection of knowledge and information across disciplines as well as a creating real forum by which to exchange information and problem solving tools.&nbsp; This launch is a step in the right direction as we all come up to the plate to face the profound challenges of an increasingly technological and globalized society. 
 vs. &nbsp; Today, New York Magazine's blog the Daily Intelligencer linked to a Dartmouth student blog that calculated the number of drinking infractions per Ivy League college. Fratty and backwoods-y, Dartmouth was naturally crowned champion. Our fair Alma Mater, came in second to last, just narrowly beating out Penn. New York theorizes that this number is exceedingly low given Columbia's environs and population. The theory is demonstrated using the extremely mathematical formula:&nbsp; Hundreds of Freshman + Dozens of Places to get IDs x Thousands of Delis Where Owners Don't Care If You Are Underage / Limited Entrances And Exits To Dorms That Are Monitored For Safety = Easily Detectable Drunkenness Given the formula, New York attributes our low frequency of drinking infractions to our lameness. Bar fight!&nbsp; 
 The past few Monday nights, in Hamilton 602, members of the classics department have been getting together to eat free pizza and watch the celebrated thirteen-hour BBC miniseries I, Claudius. Like the two popular Robert Graves novels on which it is based, the television programme chronicles the early Roman Empire from the point of view of Claudius, the stuttering, drooling laughingstock of the royal family who ultimately becomes emperor. The production values of this 1976 show are pretty sketchy by today’s standards. Those weaned on Rome and Gladiator will balk at the grainy film stock, inert camerawork, and ill-advised brassy theme song.&nbsp; But the show’s strength was and is the all-star cast of British actors (Derek Jacobi, Siån Phillips, Patrick Stewart (with hair!)), who perform the whole thirteen hours as if it were one giant Shakespearian tragicomedohistory play. This week we watched John Hurt vamp it up in a threadbare blond wig as Caligula, the demented emperor who made his horse a senator; he gets assassinated for his trouble. We’ve almost made it through the entire show, so next Monday will likely be your last chance to check out the debauched Roman action and eats lots of free food (I had five slices of Famiglia and two slices of Kitchenette cake). But mainly I’m curious: do other departments have stuff like this? Do poli sci nerds hijack a room in Hamilton and watch Tanner ’88? Do Urban Studies majors make S'Mores and watch that eight-hour Andy Warhol movie of the Empire State Building? Or does classics stand apart in its nerdery? Let me know in the comments. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; -PBB 
 Just mere moments ago, Bwog received an email from Dave Cook of Eating in Translation. Cook informs us that according to someone in charge of renovating Pertutti's old space, the new restaurant will be an Italian trattoria. Apparently, the kitchen will stay open til 2 AM, and the doors til 4 AM. The new eatery is owned by the same people who own the Upper West Side's Nonna.&nbsp; Bwog MenuPage-d Nonna, and here's what we found: Service-wise: "My boyfriend and i are both servers, so we never talk bad about the service...until i went here." "We've been to Nonna numerous times and the food is always wonderful. It's also, usually, a cozy atmosphere. The last time we went, though, the host gave us kind of a lousy table despite the fact that the restaurant was virtually empty. The bigger problem, though, was that it was FREEZING in the restaurant. We noticed that the waitstaff were wearing scarves and (in one case), a hat so, after sitting 20 minutes with our coats on, we finally asked if there was a problem with the heat. "Well, ', our waitress opined "sometimes the cold battles the hot and the cold wins". If we'd wanted a philosophy course, we'd have attended a lecture." "The wait staff paid no attention to me. Need Water? Bread? A fork? Good luck." "Tonight, we placed our usual order...but the bartender who took our order was *profoundly* rude. I ordered a caesar salad, and asked if I could pay extra (any amount) to add some grilled chicken. He replied, "that is impossible...the chef never has, and never will do that...only at lunch..." But How's the Food? "Coffee was cold. Pancakes were cold which explains why we had to wait so long." "They advertise a Spicy Shrimp Fettuccini which is amazing, however it's no longer on lunch special menu. The cook can make this for you with no problem, but even when a phonecall is made PRIOR to showing up, you have to fight for the fetticcini, and they charge you a ridiculous dinner price for the LUNCH portion." "The ambiance is nice and the service was pretty decent, but the coffee was foul and I was served the single worst omelette I've ever tasted, rubbery on the outside, liquid on the inside, and oddly sugary tasting. Any greasy spoon diner is better." ...and such small portions! Bwog will see you all at Deluxe. Again. 
 "Professor Madonna Constantine has been sanctioned by Teachers College for plagiarism, according to a memo obtained by Spectator Tuesday evening. The memo, dated Feb. 18, was hand-delivered to professors on the Office of the President's stationery." Columbia professors won't be visiting Ahmadinejad any time soon; they settle for next best petty, cruel dictator Why Shakespeare's hot, and you're not And just when you thought frat parties couldn't get any worse... But what of Janice Dickinson and noted fashion photographer Nigel Barker? &nbsp; 
 Bnai Haman is going to have the most quasi-topical Purim ever. But first, some background: Bnai Haman is an activist group formed as a response to Bollinger, Bulliet, and Coatworth's invitation of Iranian President Ahmadinejad to speak at Columbia—an invitation which in their opinion never should have been extended. Purim is the Jewish holiday celebrating the Jews' escape from Haman's plot (yes, as in "Bnai Haman") to slaughter all Jews living in the Persian Empire. Which brings us to Bnai Haman's Purim celebration, which will be Ahmadinejad-themed this year. Says a Bnai Haman spokeswoman: "And just as Haman found those in ancient Persia who would listen to his incitements, so too did Columbia University provide a platform for Ahmadinejad to espouse Israel's destruction to a global media audience." Party-goers will dress as Bollinger, Bulliet, Ahmadinejad and Coatsworth. Perhaps the role of Esther can be re-interpreted as a certain nasally female translator? - JNW &nbsp; 
 As the Spectator reported earlier, Teachers' College professor and hate crime victim Madonna Constantine is currently being investigated for fraud and plagiarism. However, it's not publicly known which of her works are coming under scrutiny.&nbsp; Bwog attempted to contact Joe Levine, the Executive Director of External Affairs at TC for possible information regarding the case. We were informed by a receptionist that Mr. Levine is "out of the office until Monday" and that "he is the only person authorized to comment on such a sensitive issue." &nbsp; Bwog also placed called to the law firm of Hughes Hubbard and Reed, the firm that conducted the investigation. The attorney we spoke with was unfamiliar with the case against Professor Constantine and was unable to locate a record of it. &nbsp; We're continuing our research and will be posting any updates. - JNW 
By the time the second installment in the Veritas Forum commenced at 8:00 PM last night, Miller Theatre was packed, as packed as it had been, maybe, since the first Frontiers lecture of the semester.&nbsp; The near-capacity crowd greeted emcee Jonathan Walton, CC ’08, with thunderous applause as he took the stage to explain, in a poetic jive, Veritas’ raison d’être—broadly, “to get better at this thing called life.”&nbsp; After exhorting the audience to give to indigent children in the manner of a telethon, Walton concluded his preamble and introduced the principal panelists of the evening: Martin Bashir, 20/20 and Nightline anchor and atheist; and Timothy Keller, impresario of Manhattan’s Redeemer Presbyterian Megachurch and author of The Reason for God: Belief in an Age of Skepticism. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Seated upon plush chairs in the center of the stage, Bashir and Keller sustained a conversation for the next hour that was at once cordial and tense.&nbsp; Bashir, bedecked in a cosmopolitan combo of blue shirt, tie, and goatee, prodded Keller into an apologia for his faith and book by asking the sort of questions typical amongst skeptical fifth graders directed at their more credulous parents or peers: Why do you believe in God?&nbsp; Is everyone else going to hell?&nbsp; What proof is there of the Bible’s validity?&nbsp; What’s so special about Christianity?&nbsp; And so on.&nbsp; Keller, for his part, defended himself gamely and logically, knocking down Bashir’s straw men with a deft and gentle wit that prompted laughter from the sympathetic audience, and sticking to his premise that Christianity was no less a rational choice than atheism. When Bashir asserted that Keller might not be a Christian had he been born in, say, Madagascar, Keller retorted that Bashir might not be an atheist, and argued compellingly that if all beliefs are culturally constructed, then that belief is also culturally constructed, bringing us back to square one.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The forum then moved into its second and more interesting segment, featuring Dr. David Eisenbach of History department and Friendly Fire-fame blitzing Keller with an assortment of questions from the more cynical attendees.&nbsp; Seizing the initiative at once, Eisenbach recalled his decade-plus of Catholic education before coming to Columbia and affirming his identity as an atheist.&nbsp; “For me,” he said, “the problem was the Holocaust.&nbsp; What sort of loving God would let six million innocent people die?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From there the conversation moved on to more controversial matters.&nbsp; “As a historian and the author of a book on the gay liberation movement,” Eisenbach said, “I was continually appalled at how the church treated homosexuals.&nbsp; Is homosexuality a sin?”&nbsp; Keller admitted that he thought it was, gracefully extricating himself from a potentially awkward concession by making an adultery joke and continuing that the Bible mentioned “greed” as something more insidious and evil. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Broaching the third incendiary dinner-table topic of the evening, after religion and sex, Eisenbach asked Keller’s opinion on political matters.&nbsp; Keller demurred: “It’s real important for me not to tell my folks how I vote.”&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“But these aren’t your folks,” pressed Eisenbach.&nbsp; “Do you mind telling these folks?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“But your folks’ll tell my folks!” said Keller, to more laughter.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When asked about the absolute virtue of Christianity, Keller was less coy.&nbsp; “It doesn’t make me any more narrow-minded to say that I want everyone to believe what I believe, than it does for you to say that you want everyone to believe what they believe,” he said.&nbsp; Keller’s repudiation of pluralism might have earned him boos and hisses in any other milieu, but the audience was respectfully silent as he completed his argument. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A few more questions were posed and parried, then Walton took the stage again.&nbsp; “Obama won Wisconsin!” he declared triumphantly to cheers, leaving no doubt about his political beliefs, and in a flash of couplets, insights, and platitudes, the forum was over and the audience dispersed into the night. - Christopher Morris-Lent 
 Recent days have shown that Pakistan finds itself at a very crucial turning point.&nbsp; The assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, and increased dissatisfaction with the performance of President Pervez Musharraf, have upset stability in what was already a volatile region. And Monday’s parliamentary elections, in which Bhutto's opposition party took the majority of seats in the parliamentary throws further uncertainty into the mix. A number of key decisions, with both internal and external consequences, need to be made in a quick and decisive fashion in order to ensure Paktistani stability and, in turn, the stability of South Asia at large. A key player not to be overlooked in all of the recent changes in Pakistani politics is Pakistan’s Ambassador to the United Nations, Munir Akram, a thirty-eight year old stalwart of diplomacy, who at such an uncertain time in Pakistani politics happened to grace Columbia’s Lerner Cinema last night to sort out for students and professors alike his view of the future of Pakistan. The soft-spoken ambassador laid out for students six different priorities that he argued would come to define Pakistan in the coming years.&nbsp; Akram put forward the premise that Pakistan is a country shaped primarily by its relation to its neighbors, and thus it must undertake a “360 degree foreign policy” in which Afghanistan, India, Iran, China, and the Gulf states are all viewed as vital players in Pakistani well-being. &nbsp; Akram kicked off the night by discussing Pakistan’s role in the War on Terror.&nbsp; He noted that the US has placed Pakistan in a position of leadership, particularly in fighting Al Qeada and the Taliban on the border with Afghanistan.&nbsp; Akram noted the challenges in fighting terrorism on the border saying that the terrain is “difficult, with tribal structures and tribal loyalties often getting in the way.”&nbsp; He reassured the audience that Pakistan is winning but must do more to consolidate political and economic strategy in that effort, especially in Afghanistan, where rampant drug trafficking and violent tribal dvisions loom large. Another question of regional stability brought the ambassador is Pakistan’s role as a nuclear power and the dispute over Kashmir with India.&nbsp; Akram expressed his faith in nuclear deterrence, but he cautioned that if the Pakistani government witnessed expansion of the Indian nuclear program, Pakistan would be obliged to respond with a proportional response in its own weapons technology program.&nbsp; He suggested that stability in the subcontinent is a question of balance.&nbsp; Without the Kashmir issue looked at carefully by both sides, there would be the real possibility of escalation.&nbsp; To contrast this topic of escalation, the ambassador suggested that Pakistan is a real example of nuclear non-proliferation.&nbsp; He suggested that Pakistan is being discriminated against by other nuclear powers, going so far to suggest that “our nuclear materials are safer than those of the United States and India.” Akram began wrapping up his talk by suggesting the key role that the Persian Gulf states Iraq and Iran will come to play in the future of Pakistani politics.&nbsp; He urged the United States not to forget Pakistani interests when charting a course for the future of the Gulf by noting, “Any solution to Gulf security will have to involve Pakistan.”&nbsp; Finally, Akram moved to cover the intersection between religion and politics, noting that Pakistan is the second largest Islamic country in the world after Indonesia.&nbsp; Akram raised his voice for a rare moment in the evening to declare, “Pakistan is a dynamic and strong country, able to influence events in the Islamic world.” Before long the quiet ambassador had left Lerner Cinema, with the same degree of equanimity with which he had entered, having answered a spattering of questions from students and political science legend Jack Snyder.&nbsp; A man who tends to avoid the spotlight, but a key player in the future of Pakistan nonetheless, Munir Akram left Columbia with a nugget of hope for Pakistan after Monday’s election saying that although the results carry with them a large amount of uncertainty, “The elections were free, fair, and organized.&nbsp; The framework will not change because our priorities will not change.” &nbsp; Columbia students were blessed to see a real player on the international stage in his element last night, tackling the difficult questions of uncertainty that comes with security politics.&nbsp; I can only hope some students were able to appreciate his brilliance and vision for a safer Pakistan. - Pierce Stanley 
Yesterday's New York Times had a gently chiding review of Sugar Salon, a collaboration, currently in its second year of existence, between Barnard's dance department and Williamsburg Art NeXus. Female dance choreographers don't get as much money or attention as their male counterparts, and so the Sugar Salon series commissions work from Barnard's strong, beautiful choreographers-in-residence, who work with an older, more experienced mentor throughout the creation process. The latest SS show featured pieces by three such choreographers at the Abrons Art Center. The show was an ostensible showcase for works created during the Barnard residency, but two of the choreographers showed up with "in-progress" projects, which Gia Kourlas of the NYT calls "little more than sketches." The third presented a piece that was created pre-Barnard. Bwog remains proud of its sisters regardless, and hopes to see these completed works herself one day, especially this one (from the NYT article): "Two cats appear on a video, and Ms. Achugar, nude from the waist down, exposes her backside to comical effect. It all culminates as a group of topless women wiggle along to a YouTube video (the cartoon character Dora the Explorer performing "Chicken Noodle Soup")." 
 Happening right now, a vigil at the sundial for the people of Gaza. About ten students are currently gathered with candles wrapped in tinfoil at the Students for Justice in the Middle East and Arab Student Association-sponsored event.&nbsp; "We're trying to show solidarity with the people of Gaza," said Jake Matilsky, GS '09 and member of Students for Justice in the Middle East. Matilsky characterized the event as dealing with a "humanitarian issue," explaining that "when children can't get food that's all of our responsibility." The vigil is expected to last for at least another half an hour. &nbsp; - JNW 
 A lunar eclipse has just started, at 8:41 PM EST. "Totality" is from 10:01 to 10:51. Pupin's observatory is hosting an event throughout the eclipse. Bwog will be in her room performing the approriate pagan rites. &nbsp; 
 Khaled Abu Toameh, an award-winning Arab-Israeli journalist and correspondent for the Jerusalem Post, delivered a presentation last night to a crowd of a little less than 50 students in Lerner Cinema. On a lecture tour sponsored by Hasbara Fellowships, Abu Toameh had also recently spoken at other colleges in the northeast including UPenn, Harvard, and Brown. Here, he was sponsored by LionPac, the Pro-Israel Progressives, and the Republicans. Playfully identifying himself as an Israeli-Arab-Muslim-Palestinian living in Jerusalem, Abu Toameh described his long career as a journalist, which interestingly began at a newspaper sponsored by the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO). During his studies at Hebrew University, he decided to leave the PLO-sponsored papers and become a “real journalist” by joining the international and Israeli media. His feelings on the issue were quite clear, as he spent the first half of his presentation sharply criticizing the restrictions on media in the Palestinian Authority, citing both the direct lack of free press as well as poor security for journalists. Stating that foreign journalists face no restrictions while working inside Israel, he celebrated his freedom at the Jerusalem Post to write, he said, whatever he wants. During the second half of his presentation, Abu Toameh gave a basic account of political developments in Palestine, familiar to those who keep up with Israeli-Palestinian current events. For those who don't: Yasir Arafat’s Fatah, the largest political party in the PLO, failed to satisfy popular demands for political transparency, accountability, and liberalization. Arafat’s successor Mahmoud ‘Abbas did not deliver on similar promises. Frustrated Palestinians subsequently elected Hamas, which capitalized on popular unrest by running under the banner “Change and Reform.” Fatah continually challenged Hamas’ parliamentary victory in 2006 until the parties’ unity government failed and the two factions fell into civil war; during the power struggle, Hamas overturned Fatah forces in Gaza in the summer of 2007 and seized control. Abu Toameh was highly critical of the United States and international community’s support of Fatah, condemning the party as corrupt while also arguing that this alliance would drive more Palestinians into the open arms of Hamas. Characterizing Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice’s perception of the conflict as one between “good guys and bad guys,” Abu Toameh asserted that it was simply a fight between “bad guys and bad guys,” fighting not over freedom and good governance but rather money and power, and his disdain for Fatah was clear and apparent. In light of his biting criticism of Palestinian politicians and his strong support for Israeli foreign policy, perhaps the most interesting element of Abu Toameh’s presentation was his prescription for dealing with Hamas and his penchant for realpolitik. Ruling out the possibility of a re-occupation of Gaza citing his perception of its failure over the past 40 years, he criticized the Israeli government’s refusal to recognize Hamas as a legitimate political organization with the power to negotiate. “Why does Israel need Hamas’ recognition? ...I’d say, ‘Ok, Hamas. To hell with you. But if you want some sort of security agreement or a ceasefire, I’m prepared to do it.’” Finally, during the Q&amp;A, one audience member softballed him a question along the lines of “As a journalist, do you run into politically-charged language?” Abu Toameh stumbled with the question, apparently as entrapped by the same tendencies that the audience member had possibly hoped the speaker would deconstruct. At another time he noted, "But I don’t understand why in the United States a suicide bomber who blows himself up in downtown Baghdad is called an insurgent or militant. I don't understand these terms. A terrorist is a terrorist; a soldier is a soldier. It is very easy.” Often, I felt that the criticisms Abu Toameh faced as a Palestinian journalist working for an Israeli media outlet too heavily informed his understanding of the larger Arab world. For example, he passionately stated that Israeli reporters critical of the state are celebrated while their Arab counterparts are labeled traitors for questioning their own governments. On our way out, I asked Abu Toameh about his thoughts on Al-Jazeera, the widely popular Arabic news station based in Qatar known for its criticism not only of American foreign policy but also of the authoritarian regimes in the region. He replied that he was concerned about the station’s growing popularity because, according to him, it pushes an Islamic fundamentalist agenda. I would reply something like this: I acknowledge that Al-Jazeera, like any other news station, presents very biased information; however, when even Al-Qaeda sympathizers have denounced the station for portraying Osama Bin Laden in a poor light, it was careless of Abu Toameh to simply toss Al-Jazeera on the amorphous pile of all that is “Islamic fundamentalist” and to disregard the station’s mild pan-Arabist nostalgia. - Josh Mathew 
 Making the rounds on the TC listserv today, an email from Professor Madonna Constantine. In the email, Constantine maintains her innocence and calls the actions of the administration "premature, vindictive, and mean-spirited." She also indicates that she believes her race played a role in the investigation: "I am left to wonder whether a White faculty member would have been treated in such a publicly disrespectful and disparaging manner," she said. Constantine also criticizes TC for offering those who work speak against her "indemnification." According to the professor, the investigation is nothing more than a "witch-hunt" and TC attempted to blackmail her into resigning. "There have been attempts by the Teachers College administration to intimidate and blackmail me into leaving the College by insisting that I sign a false statement related to the aforementioned investigation," she said. Full email after the jump. Dear Teachers College Community: I am outraged by the President's memo that summarized the outcomes of a "neutral" investigation that I used the work of others without appropriate attribution. The premature, vindictive, and mean-spirited action taken by the administration to release a statement to the faculty regarding the results of this biased and flawed investigation reflects not only a profound lack of sensitivity and due process, but it also may have sufficiently "poisoned the well" for any fair and objective review of the matter. These actions are historically unprecedented at Teachers College. I am left to wonder whether a White faculty member would have been treated in such a publicly disrespectful and disparaging manner. The evidence that I have presented establishing my innocence has been ignored, even when independent third parties have corroborated it. Evidence showing my accusers to have lied also has been ignored. The biased manner in which the investigation was conducted indicates it was designed to reach a foregone conclusion. My accusers who themselves were exposed to accusations of plagiarism of my work were given "indemnification" by Teachers College, to "cooperate" in the investigation. This is tantamount to giving transactional immunity. People willing to stand for the truth of what they are saying do not require indemnification. Furthermore, an investigation in which indemnification is granted to one party and not the other is certainly not neutral. From my perspective, the investigation and the entire process surrounding its outcome are reflective of the structural racism that pervades this institution. Evidence regarding my case will be presented to the Faculty Advisory Committee at Teachers College as soon as my attorneys and I can coordinate my appeal. It is my opinion that this investigation, along with other incidents that have happened to me at Teachers College in recent months, point to a conspiracy and witch-hunt by certain current and former members of the Teachers College community. I believe that nothing that has happened to me this year is coincidental, particularly when I reflect upon the hate crime I experienced last semester involving a noose on my office door. As one of only two tenured Black women full professors at Teachers College, it pains me to conclude that I have been specifically and systematically targeted. There have been attempts by the Teachers College administration to intimidate and blackmail me into leaving the College by insisting that I sign a false statement related to the aforementioned investigation. I refused to sign it! I would never admit to doing something that I did not do. My due process has been violated repeatedly by the administration of Teachers College. In light of the hateful events to which I have been subjected this year, I am saddened by the hypocrisy of an institution that purports to stand for social justice and equity. Sincerely, Professor Madonna G. Constantine 2/20/08 
 Where's the beef? But can YouTube and modern society eat your flesh? And yet, lack of CC's Core Curriculum requirement doesn't preclude taking CC Core Classes? SEAS kids in Avery? Butler: Just not enough like my dorm that happens to be 75 feet away. Lion cubs! 
 Tipster Rick Betita directed Bwog's attention to Gothamist, whose attention was focused on The New Yorker's Letters to the Editor section. Specifically the letter in which Michael Allison, adjunct professor of astronomy at Columbia, had written about January 28th's cover (see right).&nbsp; Allison insists that due to the certain conditions (namely,"the angle of the long axis of the concourse, following that of Manhattan’s east-west streets, is not 90° but 119° east of north, and aligns with the sun through its “west” windows only from late May to early July, and then only at an elevation of less than 3°"), the scene must have been deliberately revered. Allison continues, "But aren’t those the south-side ticket windows at the left of the picture, with the tracks and trains therefore on the right? And doesn’t the clock seem to read three-fifty, hardly a time for the morning sun?" You can read the full letter here, in all its wonky glory. 
 The Village Voice is reporting that the Air Force Academy in Colorado is coming under fire for inviting three men (one of whom being Walid Shoebat) claiming to be "reformed Muslim terrorists" to give a conference about terrorism and religion. The three were paid $13,000 to speak about counter-terrorism strategies at the American Assembly-sponsored event. (American Assembly's website boasts of an affiliation with Columbia, but doesn't provide any details about the relationship.) Many Columbia students and alums were in attendance, including Omar Khalifah, CC '06, who expressed anger that the speakers spoke less about the terrorist mindset and more about their conversion to Christianity and the denouncing of Islam. One of the most inflammatory parts of their speech came when Walid Shoebat announced that "converting Muslims to Christianity was a good way to defeat terrorism." The veracity of some of the claims and self-professed terrorist activities of the men also came into question. You might remember that Shoebat&nbsp; came and spoke at a Columbia College Republicans-sponsored event last year. Shoebat's appearance at Columbia was infamous for an advertising campaign for the event included that the plastering of flyers in the Muslim Student Association's office that read: "Event at Columbia Challenges Muslim Groups." Admitted the American Assembly after the conference at the Air Force Academy: "They did not come across to me as credible representatives of anything." - JNW 
 Two reminders about foodstuffs today:&nbsp; Free: Got SeOUL Food? The annual multi-cultural buffet is tonight at 7 PM in Lerner 555. There will be prizes to win, bands to hear, dinner to be consumed free of charge. Not so: The College Dems and V&amp;T Pizza will be donating all proceeds from pizza sales tonight from 5:30 PM to 9:30 PM to the Out of Iraq Rally. Pizza...it's the new philanthropy. 
 The pantsuit is what's keeping Hillary from the nomination, femininity It really speaks volumes about the id of The Eye when the name chosen for a fictitious professor is "Rutherford Edgemont," which are actually two towns in north Jersey and Westchester, respectively. Breaking: California kids choose to leave California the first chance they get Nellie McKay: like a feisty, vapid, downtown version of Jewel "Mogharabi lifted a portion of Farimani’s design from Acephale, the dissident surrealist journal compiled by Georges Bataille that proposed to celebrate the death of Louis XVI and called for human sacrifice. But Mogharabi was quick to point out that Futura, the font of choice of a number of avant-garde publications contemporaneous to Acepahle, is also used by Chanel." Yup. It's about 1000+ words of that. Enjoy! 
 Last night's eclipse was widely watched around campus. Bwog was there, too, tucked in Pupin Hall's cozy rooftop telescope, along with half the Columbia staff and their children. Bwog took the time to interview two eight-year olds on their opinions of the eclipse. Eight year old #1 (lisping audibly and shrieking): Oh my gosh! A crowd of about 150 made the long trek up by elevator and stairs, where a few overworked astronomers were kind enough to let them stare through the telescopes. Bwog would have enjoyed the use of the equipment as much as they did, were Bwog not nearsighted and wearing an out-of-date perscription.&nbsp; Eight year old #2: Well, this sucks. The next total solar eclipse in New York will be May 1, 2079. Hey, fail Principles enough times and hope that they bump up Class Day a few weeks that year and you might just get to see your graduation speaker get overshadowed. &nbsp; 
 As if you needed a reason to get out of Morningside Heights and into one of the greatest cities in the world. Nevertheless, Bwog offers a few. ( * designates free) Thursday Bobby McFerrin, vocalist Alison Krauss and bassist Edgar Meyer at Stern Auditorium/Perelman Stage. 8 PM Friday * 90s indie rap heroes Soul Summit with DJ Spinna and Strafe at BAMcafe. * Dawoud Bey: Class Pictures. Portraits of teenagers from South Side of Chicago and a New England prep school. (Th, F, Sa, Sun) Milos Forman (One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The People vs. Larry Flynt) retrospective at MoMA. (Th, F, Sa, Sun) Kronos Quartet is doing a slew of premieres at Carnegie Hall (call for advance tickets or try $10 student rush) Afro-Cuban Fiesta with Paquito D'Rivera &amp; La Esquina Habanera at Rose Theater, Jazz at Lincoln Center ($10 student rush one hour prior to concert, depending on availability) (F, Sa) John Zorn's Shir Ha-Shirim/The Song of Songs, performed with Laurie Anderson and Lou Reed at Abron Arts Center, 8 PM; $30 (F, Sa) Saturday * They Might Be Giants are playing a free show at the Borders at Columbus Circle. (And Whole Foods is just downstairs!) 3 PM&nbsp; * Photographer Jeff Wall talks about his new book at The Strand 6 PM Sunday Olivier Messiaen celebration at Carnegie Hall. Panels, films, and performances to celebrate the French master. $9; 1 PM &nbsp; 
 CityRoom is reporting that a lawyer named Adam Bailey representing small businesses located on Frederick Douglass Blvd. is proposing that 125th Street (from the Hudson to the East) be declared "Harlem Historic Zone."&nbsp; Characterizing attempts to have 125th street considered historical as "Harlem's last stand", CityRoom quotes Bailey as saying: “When the Brooklyn Bridge was built, they tore down George Washington’s house. Was that a good idea?” While the chances that Bailey succeeds are slim, his attempt comes on the heels of Bloomberg's proposal to re-zone Harlem (the first re-zoning of the area since 1961) to make way for condos and office buildings as high as 29 stories. In the event the push to declare 125th "historic" fails, Bailey says he will settle for some provisions to be made for affordable housing in the area. - JNW 
 Columbia inexplicably fails to put a front-page story on their website about Vampire Weekend. Meanwhile, Spec takes the low road and calls a Barnard swipe story "Easy Access." Further downtown, it turns out that the guy from Harry and the Potters has nothing interesting to say. Community Board 9 is up in arms about a campus expansion -- City College's! Tricked you. Of course, there's never been a day when Columbia wasn't evicting some strange old man. In this case, he was subletting to large numbers of students. Choice quote: he can't move, he has "wallpaper all over the place!" 
 Tipster Mitchell Flax informs Bwog that trays for sledding purposes are being given away outside of John Jay, by the kosher deli. Upperclassmen and anyone with a sense of tradition will understand when we say that it'd be a TRAY-jedy if you didn't get to TRAY sledding on one of these.
Dateline: Teacher's College. In what is tentatively being dubbed the "2008 Madonna Constantine Plagiarism Incident Slash Witch Hunt Slash General Racism Shitshow", the Times is starting the morning off by informing us that Professor Constantine will be keeping her job. The New Republic takes a surprisingly un-touchy-feely position and, frankly, goes on a bit of a rant. In the Sun, find a defense from two of her students. Bringing up the rear, the Post puts the word "noose" in scare quotes, although all those photos were enough to convince Bwog that the noose did, at least, physically exist. However, they also took the time to track down one of her alleged victims, Christine Yeh, now teaching at the University of San Francisco since a 2006 departure from Columbia. According to a TC spokesperson, the details of Professor Constantine's punishment are not public. 
 Bwog entered the terrible twos last week, and is looking forward to teething, walking, colic, and replying to every statement with a simple "Why?" As such, you are pleasantly reminded that the second anniversary of our birth will be celebrated tonight at La Negrita (Columbus &amp; 109th Street), at 10 PM. Bwog will be personally offended if you aren't there, and would prefer to look back fondly on this momentous occasion. Don't miss it! 
Bwog snow correspondent Kate Linthicum brings us some excellent photos of the big show that you're hiding from indoors. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The February issue of the Blue and White is hitting your newsstand right now! If you don't feel up to an elevator ride, though, it's also available on the web. Here's some highlights. Interested in the tenure process? Do you understand baseball at least as well as a Little Leaguer? Let us help. Finally, video games are behind glass. In Queens. &nbsp; Urban Studies professors speak out (or don't) on Manhattanville. "The Top 100 Guys I'd Go Gay For", frankly, speaks for itself, as do our Staff Personals. 
Ever since it started to snow last night, Cooking has been craving cocoa. Bwogger Maryam Parhizkar suggested the following home-spun hot chocolate recipe. Mexican Hot Chocolate 1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa 1/4 cup sugar 1 tsp ground cinnamon, or alternatively 3-4 sticks of cinnamon 3 tsp vanilla 1 quart of milk Combine the cocoa, sugar, and cinnamon (if using ground) in a small bowl. Heat half of the milk in a pot until it starts to bubble - don't let it burn. Bring heat down to medium-low. Stir in the cocoa mixture using a whisk or fork until the liquid has a smooth consistency and if using cinnamon sticks, add gradually while stirring. Add the remaining milk and bring to a boil; then add the vanilla and whisk until the chocolate is somewhat frothy. Serves 4. Have any cool recipes lying around? Want to request something? Write to Cooking at bwog@columbia.edu &nbsp; 
 Bwogger Justin Gonçalves weighs in with words and pictures from last night's ESC Battle of the Bands. Last night, on the storied stage of Roone Arledge Auditorium, the Engineering Student Council capped off its annual E-Week celebrations with the ESC Battle of the Bands. After five bands ran through ten-minute sets, Crown Victoria and the Kitchen Cabinet were crowned winners, leaving this reviewer wondering whether the university’s lack of dedication to undergraduate “underground arts,” as discussed today in the Spec, has had any impact on the music scene’s creative spirit. Has the creative spirit had been replaced entirely by a (not entirely mutually exclusive) desire to entertain? The night began with eventual winners, Crown Victoria, whose Teddy Geiger-inspired alt-rock set an early tone for the musical portion of the evening. The band, fronted by Alexander Howard C'09, rollicked through a very tight series of tunes that might eventually find their home in a Budweiser commercial. And for that, they received the highest score of the evening. After taking a break to meet the Ms. SEAS contestants, last year's Battle of the Bands' co-champion The Shake, took the stage. The band, which has been noticeably absent from many of the campus' musical events, has established a small following in and around New York City with their bombastic Brit-rock, embracing and reveling in the tropes of good ol' rock 'n' roll. Each song they played had you wondering whether or not they were finally playing an Oasis cover or just another song that sounded like an Oasis cover. Oh, and Merkin sings with a fake British accent. The next band on the docket was Congress. As someone who makes a point of knowing many of my fellow campus musicians, these guys came out of nowhere. And after their cover of "Wu-Tang Clan Ain't Nuthing ta F' Wit'," I wasn't surprised I hadn't heard of them. Their set continued with some poor covers of Outkast's "So Fresh, So Clean" and James Brown's "Sex Machine," proving that some songs cannot be easily adapted into the “goofy funk band” genre. Not even the judges, who were relatively lax on its bands, dug Congress. Next up was the Kitchen Cabinet, comprised of Anna Couturier C'10, Ashraya Gupta C'09, Cynthia Gooden C'10, Michael Molina C'10 (Bwog's Theatre Editor), and Rob Stenson C'10. Aside from some very unfortunate technical difficulties that hindered the first part of the group's set, the band played its girl-pop twist on the Grand Ole Opry particularly well. Although the combination of rich harmonies, mandolin, and banjo could've easily filled that empty Dixie Chicks-niche on campus, but the Kitchen Cabinet restrained themselves and came off sounding more like the Supremes during that phase where they embraced bluegrass and inexplicably invited Sarah McLachlan to join. The night’s last performer was also its lone hip-hop act. DJ Tanner, the brainchild of Pete Capraro SEAS ’09 and Michael Kosdan SEAS ’09, came began its set inculcating P. Diddy by reimaginging Bollinger’s “Petty Dictator” Speech as a criticism of mainstream hip-hop. While it’s debatable as to whether the two take themselves seriously, the group’s rhymes and beats come across as a bit, well, whack. For two MCs that are “An army against a plethora of whack,” it’s a bit odd that they can’t se themselves biting the same rap tropes that they’re criticizing. Their set closer, “Hip-Hopcracy,” suddenly took on new meaning. 
 Now, going on GChat to see if other people are online and reading their away messages is less shameful and more stalker-y than ever. Use the new "invisible" feature and no one can even tell you're there while you sit online for hours and hours watching status bubbles go from green to orange. Panopticonic! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Don't worry if you slept through brunch! "Bagels and stuff" courtesy of the Debate Team in the Lerner Party Space, says tipster Christopher Morris-Lent.
 You'll have to excuse us for our lazy morning, yesterday was Bwog's 2nd Birthday Party at La Negrita and we're still a bit tired. Bwoggers, BWers and alums aplenty migrated to 109th and Columbus (despite the slush and ice) to celebrate with drinks, Top 40 hits, and the memories of QuickSpecs and Major Columbia Controversies of yesteryear. With a nod to Bwog's launch party, of-the-moment Columbia celebrities Judith Shaprio and David Helfand also made an appearance. (See more pictures after the jump.) If you were at La Negrita last night, we hope you had a lovely evening. And we thank you, gentle readers, for another wonderful year. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Photos by Justin Vlasits and Hannah Goldfield &nbsp; 
 Competitive cooking came to Columbia this afternoon.&nbsp; Read on to see who proved their culinary capacity and who fell short. Coinciding with the premiere of season four of Bravo’s Top Chef, the Hartley-Wallach Living and Learning Center hosted their own cooking competition this afternoon.&nbsp; The first Annual LLC Iron Chef Competition pitted fellow Hartley-Wallach residents against each other.&nbsp; Thirteen teams of two faced off to decide who could whip together the most sophisticated and savory dishes. At the commencement of today’s events, the LLC Iron Chef Committee unveiled the secret ingredient: Rice Krispies. The organizing committee of the LLC Iron Chef incorporated a special ingredient into the competition’s parameters both as an homage to their titular predecessor, Iron Chef, and also to unify the different teams’ dishes with common ingredient.&nbsp; The teams were then given twenty dollars and three hours to come up with an entrée and dessert of their own creation. The judging began at six o’clock this evening and within forty-five minutes the culinary aspirations of some amateur CU chefs died, while others triumphed.&nbsp; Before the judging began at six, the chefs primped their dishes with the devoted attention of a Mom backstage before her daughter’s beauty pageant.&nbsp; And just like a backstage Mom, the chefs snuck glances to size up their competition.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; After an unexpected musical interlude of Spanish hits, including Manu Chau, Ricky Martin and the Gloria Gaynor’s classic, “I Will Survive”—in Spanish no less—the MC introduced the panel of judges, comprised of a trio of Columbia personalities. The criteria for judging the dishes were based on taste, innovation and incorporation of the special ingredient. The judges gave lower scores to the chefs who seemed to throw the special ingredient onto their dishes as an after thought.&nbsp; There were some strange concoctions like lamb shank studded with Rice Krispy toppings.&nbsp; The chefs of this dish certainly were ambitious in their selection of meat, but they missed the competition’s underlying theme—the incorporation of the Rice Krispies.&nbsp; The judges responded with appropriately low scores. The chefs who used the special ingredient as a springboard for culinary inspiration succeeded.&nbsp; Several teams relied on the classic cereal crusted casseroles and Rice Krispy treats that typify generic American cuisine.&nbsp; But the numerous portions of Rice Krispy crusted chicken fingers, Rice Krispy potpies, and crunchy crispy sweets did not sate the judges’ appetite.&nbsp; It took the innovation and culinary vision of Justin Vlasits—our very own Bwog daily editor—and his co-chef Chanel Tran to satisfy the judges.&nbsp; Receiving fine nines from two the judges and a stingy seven from the third, Chanel and Justin’s tripartite tapas plate won the first annual LLC Iron Chef Competition. Channeling the flavors and spices of Asian fusion cuisine, Justin prepared meatballs over rice noodles and adroitly used Rice Krispy as a substitute for bread crumbs. Complementing the meatballs were Justin’s own Rice Krispy crusted chicken satay and Chanel’s seafood Cassoulet. For dessert, Justin paired his Asian pear and Lychee fruit salad with Chanel’s Rice Krispy and green tea, white chocolate cookies.&nbsp; Although Chanel’s cookies are quite a mouthful to say, the mouths that tasted them were quite pleased!&nbsp; Even before the judges’ announcement, the winner was clear.&nbsp; Justin proudly claimed his prize, a three pack of white&nbsp; “I &lt;3 NY” shirts.&nbsp; Afterwards a disappointed chef approached Justin.&nbsp; Eagerly Justin launched into an explanation of his dish.&nbsp; The other chef interrupted him, “No, I just wanted to see what the prize was.”&nbsp;&nbsp; Justin held up the shirts, “It’s not much,” he replied, “ but it’s all about the glory.” - MEQ 
 Columbia Concerts and Hillel are worthy of huge sums of money; everyone else, not so much. The closing of Cafe Pertutti doesn't necessarily mean that a good restaurant will take its place.&nbsp; Nerds have more fun. Plagiarism is not just for college journalists and first-time novelists anymore. The angle of the long axis of the concourse, following that of Manhattan’s east-west streets, is not 90° but 119° east of north, and aligns with the sun through its “west” windows only from late May to early July, and then only at an elevation of less than 3°. Children are innocent, adorable. Engineers are good for more than building bridges.&nbsp; 
 Wondering what the fuss around St. John the Divine around 2:00 was all about? Apparently, it's Dominican Heritage Month. Bwogger-slash-tipster David Iscoe has the scoop: "A crowd waving Dominican and American flags stood on Amsterdam and 110th, and then a motorcade of black Town Cars and Suburbans, with Dominican flags, came by joyfully honking their horns. The crowd greeted them and sang a song, presumably the Dominican national anthem, and then the cars turned left on 110th and sped off, still honking. The motorcade was pretty sizable, it took three traffic cycles to move through." More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Bwog attended the annual Blue Pencil Dinner in Low Rotunda last night to see how the other half lives. Our impression follows. At 8:30 on Saturday night, the staff, alums, and distinguished guests of the Columbia Daily Spectator traipsed into Low Library in their finery for an evening of hobnobbing and a speech by Leonard Downie, executive editor of the Washington Post.&nbsp;A dinner (if networking can be called dining) preceded the event. Editor-in-chief emeritus John Davisson C'08&nbsp;began the evening with a speech about Spec in the last year, during which he referred to the newspaper's critics and fans who have both lauded the paper and called its reporters "pedestrian hacks" and "accomplices to the destruction of mankind." But things seem to be looking up for the campus rag. In Spring of 2007, the Spec had 1.7 million page views and in the Fall of '07 it had 7.96 million, which could be attributed to the website redesign or the presence of an Iranian dictator on campus soil-- it's a toss up. The paper's circulation holds steady at 10,000 a day, and Spec has recently agreed to host Wiki CU after Bwog declined the offer. Davisson celebrated the paper's accomplishments: its coverage of Ahmadinejad's visit, its new blog trio, and its weekly magazine The Eye, which he called "the edgiest magazine on campus." After a few more speeches and awards, it was finally time for Downie. The executive editor, who graduated from Ohio State University, has been&nbsp;head honcho&nbsp;of the WP for 17 years. Before that, he was a Deputy Metro Editor and helped oversee the paper's coverage of the Watergate scandal. Last night, standing before the audience with a large statue of the Buddha's head benevolently looking down on him, he looked and sounded like an editor from The Wire's Baltimore Sun newsroom delivering a State of the Media address.&nbsp;A&nbsp;rarity&nbsp;among newsmen, he also&nbsp;didn't instinctively cringe at the word "media" and used it liberally throughout the evening. He sounded the call for public service and accountability reporting; he gave a long list of the WP's many successes in the last year (e.g. the Walter Reed Hospital story); he tactfully acknowledged that newsrooms are shrinking and&nbsp;journalism is becoming a harder, tougher, meaner business; and he concluded&nbsp;with&nbsp;an adage:&nbsp;"As they say in the sneaker ads: Just Do It." But for those who are doing it, or hope to do it, Downie's insistence that newspapers and accountability journalism aren't dying--"Our ambition is to do better with less," he said--wasn't fully convincing.&nbsp;During the Q&amp;A, former Spec EIC Nick Summers, C'05, a writer for Newsweek, asked whether Downie wasn't being a bit blithe, considering the Post is going through another round of early retirement offers (read: layoffs) next month. Collars got tight and necks reddened as Summers finished his question. Downie responded that yes, some expertise would leave the newsroom, but the paper's priorities would remain the same and they would make space for more diversity, for more...interns. Meanwhile, James Romoser C'05 and a writer for the Winston-Salem Journal, asked how smaller papers could possibly deal with shrinking newsrooms and the "better with less" attitude.&nbsp; Downie admitted that this was difficult and moved on. Downie's media summary was spot on but it was, well,&nbsp;old news. Telling a room full of 20-somethings that the Internet is important and journalism is rough is (pardon the cliche) like bringing coals to Newcastle. Perhaps it would have served the Spec's staff better to have invited someone relevant to their lives, as several staffers noted after the event. Downie has the prestige of the WP, and he made quite a bit of money for Spec last night in gifts from alums, but he was reared in the golden age of journalism.&nbsp;As the corporate face of a large paper, he looks at a young Speccie and sees someone he can hire to replace the old guard at less than half the price.&nbsp;Might I suggest Mike Allen, the Politico's chief political correspondent?&nbsp; Or Dahlia Lithwick--a senior editor at Slate?&nbsp;Or Sewell Chan, who runs The City Room blog for the Times?&nbsp;Or really just someone who's never actually used a blue pencil to edit a piece. 
 If you need some respite from frantic cramming tonight, head over to John Jay lounge from 8-10, where a tipster tells us that the SEAS First Year Class Council will be hosting a "hot chocolate study break." They'll also be announcing the launch of their new website, www.seas2011.com. Oops... hope we didn't steal your thunder, freshman engineers! 
 Breaking CCSC/ESC/GSSC/SGA news in the form of new dark horse candidate Chas Carey, CC '08. Carey, running on the "Federalist Party" platform has decided to simultaneously run for presidency in all class councils. According to candidate Carey, his campaign is one of unification: "Class councils have long been powerless against the overwhelming might of Low Library, but if we yoke them together, we can scale the steps and crowthe people with Bollinger's wig," the statement read. You can read the full declaration of candidacy after the jump, including what will no doubt become a legendary campaign speech entitled "The Future Is Now; No, Now; No, Right Then; I Mean, Wait, Fuck" EAST CAMPUS (AFP) -- In a self-described "impromptu press conference" on the steps of the International Affairs Building at 8 AM, the Federalist Party announced its intentions to run simultaneously for the presidencies of all four student councils. "I step down today as Editor-in-Chief of The Fed," said Chas Carey, CC'08, clutching a tumbler of Bombay Sapphire, "to dedicate the remainder of my Columbia career to a far nobler cause. Class councils have long been powerless against the overwhelming might of Low Library, but if we yoke them together, we can scale the steps and crown the people with Bollinger's wig." Carey accepted the newly-founded party's nomination for unified &nbsp;president, with the remainder of the slate to be rounded out by "various upstanding denizens" of the community. Concerns about his ineligibility to serve as a graduating senior were assuaged by Carey's assurances that "I will rule by decrees and terse memos, requiring very little time away from my future career kissing babies and healing differences as a member of the Peace Corps in Somalia." Despite promises to run a "vaguely positive" campaign, Carey did not hesitate to lash out at his presumptive rivals from the Jester. "They have yet to field a slate of candidates," said Carey, sneering. "We would gladly challenge them to a series of debates, but we would be left debating an empty podium. That, my friends, is a debate we could probably win." Asked by a passing heckler whether his candidacy would espouse populist claims, Carey responded, "your mom's a populist." --- FULL TEXT: "The Future Is Now; No, Now; No, Right Then; I Mean, Wait, Fuck" Fellow Columbians, thank you for enduring this impromptu press conference. I choose to speak to you today because the time has come for change. I refer you to the inspiring words of Barack Obama (Class of 1983): "I have a dream of the fierce urgency of now on the mountaintop of hope." That dream is realized today, in the future. By the future, I mean now, which is, as I speak, already the past, but already conjured in my mind as the future before I speak these words and consign them to the past. Looking towards the future. Let me begin again. Fellow Columbians, I step down today as Editor-in-Chief of The Fed to dedicate the remainder of my Columbia career to a far nobler cause. Class councils have long been powerless against the overwhelming might of Low Library, but if we yoke them together, we can scale the steps and crown the people with Bollinger's wig. To that end, I am running for the presidency of all four student &nbsp;councils, simultaneously, as the nominee from the Federalist Party. I &nbsp;hope to continue in the footsteps of those iconic Columbians and authors of the Federalist Papers, Messrs Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Taylor. The Federalist Party's slate of candidates, which will feature various upstanding denizens from Columbia's community, is committed to a level of capriciousness disguised by sloganeering on a scale not seen since &nbsp;George Rupp. The "I am Light Blue" campaign will pale by comparison. The campaign will not be easy. Some may fear right from the outset that my status as a graduating senior will leave me ineligible for the presidency. Let me reassure you that I will rule by decrees and terse memos, requiring very little time away from my future career kissing babies and healing differences as a member of the Peace Corps in Somalia. Still others may worry about a man as president of Barnard's student government. Let me promise you that I am in touch with my emotions and all those things girls complain about. And I can extend a carefully-gloved hand of friendship to both the whimsical gap-year students and the creepy old men of the School of General Studies. This campaign will carry a vaguely positive air, sullied by dastardly YouTube screeds created and proliferated by anonymous surrogates. But I would be remiss if I did not mention our rivals, the so-called "Jester." Their feeble mantras and insider connections to Big Oil will not help them this time. They have yet to field a slate of candidates. We would gladly challenge them to a series of debates, but we would be left debating an empty podium. That, my friends, is a debate we could probably win. In our victory, our resolve will be firm, and we will prove our commitment to sound fiscal policy by cutting the Jester's budget to zero dollars. Special interests and the chattering classes need not fear, however: we will use the windfall from our new budget to forgive the debt of the Blue and White. The Fed is entering a new era. They are restarting the paper, with humor and excitement, fueled by a wonderful new staff, and I would encourage you to fill the void left by my corrupt personage's departure by attending the meetings of the all-new newspaper on Sundays at 2 PM in the Lerner Club Space on the fifth floor to write funny articles in good company (with snacks and dialogue/diatribes) or pick up a few posters for the Federalist Party to flyer in flagrant &nbsp;violation of election commission rules, thereby allowing us plausible &nbsp;deniability. It is a new day. Es un nuevo dia. Tenemos mi tocina? No? Si? Que &nbsp;me importa! The future is now. Now is the future. Change is our policy, and we will be both ready and right on Day One in order to make it to at least Day Three without getting impeached. Thank you for your time. Chas Carey CC'08 Candidate for President (CCSC, ESC, SGA, GSSC) 
Hungry for seafood on a college budget? The prospect of Morton Williams make you ill? Bwog correspondent David Iscoe has found a solution in the form of the New Young Fish Market. &nbsp; The first time I saw the New Young Fish Market, I thought the sign said "Neil Young Fish Market," but the real name is almost as strange.&nbsp; Behind the strange title, unassuming sign, and bland facade at 108th and Amsterdam is a horde of seafood that beats anything in the neighborhood. I first went inside about a year ago, and found out what I'd been missing. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For a small place, the selection is huge. Take today's choices, for example. 27 different fillets and steaks. Seven types of raw shrimp. Conch, oysters, sea scallops, bay scallops, clams and mussels. 19 different kinds of whole fish, as well as squid, octopus, and assorted fish heads. In the front, a stack of tanks houses live lobsters and crabs, and in the back coolers are stocked with dozens of extra items, from cooked shrimp and imitation crab meat to lobster tails and king crab legs. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The place has all the signs of a good honest fish market. The air is clean, without a strong fishy smell, and everything is nestled in a huge bed of ice. Behind each item is a card which, along with the price, says whether the seafood is wild or farmed, and what country it comes from (the cephalopods are from Mexico - most fish are from the U.S.). New Young has some excellent bargains, with whole bluefish going for $1.49 a pound, red snapper for $3.99 a pound, and wild kingfish and farmed salmon steaks for $5.99 a pound each. &nbsp;There are expensive items, like 12.99/lb wild salmon filets, and $10.99/lb. monkfish filets (but where else in Morningside Heights can you cop monkfish?), but you can also get whole carp, croaker, or tilapia for $1.99 a pound. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Amazingly, that's just one side of the market. While the men run the fresh fish counter on the right, the ladies hold down the cooked fish counter on the left, where they boast a selection of fried and steamed seafood and steamed vegetables. The #1 meal is the $3.00 fish sandwich. The recipe is simple: 3 fried whiting filets, served with two pieces of white or wheat bread: add your lemon juice, spices, and sauces. The sandwich is a lot of food for $3.00, and if you're down with fried whiting (some people don't trust it), is pretty tasty. The fish is fresh and is fried so that, while it's crispy on the outside, it stays juicy, soft and flaky on the inside. The fillets let out steam when you bite into them. The breading is just standard-issue fish fry, but that's why you have the saucesâ€”I like tartar and hot sauce (they have a sort of weak cayenne-based sauce, but does the job in large quantities). &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As well as a crowd of mainly non-college locals, New Young Fish Market supplies area restaurants like 108th Mini-CafÃ©, the tiny (and excellent) Haitian restaurant next door. It's something Columbia students can use, too, especially if you've got one of those big kitchens in your fancy suites or your Woodbridge doubles. It ain't the Fulton Fish Market, or the Maine Avenue Fish Market, but it's pretty damn good for Morningside Heights. Pictures by David Iscoe 
 "The Internet has created new forms of storytelling.&nbsp; In some cases, the threat may prove fatal."&nbsp; What, pray tell, does he speak of? &nbsp;Toy Story: the defining allegory of our generation. We won and we lost!&nbsp; Hooray for a balanced perspective! "Vocalist Shirley Simms remained largely silent."&nbsp; Good show! Columbia's housing selection process is SUITE.&nbsp; Or not suite enough. &nbsp; 
 It's time for another installment of Bwog Personals. All interested parties should contact Bwog via email and we'll provide the $10 for the date. And as always, nominate your friends (or yourself) for a personal by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; GUY FOR GIRL Name: David Zhou&nbsp; Year: 2010 School: CC Major: Neuroscience &amp; Behavior, Comparative Ethnic Studies? Philosophy? Hometown: Flushing, NY Best Book You've Read for Class: Jhumpa Lahiri's Interpreter of Maladies Worst Book You've Read for Class: Plato's Symposium Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Edit Lostpedia, watch Mark Bittman on NYTimes.com (admit it, you love watching food w/ The Minimalist...), this form Beverage of choice: Bawls What are your most played songs on iTunes? "Jigsaw Falling Into Place", Radiohead "We are." (GREAT TOUR BAND version), Do As Infinity "Flashing Lights," Kanye West "Misread," Kings of Convenience "At The Bottom of Night," Chrono Trigger OST What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? "Loyalty," Blue Scholars "The Distance," Blue Scholars "The Inkwell," Blue Scholars "Sagaba," Blue Scholars Werewolf Bar Mitzvah - Tracy Morgan Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Taqueria + Negra Modelo The title of your memoir: Mastering the "Yeah-no": Decision Making the David Zhou Way Dream date 5 words or fewer: Mia &amp; Jason's in Cashmere Mafia Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Good weather, summer fun, watching all of Battlestar Galactica's last season in less than three days... and finding out who nominated me for this Bwog personal. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Declaring... the rest of my life. GIRL FOR GUY Name: Morgan Robinson&nbsp; Year: Senior School: CC Major: Urban Studies Hometown: Cleveland, Ohio Best Book You've Read for Class: The Accidental Masterpiece: On the Art of Life and Vice Versa by Michael Kimmelman Worst Book You've Read for Class: Cheap Amusements: Working Women and Leisure in Turn-of-the-Century New York by Kathy Peiss Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Frequent dance breaks in front of the mirror Beverage of choice: Martini. I'd like to experiment more with bitters/olive combinations. What are your most played songs on iTunes? "The Visitor" by Angels of Light "All My Little Words" by the Magnetic Fields "If You Knew" by Neko Case What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? Something a bit less dramatic... "Octopus's Garden" by the Beatles (my theme song, naturally) Rub-n-Tug edit of Chicago's "I'm a Man" (were this not stuck at the beginning of an hour long mix it probably would be my most played song on iTunes) "Annie Don't Wear No Panties" by Erykah Badu "DVNO" by Justice Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Moules frites at Le Monde The title of your memoir: Intervention Dream date 5 words or fewer: Let's go on an adventure! Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Paying off my credit card and getting more tattoos Thing you're looking forward to least this year: If Ladytron says "They only want you when you're 17/ When you're 21 you're no fun," then what happens when you're 22? Not looking forward to that. &nbsp; 
 Bwog's new Satow Room bureau chief Martha Turewicz reports on last night's meeting.&nbsp; As far as CCSC meetings go, some are pretty unremarkable. But others, like last night’s, stand out as veritable gems, with VP of Campus Life Lindsey Lazopoulos as the star of the show, proffering bon mots left, right and center. To wit: Student council is putting a “Cherry on Top” with a study break this coming weekend featuring discounted JJ’s ice cream. Lazopoulos delved into the heart of the matter: “Will they have chocolate?” Likewise, to Lazopoulos’s relief, John Jay’s new chef will be serving up new sustainable sea food (read: salmon) once a month. “No more swordfish!” she opined. Cage-free eggs are coming in a trial run to 212 or Ferris Booth. In light of the issue of cruelty-free eggs, some reps will be visiting a chicken farm, arousing Lazopoulos’s concern. “Will there be happy chickens? I don’t like this conversation, it’s getting really sad.” (Other gastronomic developments include free JJ’s on March 12, and an upcoming junior class-sponsored study break featuring O.G. snacks like Dunkaroos—the mention of the latter got the whole room worked up in an elementary-school-kid-on-sugar-rush fervor.) But Lazopoulos was not without helpful advice: When the talk turned to OBGYNs (in keeping with a new resolution to lower the cost of birth control through the health services plan), she reminded the room “Every six months you should go, ladies." George Krebs, CC '09 President, thanked her for the reminder. 
 Election season is fast approaching!&nbsp; And while there has only been one candidate announcement as of yet (not counting Mr. Carey, of course) Bwog has been hearing through the grapevine that Krebs will be facing current VP Policy Alidad Damooei in what is sure to be an epic battle of the light blue-est.&nbsp; In the interest of informing you, gentle reader, Bwog is giving a quick rundown of likely candidates. Candidates (still) cannot discuss policy, but major issues on the table this spring will be communication with the student body, advocating student positions, financial aid reform and the presence of light blue foodstuffs. (Note: elections will be held later this year so as not to coincide with midterms.&nbsp; For those who wish to run, interest meetings will be taking place in March at some point.) Alidad Damooei: CC '09, Economics Although still not officially a candidate, Damooei has been on track for a high leadership position since last year when he served as Academic Affairs Representative.&nbsp; As a sophomore, he was a major part of the Pass/D/Fail policy change as well as making&nbsp; some seminars count towards the Major Cultures requirement.&nbsp; This year, he's been working on environmental policy, advising reform and a recently passed an initiative with the support of College Dems to make birth control more affordable. This nighttime I-banker has been rumored to be a backroom dealer, cuddling up with administration in order to push his policy through. George Krebs: CC '09, Political Science This jolly Junior Class Council President is one of the most visible people on campus, always attending cultural activities and sporting events to cheer on Light Blue and focusing on building a sense cohesion in his class.&nbsp; This past year, his major issue has been working on getting Flex Off Campus (which will be coming your way right after Spring Break).&nbsp; His council, however, has had a tenuous relationship with the E-Board (of which Alidad is a member), which eventually landed them on probation.&nbsp; With his ticket solidifying, he seems to be trying to network early before anyone else announces their candidacy. - JJV 
 Did you know Howard Dean (now with newfound relevance!) is coming to campus this afternoon? If you missed your opportunity to register, fear not Deaniac of yore, there's still chance to hear the Governor speak. A line for the waitlisted (and those wishing to join the waitlist) will form outside of Low at 4 PM. At 4:40 PM, the Dems will select from the waitlist and start assigning seats. &nbsp; Meanwhile, check back on Bwog later for complete coverage of the Dean event. 
 Ostensibly, Oscar night is about rewarding "great" cinema (like the Oscar-nominated Norbit, for instance), but let’s be honest: the only real reason to watch the show is to see what everyone is wearing. Then again, you can always just skip the ceremony and peruse the reviews written by those poor souls who actually slogged through all the bombast. In the spirit of rehashing Hollywood’s most masturbatory night, a look at the Five Best and Five Worst Dressed at the show. Let’s play Joan Rivers! Five Best Dressed:&nbsp; (Kindly note that I’m setting up an illusory sense of charity by putting these first, in keeping with the thinly veiled vitriol inherently underlying any look at award show fashion.) #5 Helen Mirren As always, a stunning silver fox. Ravishing in crimson. Sexy British matron par excellence. Shall we say… queenly? #4 Renée Zellweger It grieves me to say this because I have an inexplicable, deeply rooted dislike of Ms. Zellweger (she of the untrustworthy squint). A sprightly, silver sparkly sheath brings just the right touch of disco without veering into drag queen territory, which is an especially remarkable feat considering that new haircut. #3 Saoirse Ronan The little nominee that could: a diaphanous sea-foam confection just the right side of whimsical, Saoirse plays it age-appropriate without coming off like a creepy doll. (Take note, Dakota Fanning.) #2 Amy Adams If Ariel from The Little Mermaid wore minxy little green dresses instead of seems-normal-until-you-think-about-it clam halves. Retro, subdued, feminine: nice. #1 Hugh Welchman Our pal Hugh demonstrates the best way to accecsorize: Bring a little friend with you.&nbsp; Five Worst Dressed: #5 Viggo Mortensen Viggo, you, like Helen Mirren, are a silver fox (although, of course, you are not English or a woman). Don’t fight it—shave that thing off and we’ll forget this ever happened. However, feel free to dress up like Aragorn and walk around, because some of us would greatly appreciate that. Just without the beard. #4 Tilda Swinton If David Bowie were a batty Scottish aristocrat and felt the urge to glamourize a trash bag. #3 Jessica Alba Lackluster hair.&nbsp; #2 Ellen Page Oof. What could have been a very cute dress fell victim to an unforgiving boxy shape. #1 Rebecca "Daniel Day-Lewis' wife and Arthur Miller's granddaughter" Miller No points for winner’s wife. Or zebra shoes. - Martha Turewicz 
 Howard Dean comes to Columbia, rips on McCain, and tells you to run for office: We don't need no stinking think tanks!&nbsp; Yeaaaaaaaaah! "That's What God Said."&nbsp; Did you hear that Scott Stringer? From Butler chairs to the USenate: GS Housing circus comes full circle.&nbsp; At least the Senate chairs look more comfortable. TC students, burned by plagiarism, fight back with words.&nbsp; Criticizing Critical Reading, Critical Writing. 
 Howard Dean, head of the Democratic National Committee, was invited by the College Democrats to speak in Low Library yesterday on student activism and the current presidential elections.&nbsp; The former governor was one awkward "Yeah!" away from what seemed like a sure Democratic nomination and possibly a four year stay at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.&nbsp; Dean, however, with a gratuitous grunt sealed his fate after the Iowa Caucus in 2004 and saw his White House dreams dashed forever. &nbsp; While he opened with a few short remarks on the great organization of the Columbia Dems and College Dems in general, Dean focused his speech on his recent complaint against McCain and the Republican nominee's alleged shady campaign finances.&nbsp; Calling McCain a hypocrite that the young people today can see right through, Dean said that they should rename the bill that McCain supposedly violated the "Feingold Bill." &nbsp; Bwog was fortunate enough to get in a few words with the former Vermont Governor before his speech.&nbsp; See the transcript after the jump. -JJV Dean:&nbsp; I think the problem is not so much taking money from lobbyists as it is building your career on the idea that you would never do so and then going ahead and doing it anyway.&nbsp; John McCain's problem is not that he takes money from lobbyists, his problem is that he makes a big deal about too much influence from lobbyists.&nbsp; And then he himself gets plane rides and checks from lobbyists.&nbsp; You can't do that in politics.&nbsp; If you're going to do something, you shouldn't go around the corner and then denounce it after you've done it. Bwog:&nbsp; On the Democrats, you've been quoted as saying that we shouldn't wait until the convention to decide who the Democratic nominee is, why is that? Dean:&nbsp; The voters are going to make that decision.&nbsp; But historically, when you go into a convention divided, you come out of the convention divided, and we can't do that.&nbsp; If we're going to beat the Republicans we're going to have to be a united party, so I'm very much hoping that the voters will give us a nominee well before the convention. Bwog:&nbsp; What do you think is going to happen for Vermont on March 4th? Dean:&nbsp; I have absolutely no idea. Bwog:&nbsp; Ok, you grew up in New York… Dean:&nbsp; Yes, I actually got my premedical courses at this institution.&nbsp; I think it was '74-'75. Bwog:&nbsp; You grew up in Suffolk County and the Upper East Side, right, and I was just wondering if there was an activist culture here when you were growing up. Dean:&nbsp; Very much so.&nbsp; I was just telling the provost that I rarely walk across the quadrangle out here, what do you call it?&nbsp; This big enormous plaza in front of Low. &nbsp; Bwog:&nbsp; The steps. Dean:&nbsp; Well I never walk across there without thinking about Mark Rudd and Grayson Kirk. 
 Seeking comfort after my tragic, yet beautifully reported assassination, I decided to attend another ESC meeting last night. Alas, no comfort; but a merry time discussing school on-goings was in store. The Alumni Affairs and Professional Development Representative affirmed Columbia's first implementation of the Recyclebank program. But one engineer expressed concern about abuse to the Recyclebank's honor code, citing incidents of students weighing themselves in place of recycled material. ESC's Gateway-tested solution? "Don't worry about it," explained the representative. "People will start to feel guilty after awhile." I quickly made notes to myself to A) weigh myself that night and B), never, ever feel guilty about it. Our Student Services rep announced Health Services' new Did You Know campaign, which aims to once and for all inform us about what Health Services does. I couldn't help but think of NBC's The More You Know PSA campaign. And, akin to NBC's effort, Did You Know is likely to fail in both reviving John Stamos' career and teaching me what I need to know about my changing body. Which worries me, because my mom says I can't keep calling her about that stuff. Next, the Student Services rep revealed the best policy idea I've heard all semester: Dining Services is possibly removing set meals and, in place, establishing daily swipes, which would enable students to enter and exit John Jay Dining Hall as one pleases throughout a whole day. I reiterate that this is best idea I've ever heard, and that includes a sequel to Space Jam that somehow involves lightsabers. Perhaps influenced by the innovative direction United Airlines in-flight meals are taking, the Senior Class council proudly revealed that, for the first time ever, there will be a beef dinner option at this year's Winter Gala. Class president Eash Cumarasamy explained, to everyone's hilarity: "So people don't get chickened out." I didn't really understand this joke, but that certainly didn't stop me from laughing harder than anyone else. The junior class representatives, probably jealous of Eash's sharp joke-telling abilities, silenced our echoes of delirious laughter with their stern, singular announcement: "We're selling rings on Wednesday." What the hell? I thought. That wasn't funny. In my head, I tried to recreate that beautiful moment of happiness after Eash spoke, but, sadly, it was no more. C) Don't buy rings this Wednesday. Then I got kicked out as the Council ended the general meeting and commenced its private "constitutional review" session. I obliged obediently, wondering to myself why they had to lie to me about watching Homeward Bound. - Tony Gong 
A Bwog tipster recently piqued our interest with a note about the latest happenings in Columbia's oh-so-fabulous (wink wink) on-campus dining scene.&nbsp; A recent email from Housing and Dining below reveals that Columbia students need not wait any longer to satisfy their cravings for a whole lox of Kosher foods.&nbsp; So get your fill today! &nbsp; &nbsp; The new and improved Kosher Deli is now open. It's conveniently located just inside the lobby of John Jay Hall and it's perfect for a quick meal on the go. Use dining dollars, flex, or cash for a delicious sandwich, salad, side dish, or snack. Hours of operation: Monday - Thursday, 10:30am to 3:30pm Sunday, 10:30am to 6:00pm Enjoy! Sincerely, Dining Services Bwog begs to ask the question: How many city Health Inspection demerits did this fine Columbia dining establishment receive? 
Prolific Bwog tipster Jon Hill has just notified Bwog of an enchanting electrical set-up in the bowels of the John Jay laundry room that would put the efforts of the Disneyland electrical parade to shame.&nbsp; In the carefully crafted email seen below, it appears that the entirety of the dorm's laundry machinery is hardwired to a single electrical through a delicate line-by-line connection of increasingly snarled extension cords. Note shocking (!) image to the right. This perhaps flawed electrical set up is coupled with recent reports from CUIT's head of information security of phishing attacks made on Columbia Cubmail accounts. It seems emails from Nigerian princes asking you send money in order to receive your lottery winnings might be of questionable intent. This led some Bwog editors to wonder about how safe are we really? If we're not safe in the John Jay laundry room or on the interwebs, which places does that leave us? Barnard? Bwog thinks not. Both emails after the jump Bwog editors -&nbsp; I was doing laundry in the John Jay washroom tonight and happened to notice one of the small doors in the corner there was ajar. I've only seen it closed, so I took a look inside to see what was behind the wall.&nbsp; It's a crawlspace behind the dryers where repairmen (or repairwomen, as we work toward the national dream of gender equality) can access the backs of the machines and hook up their electrical cords, attach vent pipes, etc.&nbsp; But what caught my interest was the way the power cords from the bank of dryers have been jury-rigged to a single electrical outlet. I snapped some shots with cameraphone and have attached them to this message.&nbsp; You'll note that three dryers have been plugged into one rather wimpy-looking power strip, which is then plugged into a single outlet.&nbsp; I did some research, and several government consumer safety Web sites suggest that a single power strip of this sort not carry more than a ~1600 watt load. One site in particular said that "they are not to be used as extension cords ... for high power demand equipment."&nbsp; Surely a single dryer would qualify as high power demand, let alone three!&nbsp; What's going on down there in the basement? Am I going to have to wake up someday soon at 3 a.m. to evacuate because of an electrical fire started by an overloaded power strip? Doesn't our $45,000+ a year give Columbia enough financial wiggle-room to afford proper wiring for a few dryers?&nbsp; - Jon Hill &nbsp;CC '11&nbsp; Recently, Columbia has been targeted by a "phishing" attack. &nbsp;Identity theft spam and scams are becoming more sophisticated -- Columbia affiliates have received messages telling them they must report their password (via email) or risk having their CubMail access disabled. &nbsp;You should never email your password or any other private information (e.g. credit card number, social security number), and Columbia will never ask you to.&nbsp; While our spam filters are very good, they are not perfect. &nbsp;You need to be on the lookout for Identity theft scams.&nbsp; * Don't be fooled - never send your password by email to anyone.&nbsp; * Banks and financial institutions will never ask for your account numbers, pins or passwords by email.&nbsp; * Never enter your credit information into a non secured web page. &nbsp;A secured web page starts with https:// (note the "S" for "Secure") and will display a lock on the browser frame.&nbsp; * Don't fall for stories about winning the lottery or promises of money from relatives you are unaware of. &nbsp;If the story sounds too good to be true, it is a scam.&nbsp; * See security.columbia.edu for other security information. 
February 22nd marked the official start of 2008's CU Assassins, a game "of espionage, stealth, and resourcefulness" (according to sponsor ESC's website). With nearly 4 days of gameplay behind CU's most resourceful/stealth, the death toll keeps climbing. ESC keeps a record of all deaths that include a description of the deceased at the time of h20 ex machina. Bwog has anthologized a collection of this year's most colorful and most violent death certificates.&nbsp; Deceased: Xinsuide Time of Death: Monday, February 25 at 11:02 PM Location of Death: McBain 6 Summary of Death: Xinsuide, a fierce assassin and maiden in gentle youth, who glows in the midst of thousands of enemies, female warrior, who had laid down her arms for the evening. Faith of friendship her vulnerability exposed, her brilliant form welcomed the sly acting villain into her abode, the enemy. And she , virtuous amazon, while in gentle trust of the serpent she harbored, turned to offer noble hospitality, the fiend, cruelly, struck her from behind. Cut down by water, all lament, and even her killer is moved to regret. Deceased: -70 Time of Death: Monday, February 25 at 02:32 PM Location of Death: Outside Lerner Summary of Death: I staked out his dorm for 23 hours straight. In my dehydrated, starved, and sleepless state, I managed to recognize him despite his elaborate disguise. I stumbled after him, crossed the street, and unleashed my fury, as Zeus himself against the Titans! A watery grave; a most luscious kill. Deceased: B. Dubs Time of Death: Sunday, February 24 at 11:19 PM Location of Death: Hartley Summary of Death: I wrapped my masculine hands around the cold steel of the water pistol. My palms became sweaty, my arms shaking slightly. Like my first sexual experience, I was worried about pulling the trigger too early. I sank into my happy place: a gentle vale full of prancing unicorns, rainbows, and elves. After my nerves had been stilled, I daintily pulled the trigger. It was the hardest thing I ever had to do, as the elves looked on disapprovingly. Deceased: 3 Time of Death: Monday, February 25 at 08:09 PM Location of Death: Hewitt Dining Hall Summary of Death: Knowing Agent 3 was on the list of the disavowed I hastily grabbed my gun from my partner in crime and ended his paranoia with a single shot to the back as he laughed with friends at his table. All that is done by my hand has a purpose. &nbsp; Deceased: Hoopstache Time of Death: Monday, February 25 at 01:50 PM Location of Death: River Summary of Death: After a truce between agent hoostache and my comrade, I lurked behind a door waiting for a discouraged assasin to leave unsuspicious. A quick and silent shot to the back... anna nicole smith is avenged. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 For the next two and a half hours, all Starbucks locations in the eastern U.S. will be closed. According to The New York Times, Starbucks needs the time to teach their employees new ways to use the coffee machines. Because, you know, there's more than one. As to why this process will take a couple hours, Starbucks has remained cryptically and smugly quiet. Meanwhile, the under-caffeinated sit patiently and wait during what is soon to be known to Blue Java employees as "the best day ever." &nbsp; 
 Tucked away in Lewis Parlor in the Barnard Quad is a very special kind of celebration. The kind that happens every four years. To celebrate 2008's leap year status, McAc Events—which in four years can hopefully be called LexisNexUS—is sponsoring a leap year cupcake decoration snacktime extravaganza, or something.&nbsp; The cupcakes are stacked high on black trays, and frosting of all sorts (from chocolate to milk chocolate to chocolate fudge) is scattered on a table between bags of sprinkles and candies. When Bwog arrived, there were six girls sitting around the table, cupcakes in hand. "Word on the street is that the non-Kosher ones are a little bit moister," explained an apparent baked goods-enthusiast in a blue sweater. As for the nebulous (if any) connection between cupcake decoration and the act of synchronizing our calendar with seasonal year, the be-cupcaked girls could only guess. A new arrival to Lewis Parlor informed the group that her father's birthday was on February 29th. "I'm going to eat this in his honor," she announced and she stacked frosting atop the cupcake. Bwog asked if her family would be celebrating her father's birthday with cupcakes. She said she didn't know. Opined another girl, who was sitting across the table: "I think he deserves a cake since he's waited four years."&nbsp; - JNW 
 Students subject to Dean’s Discpline to be treated like sex offenders The awesomely-named Serene Jones, a Yale Divinity School prof, will be taking over UTS Columbia really wants to offer a new financial aid package to compete with the likes of Harvard and Stanford, but gently reminds us that it is much, much poorer than those schools. Chris Kulawik only Columbia student to ever make it all the way to the appendix of FACETS Personally, we’ll take Van Der Beek in Varsity Blues over Dawson Leery any day 
 Ah, the time when all Columbia College sophomores are simultaneously forced to commit to a course of study they can easily change later. The time when the overachievers realize the system won’t let them register for an Astrophysics-Philosophy-Urban Studies triple major, and the underachievers ponder the easy-to-coast-through major (Poli Sci? English? Art History?) that best suits their personalities...and then forget to declare. Those in between cross their fingers, pick something they think they might be kind of passionate about, and hope for the best. NB: Some departments require filling out a special form and delivering it to their office. These include both difficult majors you’d expect to make you jump through hoops (Architecture), and others (Film Studies). According to extensive anecdotal reportage, you’ll all probably end up miserable regardless. But keep those chins up—and happy declaration! 
 &nbsp; ...but also for liberals who long for brilliant, worthy and genuinely conservative opponents. William F. Buckley Jr., conservative writer and founder of the National Review is dead at 82. 
 Through the grapevine, Bwog has been hearing rumors that in attempts to safeguard against theft, Public Safety has plans to begin taking unattended laptops in Butler. Oddly enough, this is one rumor that turned out to be kind of true, in a vague, quasi-benevolent way. Ricky Morales, Crimes Prevention Manager at Public Safety clarified: "It's not just that we go over there and we take it. It's a whole educational process." According to Morales, Public Safety has been meeting with members of the University Senate and library security to design a process of reminders and education/awareness about property theft that culminates with a possible meta-theft. Explains Morales, Public Safety is "not taking , but safeguarding it from people." In other words: thieving the property to protect it from thieves.&nbsp; - JNW 
 Happening right now, in Uris. Free Business School t-shirts that read: "Disruption is inevitable. Who gets to be the disrupter is up for grabs." Ooh. Cryptic. Also: bagels. &nbsp; 
 The Three Trillion Dollor War: The True Cost of the Iraq Conflict is Nobel Prize-winning, globally-thinking Columbia prof Joseph Stiglitz's new book. The book posits that Bush's cost estimates for the war in Iraq were incorrect—the administration cited a $200 billion figure—and that the Iraq conflict will cost almost double that of WWI, putting the figure at just about three trillion dollars. Ergo, attention-grabbing book title. But the thing is, taxes (particularly for the rich) haven't really risen—in fact, they've been lowered in some cases. And Stiglitz argues that deficit spending makes not raising taxes possible. In fact, he'll be testifying in front of the Senate on Thursday saying so. So... Columbia in the news. And by "the news", of course, we mean probably MSNBC. - JNW 
 Bwog editor Pierce Stanley hops a lecture on the national stage, and wonders why more Columbians aren't doing the same. Come Presidential election time, Lerner Piano Lounge transforms into a hotbed of political activity, with Columbia's political organizations frequently hosting watch parties for important debates, election returns, and speeches made by the candidates. This celebration of all things political in one of Lerner Hall's strangest rooms always comes with the added benefit of loads of handouts of free Famiglia pizza. However, last night was a quite the exception, as the College Dems hosted a watch party in the piano lounge for the twentieth (and perhaps final) debate between the contenders for the Democratic nomination for President. With the Democratic nomination just about sealed up by the new front-runner, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, last night's debate watch party was a decidely low-key affair, attended by only a mere spattering of debate faithfuls. Perhaps this lack of enthusiasm by Columbia students for last night's MSNBC debate is indicative of the current state of the race on a much broader level. Perhaps, this race is all but wrapped up, and its only a short time until Hillary decides to concede before risking destroying her political future. With Senator John McCain as the presumptive Republican candidate and Obama inching closer to the nomination on the Democratic side, it appears that the hype of a brokered convention has all but disappeared. Indeed, Democratic party leadership has come out time and time again with claims that the nomination will be won before Democrats meet in Denver in August.&nbsp; &nbsp;Indeed, former President Clinton's claim that a loss for his wife in Texas will end her candidacy is playing out to be all but true. Last night's debate was Hillary's chance to come out firing, but once again she sent a mixed message to voters. Barack on the other hand, did what he needed to do to maintain his new lead, keep his cool under any negative attack from the Clinton campaign. While last night's questions were a bit more substantive than in previous debates, including some challenging questions for both candidates about how they would interpret the future of Russia under new Prime Minister Medvedev, as well as a question for Senator Obama about Louis Farrakhan, leader of the controversial Nation of Islam who recently announced his support for the Illinois Senator, little changed at the end of the night. So, we are left with a front-runner, continuing to make up ground in the states that Hillary desperately needs to secure the nomination, maintaining a teflon persona, and resisting the negative attacks of the Clinton campaign (and recently even assaults from McCain) with an apparently sincere calmness and coolness. This success even extends into the debates, as Obama has beefed up his debate performances in the last few meetings and has been able to offer up some substantive points on NAFTA and healthcare. Once again, last night's MSNBC debate showed that Obama is succeeding in the areas of Hillary's strengths, particularly in debate performance. Meanwhile, Hillary continues to be perceived as increasingly desperate to win, giving mixed signals about the direction of her campaign, and pulling out all of the tricks in the bag, including negative campaigning on the eve of big primaries. Perhaps its time for her simply to give up before its all too late.&nbsp; 
 Here we are, in the birthplace of homophilia... Or perhaps we're in the cradle of oppressive tradition... At Columbia, we throw eggs and call people motherfucker for social justice... Because maybe we're just another underfunded school for children with special needs... Please, please look both ways. 
 Columbia dorm phone numbers all start in 853, and Columbia building numbers all start in 854. Until yesterday, when a new Journalism School administrator entered the strange world of 851! From an e-mail sent to J-School students: “___ comes to the J-school after spending the last seven years... Her phone: 212-851----- (they've run out of the 854 prefix!)” We know the J-School likes to keep its distance from other Columbia schools. Could this be the start of even further withdrawal? If you add up the numbers 8+5+1, you get 14, which symbolizes Jesus, his twelve disciples, and Mary Magdalene from that painting in the Da Vinci Code. Is the Grail right inside our very gates?! Only time will tell. &nbsp; 
 Manatees as the key to ethical (and adorable) expansion? Brilliant! Silver Sushi? Awesome! Roscoe Jenkins and Britney’s vagina are easily confused I thought I was in a cellar in Paris, but really it was just a basement room in a church. Hey, look, it’s an article! No, wait—it’s just a list of New Jersey stereotypes. Two years of assiduous editing and all we've got is a "kind of incomprehensible" "faltering effort"? We've made a huge mistake. &nbsp; 
 Registration for the Columbia housing lottery doesn’t begin until March 11 (or March 3, if you’re an LLC weirdo), but to warm up for the event Housing Services will be giving room information sessions and building tours today and tomorrow that will start in the John Jay Lounge. They will be leaving on the half hour from 4 to 8 today and from noon to 4 tomorrow. You’ve probably all stumbled into Club EC during a weekend bender, but now’s your change to see less-frequented dorms: Claremont, Watt, River. Seize the opportunity to covet the rooms you probably won’t be getting when lottery time rolls around. 
The Dems are on the ramps of Lerner, distributing cupcakes to anyone who will sign a petition to lower the price of birth control on campus. Due to the oversight of some legislative intern (probably a college student him- or herself), college students have lost the price reduction on birth control that kept us hiploose and fancy-free. There's a whole box of cupcakes waiting for you to fight for your rights, but make haste and grab one of the last sprinkly ones!
 Bwog's resident ornithologist, Courtney Douds, spends inordinate amounts of her free time watching our unofficial campus mascot. Here's what he's been up to since he tore a pigeon to shreds during the greatest reading week entertainment since you got so sleepy you started seeing double. You may have seen the large bird of prey around campus over the past few months; Bwog has dubbed him “Hawkmadinejad,” and as someone obsessed with raptors, I am one of his biggest fans. He is a juvenile red-tailed hawk. One can tell that he is still immature because he has not yet gotten the russet-red tail of his namesake, meaning that he is less than one year old. There is no way to tell the sex of red-tails from their feathers, but the males tend to be around 80% the size of the average female red-tailed hawk. Therefore the males are a bit faster and have a tighter turning radius, while the females have more bulk and power. Immature red-tails are one of the two birds that apprentice falconers can use for hunting (the other is the American kestrel). They are incredibly hardy birds, and can survive in many different habitats. They catch prey from the size of beetles to jackrabbits, but ours gets mostly pigeons and squirrels. Though I haven’t seen him swoop down on any meals since he took out a pigeon in front of John Jay, I did find another kill zone. While loitering by Earl, I saw a large pile of pigeon feathers and a bloody bone in the center of the circle of feathers, a clear sign of our bird’s work. While I have heard that Hawkmadinejad has been seen carrying around a squirrel carcass, I have only firsthand seen evidence of him eating pigeons. In fact, one sunny Sunday I watched him for two hours as he sat in the trees by Earl and Dodge in a prime position to snatch the squirrels scrambling below him. One squirrel chattered nervously on the tree opposite him, but Hawk kept still on his perch. You may have seen me that day. I was the crazy girl standing underneath him with my head craned back muttering at varying volumes, “Eat that! GET it! You can EAT that!” A falconer friend of mine proposed that he may not have been hungry, as there certainly is an abundance of prey on campus for him to have had his fill that day. Another day, I saw him actually harassed by one of the squirrels. I know the little rodents are fairly bold with the students on the campus, but I was surprised when one faced him for a showdown on a thick branch of a tree by Dodge. Even more strangely, after the squirrel advanced threateningly towards Hawk, the bird stretched his wings out and backed up, then flew to a different perch. The squirrel won the standoff! You may have heard the cacophony of crows cawing as they dive-bomb poor Hawkmadinejad. It is very common for crows and other smaller birds to harass red-tails to drive them out of their territory. In fact, sometimes falconers can use the din of the crows to find their bird if they cannot hear the bells attached to him. Though the red-tailed hawk tends not to be aggressive, I did see it take a bolder stance defending its territory recently. While walking to Pupin, I saw two large birds perched in a tree by Havemeyer. The first was our Hawkmadinejad, and the other looked like a Cooper’s Hawk. Hawkmadinejad chased the impostor out of the first tree and it landed on another nearby, but our bird bullied him enough to drive him away from campus entirely. Fingers crossed that Hawkmadinejad’s namesake doesn’t take any lessons from this brave and bully bird. 
 With an extra day in the year's calendar and hopefully some free time to spare, Bwog recommends the following for your Leap Day weekend satisfaction. (* indicates free, « indicates on-campus) Thursday Oscar-Nominated Short Films at IFC Center. Whether you prefer animated (at 7:10) or live-action (5:20 and 10:05) what better time to check them all out than now? ($11.50) *« Special Screening of "Roman de gare" with Claude LeLouch at 511 Dodge Hall. On Set with French Cinema: an event sponsored by Maison Française. (FREE, 6:00-8:00) Alarm Will Sound at Carnegie Hall (Zankel). The experimental classical music ensemble known for a repertoire varying from Aphex Twin to Ligeti plays several works by contemporary composers, including the New York premiere of John Adam's Son of Chamber Symphony. ($10 students, 7:30PM) Mos Def in Conversation with Anthony DeCurtis at 92nd Street Y. Hip-hop's renaissance man discusses a variety of subjects, including his career, his social and political perspectives, and the role of artists in the public world with the Rolling Stone contributing editor. &nbsp;($26, 8PM) Friday *« Star-Gazing Night in Pupin 1402. Apparently the astronomy department is hosting these every two weeks. It starts with PhD student leading a half-hour talk and is followed by telescoping on the Pupin roof, with volunteers to help you figure the skies out. (FREE, 7-9PM) The Vienna Philharmonic w/Valery Gergiev conducting at Carnegie Hall (Perelman). Concert commemorating the 100th anniversary of the birth of conductor Herbert von Karajan. Works by Berlioz, Wagner, Debussy. ($10 Student tickets, 8 PM) &nbsp;Flavorpill presents: One Step Beyond featuring DJ Jazzy Jeff w/DJ Dirty Finger at The Museum of Natural History. Dance to jams by man of scratch/Fresh Prince fame &amp; Brooklyn native Dirty Finger, get a free pass to the Museum later (not that it matters, but hey, it's there). ($20, 9PM-1AM) An Evening with Cinema Zero featuring filmmaker Amy Granat and choreographers Felicia Ballos/Flora Weigmann at The Kitchen. Collaborative film and dance performance by Cinema Zero, "an ongoing project that activates connections between artists of different generations and fosters experimentation across disciplines." ($8 students, 8PM) Saturday *Women's History Month Carnival at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. A carnaval-themed celebration honoring South American arts and crafts alongside women's historical achievements. Includes Peruvian dance performance, a live tango troupe, and a screening of Favela Rising. (FREE, 6PM-11PM) Michael Goldberg - A Memorial Tribute at The Poetry Project at St. Mark's. "Friends and colleagues of painter Michael Goldberg (1924-2007) will gather in the Sanctuary to commemorate his life and art." Speakers range from poet/'68 alum David Shapiro to composer/musician John Zorn. ($7, 1PM) An Evening with Cinema Zero featuring filmmaker Amy Granat and choreographers Felicia Ballos/Flora Weigmann at The Kitchen. See Friday listing. ($8 students, 8PM) Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra w/Pianist Yefim Bronfman, Valery Gergiev conducting at Carnegie Hall (Perelman). Bronfman plays Prokofiev's Piano Concerto No. 2, with orchestra playing works by Debussy and Tchaikovsky. ($10 students, 8PM) « County Pleasures: Bach and the Baroque Pastoral, Miller Theatre. A concert with the Gotham City Orchestra featuring repertoire by Bach and Vivaldi on-campus. "Some of Bach's most beautiful music alludes to pastoral settings. By using or imitating rustic instruments (oboe and recorder, bagpipe and hurdy-gurdy), Baroque composers filled their works with references to shepherds, echoing valleys, and folk-music." ($7 students, &nbsp;8PM)&nbsp; PopRally presents DFA Dance Party at MoMA. Preview the MoMA's new Color Chart exhibition while getting a "dance part that's pure kaleidoscopic pleasure." 21+. ($15, $12 in advance, 9PM-1AM) Sunday Vienna Philharmonic w/Valery Gergiev conducting at Carnegie Hall (Perelman). The last of the Perspectives: Valery Gergiev series, with works by Verdi, Liszt, and Tchaikovsky. ($10 students, 1PM) *« Binyumen Schaechter and The Schaechter Daughters: A Musical Program at Deutsches Haus. "Binyumen Schaechter, a preeminent New York Jewish musician and Yiddish activist, along with his two daughters (all native speakers of Yiddish), present an hour-long musical program."&nbsp; (FREE, 8PM) Ongoing * Chimneys and Towers: Charles Demuth's Late Paintings of Lancaster at the Whitney. The exhibit just opened this week, and includes Demuth's paintings, drawings, watercolors, and photographs. (FREE) 
This headline: "Go Ape For The New Version of the Old Mighty Beast" ESC's claim that since America elected George Bush, democracy is bad. A good urban exploration column ruined by the claim that there are "tar pits" in Queens. And by its eighth paragraph. Oprah branching out into reality TV. A first-year's need to let you know, in 900 words, that she takes 18 credits! And is in a club! Stuff is hard, guys.
 It's that rarest of holidays,&nbsp; Leap Day! Your over-talkative friend's grandfather turns 20 today. If it's your birthday, you get free Papa John's. If not, rumor has it you can get a free McSkillet Burrito. Bwog doesn't know what's in it, but just try to convince yourself that picture isn't... appetizing? Update: Tipster Shane Ferro informs us, via Gothamist, that Papaya King is also giving away free hot dogs. 
 Bwog editor Pierce Stanley weighs in from the Egyptian Ambassador's visit to the Law School. While the Egyptian nation-state has been a sleeping giant in the game of international relations as of late, choosing to remain remarkably low-key in a region known for its instability, the Egyptian ambassador to the United Nations, Maged Abdelfattah Abdelaziz, has always exhibited a fiery charisma quite unlike that of the general malaise that has characterized Egyptian politics in recent days. An official who is known to speak his mind and act as he pleases, just months ago, Ambassador Abdelaziz was arrested by secret service agents outside of the UN for jumping a barricade without identifying himself and allegedly spitting on an agent as he resisted arrest. Indeed, the ambassador’s diplomatic career has been defined by such moments of candor, charisma, and awkwardness. In the plush confines Jerome Greene Hall, the ambassador set forth three very simple topics that he suggested Egypt should focus on in the coming years in order to ensure stability and prosperity for both Egypt and the Middle East. "Egypt is always relevant. There is no war in the Middle East without Egypt and no peace without Egypt either," he suggested as he described Egypt’s primary goal of furthering two separate frameworks for peace, one with Israel and another with Egypt’s closest Middle Eastern neighbors. First, Abdelaziz suggested that peace and security must be Egypt’s primary focus. However, rather than discuss Middle East security, the ambassador suggested that since Egypt is an African country it must take a more substantial leadership role in ensuring African security first. The diplomat suggested increasing the role of Egyptian peacekeepers in African Union peacekeeping operations through better training and deployment practices. Secondly, Abdelaziz barked up the tree of development when he suggested that Egyptian leadership efforts in economic development policy could "shift the African continent from one of assistance to one of partnership." The ambassador suggested that Egypt could provide assistance to impoverished African nations seeking to improve agricultural yields, open markets, and a more efficient use of natural resources.&nbsp; The Ambassador argued that recent constitutional reforms in Egypt have ensured broad political reforms, strengthening what it means to be a citizen of Egypt with rights, rather than merely a subject with obligations. Moreover, he discussed the increasingly secular nature of Egyptian politics, noting that Egyptian parties can no longer be based on religious principles. Finally, the ambassador undertook the task of explaining ways to fight rising Egyptian unemployment as well as discussing increased national dependence on the private sector. He argued that direct investment from abroad is essential to maintaining Egypt’s 7.2% rate of economic growth.&nbsp; Q&amp;A was the best part of the night, as the ambassador was grilled by a half an hour-long sermon from a visiting NYU Middle East Studies professor, covering everything from 1970’s Egyptian soap operas to Egypt’s role in Iraq, which the ambassador undertook in answering in a cool and systematic fashion. He was a bit flustered when asked about recent deals between Egypt and the Gaza Strip in which Egypt would provide the majority of Gaza’s energy needs and a answering a question about Egyptian civilian perception of Israelis. However, it seemed that Abdelaziz was simply reluctant to release too much information on the energy package. Finally, he closed out the night by answering an inane question about why baseball isn’t played in Egypt. The ambassador simply replied, "We are Egypt. We don’t play baseball. We play soccer. If you’ve noticed, we are recently the champions of the African Nations Cup."&nbsp; 
 Bwog resident nerd Zach van Schouwen fakes his way through the game theory of Google Chat. When GChat rolled out its "Go Invisible" feature last week (which has been in other instant messenger clients for awhile), the whole landscape of online chat shifted a little. While invisibility on AIM is one thing, most GMail users have a window open at all times. "Go invisible" takes away the responsibility of being constantly connected. The problem is that the ability to go invisible is predicated on the assumption that no one else behaves the same way. If everyone else naively leaves their status lit up in green, you can pick-and-choose the conversations you want to have, an optimal outcome for you, and a betrayal for everyone else. However, if they're rational, they'll realize the advantages of invisibility takes part. Of course, people don't behave naively in practice. In fact, almost everyone else is probably as awkward and antisocial as you are. As a result, invisibility "strictly dominates" participation, particularly since being the only non-invisible one means you're being watched constantly. In the short run, the equilibrium is for every user with any misanthropic tendencies to withdraw to invisibility mode. Fortunately, chat is an iterative problem, so eventually the social dead zone will correct itself, finding a new equilibrium where more people opt into the system after it bottoms out. Yesterday I logged in to find only two people online on my list, which traditionally had about twenty signed in at that time of the afternoon. Am I just unpopular? Maybe. But I'm pretty sure game theory is taking over. 
 Inexplicably, the Lions appear to be involved in a joint venture with Tic Tac at tonight's game (they don't say the sport in the hilarious press release, but Bwog will suppose it's basketball). Coming soon: corporate naming rights for Baker Field? "Swish Undergraduate Athletics Center" has a nice ring to it. Long story made short: apparently you can win ten grand by dancing around with Tic Tac containers. On a Friday night. If you start binge-drinking right now, you might shed enough dignity to try to participate in -- we swear to God -- "one of Morningside Heights' more 'earth shaking' pop culture iconic moments." If you show up, they'll throw two or three more adjectives in that sentence. Just for you! 
This week on Cooking, Bwog's chef has got her gaze on the Farmer's market that happens outside of Lerner on Thursdays and Sundays. Nothing like tasty winter produce on a cold day like today. Some of the recipes are from Farmers' market pamphlets from the NYS Dept. of Health; others are from Cooking's own repertoire. Enjoy! *Starred Items can be found at the Farmers' market Apple Cabbage Slaw 2 cups of sliced apples* 3 cups of shredded cabbage 1 cup celery 1/2 cup thin sliced onion* Dressing: 1/3 cup plain yogurt 2 Tbsp. pineapple juice (this comes in cans) 1/4 tsp. mustard (just steal a packet from a deli or something) Combine the vegetables and fruits in a bowl, then toss with the dressing and serve. &nbsp; Roast Beet Dressing serve with salad greens and walnuts 1 beet* 1/2 cup red wine vinegar 1/2 cup fennel, cut thin (you'll probably need one stalk) 2 tsp. dijon mustard a sprinkle of parsley salt to taste 1 cup of oil - olive oil and canola mixed in equal proportions Put the beet in an oven-safe pan with about an inch of water. Cover with tin foil, poke holes, and steam in the oven for about 1 hour. When it's done, leave it in the fridge to cool and then take the skins off. They should come off easily with a little pressure. Then cut the beet into centimeter cubes and set aside. You might want to use gloves when handling the beet since they stain skin. Then get a bowl and add the vinegar, mustard and salt. Then, while stirring with a fork or wire whisk, slowly add the oil (very slowly) until all the oil is added. Add fennel, beet cubes and parsley. Store at room temperature. French Onion Soup 1 1/2 pounds onions* 1/2 cup carrots* 2 Tbsp. vegetable oil 4 cups water 3 beef boullion cubes (if you've got the money, you can sub 4 cups of beef broth for bouillon cubes and water) 5 slices of bread 1/2 cup shredded mozzarella cheese (or whatever you like best) Slice the onions very thin and grate the carrots. Heat the oil in a large pot. Add the onions and carrots. Cook until onions are golden brown. Add the water and bouillon cubes and simmer for 30 minutes. To serve, pour soup into individual oven proof soup bowls. Place a piece of bread in each and top with cheese. Brown for a few minutes under the broiler. Serve hot. As always, if you have tips, questions, or recipes to share, please do so! bwog@columbia.edu &nbsp; 
 A movie-renting tipster sends this gem our way: "Lee Bollinger renting at Kim's. Wearing a puffy green North Face, light-wash jeans, and a winning coif. Rental: I Know Who Killed Me.....just kidding, if only it were that juicy. In the Valley of Elah. Snooze." So serious. 
 Need a study break? Put down the text and feast your eyes on these Saturday morning classics. It’s Saturday morning and if you want a slow start to your day, you’ve come to the right web address.&nbsp;&nbsp; Today on Bwog, we do a tribute to our Technicolor friends of yesteryear. Yes that’s right – today we spotlight the superheroes of Saturday morning cartoons. Before you delve into an afternoon with Lacan and Lit theory at Bulter, take this special opportunity to reconnect and reminisce.&nbsp; We offer some of classic clips and theme songs. Indeed, this is a humble collection and if we have forgotten any of your personal favorites, please let us know! We start with Doug.&nbsp; What was a Saturday morning without Doug?&nbsp; As an eleven year old, I was delighted by Doug and his awkward hang-ups. His characteristic croaky voice and quivering smile situate him as Charlie Brown’s 1990s doppelganger. His not-so secret crush on Patti Mayonaisse is perhaps his most endearing quality.&nbsp; Nearly every episode finds Doug in some terribly embarrassing situation that tests his integrity.&nbsp; But Patti sticks with him despite all his sixth-grade social faux pas.&nbsp;&nbsp; Here's a link to an episode! Perhaps less endearing than Doug, Arnold of “Hey Arnold”, however, still wins the loyalty and friendship of many cartoon watchers.&nbsp; But it is Helga who steals the show.&nbsp; Helga is as remarkable in character as she is in appearance.&nbsp; Her ridiculous yellow pigtails channel Pippi Longstocking, while her striking black uni-brow reminds of Frida Kahlo. And it was none other than Helga who gave Arnold the memorable epithet, “Football Head.” Click here if you want more Hey Arnold nostalgia! For many of cartoons, the adage “power in numbers” applies.&nbsp; The motley crew on Recess is definitely the most diverse, if not memorable, group of elementary schoolers I know.&nbsp; The group is comprised of six members – Vince, the kickball king, Gretchen, the gangly brainiac, Gus, a tentative hero-in-the-making, Spinelli, a no nonsense tomboy, Mikey, a gentle giant and poet, and T.J. the group’s husky voiced ring-leader.&nbsp; Click here for more! This list concludes with Pepper Ann.&nbsp; With her fiery red ponytail and signature yellow polka-dotted skirt, Pepper Ann is a certainly a fire-cracker.&nbsp;&nbsp; The show’s theme song says it all, “Who’s that girl? What’s her name? Is she cool? Is she lame? Oh, you’re talkin’ ‘bout what’s her name… Pepper Ann! Pepper Ann!...”&nbsp;&nbsp; Here's a link: -MEQ &nbsp; &nbsp; 
On Sundays, most spots in Butler are taken—some by busy students, others by a pile of cough syrup bottles and a piece of toilet paper with “IF U TOUCH MY STUFF I KILL U!” scrawled on it in red ink. This is the first in what will hopefully be a recurring Saturday series offering possible answers to the question, “Where can I find a good place to study on a Sunday?” Butler Media Center Butler 208B Sunday Hours: 2:00 – 10:00PM Opposite the reserves desk, the Media Center is a series of banks outfitted with televisions, DVD/VHS players, and nice headphones. If you don’t mind the harsh fluorescent lighting, it’s a great place to watch a movie, and also a great place to study. Even on Sundays, several of the spacious cubbies are almost always open. Bring your books and your laptop—and make some pretense of actually watching a movie. Check out a long, easily-ignored arthouse flick from the Butler Reserves desk, and plop down at a media station, ideally one in the far corner to the right of the entrance. Put the movie in the player, put your headphones on, turn the volume down to zero, and get to work. You won’t look that different from the folks scribbling notes about the movies they’re actually watching, and you’ll get a big, secluded study space for your trouble. One word of warning: There’s no official “no talking” policy in the Media Center (at least not an enforced one), and occasionally groups of people will come in and blab loudly and endlessly about whatever movie they’re watching, most likely their own student film project. In the unlikely even that this happens, it is advisable to turn your headphone volume up. 
 Though Hawkmadinejad's activities of late have been carefully recorded and analyzed, much of his pre-Furnald-lawn history remains shrouded in mystery and chaos. An ornithologically-inclined tipster, however, points us in the direction of a possible paternal identification:&nbsp; "Hawkmadinejad is most likely the son of Pale Male, the first raptor bird of NYC, who nested on the most expensive piece of property on 5th avenue a few years back and somehow "lured" a female to his nest with magical pheromones and now has many offspring nesting all over NYC." While we hope Hawmadinejad and Pale Male eventually re-connect and Hawkmadinejad recovers from whatever emotional trauma the brief loss of his father might have caused him, it seem right now our winged hero has bigger (and faster) problems to worry about. Another amateur Audubon points out that another predatory bird has started roaming about the fields of Furnald: "Watch out, Hawkmadinejad, there's a new bird in town!&nbsp; I just saw what is definitely a peregrine falcon (the fastest animal on earth) swooping and diving in front of Furnald, across the lawns and near Hamilton.&nbsp; It traversed the campus multiple times, briefly stopping at the tree in front of Furnald, flying at times very low to the ground, buzzing the bushes around the lawns.&nbsp; It also made some awesome tight turns.&nbsp; If I may be so presumptuous, I dub it Nathanial, because that's what I called Hawkmadinejad before that name became popular." You may be so presumptuous tipster. But Bwog hopes Nathaniel isn't so presumptuous as to believe that he can so easily win the pigeon-prey of College Walk and the loyalties of Hawkmadinejad's doting admirers. And were he so bold, Hawmadinejad now has Pale Male (not to mention the Gods) on his side. 
Want some theater this weekend? First, read a review of Mark Twain's play "Is He Dead?"! Then, take advantage of&nbsp; CUarts Initiative&nbsp; $20 ticket offer!&nbsp;&nbsp; Given Mark Twain's archetypal place in American Literature, it's no surprise that his recently unearthed play, "Is He Dead?" is attracting large crowds.&nbsp;&nbsp; But the characteristic wit that the audience might expect of Twain's script is not featured here.&nbsp; Instead David Ives, the contemporary playwright who reworked the original script, capitalizes on ribald humor and satire to revitalize Twain's writing, typified by puns, word play and innuendo. &nbsp; Despite its lack of verbal cunning, "Is He Dead?" is thoroughly enjoyable.&nbsp; After a dense first scene, dragged down by plot details and contextualization, the play sets off on an unabashed pleasure ride full of mixed identities, racial stereotypes, cross-dressing, slap-stick clowning and even a couple stinky cheese jokes.&nbsp;&nbsp; The action of the play surrounds the life and times of the struggling Realist painter, Jean-Francois Millet. From the financial frustrations of Millet's career, Twain launches his characters into a harebrained run at success and a poorly calculated get-rich-quick scheme.&nbsp; Following the structure of a traditional melodrama, Millet, played by the flamboyant Norbert Leo Butz, must rustle together money to pay back his debts and save his lover from his parsimonious patron.&nbsp;&nbsp; With the aid of his three buds, representing classic stereotypes of 19th century bourgeois - the German burgher, the Irish cad and the Chicagoan cow rustler - Millet decides the surest path to fortune and fame is to fake his own death.&nbsp; At the beginning of the second scene, Butz, decked out in an overblown pink cup-cake dress, enters the stage with all the confidence and energy that the Millet of the first scene lacked.&nbsp;&nbsp; It is as if Millet is more suited as in drag as Madame To You, Millet's fictitious twin sister, than he is as himself.&nbsp; Butz does not shy away from amplifying the sexual overtones and exudes feminine lust.&nbsp; He laces every line with a lascivious smirk and moves about the stage with a robust and bawdy vigor.&nbsp; At the end of the first act, Millet and his gang have triumphed.&nbsp; The value of Millet's paintings has soared as his moribund state intensifies.&nbsp; After staging his death, Madame To You enjoys the spoils of the rouse and even receives a marriage offer.&nbsp;&nbsp; The first act finishes with an excess of absurdity and leaves the second act to straighten out the mess these band of characters have made. Twain's second act may not be innovative, but it does not disappoint.&nbsp; The laughs come easily as the audience watches Butz prance around Madame To You's new digs, a Versailles-inspired mansion.&nbsp;&nbsp; As the second act plays out, things get more and more out of hand and the audience begins to wonder how Twain will manage to set things straight.&nbsp; Eventually, some order is established, but Twain requires the audience to take his conclusion with a grain of salt.&nbsp; "Is He Dead?" is purely a farce after all- and a delightful one at that.&nbsp;&nbsp; But a playwright can only take the classic&nbsp; "you're better off dead" gag so far - even a comedic master like Twain.&nbsp;&nbsp; -MEQ &nbsp; 
If you're coming out of the 116th Street subway stop, be prepared to be serenaded and accosted by some Bible studiers singing melodiously, wielding an array of folk instruments and distributing colorful fliers with butterflies on them. Pop LitHum quiz: They quote from the one non-synoptic Gospel, which one is it? 
 Which comments were responses to which Bwog articles? We're trusting you not to cheat: a. "Chickens are arguably as intelligent as dogs or cats, yet if someone treated his pets the way that chickens are abused on factory farms, he would be taken to court." b. "Motherfucker got narcolepsy, falling asleep at 7:48." c. "I love you Brittany!" d. "these people make hippies seem pleasant." e. "God, I miss Animorphs." 1. Assassins Report 2. Sidewalk evangelism 3. CCSC Weekly Report: (Free Food) and Exclamations 4. Hawk Stalking 5. Deconstructing the Deaniac 
 The completion of the George Krebs CCSC ticket is... complete. Laura Doan, CC '09, has joined the team as VP of Funding. Doan joins a ticket featuring Krebs, Adil Ahmed, Robyn Burgess, and Ian Solsky. Candidate declaration forms are due on March 6th, and the Alidad Damooei camp remains conspicuously silent. &nbsp; 
 Want to avoid doing your reading for another hour? SEAS 2008 Class President Eash&nbsp; Cumarasamy has an idea for you: "The Class of 2008 is holding a study break right now for seniors in preparation for Winter Gala this Wednesday.&nbsp; We're serving hors d'oeuvres and there are tons of masquerade ball masks for people to decorate if they are so inclined.&nbsp; The study break is in Lerner Piano Lounge." 
 For those of you unfamiliar with the ins and outs of the Columbia creative community or a certain 2002 HBO miniseries, Project Bluelight is a CUArts/CCSC-sponsored short-film contest in which screenwriters submit scripts and the selected material is then made into a movie. Project Bluelight the brainchild of Michael Molina and Jeff Schwartz, both CC '10. The idea for the largest (with a budget of $2500) undergraduate film production project began in the beginning of the school year, when Molina and Schwartz proposed the concept to CUArts and CCSC, as well as other student groups. "Everyone we took it to was just immediately like, 'Yes.'" explained Molina. The founders hope that Project Bluelight will become an annual event at Columbia, and both plan to stay on next year. Twenty possible screenplays were submitted to the project, but the chosen one was "Setup", penned by two-time Varsity Show writer Rob Trump, CC '09. Today marks the final day of filming for the meta-(meta?)-comedy, in which a screenwriter casts his ex-girlfriend in a play about a screen-writer casting his ex-girlfriend in a play. This afternoon, filming took place on the second floor of the ADP house on 114th street. About 20 people gathered on the second floor, the curtains tightly drawn around the windows and couches and chairs co-opted to store production equipment. Call time was 6:30 AM for the crew and about an hour later for the cast, but adrenaline was high and the pace was quick—they've been averaging shooting about 2 pages (of the script's 12) per day. Bwog, who had never been on a film set before, was informed that after production comes post-production, after which the production team plans on submitting "Setup" to various film festivals. Molina and Schwartz hope that the film will eventually premiere in Ferris Reel sometime in April. - JNW 
 Astronomy department chair, Varsity Show character and Bwog birthday party guest David Helfand will be giving a guided tour "to the edge of space and time" at the Guggenheim tonight.&nbsp; Explains the museum's website: "Light particles from the depths of space tell us how the history of the universe began, and most likely how it ends. Columbia University professor David Helfand provides a visual journey through the galaxies, revealing both our knowledge and our ignorance." So if you're lucky enough not to have locked yourself in Butler tonight, Bwog recommends a self-revealing look at your own ignorance, narrated by Professor Helfand. 
 This afternoon and at 8 PM tonight, the CU players present Absurdité, a two hour-long presentation of three short plays by Christopher Durang and one by Eugene Ionesco. The performances of the four plays surpass mere tributes.&nbsp; Showing remarkable creative vision, the four directors produced innovative adaptations of Durang and Ionesco’s works and successfully guided their casts through the murky territories of these renowned absurdists.&nbsp; Making the most of the overwhelming space the Roone Arledge Auditorium offers, the CU Players seated the audience between the curtain and a screen set further back on the stage, and skillfully imitated the atmosphere of a black box theater.&nbsp; The festival began with an appropriately absurd welcome by Sam West, CC ‘08, as the charmingly perplexed master of ceremonies.&nbsp; The structure of his introduction took the form of a letter to his mother in which he awkwardly struggled to articulate the meaning behind the ridiculous plays. The audience, which was primarily comprised of undergrads and parents, easily identified with West’s strained efforts and delighted in his halting prose and illogical asides.&nbsp; West’s introductions set the tone for the four depictions of ridiculousness that the subsequent performances offered.&nbsp; The title of the first short play, “The Hardy Boys and the Mystery of Where Babies Come From,” directed by Sam Reisman CC ‘10 and Jeff Julian CC ‘08, indicates the humor that typifies Durang’s work—reliance on pop culture references and glib word play. The situations he devises are bizarrely implausible, and this rendition of “The Hardy Boys” at times verges on gimmicky. The play is most successful when the lines are delivered with deadpan remove.&nbsp; At times Jake Green gives a more tentative performance as Frank Hardy, Austin Mitchell SEAS ‘08 as Joe Hardy and Jason Resnikoff CC’08 as Mr. Hardy engage in their parts confidently and thoroughly.&nbsp; Both Resnikoff and Mitchell accept the absurdity inherent in Durang’s script as realities. Their straight-faced performances gives nuance to Durang’s vapid humor and encourage the audience to take a risk and accept his absurdity as truth. &nbsp; The restrain that gives Mitchell and Resnikoff’s performance their bite is harder to find in “Medea,” directed by Beck Pryor. Nonetheless, the trio of toga-clad Greek choristers chants their lines with remove and impressive timing, highlighting Pyror’s directorial eye. Despite her booming voice, Kris Wiener’s performance as Medea was not strong enough to carry the weight of the play. Perhaps it was due to the small stage, but Wiener’s speech overshadowed her movement and created a disconnect between the play’s auditory and visual effect. But her prayers—and possibly the audience’s—were answered in the form of the bare-chested and winged David Gerson, as a rather hairy angel ex machina who delivered his lines with charming poise. &nbsp; The first act ends, quite literally, with a bang. Nick Bazzano’s direction of “A Stye of the Eye” takes Durang’s rambling script and shapes it into a fast-paced, sharp comedy. Switching off between dulcet platitudes and crude expletives, Jason Resnikoff gives another impressive performance as a skitzophrenic hillbilly. Under Bazzano’s direction, the play’s disparate elements come together in a hilariously quirky way. A play within play spontaneously begins and is one of the most entertaining and directorially innovative elements of “Stye.” A stage slowly rises and provides new space for this meta-drama. Here, Lily Feinn plays a chain-smoking therapist and interrogates a cross-dressing, tongues-speaking Nun, played by an unsettlingly effeminate Austin Mitchell. The play tears on with references to incest, murdered lambs and bloody underpants. Despite its irreverence, Bazzano’s play gleans some substance from Durang’s vacuous script as the characters grapple to make sense of their existence in an absurd world. &nbsp; Abby Broberg’s “The New Tenant” presents an entirely different take on absurdist theater. If you leave before the second act, you’ll miss the more subtle and challenging aspects of this genre. Broberg directs her actors skillfully through Ionesco’s dense script. As a cockney landlady, Pardis Dabashi delivers her ranting monologue with impressive consistency. In contrast to Dabashi’s colorful performance, Hal Scardino plays the typical British introvert. The two complement perfectly and suggest a universal struggle to communicate. The play builds steadily and finishes with an impressive staging that pushes the limits of creativity and control.&nbsp; All in all the cast and directors of Absurdite provided memorable performances of difficult works.&nbsp; Under the guidance of enterprising directors, each of the four performances made the most of intentionally unintelligible plays and made the audience laugh—which after all is all that really matters. - MEQ 
 Boo dearth of housing for GS kids.&nbsp; Hooray Manhattanville! Boo hateful speech on Juicy Campus.&nbsp; Hooray censorship! Boo unclear CUIT back up policies.&nbsp; Hooray transparency on the Information Super Highway! Boo rigid Physics major requirements. Hooray to superficial study of sciences through opinion columns! Boo plagiarism scandal.&nbsp; Hooray record donation?! &nbsp; 
Tipster Tedde Tsang sends photos Bwog's way of some sort of bizarre, international students mating ritual, performed last night at 11 PM on the 4th floor of the IAB. You remember 11 PM last night, don't you? It was the hour you accidentally fell asleep in Butler while leaning against an empty Redbull can. Also occuring: SIPA students, dressed in appropriately whimsical 80s-wear, were filming each other dancing to Michael Jackson's "Thriller." The tape will reportedly be shown at some sort of SIPA formal, but you can get a sneak peek (maybe?) here. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Spotted in the elevator in the 620 Barnard dorm: &nbsp; 
 Another certain gossipy website was the focus of last night's CCSC meeting. Satow Room bureau chief Martha Turewicz reports.&nbsp; From the first few minutes of last night's CCSC meeting, there some early indications of the intensity to come. Proceedings started a few minutes past 8, and while the next hour was lost to constitutional review, VP of Campus Life Lindsey Lazopoulos (who is always good for a quote) noted, “This is going to get heated." CCSC President Michelle Diamond, coming straight from a bridal shower, explained that she was going on 2 hours of sleep and had a thesis draft due the next day. If she became snappy, she warned: “It’s not personal.” But around 9 PM the room suddenly filled with people eager to discuss the night’s pressing topic: juicycampus.com.&nbsp; &nbsp; Neda Navab and Diamond opened the discussion with unbiased terms, and asked that audience members’ comments go off the record, an attempt to establish a calm forum&nbsp; swiftly undermined by John Davisson (former Spec Editor-in-Chief), who retorted that since this was a public forum, it couldn’t be treated as a closed discussion. Diamond rather tersely responded matter-of-factly that you could keep things off the record. Eventually, some sort of nebulous compromise was reached on the matter. Although the room unanimously expressed disgust over the content of the site, reactions were split into two camps over if and how the university should respond to its presence. Some, like Diamond and Lazopoulos, noted that if the postings on juicycampus were written in a physical forum, like on a campus building, they would be immediately removed. Others were quick to challenge this. Glenn Thompson asked how many sites CU is currently blocking; Diamond acknowledged that none are currently blocked. VP of Policy Alidad Damooei was on the fence, noting that CUIT expressed concern that blocking the site would lead its creator to relocate to a new forum, one that would possibly show up onGgoogle searches, thus rendering blockage a counterproductive measure. George Krebs introduced the much-repeated dialectic of a "slippery slope" of precedents that banning the site would entail. He proposed that CCSC advocate to sue the site over libelous content. Michelle noted that the site’s disclaimer says juicycampus can’t be sued, to which George responded that anyone can say they can’t be sued. Nathan Morgante, speaking on the behalf of Free Culture Columbia, defended free speech, brought up the issue of shaky legal ground (currently, an FCC gudieline prevents private internet distributors from banning sites—unfortunately Morgante lost the sheet of paper he had confirming this), and raised the point that allowing ourselves to be threatened by "anonymous idiots" reduces us to their level. Brendan Charney, former president of the Columbia ACLU chapter, pithily suggested that in lieu of resorting to censorship ("This is a university, not communist China"), we should "fight bad words with good words." Alidad seconded this optimistic rhetoric, championing a focus on "not what divides us, but what unites us." Ooh, topical. The meeting ended, however, without a clear resolution of the legion proposals. Perhaps it would have been best if everyone simply adopted the blasé tone of Andrew Avor, who, while acknowledging the harmful content of the site, finds it "ignorable", and did not feel that it merited so much attention and discussion. 
 Tonight seems to be the night, gentle reader, when Alidad Damooei will join George Krebs as CCSC Exec-board candidates.&nbsp; It is rumored he will be filming a campaign video to introduce himself and his ticket.&nbsp; He will not, however, be able to release this video until after spring break when the official campaign season begins because of CCSC rules.&nbsp; This grand gesture of introduction--as opposed to the emails sent out by other candidates--will conveniently announce his candidacy 3 weeks after he announces his candidacy. Bravissimo! &nbsp;Stay tuned for an interview and details on the filming of the campaign video. - JJV &nbsp; 
 2008 is Bwog's first Presidential election year ever, so we've asked resident political junkie Jim Downie to write a weekly column summarizing, analyzing and sometimes mocking the past week in national politics. Political Weekly will run on Mondays, Obama, McCain, Huckabee and Clinton will run all year long.&nbsp; So why does Bwog feel you need more politics in your life? Well, apparently 75% of Bwoggers need just that during midterm week. That's right, 75%, according to a poll I made up just for that answer. Political Weekly is here to give you a personalized spin on the past week in politics. The idea: "It's not for political junkies. It's for normal people." Sometimes serious, sometimes witty, sometimes nutty, and sometimes not even political (or linked). So sit back, you're in for a treat... or at least 10 minutes and 22 links worth of further procrastination. Sophomore slump: After the hit video "Yes We Can," Will.I.Am has come out with another video for his fellow Obamamaniacs. Problem is, this one does not use an Obama speech (which made the first one so good), leaving Will.I.Am to actually create a song. Not surprisingly, he fails at that. Also, Jessica Alba and Ryan Phillipe show up, but real kudos to Scarlett Johansson for being in one "before it was cool." Live from New York: The blogs are abuzz with Hillary Clinton on SNL, and it's pretty good ("Do I really laugh like that?"), but this blogger thinks Mike Huckabee's appearance a week earlier was even funnier. Oh, and, SNL's not funny, it's been on too long, blah, blah, etc., etc. The Predicted Mean Value of the Result of an Experiment: Or for those of you who don't do quantum mechanics, expectations. The Washington Post outlines expectations for both candidates here. In short, it comes down not just to who wins Ohio and Texas, but by how much. Clinton needs to win big for the candidates' delegate counts to significantly change. Marc Ambinder of The Atlantic outlines the math stuff here. The CBS Fridays at 10: Today's polls for Ohio, Texas, Rhode Island, and Vermont are all available here. Your Secret Ingredient for Tonight Is...Freedom: Mike Huckabee challenges John McCain's culinary skills, and actually wonders why reporters would rather have BBQ than a 253rd candidate debate. The Spin Cycle: ""I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it" became a phrase John Kerry really wished he hadn't said. This election's version, if the Democrats have their way, would be John McCain saying we could be in Iraq for 100 years. Of course, as the AP points out, he actually was only okay with 100 years "as long as Americans are not being injured or harmed or wounded or killed." In other words, he's cool with a 100-year war as long as it isn't, well, a war. How Do I Bail On My Friends? Mark Penn, Hillary Clinton's pollster/"chief strategist," teaches you how inside this excellent L.A. Times piece (the good part is about 2/3rds of the way down). Apparently, you just deny responsibility for every department taking your orders. Too Easy: The big new ad from the Clinton campaign (asking who you want to pick up the phone when Osama attacks us at 3 A.M.) was just begging to be parodied. Some of the better ones are here, here, here, and here. And this is only after one weekend. Fall's Not Almost Upon Us: But fall polls are. Interesting change from 4 years ago is that Florida looks to be far less in-play: McCain beats Obama by 10 and Clinton by 9. That's a big problem for the Democrats—Florida was one of the big three swing states four years ago, and a safe Republican Florida makes the Electoral College math more difficult. A Date With a Lady Named Destiny: Those of you who believe that Obama can heal the blind will be even more awed to hear that, if he wins the Democratic nomination, he will give his acceptance speech 45 years to the day after Martin Luther King, Jr. delivered his "I Have A Dream Speech." The rest of you will think it another lucky coincidence. It's Not JuicyCampus, and It's Certainly Not Relevant: Obama answers the age-old question for all young men—boxers or briefs? Strangely, he believes he looks good in both. Sources inside the campaign tell me that this isn't true, but that he does know how to "rock the bike shorts." 
Update:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ESC Constitutional Review is underway! An ardent and opinionated public of record numbers (four people) was just turned away from the meeting as the ESC enforced its closed doors policy. Junior Class Representative Samantha John vocalized an appeal to overlook the closed doors policy for the discussion on internal elections, which she viewed as "pertinent to the student body, not just the council." Liz Strauss reminded us decisively that under constitutional law, she had no authority to make a meeting open, only to make it closed. There is drama in the Satow Room tonight. Intrepid ESC Correspondent Tony Gong inquires into the mysteries of flyer-less class council elections. &nbsp; In case you haven't heard enough about politics lately, the annual debate over the Engineering Student Council executive board process, an internal system by which the council elects itself, has been rekindled in light of ESC's ongoing constitutional review. But this time, people are angry. And writing articles. The issue became active again last Friday, with a comprehensive opinion piece against internal elections. But it didn't end there – three ESC members dramatically countered with their equally lengthy defense of internal elections, which printed in the same issue of Spec. Overall, engineers wrote more in a day than they had in six years, so everyone took the weekend off and did some math. The arguments for holding internal elections primarily tout the practicality of the current system: "It is a fact that ESC gets the job done by making sure that kid gets to do his or her job…Internal elections help ensure that the elected officials are the ones who will put the students before their future jobs." ESC gets the job done, indeed. However, Samantha John, SEAS '09 and a co-writer of the article against the current system, doesn't believe unqualified candidacy would be a problem, even with direct elections. She cites the non-executive board candidates of ESC, which are, in fact, directly elected, as evidence: "The ESC general elections for the rest of the council usually attracts pretty solid people…Nobody in ESC is really in it as much for their resume or career because if you're in SEAS and you really care about your career you probably need to go to the library." Moreover, David Albert, SEAS '09, draws the important distinction between a club and the ESC: "Just as the leadership of the College Democrats is responsible to the members of their club, so is the ESC responsible to the SEAS student body…The leadership of the Dems is directly elected by their constituency. The E-board of the ESC should be elected in the same way." Have something to say? ESC strongly encourages you to either e-mail esc@columbia.edu with thoughts, or attend the ESC meeting tonight 10:15 pm in the Satow Room in Lerner, where the ESC is holding its amendment review on the matter.&nbsp; Slide rules required. 
In the great legacy of great Columbia-affiliated writerly-types, New York Governor Eliot Spitzer announced today that former professor Jean Valentine will be the next New York State Poet and Mary Gordon, Barnard McIntosh Professor of English, will be State Author.&nbsp; Much like an elected congressman, the two will serve two terms and probably sit on the Subcommittee on Rhyming Injustices. Or something. A. B. &nbsp;A Very Topical "Know Your State Poet and Author" Quiz: Can you match the book jacket photo to the name of the author? 1. Mary Gordon 2. Jean Valentine Answers after the jump! 1. A 2. B &nbsp; 
One particularly creative procrastinator just sent Bwog a photo essay of his Butler abode. We support you, procrastinator, and may your efforts bring calm (followed by debilitating panic!) to those of your kind.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Home State: Circling her mother, she circles Albany now. State of the MTA: still sucks State Presence: Its not about putting a letter on the Bwog State Debate: Maybe this is why Obama never visits us Real eState: Public toilets = new housing?&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 BREAKING: Alidad's CCSC ticket announced, despite his vow to not go to Bwog first (See Quick Spec Below) Late last night in Lerner, amidst relatively minimal ballyhoo, Alidad Damooei unveiled the running mates soon to be on his ticket for the upcoming CCSC elections: VP Policy – Donna Desilus (CC '09) VP Communications – Veronica Colon (CC '10) VP Funding – Jen Choi (CC '09) VP Campus Life – Cliff Massey (CC '10) Campaign details after the jump! The Alidad club kicked off their campaign by filming b-roll for their campaign video—Calvin Sun bore the camera as they made their pilgrimage on the ramps to Tasti: The Political Mecca. &nbsp; According to Alidad and Jen Choi, they began throwing around the idea of running around December but resisted announcing earlier so that they could make sure that everyone on their ticket would be comfortable with each other and solidified the overarching ideas of the campaign. Still no policy discussions are allowed until after Spring Break, but the five were able to introduce themselves and a few of their accomplishments to the public at large for the first time.&nbsp; Besides holding the reigns over a CCSC Vice Presidency, Alidad is a brother in Beta and Board member of Columbia Iranian Students Association.&nbsp; Desilus is CCSC Academic Affairs rep, VP of Delta Sig and President of Multicultural Greek Council.&nbsp; Choi is the current VP Funding and is also political chair of Students for North Korean Awareness. Despite Massey and Colon's relative inexperience with CCSC (neither have held appointed or elected positions on the council), they maintain that they were going for a "wide cross-section of campus."&nbsp; Massey is Executive Editor of this year's yearbook and Colon sits on the Undergraduate Recruitment Committee's E-board. &nbsp; Now that it is the eve of the filing deadline, the two heavyweights are set while there has still been no word from Colin Drummond's camp as to whether he will run or not.&nbsp; The stage is set for a grueling campaign after midterms and break.&nbsp; Only time will tell Alidad's fate. Don't miss the release of their groundbreaking campaign video, set to be released March 25th on a Youtube near you! -JJV 
 A self-described "mega-anonymous" tipster informs Bwog that CC and SEAS will be annnouncing a "huge" change in financial aid, tomorrow or late today. (GS's change will be of a more minor nature).&nbsp; Perhaps Andrew Delbanco might have gotten his wish after all? &nbsp; Bwog will update with details as soon as some materialize.&nbsp; 
 In light of CCSC's recent crusade against juicycampus.com, Bwog wanted to know if it were really possible to ban a website from the campus server. Apparently, it's not. Resident computer expert and Bwog Web Master Zach van Schouwen explains why in the following bullet-pointed list: It's expensive. They don't have an existing filter in place, so they'd have to buy expensive, unreliable software We're all forgetting the masterminds of SEAS. It would be approximately 30 seconds before any SEAS hack had a mirror of the site up that was accessible at a different address Proxy server. Let's say you're visiting Juicycampus. Normally your PC sends them a request, and they send back a website. A site blocker would prevent this request from going through. A proxy server is just a third-party server that you make the same request to; it then makes the request to Juicycampus and sends you the results. This can all be encrypted, too, in which case there's no way for even a smart CU programmer to know what you're doing. Google cache. You can get to any blocked site by looking at Google's saved copy. Nobody ever thinks of this. (There are other sites like this too.) Tunneling out. If you have login access to any off-campus server, anywhere, you can easily log into it remotely and view the site. (Like, say, the Bwog server.) Mirroring. Juicycampus can just change their address, put up a mirror site, identify themselves numerically... Copying. Some intrepid kid could just create a site that copies all their content every five minutes. CUIT's never made a practice of it, so it'd be pretty shocking if they shelled out the $1000s for a commercial-grade filter, slowed down everyone's internet, and blocked a single site. Liberty University probably wouldn't even do this, let alone... any real university. 
 Looks like Mary Gordon isn't the only one to win something this week at Barnard. The 34th Emily Gregory Award (named for the first woman to be given full professorship at Columbia) has been awarded to BC dance professor Lynn Garafola. There will be a big fancy reception--offering celebratory alcohol, provided you were born over 21 years ago and have two forms of ID saying as much--on March 25. Hurrah, hurrah. &nbsp; 
 One of the amazing things about water bottles are the limited expenses that come along with owning one. Some might actually call this the basis of the water bottle's appeal: It's a one-time expenditure, and after you buy one for $5, you never have to pay for water again, as water fountains are conveniently free. On that note, we ask you to direct a critical eye towards Barnard. In efforts to discourage students from buying bottled water, BC is going to be offering students the chance to refill their plastic water bottles for 50 cents-per-fill with Poland Spring water, effectively capturing about half of the cost and none of the freshness of bottled water. This filling station trial run will last until the 15th and might culminate with the ousting of bottled water from Java City altogether. The College has already started polling--though only 28 people have participated--the BC student body on the initiative. The choice between harming the environment and paying for what's essentially tap water has never been so murky. 
 GS passes resolution calling for more financial aid. But with other aid announcements looming, will Columbia help our older brothers and sisters? Chas Carey helps untangle some finer points of the JuicyCampus brouhaha Hillary gets big help from wins in Texas and Ohio, but no love from Spec cartoonists Help may be forthcoming for those living in "illegal hotels," but not if landlords have anything to say about it Phone book art in Low...not sure if that's helping anybody, but it looks pretty neat&nbsp; 
You can watch coverage of their discussion below, including the results from a GS-wide survey about debt and aid—according to GSSC President Niko Cunningham, an average GSer's debt is three times that of an average CCer. Just another piece of Double Secret Financial Aid News puzzle, which Prezbo is maybe (probably!) solving for us today. 
Bwog's 2008 Election Correspondent Jim Downie is back with a very special Wednesday edition of Political Weekly. Your faithful blogger writes this at 2:30 AM for two reasons: first, because the final results in Texas are taking forever to come through, preventing a more prompt summary, and second, because he's dedicated to you, the readers. Other bloggers may be fine with submitting a lame report cribbed from the morning's lead stories. This would result in sleep, and a more enjoyable viewing of the big Chelsea FC game this afternoon on ESPN2. However, this blogger believes readers need freshness—freshness like the smell of a new floor in the fall before the pot smokers start lighting it up. Here's a quick summary of what happened last night for the normal people out there, followed by a few other links. As always: "It's Not For Junkies, It's For Normal People!" Getting It Done: Republicans can sleep easy now that John McCain has mathematically clinched the nomination. He won all four states (Ohio, Texas, Rhode Island, and Vermont) by convincing margins over rockin' reverend Mike Huckabee, receiving the necessary delegates to clinch the nomination. Even Huckabee saw that God can't overcome mathematical impossibilities, and dropped out last night. Not Getting It Done: On the other hand, the Democrats are not done. Hillary Clinton had a big night, winning the popular vote in Texas (by 3), Ohio (by 10), and Rhode Island (by 18). Barack Obama won by 22 in Benandjerryland (Vermont).&nbsp;Exact vote counts and results for both parties here. Today's Forecast Is Drawn Out: Unfortunately, when it comes to drawn-out primary math, there's really nothing funny about it (or, should I say, punny! Ok, that was horrible). Stick with me here, though, and in about three minutes you'll be able to wow any politically-inclined friends, crushes, or significant other(s?) you might have. The two big states were Texas and Ohio, where Clinton won by small amounts. Democrats allocate their delegates proportionately, so Clinton will have only a small delegate gain from today. That's bad for her because Obama's period of Obamamania (11 straight victories in February) put him up by over 100 pledged delegates , and she is unlikely to close that gap significantly with Tuesday's results - it will probably end up being about 1500 to 1425 or so, in Obama's favor (just over 2000 are required to win the nomination, a number neither will reach). Clinton has to win much bigger in the remaining states to catch up. The result was also bad for Obama, though, because it has given her the momentum. The race will certainly continue until Pennsylvania on April 22, a state with similar demographics to Ohio. Who is the result good for? Republicans, because they get to watch a fight while preparing for the fall, and bloggers like yours truly, because the race stays interesting. Otherwise, I'm stuck linking to Lolcats, and only your aunt wants that. Steve Jobs's Greatest Fear Almost Realized: His Royal Evilness Karl Rove, has a MacBook Air. Good thing it's the model hipsters can't afford.&nbsp; The Swing Vote In This Election Will Be...Racists: What group made the difference in Ohio? Well, according to exit polls, Clinton and Obama split 50-50 those who claimed not to care about race and gender. Among those who did, Clinton won 57-43. I leave you to draw your own mathematical conclusions, but I should note that the explicitly anti-male vote outnumbered the explicitly anti-female vote. Not sure whether that's the kind of change we need. National Geographic Presents: Turns out that Texas is home to the least-populated county in the United States. The best fact, though, is that the Sherriff patrols the town with two shotguns and an AK-47—in other words, more guns than crimes per year. This is why the terrorists will never win. "I'm Carson Daly, Here At MTV Spring Break: Burlington": Vermont is considering lowering the drinking age to 18. Most importantly, this will allow Dartmouth students to finally have a landmark closest to them! Did You Invite Him? Because I Sure Didn't: A Bauer crashed a Clinton campaign conference call yesterday. Unfortunately for 24 fans, it was not Jack Bauer calling to ask "WHO ARE YOU WORKING FOR?", but Bob Bauer, Obama's top lawyer, telling the Clinton campaign to stop attacking caucuses.&nbsp; One would think that his mother had taught him not to trespass. Chuck Norris Facts Don't Get Old: Will the same be true with ObamaFacts? Somehow, this blogger doubts it. Obama shouldn't be sad though: you have to utter a lot of catchphrases before your tears can cure cancer. 
 A tipster forwarded Bwog editors an email sent at 2:48 AM last night by George Krebs' prospective VP of Policy Adil Ahmed. Apparently, Ahmed had sent an email to various student leaders describing his plan for CCSC: "When a bold vision is combined with concrete plans, I know that we can put aside any doubts and believe in and work together towards a more united, connected, opportunity-filled, and comfortable Columbia." Titillating! This isn't technically campaigning, because that would be breaking the rules of the CCSC elections' timeline, and Ahmed addresses this issue, explaining: "I am not stumping, and I truly mean what I say." Then again, if saying that "We all have common struggles, but it's beautiful when we fight through them together" isn't stumping, Bwog really isn't sure what is-- though we have heard the email circulated around a limited number of readers. The email is posted in full after the jump. Dear Friends, &nbsp; I am sending you this letter because I have always believed that the conversations we have had about Columbia and the work we have done on this campus mean much more than just words. We developed ideas, fought through ideological differences, negotiated, and found more common ground in the end than anything else. And then, we took action. When a bold vision is combined with concrete plans, I know that we can put aside any doubts and believe in and work together towards a more united, connected, opportunity-filled, and comfortable Columbia. All of you combined are members and leaders of various religious groups, cultural organizations, political interest groups, student councils, dance troupes, journal editors, pre-professional groups, athletic teams, theater productions, community service initiatives, fraternities, sororities, and the list goes on. The point is: I really want you to feel the excitement, optimism, and energy I feel at this very moment. &nbsp; I listed all the categories above because I truly believe that the breadth of bonds I have made have not just been because I was President of the Muslim Student Association. This role did not require me to build such bridges on campus. In fact, I do not think any campus leadership position would require one to make so many individual contacts. The reason I met all of you is because we have similar interests and ideas. The reason we continue to cross paths is because we have similar goals and visions for what we want our campus to become and represent to the larger world. &nbsp; At Columbia thus far, I decided to work with campus groups which would help me build a stronger understanding of myself as an individual with an extremely highlighted background as a South Asian Muslim student from a first generation immigrant and middle-class family. On a local level, I have always been involved with government, but I wanted to use college as a time to stay grounded before I headed out into the real world. I truly believe that no matter what lifestyle one pursues, they have to know where they come from so that they can identify and understand those around them. We all have common struggles, but it's beautiful when we fight through them together. We have to do it in unison, because they will never end otherwise. &nbsp;I have always acted outside of my own individual "role," having recently passed a resolution on CCSC to make course packets material placed on E-reserves. Save paper (cash and trees). &nbsp; To provide one stream of thought: Last semester made me realize that student concerns were not being heard or understood within the administration. Moreover, they were not being heard or voiced properly on a student-to-student level. There was too much action occurring on opposite sides of the spectrum without much cooperation; from Ahmadinejad's speech to the string of hate crimes to the hunger strike, the multiple students' perspectives could have benefited from another's point of view. &nbsp;Much could have been and still can be done to make students feel more safe and comfortable, and to make our University's resources more accessible and our red-tape more transparent. &nbsp; I am not stumping, and I truly mean what I say. This year's Columbia College Student Council Elections mean much more than what you have ever seen in past years. This year is about re-defining what it means to have leadership experience, and what it means to voice students. Let's do this. &nbsp; I want to be on CCSC because I want to work on these larger projects which can not necessarily be completed in a particular interest group and a lot of individual contacts. My shared experiences and perspectives with many of you are needed on Council. I want to serve in a capacity which will allow me to represent, advocate, and find solutions to the issues which affect us all.&nbsp; I will be running for Vice President of Policy with an amazing group of five individuals: George Krebs, Laura Doan, Robyn Burgess, and Ian Solsky. I truly believe that the five of us together make a great team. Not only do we already reach out to so many different campus communities and have a large amount of leadership experience, but we have already proven to be a great team. We mesh well, love our work, and understand one another's perspective. Moreover, we also know the bureaucratic system really well. &nbsp; We already have a well thought out platform which contains concrete plans to achieving our larger vision. I would share them all with you, but could only technically do so right now if we talked face to face. As the VP of Policy, I have spearheaded this platform to incorporate the needs which will affect many of you and the desires of those communities which would not have ordinarily been included. I want to help your groups and communities achieve your own particular goals. Collectively, we are what make this campus so active and vibrant. &nbsp; I would like to sit down, talk with you about some of my ideas, share them with your groups, hear your ideas and concerns, and get you excited about this campaign and about this next year. We will be setting the precedent for what student government can represent and achieve on this campus. We will also be setting the precedent for the class councils and for the other undergraduate student governments. If you are not in the College, I clearly still want to talk to you. Spread the word. Get your friends in the College excited about the next seven weeks. &nbsp;I want to get them excited myself about this campaign. This is a movement, and I want you to be a part of it. &nbsp; &nbsp; **Please return this email just to me, or call me and tell me what times/days you would be free to talk. It'll be a good time, I promise.** &nbsp; I truly believe that the change we want to create on this campus will create a better Columbia, but also reflect the changes that can make a better community on national and international levels. The real test is not what I say, or what I write to you right now. The test is how I have worked with you and how I will continue to work with you. My team is wholeheartedly supporting me, and I them. &nbsp; Enthusiastically and with all my heart, &nbsp; &nbsp;Adil Syed Ahmed 
 &nbsp; It does, apparently, make a sound. Or if not a sound, then certainly a mess. Pictured above are the remains of a tree felled during last night's storm. Bwog forestry correspondent James Williams was there to snap a picture. Arbor action shot (a log in mid-air!) after the jump. &nbsp; 
 You may have been wondering what happened the Wien Food Court, which closed last fall, and which had served juniors with bad lottery numbers greasy Chinese food for many years. It's been revamped to house Columbia's favorite health promotion program, along with Health Services' administrative offices, which moved in last Friday. You no longer need to wander around Lerner 7 looking for stressballs, condoms or health information. Just stumble on down from your Wien double anytime from 9 and 5, Monday through Friday, and check out the new office, complete with columns, a new coffee machine and yes, free condoms. 
 For careful listeners, the best soundtrack on campus is the rotation of Vampire Weekend, Radiohead and other indie darlings at Cafe 212. Bwog cultural correspondent Merrell Hambleton sits down with the man behind the mix. I find Café 212 manager Robert Bell working to hang up two small bulletin boards. "I'm actually doing something with the music," he says. "The music" he's referring to is precisely the reason for our meeting—Bell, tall with longish brown hair, dark framed glasses, and a neatly trimmed chinstrap, has earned a reputation in his year at Columbia for playing some non-traditional Muzak. In fact, its not Muzak at all, it's actually, well, good. If you're haunted by memories of 212's old soundtrack, you'll likely be pleased to hear the likes of Radiohead, Cat Power or the of-late-ubiquitous Vampire Weekend while you wait in the sandwich line. So what prompted Bell to buck the trend of non-descript instrumental world music and hit-or-miss pop (read: Ferris Booth)? The Virginia native moved to New York (Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, to be specific) in 2004, where he first "got excited by working with food" while working at an Au Bon Pain branch.&nbsp; But chain stores don't offer a whole lot of flexibility. According to Bell, "One thing that really bothered me… was they had this Frank Sinatra thing going on. They had it very carefully orchestrated, so in Hong Kong they had an Au Bon Pain that was also playing Frank Sinatra at 8 AM." When he arrived at Columbia in 2007, Bell had the opportunity to indulge his pop sensibility—which began, unsurprisingly, with the Beatles. "My dad had a copy of Yellow Submarine, which has got to be the worst Beatles album, but it had 'Hey Bulldog' on it."&nbsp; From there, Bell's taste has expanded significantly, though when I ask if there's a band he plays more than others, Bell admits, "there're a lot of Beatles on." (As we talk, "Get Back" is playing—part of the "Brit Pop" mix). Spoon has been on heavy rotation lately, and when In Rainbows came out Bell let the whole record play through. "Vampire Weekend and Cat Power's Jukebox came out a few weeks ago and I mixed that together and played that in the morning." Of course, Bell doesn't have total freedom, even if the boundaries are self-imposed. "You can't play Gang of Four; you can't play J.U.S.T.I.C.E. here when people are trying to study and digest." The music Bell plays is almost entirely his own. "Because of the way the music is set up here," He says, "I play CDs, so its not like I'm streaming Pandora… I actually mix CDs from stuff that I have, which fortunately at this point is a large amount of music." Aside from living in Brooklyn and frequenting the Siren Festival, Bell used to read Inkblot Magazine to keep abreast of new bands. "I think a couple of those people broke off and went to Pitchfork. PopMatters is another one." When he isn't re-ordering Movie Size Junior Mints (incidentally, these are selling really well) and feeding ravenous undergrads, Bell is in class. Intro to Comp Lit is the second course Bell's taken with Bruce Robbins and he claims to be "enjoying it thoroughly." Though not a matriculating student, Bell hopes to apply in the next year or so. Minus the Dining Services jacket, it seems like he'll fit in pretty well. So does Bell's presence signal a new, edgier direction for Columbia Dining at large? It doesn't seem likely. Ferris is still blasting the Grease Soundtrack on a weekly basis. Still, Bell says he'd like to get the Ferris manager's input. "I think he likes metal."
 Tipster Stephen Wang informs Bwog that Alma Mater is going to be offering permanent email addresses for its illustrious, tech-savvy alums and seniors. Users will get to choose their own display name (!) and the emails will be able to "enjoy all the features of Google's Gmail service while maintaining a Columbia address." So a lot like what every current student has been doing for four years. However, our emailing tipster already sends word of a technological slip-up: "You couldn't sign up on the first day it was available... because it was broken, already." UPDATE: Seniors: nab your first name as your display name before someone else gets it first! Ready, set, go. UPDATE 10:13 PM: Commenter reports that lee.bollinger@caa.columbia.edu. is taken. No word yet on the.butler.marxist, princeton.sucks, et al. Hurry, hurry! &nbsp; 
 Despite an official-ish interview with the Spectator on Saturday night, once-rumored CCSC contender Colin Drummond has decided not to traverse the depths of student council candidacy, according to Drummond camp officials. 
 In which... ...John Jay lounge becomes a sex shop! And a classroom! ...the LLC is cleft in two! ...Columbia isn't the only unethical landlord in Harlem!&nbsp; ...the homosexuals have infiltrated Iran! ...a Bwog tip proves inaccurate! &nbsp; 
 Whether for study or sleep, some of us wish the night would last just a little bit longer. With this in mind, Bwog presents a retrospective look at the most night-y night of recent memory. During the total lunar eclipse of February 20, Bwog's polyhistoric daily editor Zach van Schouwen ascended the heights of Pupin and snapped a couple of photos of the largest holes on campus. At right is the new Earth Sciences building. After the jump is the Barnard Nexus. &nbsp; 
 Dressing up to spend the night in your dorm Decomposing garbage in your dorm "Sailor-esque colors" Feminists breaking the glass ceiling of hipness And one unequivocally good trend: Judd Apatow stoner comedies. But before that, 6 paragraphs about relationship dramas. 
Because of this email, it looks like Alidad Damooei has filed a complaint against the Krebs camp for illegal campaigning before Spring Break.&nbsp; No comments from anyone right now, we'll see soon what the Judicial Board does.&nbsp; If Krebs and Ahmed are found guilty, this first violation would most likely result in 10% reduction in posters.&nbsp; Since an updated rulesbook is not yet public, however, Bwog still presumes innocence. &nbsp; -JJV&nbsp; 
 As Bwog blossoms into an around-the-clock Morningside Heights bird-related news source, we present you with two stories of from the cold-hearted avian world. First, news of a hawk kill. Alex Weinberg reports that around 11 this morning, Hawkmadinejad "swooped down and ruined a squirrel in front of Avery." Awesome. Hawkmadinejad photo, at right, by Alexandra Tsakopoulos. Meet a very special goose after the jump! While Hawkmadinejad wreaks his raptor's terror all over campus, a lonely goose is pestering ducks down in Morningside Park. He has been lurking in corners of the pond for the past month or so, when his migratory flock abandoned him on account of his gimpy left wing. A new flock is passing through the park, but has largely rejected him, even as he tries to teach them his (rarely successful) strategy for bullying the ducks. This goose is so awkward! When he hesitantly fights the ducks for bread, he loses. Small children point at him. Typically tranquil city dogs on leashes charge at him. College students photograph him like he's some kind of freak. He is! Because I have so thoroughly anthropomorphized him, I call him Goose Man. Any suggestions for a new name are welcome. Will this goose prove as popular as Hawkmadinejad or Nathaniel the peregrine falcon? Certainly not. Goose Man is not a popular sort of bird. But there is something endearing in awkwardness, and I encourage you to accept him into the Columbia pantheon of birds. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - ACM 
 About two hours ago, members of the Barnard community received an email detailing the chilling aftermath of a not-really-successful mail fraud scheme. Apparently, one Barnard student became quasi-entangled in a web of money laundering and stolen identities after trying to sell some text books. The email reads: "On 2/28/2008, a Barnard College student reported that she had used a Web Site to sell her textbooks. &nbsp;She was contacted and negotiated a price, $100.00, for the books and requested that the monies be sent to her mailbox at the College. &nbsp;She received two checks: one for $1900.00 and another for $2500.00. &nbsp;She began receiving emails and text messages to cash the checks and to keep $300.00 for her trouble; she was instructed to send the remaining monies to the purchaser via Western Union." Apparently the fraudulent check will bounce, but the money in the wire transfer will still go through. Or something. Which is somehow bad? (The intricacies of law enforcement elude us.) Also maybe the pseudo textbook purchaser could have stolen her identity. But probably not. Indeed, a frightening could-be cautionary tale. 
 The Bwog presents you with another recommended&nbsp;potpourri of goings-on to explore this weekend.&nbsp;&nbsp;Rustic smell/pinecone bits not included. (* indicates free, « indicates on-campus) THURSDAY New York Philharmonic with soprano Dawn Upshaw at Lincoln Center. See the NY Phil after their return from North Korea, with to-be Music Director Alan Gilbert conducting. &nbsp;Repertoire includes Berio’s Folk Songs and Beethoven’s Fourth Symphony. Also playing Friday, Saturday. (7:30PM, $12 Student rush) *« Persepolis screening at Maison Française, Buell Hall. The Oscar-nominated animated film about a young Iranian girl growing up during the Iranian revolution, based on Marjan Satrapi’s graphic novels. The catch: it’s in French…apparently with French subtitles? &nbsp;(7:30PM, FREE) « The Tallis Scholars sing Victoria’s Requiem at Miller Theatre. If you’re into early music – or heck, even if you’re not – listen to the well-known vocal group sing a beautiful Spanish requiem straight out of the Renaissance. Other composers include Cardoso, Lobo, Melgas , and Mendes. (8PM, $7 w/CUID) Eddie Izzard at Union Square Theatre. The last NY stand-up show this season from everyone’s favorite witty British transvestite. (10:30PM, $40) &nbsp; FRIDAY New York Philharmonic with soprano Dawn Upshaw at Lincoln Center. See Thursday for more info. (2PM, Rush Tickets sold out) The Met Opera’s Peter Grimes at Lincoln Center. One of English composer Benjamin Britten’s most psychologically stunning works, Peter Grimes is the story of a fisherman who becomes isolated by his village after the death of a boy on his boat. Directed by John Doyle, who received a Tony for his 2005-2006 interpretation of Sweeney Todd. (8PM, $35 Student tickets/$20 Standing Room) Eddie Izzard at Union Square Theatre. See Thursday. (10:30PM, $40) SATURDAY * Supima Cotton gives away….cotton? at the corner of Broadway and Houston. Apparently to celebrate its upcoming opening on March 14th, the store has created a COTTON FIELD in the middle of New York City. Supima employees will actually be giving out bales of cotton on the street to passers-by, so, uh, here’s your chance. (Assumedly daylight hours, FREE) * The&nbsp; 11th Annual USA Memory Championship at the Con Edison Grand Auditorium. Mental athletes compete to see who can recall the longest series of numbers, lists of words, non-rhyming poems, the order of shuffled card decks, etc..(8:30AM-5PM, FREE) * The 27th Annual "Making Brooklyn Bloom" at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. An annual earth-friendly expo where members of the Brooklyn community teach you all kinds of great green secrets, such as how to compost your food, or create an indoor garden to cheer your EC high-rise. Or, you could simply take advantage of the event to explore the beautiful conservatories at the BBG. (10AM-4PM, FREE with flyer from site) New York Philharmonic with soprano Dawn Upshaw at Lincoln Center. See Thursday for more info. (8PM, Rush tickets sold out) Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal with violinist Joshua Bell, Kent Nagano conducting at Carnegie Hall (Stern/Perelman). Program includes Debussy, Scriabin, Unsuk Chin, and the Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto. Pre-concert talk at 7PM with Professor Simon Morrison from Princeton University. (8PM, $10 Student rush) *« The Kitchen Cabinet at ADP. If you’d like to stay close to home, check out one of Columbia’s up-and-coming bands right down 113th Street. (9PM, FREE) Eddie Izzard at Union Square Theatre. See Thursday. (10:30PM, $40) &nbsp; SUNDAY (See ongoing events.) &nbsp; ONGOING Rendez-Vous with French Cinema 2008 at the Film Society of Lincoln Center and IFC Center. Fifteen French films making their US/NYC premiere in the annual showcase. This is your last chance – the event ends on March 9th. (Times vary, $8 Student tickets at FSLC/$12 at IFC) Biennial 2008 at The Whitney. “he seventy-fourth in the series of Whitney Annual and Biennial exhibitions held since 1932, presents eighty-one artists working at a time when art production is above all characterized by heterogeneity and dispersal.” Artists showcased include Columbia’s own Coco Fusco, Spike Lee, and &nbsp;many others. (Ongoing, FREE) 75 Years of Architecture at MoMA. You’ve got until the end of the month to see the exhibition that celebrates the MoMA Department of Architecture’s 75th birthday. (Ongoing, FREE) The Herbie Hancock Project at Iridium Jazz Club. An all-star concert featuring “Wallace Roney, Buster Williams, and friends pay tribute to the Grammy-winning pianist and composer.” (8:30/10:30PM, $35 w/$15 food &amp; drink minimum) From The New Yorker to Shrek: William Steig at The Jewish Museum. Your last chance to see this gallery of work by "The King of Cartoons." (Ongoing, FREE w/CUID) 
 In which Bwog succumbs to a terrible case of false nostalgia.&nbsp; Par for the course of other Barnard Townhalls, the lasanga, coffee and white tablecloths came out in full force for tonight's discussion about student activism at Columbia in 1968. After a brief introduction by two SGA representatives announcing tonight's speakers—Dean of the College Dorothy Denburg, BC '70, and Karla Spurlock-Evans, BC '71—the members of the Townhall were shown an 11 minute video clip. The clip was part of a larger documentary entitled Remembering '68, and featured interviews with a number of Barnard and Columbia professors and students about the spring of said historic year. Bwog would normally, of course, be happy to share with you what interviewees said, but because the documentary-maker—in a curious move indicative of some sort of activist-y universality or sheer forgetfulness—didn't think to provide the names of the people who were speaking as they were on camera. However, Bwog happened to be sitting next to a member of the Barnard faculty who whispered the names of some of the people who appeared on screen, one of whom was BC French professor Serge Gavronsky, (or as Denburg would later refer to him as "one of the youngest, sexiest members of the faculty"). Gavronsky, along with several other mysteriously unidentified interviewees in the documentary, described a protest in the spring of '68 in which students and professors stood in rings around Low Library. Gavronsky remembers student activist David Schapiro leaning out of the CU President Grayson Kirk's office smoking one of the President's cigars. "'If you're really involved,'" Gavronsky recalls Schapiro shouting to him, "'you'll come with us inside the President's office and smoke his cigars.'" Possibility for totally iconic Freudian vanquishing of the "father" non-withstanding, Gavroksky politely declined. The image of Schapiro leaning out of the window of the office would later make the cover of Time magazine. Other stars of the documentary described cavalrymen charging up Low Steps: "The sight of the Columbia campus and the police in front of Low Library was profoundly frightening," recalled one activist. "But it was proof that whoever we were, both faculty and students, that we were doing the right thing." After the documentary, Dean Denburg took the podium. She described the rallying cries for amnesty for the student strikers and the environment of unrest across the street. Apparently, there was a Townhall held to discuss the issue of amnesty for the students in the very room this Townhall was in. The babyboomers at Bwog's table looked around, taking in their current environs with stoicism and a gleam of nostalgia. "They should show that documentary to every incoming first year student," remarked one Barnard professor to Bwog's left. Karla Spurlock-Evans, who is the current Dean of Multicultural Affairs at Trinity, spoke next. Spurlock-Evans discussed growing up black at the peak of the civil rights movement and how watching events like the integration of a high school in Little Rock, Ak. and reading The Autobiography of Malcolm X allowed her to "live vicariously" through people she admired. "My armchair education was complete, and off I went to New York City." The most interesting segment of the discussion came when Spurlock-Evans discussed her experience as one of about 100 students to lock themselves in Hamilton for 8 days in the spring of 1968. Apparently, Spurlock-Evans had gone to the building because SDS had advertised that a band called Soul Syndicate (who, according to Spurlock-Evans, "sounded like Smokey Robinson") would be playing. Instead, SDS locked the doors behind the audience. "I was a reluctant activist," she said. Spurlock-Evans' humility and humor were a welcome surprise to the discussion, as so many conversations about the late 60s with babyboomers of a certain age often deteriorate into meaningless self-aggrandizing and false nostalgia. The Townhall as a whole was an extremely fascinating affair, and Bwog immediately returned home to sigh wistfully as she watched videos of the Grateful Dead performing on the steps of Hamilton. - JNW 
 Tonight in the SGO, candidates had to file for positions on the Council.&nbsp; The only big surprise seems to be that Colin Drummond, once thought to be vying for the Exec Board, has decided to challenge Mark Johnson for 2009 Council.&nbsp; In what seems to be one of the least contested campaign seasons in recent memory: 2010 and 2011 councils are entirely uncontested races.&nbsp; In other election news, the Elections Board should be coming out with an Adil Ahmed decision in the coming hours, Bwog will keep you abreast of the situation.&nbsp; Full candidate listings after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp;-JJV &nbsp; Exec Board&nbsp; Connect Columbia Alidad Damooei (2009): &nbsp;President&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Jennifer Choi (2009):&nbsp; VP Funding&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Donna Desilus (2009):&nbsp; VP Policy&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Cliff Massey (2010):&nbsp; VP Campus Life Veronica Colon (2010):&nbsp; VP Communication &nbsp; Experience Columbia George Krebs (2009): &nbsp;President Laura Doan (2009): &nbsp;VP Funding Adil Ahmed (2009):&nbsp; VP Policy Robyn Burgess (2010):&nbsp; VP Campus Life&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ian Solsky (2009):&nbsp; VP Communication &nbsp; Class 2009 Council Fusion&nbsp; Mark Johnson:&nbsp; President Mallory Carr: &nbsp;Vice President Brandon Shulman: &nbsp;Rep Heather Oh:&nbsp; Rep Zahrah Taufique:&nbsp; Rep &nbsp; Leadership Evolved: My Oh Nine! Colin Drummond: &nbsp;President Jason Patinkin:&nbsp; Vice President Colin Felsman: &nbsp;Rep &nbsp; Class 2010 Council Your Party&nbsp; AJ Pascua:&nbsp; President Sue Yang:&nbsp; Vice President Valerie Sapozhnikova:&nbsp; Rep Joey Goldberg:&nbsp; Rep Matthew Harold: &nbsp;Rep&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Class 2011 Council Continuum Learned Foote:&nbsp; President Sara Partridge: &nbsp;Vice President Tom Amegadzie: &nbsp;Rep Melissa Im: &nbsp;Rep Sean Udell: &nbsp;Rep &nbsp; At-Large Positions Academic Affairs Rep Gabriel Castillo (2010) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Karen Woodin (2011) &nbsp; Student Services Rep Molly Conley (2010) Aaron Edmonds (2009)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Priyanka Gumaste (2010) &nbsp; Pre-Professional Rep&nbsp; Melissa Santos&nbsp; (2009) &nbsp; Senate 2-Year&nbsp; James Downie (2010)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Monica Quaintance (2010)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Stephanie Wilhelm (2011) &nbsp; Senate 1-Year Joseph Daniels (2009) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tiffany Dockery (2009)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Billy Freeland (2009)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Rishika Samant (2009)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; David Zhu (2011) 
After six months in Glasgow, arts columnist still assumes there's bagpipes in everything. No fair: Columbia students can love their bodies -- or have eating disorders -- just like everyone else! &nbsp; As it turns out, major declaration is not as dramatic as Harry Potter would lead you to believe. &nbsp; "Bullen said she thinks that the 'giant letter B' on her Barnard stationery is 'stark and ugly. What does a big B mean? The big B is the big bitch.'" As it turns out, when a story about Columbia and Israel is reported by the Sun, and their only source is a right-wing blog, that story is often a big pile of crap. 
Welcome back to Cooking with Bwog. Bwog's resident chef is doing a one-week tour at a Navy mess hall, but in her absence we present a full Southern meal, a recipe that was handed down for generations after this week's chef's family had forfeited all its Southern roots by moving to New England in the 1920s. Enjoy now, y'hear? Fried Okra 1 package okra (shoot for 3/4 lb) about 1/4 cup white flour Vegetable oil Okra can be obtained at West Side Market. This is frankly unbelievable, seeing as it is currently early March. Don't take it for granted. Okra gets a bad rap because most people haven't had it cooked correctly. In fact, the one true way to make okra is to fry it, ridding it of the goopiness that damages its reputation in soups. Chop the stub ends off each piece of okra (not the pointy ends, though, which are delicious) and discard them. Slice the okra into 1/4" thick pieces, lengthwise. Put it in a bowl with the flour, cover and shake. Cover a medium-sized skillet with a thin layer of vegetable oil. Fry the floured okra until most of the oil has been soaked up, then for another 5-10 minutes until crispy and well-browned. Serve on a paper towel, for your arteries' sake. Collards Pasta 1 bunch fresh collard greens 1/4 cup light olive oil (extra virgin will do in a pinch) 4 cloves garlic, chopped 2 tablespoons dried bell pepper flakes (dry on a plate in advance, or buy them in a jar) 2 dashes red wine vinegar 1/2 package each of spinach/egg fettuccine Parmesan, salt and pepper to taste Boil the fettuccine. (Hopefully you have a large pot.) While you're waiting, wash the collard greens and chop then up, including the stems, into pieces no bigger than an inch and a half across. Put the garlic and pepper flakes into a pan with olive oil on high heat for ten seconds. Olive oil has low smoking and flash points; don't let it catch fire or start billowing smoke. If it does, turn the burner off, smother the flames, and call your mother to ask her to mail you some pre-cooked food. Add the chopped collards to the pan. Keep them moving! Toss them constantly until they wilt visibly and are charred slightly around the edges. Throw the red wine vinegar in there. Don't be shy, it's delicious. Grate a bit of Parmesan over the top. Don't stop tossing the collards! Add the pasta, mix it and serve right away. Thanks to the intrinsic awesomeness of fettuccine, this is also great as leftovers. Vaguely Healthy Fried Chicken 1 package chicken parts, cut small (Shoot for 2 lbs.) 1 teaspoon ground rosemary (Bwog is allergic, but you go right ahead) Several shakes of paprika Several shakes of garlic powder Even more several shakes of celery salt Pinch of savory (don't go out of your way to buy savory, though) 1 heaping cup all-purpose flour Mix the flour and spices in a big bowl. A good guideline for the spice mixture is that it should be an aesthetically pleasing, very subtle pink. Rinse off your chicken and drain it, then toss it around in the flour mixture until it's good and breaded. In a large, thick-bottomed skillet, fry the chicken over medium heat. Make sure you use a nonstick skillet, or you're liable to lose the breading. Fry for about five minutes without disturbing it until it's golden, then flip it over and do five on the other side. If it's a pleasing color, cover the pan and let it simmer on lowish heat for 15-20 minutes. (Now's a good time to make garlic mashed potatoes.) Remove the cover. For good measure, toss the chicken around on medium heat to get the sides nice and crispy, then serve it. Eating all of these at once provides 300% the USDA monthly requirement of flour and oil. 
 It's another lazy Friday, and Bwog's mind inevitably turns to the Wii, and a weekend of whiplash and wrist injuries. In that vein, we're opening up a contest for the best Faculty Miis. Create one here, post the link in the comments, and we'll award an exciting prize to the winner. And we'll post the best several, so they can be downloaded onto your Wii, if you're lucky enough to have one. (Bwog is not.) Bwog tried its hand at creating a Bollinger. One-up us, we dare you. UPDATE: The quality of some of your artistry, gentle readers, has really amazed us. Therefore, Bwog does declare an impromptu Mii contest. You have until 12 PM tomorrow to create a Columbia-affiliated (however vaguely) Mii. Link to your submission in the comments of this post. We'll pick the best tomorrow afternoon and feature them in a separate post. 
Our beloved NYU Diarist, in sickness and in health. The Washington Square Duane Reade has run out of Airborne, that slightly suspect "Effervescent Health Formula" that brags it was invented by a teacher. Whether the stuff works or not—I'm unconvinced but take it anyway—it's cold season, and it's selling. Classes have been two thirds full, truancy caused not by the brief spurts of nice weather, as was my first theory, but by a vicious illness that's causing we Violets to wilt. The Washington Square construction has proven useful, giving us deep pits that are an ideal final resting place for the dozens of bodies pouring out of Hayden Residence Hall every morning. The Square was originally a Potter's Field, the site of hangings as late as the 1820s, so it's nice to see that even in mass graves our freshmen have a taste for the retro. As much as Columbians like to deny it, our schools do have some things in common, including rotten immune systems. If one of our Anthro majors coughs in the Christopher Street station, his collegiate germs race uptown, along the express tracks, to infect one of yours. I was up your way twice this week, and half the people I spoke to were mired in illness. (The other half were French and, like all Continentals overseas, were susceptible only to Colonial diseases, the sort more common in summer.) You are dealing with your poor health in characteristic fashion. My friend Matt, who on a good week gets less sleep than God, has sinusitis, and complained that it hurt to breathe, that his head felt like it was going to explode, and that damn it, he was going to make it to 1020 by eleven. The quinine in his gin and tonic may have softened his illness slightly, but as I said, this is not malaria season.&nbsp; I haven't seen the statistics, but based on wild conjecture I estimate 19% of the Columbia undergraduate body will not see Spring. Most will expire at Butler desks or 1020 booths, while the rest will be forced by a stern physician to seek better climate. I implore all of you to take care of yourselves—even if you must spend Spring Break catching up on reading, you don't need to do it with a cold. I'll propose that our student government send a goodwill airlift of Airborne once we are restocked, and in the mean time, get some sleep before you start retching up lungs. - W.M. Akers 
Everyone's favorite artificial deus ex machina of friendships, the Housing Lottery, is almost upon us! Usually an occasion for last minute research, Bwog will be running a series of posts on all Columbia dorms, including a feature on why it's smarter to live with Barnard girls, and a point-counterpoint on living off-campus. This way, when your 5th suite member decides to move off-campus with her boyfriend of 3 months, you'll be so well-versed in Columbia real-estate you'll be able to confidently greet your new 4 person suite in Ruggles. Today: Wien. Wien:&nbsp; Wien residence hall, flanked by Jerome Greene Hall and the palatial confines of Casa PrezBo, doesn't seem so bad at first glance. “It’s not that bad,” you might even suggest.&nbsp; However, you will soon learn that it is, actually, quite bad. Those 300 plus god-forsaken souls assigned to Wien each year know full well that&nbsp;it surely lives up to its dastardly reputation day in and day out.&nbsp;Its cold, white walls, awkwardly placed hall clock that never seems to have the correct time, and the remains of the Wien Food Court, soon to be office for Alice!, will greet you with a pervading sense of eeriness and doom. Feel free to stop by the consistently vacant lounge that seems to be good only for the occasional Chowdah performance or whittle away at the computers in the second floor computer lounge, but never expect to be able to print a single document on the flimsy NINJA printer so kindly set up by CUIT.&nbsp;Upon passing the guard, you enter the world of Jack Nicholson in One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest.&nbsp;As the bright white lights shine down on your head, Wien’s&nbsp;awkward hallway entrance doors, added touch of chicken wire on its windows, and long corridors are sure to make&nbsp;you squeamish.Yet, you still might wonder what gives Wien&nbsp;a cozy institutional establishment?&nbsp;Perhaps it is the 86 square foot singles with toilets placed in the far corner of the room that allow for only two inches of movement between your desk and the bed. Might you be interested in brushing your teeth in you own private sink? If that doesn’t do it for you, why not pass by the showers with collapsing ceilings, tile cutters wreaking havoc throughout the hall at 9 a.m., and not to mention an elevator with consistently flickering floor lights. Maybe you want the fraternity experience you never thought you needed—it might please you to know that the frat members who aren't awarded brownstones are placed in Wien. Perhaps it seems that the&nbsp;sole saving grace&nbsp;of this monster of Columbia housing is the new laundry room on the second floor and the epic flat screen in the kitchen-lounge hybrid. However, it always smells like lasagna TV dinners in there.&nbsp;My best wishes for those forgotten souls who are consigned to live in the hermitage that is the Wien asylum. Hopefully you’ll be out by the end of the year. - Pierce Stanley 
 It's a rainy Saturday and, yes, it would be prudent to spend the day in Bulter, but don't you deserve a break? (Bwog thinks you do.) And there's really no better way to relax and pass a dreary Saturday than with a couple feel-good flicks.&nbsp; Here, Bwog has compiled a smattering of movies that will help ease your midterm anxiety and brighten your day. So cozy up with some Swiss Miss and popcorn and enjoy! (N.B.&nbsp; Some of these titles may be difficult to find on DVD, but Kim's will probably have the VHS version.) 1. Manhattan: A Woody Allen classic all too often overshadowed by Annie Hall.&nbsp; The&nbsp; story is&nbsp; pretty much the same&nbsp; as most&nbsp; of Allen's films.&nbsp; He plays a lusty, bumbling New Yorker seeking love wherever he can find itï¿½a search which lands him with a high schooler and later his best friend's mistress. With Meryl Streep and Diane Keaton. 2. Small Time Crooks: One of the few recent Woody Allen films worth seeing. The story follows&nbsp; one cookie&nbsp; manufacturer&nbsp; from&nbsp; near failure and foreclosure&nbsp; to fortune and fraud: delightful! 3. Coming to America: Eddie Murphy at his best! Murphy as an African prince arrives in Queens to find a wife and goes undercover as an employee at fast-food restaurant. 4. Trading Places: Eddie Murphy was so funny once, what happened? Oh, right. Enter: Norbit. Here, Dan Aykroyd and Murphy team up to get back at Aykroyd's boss and stick it to The Man. 5. Blues Brothers: Another fine moment for Dan Aykroyd. Aykroyd and Jon Belushi, in this musical-comedy quest,&nbsp; come together as Midwestern crooks and reunite their blues band in order to raise the money to save the orphanage where they grew up. 6. Raising Arizona: An earlier Coen Brothers classic. Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter steal a baby. Enough said. 7.&nbsp; Father of the Bride: Steve Martin charmingly grapples with the parental and financial anxieties of seeing his first-born daughter married.&nbsp; With Martin Short as a ambiguously European wedding planner. 8. The Mask: A Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz tour de force in which Carrey finds a mysterious mask that transforms him from a lonely goof to a smoking, green-faced stud.&nbsp; And Cameron Diaz looks really hot. &nbsp;9. Breaking Away: A young and muscular Dennis Quaid fights to win a cycling competition and break free from his small-town digs.&nbsp; 10. The Sting: An indispensable Paul Newman and Robert Redford comedy and crime thriller.&nbsp; Set in the 1930s, Newman and Redford play charming crooks who rustle together a masterful get-rich quick scheme. 
 Do midterms have you down? Are you spending too much time at the Library? Need a change of scenery? Take a look here and see how and where those crazy kids downtown at the New School do their studying.&nbsp;&nbsp; Yes.&nbsp; Art school students definitely do have more fun.&nbsp; Click here for specifics on the New School's course and here for images&nbsp; of Lang on the Hudson &nbsp; 
We received many submissions in our first annual Mii-creation contest. The following represent the top of the class. Show your support by announcing your favorite in the comments. Winner gets to make a Mii of themselves for a Bwog post with the of title "CHAMPION." Representing SEAS: Associate Dean/reported life-ruiner Jack McGourty Bwog's (intellectual?) crush, English Professor Bruce Robbins Soccer-enthusiast and economics lecturer Sunil Gulati Roaree, the vaguely mirthful mascot Columbia bonne homme Jeff Julian Avian internet sensation Hawkmadinejad Ahmadinejad inviting history professor Richard Bulliet Post-colonial theorist and serious person Gayatri Spivak 
Free Rotisserie Chicken, rice and beans in the Lerner lobby! It's delicious. Bwog already had some. Hurry up!
Experience Columbia will experience a 10% decline in the number of available posters because of the now infamous letter of Adil Ahmed.&nbsp; The Elections Board ruled in their favor.&nbsp; Full letter after the jump. The Official Bwog Poster Count: Alidad Damooei: 1000 George Krebs: 900 -JJV On Thursday March 6, 2008 at 12:58:32 a rules violation was submitted by Alidad Damooei of "Connect Columbia" against Adil Ahmed of "Experience Columbia" for sending an email on March 5th, prior to the beginning of campaigning that allegedly violates campaign rules.&nbsp; Alidad cites from the 2008 Candidate Rules and Regulations Article IV, Section E, "The campaigning period will begin at 9:00am on March 25, 2008.&nbsp; No campaigning activities, as laid out in sections of Article III and IV, may take place prior to this date.&nbsp; Candidates or supporters may not advance their candidacy or the candidacy of any other candidate or party in the election prior to the start of the campaigning period."&nbsp; Alidad additionally cites Article V, Section A, "All sections of Articles III and IV apply to emails that constitute campaign materials."&nbsp; Alidad furthers notes Article IV, Section A that states, "Campaign materials are any physical or electronic materials that promote a candidate or party in association with an election. All sections of Article III apply to campaign materials." In regards to Alidad's accusation of a violation on the part of Adil of Article V, Section A, where, the Elections Board has ruled the email sent by Adil does violate this regulation and constitutes a first violation as outlined in Article XI Section G. In regards to Alidad's accusation of a violation on the part of Adil of Article IV, Section E, the Elections Board has ruled the email sent by Adil does violate this regulation and constitutes a first violation as outlined in Article XI Section G. Finding that the letter sent by Adil Ahmed as a member of "Experience Columbia" as cited in the rules violation by Alidad Damooei of "Connect Columbia" is indeed a violation of Article IV, Section E and Article V, Section A, the Columbia College Election Board therefore, in accordance with Article XI, Section G, assigns a first violation penalty to the "Experience Columbia" party.&nbsp; This will result in a 10% reduction of posters calculated from the original allotment the party is allowed.&nbsp; Calculated from the original allotment to an Executive Board Party according to Article VI, Section C being 1,000 posters, "Experience Columbia" will have to surrender 100 posters. Sincerely, The Elections Board
 Hawkmadinejad captures our hearts, is captured by our camera lenses and Mii-makers... ... but he's got competition. Bwog correspondent gives us a bird's eye view of Columbia/Barnard construction. The avian version of Manhattanville occurs in front of Earl Hall. Recipe for fried chicken shows birds in a different, delicious light. CCSC candidates squawk about proper campaigning; a campus yawns. Photo by James Dawson. 
Yesterday, in our quest to educate you, gentle readers, about the ins and out of Columbia real estate, we took a closer look a Wien. Today, we move westward to Woodbridge—a place of dreams, deferred. Woodbridge According to the housing website, even the "worst room" in Woodbridge is a treat. I've experienced both ends of the spectrum, and I can say that there is a serious difference between options. Woodbridge is a building on the corner of 115th and Riverside that consists of two person, one-bedroom apartments. This means you can either share a bedroom with your roommate and have a nice sized living-room, or you can use the living-room as another bedroom and each have "singles." The Woodbridge lines are all different and some lend themselves to being "split" more than others. To my knowledge, A, B, C, F, and K are most easily separated into separate rooms, as they don't have walkthrough bathrooms and you don't enter directly into the living room. When I first picked into Woodbridge, my junior year, my roommate and I were choosing between Woodbridge and Watt. We leaned towards Woodbridge because of the bonus of having our own bedrooms. The only Woodbridge suite left was 1D, and we went for it even though we knew the light situation wouldn't be great . In retrospect, I would absolutely have opted for Watt—better light, wood floors, better condition. Also, Be warned, sleeping in the "living room" bedroom, when you don't really have a door, has serious drawbacks. This year, I'm in the J suite. In, general, I really like it. The living room is HUGE, the bedroom and kitchen too, and it has five windows that look out on 115th street—you can even see the park…sort of. If you're lucky enough to wind up with a Woodbridge suite all to yourself , it's probably the best apartment you'll have for a long time. Also, an added bonus: the Woodbridge superintendent, Jorge, is great. He may even teach you some Spanish. Perks: Laundry room, exercise room w/ cable TV, in-room bathroom w/ shower/tub Drawbacks: No computer lab, no dishwashers, ugly carpets, horrible wind tunnel - Merrell Hambleton &nbsp; 
We've noticed, dear avian enthusiasts, that photos and sightings of Hawkmadinejad&mdash;not to mention our other new friends Nathaniel, Pale Male and Goose Robbins&mdash;have constituted about 90% of tips we've received. Therefore, in the spirit of reader involvement and instant gratification, we are proud to launch the Hawkmadinebwog, a round-the-clock Columbia bird-related news network.&nbsp; &nbsp; Our hero, photographed mere minutes ago. By Charlene J. Lee &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Will the artist responsible for creating the pint-sized Jack McGourty please identify themselves as such in an email to bwgossip@columbia.edu? Be honest, and don't forget to include a Mii designed to resemble your likeness. Congratulations, and a special mention to whoever submitted Sunil Gulati. &nbsp; 
A tipster informs Bwog that a Colombia (with an "o") cultural group will be giving away free coffee on the ramp in Lerner at 9:30 PM tonight. Bwog suggests you leave a few minutes beforehand to avoid the huddled masses crawling out of Butler.&nbsp;
 Still can't wrap your head around the categorical imperative? The 2010 Class Council wants to feed your bodies and your minds at 10:30 tonight, according to an email from President AJ Pascua: "Take a break from midterm cramming and enjoy free ice cream, toppings, and CC study guides! Expect condensed versions on the writings of: Kant, Rousseau, Smith, Olympe De Gouges, Frederick Douglass, Bentham, Marx, Burke, Wollstonecraft, and Tocqueville. KANT Get Enough Sleep? will take place THIS Sunday at 10:30pm on the ramps of Lerner. We will not be emailing these study guides out after the study break so please come and claim your copy!" &nbsp; 
 Licensed music and university lectures! &nbsp;CC and GS... CCSC and overblown controversy. University Writing essay and travel photography! Columbia and losing...again.... 
 From Woodridge to Wien, we've covered a lot of ground already. But we've got to maintain a steady pace if we're going to reach McBain by suite selection. &nbsp;Ruggles &nbsp; With recent renovations in all eight-person suites and upcoming summer renovations for the four-person suites, Ruggles is quickly departing from completely carpeted floors and cramped kitchens of yore. Most eight-person suites have two singles and three doubles, while two lucky groups of eight can snatch up suites on the fourth and sixth floors that have four singles and two doubles; four-person suites are usually only available to senior groups. With an expanded common area down the hall from the suite's entrance, Ruggles is a decent venue for any kind of exploits that might irk your friendly (or not so friendly) neighborhood RA. And with the building located near Amsterdam on 114th, situated near the frats, Ruggles allows for quick access to campus. In regards to cheap food, Strokos is literally next-door and HamDel and Roti Roll are in short walking distance. All-in-all, there’s not much to complain about, except for maybe the thin walls adjoining suites. If you’re not careful, you might be kept awaken by some late night techno, courtesy of the soccer players one suite over. More photos after the jump.&nbsp; - Justin Goncalves &nbsp; 
Our White House Correspondent Jim Downie on the latest political happenings on the internet, the campaign trail, and beyond. Also: 2nd consecutive SNL takedown. Enjoy the show.&nbsp; Your faithful blogger has always been happy that his last name has been spelled "Downie," rather than such crasser versions as "Downey," "Downi," or "Downy" (though the last one may be the cleanest of them all - Heyoh!). Nevertheless, he was pleased to discover that there is a politically important man with a nominally similar name—James Downey, longtime SNL writer, and the creator of several recent sketches that try to play off a perceived pro-Obama bias in the media. As we'll see in just a moment, these sketches have apparently actually had an impact. Your blogger leaves it up to his readers as to whether he shares any of his namesake's ability at humor, but, of course, SNL is boring, it's been on too long, no watches it, blah, blah, etc., etc. And now, the news: Welcome, Mr. Obama, to the Meatgrinder: One big storyline last week was the press's increased scrutiny of Obama. Last Monday, Dana Milbank of the Washington Post chronicled a particularly tense news conference given by Obama, and just yesterday the New York Times wrote a piece about his fairly non-existent Senate record.&nbsp; Many observers at least partly credit SNL for the switch, since the still-popular sketch show ran a series of sketches over the past several weeks calling out the media for being soft on Obama (Senator Clinton also made a cameo last weekend). Fair and Balanced: However, the Times of course reports all sides (or, depending on your perspective, all liberal sides), so one of today's (Monday's) big features is on questions about Clinton's management skills. As one blogger put it, the election process has gotten to where winning the election proves you have the skills to manage the White House. Mulligan, Please:The other big news of this week was Florida and Michigan making fine use of Florida's unofficial state phrase "Mulligan!" The two states held primaries before the date that Democratic National Committee had set, and were shocked— shocked, I tell you!—to discover that breaking the rules has consequences. They were stripped of all their delegates by the DNC, but held the primaries anyways, even though all the major candidates signed pledges not to campaign in Florida and Michigan. After Clinton won both states (in Michigan she was the only major candidate on the ballot), she also claimed to be shocked—shocked, I tell you!—that the states had been stripped of their delegates. Now, the states want to do a revote, only with someone else paying for it (perhaps corporate sponsorship? the FedEx Florida Primary, only on Fox?). All your blogger can tell you is to check back next week. At Least She's In Stock Footage Forever: The 17 year-old girl sleeping in Clinton's 3 A.M. ad goes on record as supporting Obama, and says she might make an ad for him (apparently, the video uses stock footage shot six years ago). Pundits think she'll play a key role in swinging the Lonelygirl15 vote... Too Mean: Samantha Power, the Kennedy School professor who this blogger "hearts" (WHAT DOES THAT EVEN MEAN?) for her straight-forwardness, just got in big trouble for that same straight-forwardness. One of Obama's senior foreign policy advisers, Power said in an interview with The Scotsman, "We f***** up in Ohio. In Ohio, they are obsessed and Hillary is going to town on it, because she knows Ohio's the only place they can win. She is a monster, too – that is off the record – she is stooping to anything." The Clinton campaign jumped on the "monster" characterization, and Power resigned from the Obama campaign. One wonders what would have happened if she'd cursed during the interview (think of the children!), or if she could have avoided the whole thing by keeping it off the record. Hey, wait a minute... Even More Mean: Iowa Republican Steve King must have decided Power's comments were wussy, because he said in an interview with a local paper that, if Obama were to win, "the radical Islamists, the al-Qaida ... would be dancing in the streets in greater numbers than they did on Sept. 11 because they would declare victory in this war on terror." At least he can be comforted by knowing that Al Qaeda doesn't care about Iowa. Return of the Robocandidate: The Weekly Standard argues that Mitt Romney makes the most sense as a vice-presidential pick, both because he is the most capable and because conservative Republicans still like him. The minor problem is that McCain hates him. Whatever happens though, we should all respect the guy for getting this far with a name like "Mitt." If Reporting On Your Own "Kegger" Sounds Awesome: Then you should be a blogger! The New York Times led its Sunday Fashion section with this piece on Washington bloggers living together, especially focusing on Matthew Yglesias, a 26 year-old Harvard grad who's already one of the most respected and widely read voices in the liberal blogosphere (most because of his killer looks and svelte new laptop). However, despite all the acclaim going his way, these bloggers still have to live-blog their own party. Ouch. And Now, From Illinois's 14th District: A Democrat! Of course, that's not significant until your blogger adds that the 14th District used to be represented by former Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert, and is normally strongly Republican. It does not bode well for Republicans if they have trouble holding onto these sorts of seats. What's In Your Water?: Technically, this is only politically related in that it could explain some of Washington D.C.'s oddest people, but an AP investigation has discovered that there are pharmaceuticals in the drinking water of 41 million Americans. Since these drugs mostly enter the water because of personal use, it appears that these drugs can tell us something about the cities they came from. DC apparently has six different drugs in its drinking water, while Los Angeles has anti-epileptic and anti-anxiety medications in its water (obviously, it hasn't helped them). The best, though? San Francisco, where investigators found "a sex hormone" in the water. I wonder why... 
 Bwog heard rumors from CCSC higher-ups that President Michelle Diamond has spoken to Dean Colombo about the feasibility of banning Juicy Campus from Columbia's servers. He informed her that it's both expensive and impossible to do—though Zach van Schouwen could have told her that weeks ago. Also, Columbia's lawyers have advised against it—though, of course, the writers of the Constitution could have told her that hundreds of years ago. Mystery: solved.&nbsp; Anyway, Diamond is reportedly hoping to kick-start a campus-wide "pledge" against Juicy Campus, which would basically involve its signees agreeing to avoid reading the site.&nbsp; It's really all just PR 101: If you circulate a campus-wide petition against something, it will quietly fade away. &nbsp; UDAPTE: Gothamist has a screen shot of Juicy Campus (!), and links to our coverage of the upheaval. You can read about it here.&nbsp; - JNW 
 Bwog is a simple website. We like hawks and free coffee and pictures of babies in snow. But this morning Bwog was thrust into the unflattering spotlight of the New York media thanks to a fact-checking-averse ex-Speccie with a Gawker byline. You can read the post here. The story has inexplicably gained some momentum, and Bwog was later contacted by Media Bistro regarding our response to Gawker, which you can read here. We'd chalk it up to a slow news day, but then again Governor Spitzer was just implicated in a prostitution ring, so we're stumped. Que sera sera. 
 Sort of. First the backstory: The New York Times is reporting that New York Governor Eliot Spitzer has been recorded meeting up with a prostitute thanks to a federal wiretap. (Hat tip Patriot Act?)&nbsp; While Spitzer hasn't resigned (yet), if (read: when) he does, he'll be replaced by David Paterson, CC '77, making Paterson New York's first black governor.&nbsp;&nbsp; Some background on Paterson: he's the first black Lieutenant Governor of New York and he's legally blind.&nbsp; And, by all appearances, he's on SIPA's faculty. Statement from the Columbia Dems forthcoming after the jump. "The Executive Board of the College Democrats has made a commitment to keep you informed of major issues affecting our campus, our state and our country. We've also made a promise to take strong stances on the issues that directly relate to how we move forward as young progressives. Today, we continue to fulfill that promise, in light of the breaking news concerning Governor Eliot Spitzer. The Columbia University College Democrats condemn the actions of Governor Eliot Spitzer. Governor Spitzer campaigned on cleaning up Albany. His promises to establish robust ethics and campaign reform gave New Yorkers hope that new leadership could create a more effective and more transparent governing system for the state. Today, the Governor's actions have put those goals in jeopardy. His behavior may have torn the rug out from under a strong progressive movement in this state that was headed for success in the state senate elections this Fall. Governor Spitzer's conduct gives the GOP ammunition for the fall campaign in a way that could derail our goal of reforming the way politics works in New York. We emphasize the word could. Politics in this state is bigger than any one man, no matter how that man has behaved in his personal life. Politics in this state is about reform. Reform of Albany, reform of back room politics and reform of ethics. These are ideas that the Columbia University College Democrats have fought for across the state and will continue to fight for in the months to come. This is the moment as Columbia Democrats to rally behind ideas, and tell the state GOP that our ideas are the right ones for New York and that these ideas WILL prevail in November. This is an organization committed to activism and in that light we provide you with the following opportunities to get involved in state politics. Instead of shaking your head with disgust and saying we want no part in this process, we ask you to shake your head in disgust and then jump in to the process to create meaningful change. We cannot just be participants, we have to be leaders of this party. It is our voices that have been missing from the process and we believe, especially in light of today's news, that it is ONLY our voices that can ever change the way politics is done in the state of New York." &nbsp; 
 Although the formal announcement in all of our inboxes is still pending, the Times has already reported the details of Columbia's big financial aid plan this morning. The main points: Families making $60,000 or less per year will no longer pay tuition, room and board, or fees as of Fall 2008 Grants will replace loans in financial aid packages, including those offered to current students. Families making between $60,000 and $100,000 will have unspecified expanded aid opportunities. The previous threshold for no-loan aid was $50,000. (Harvard maintains the same standard; compare to $75,000 at gold-standard Cornell and Dartmouth, $45,000 at Yale and $40K at Penn). Word has it these policies apply to this year's admits, including those who have already received Early Decision letters. Lucky dogs. There's no statement posted on the CU website yet, but since the Times quotes PrezBo, we surmise that it can't be far off. Full statement after the jump. Bottoms up! Columbia University announced today that students from families with incomes below $60,000 attending Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS) will no longer be expected to borrow or contribute any of their income or assets to tuition, room, board and other fees beginning in the next academic year. At the same time, Columbia will eliminate loans for all new and continuing students in the College and SEAS who are eligible for financial aid, regardless of family income, and replace them with University grants. This enhancement could add as much as $20,000 in Columbia-funded grants to each four-year aid package. Families with incomes between $60,000 and $100,000 will see a significant reduction in the amount parents are expected to contribute toward tuition and other costs. For example, a family with $75,000 in income and typical assets will see their contribution decrease by approximately one-half. Through the replacement of need-based loans with grants, a student from a family with an income of $150,000 who is eligible for financial aid may receive as much as $5,000 per year in aid instead of a loan of that amount. “Columbia has a record of attracting among the most socioeconomically diverse undergraduate student populations among our peer institutions through our commitment to need-blind admissions,” said University President Lee C. Bollinger. “We are both proud of that diversity and determined to maintain it by expanding aid to the extent our resources allow so that our students will continue to benefit from the full range of experiences that are part of a Columbia education and, we hope, part of the lives they choose to lead in the future because of those experiences.” Columbia College and the School of Engineering and Applied Science will adopt a number of other policy changes to enhance the educational experience for all students receiving financial aid. All aid recipients will be invited to apply for exemptions from summer and academic-year work expectations when they engage in community service or accept unpaid research or internship commitments. For aid recipients studying abroad, work-study expectations will be replaced with grants. “Our new financial aid policies reflect a more realistic view of the challenges that lower- and middle-income families face in paying for college,” said Nicholas B. Dirks, Vice President for Arts and Sciences. “While decreasing costs significantly for every College and SEAS family that qualifies for undergraduate student aid, we have reworked our formula to ensure that the most dramatic reductions help those most in need, including students attending our School of General Studies.” The University also announced that its School of General Studies, the undergraduate school at Columbia for nontraditional students, will expand its financial aid program significantly next year. Peter Awn, Dean of the School of General Studies, announced a 17 percent increase in its total aid budget, which will be focused on continuing students with demonstrated academic success who have the highest documented economic need and substantial loan debt. Amounting to slightly more than $1 million annually in additional scholarship assistance, the increase will affect the approximately 50 percent of General Studies undergraduate degree students who currently receive institutional financial aid. Already, Columbia has the largest proportion of Pell grant recipients among Ivy League colleges at approximately 15 percent. Pell grants are generally available to students from families earning less than $40,000 per year. The new enhancements build on a September 2006 announcement that grants would replace loans for all families earning less than $50,000 per year in the current 2007–08 academic year. “Columbia’s national standing has long been based upon its twin commitments to inclusiveness and excellence,” said Austin Quigley, Dean of Columbia College. “Financial aid is so important because the University’s excellence derives in significant part from its inclusiveness, from the range of voices that inform academic inquiry and social exchange. In this sense, all students benefit from our financial aid programs, whether or not they receive financial support.” Columbia will continue to expand its well-established efforts to reach outstanding students from lower-income families, to be sure that the accessibility of college opportunities are fully understood by students and parents, especially those who are first-generation college-bound. The University pioneered such efforts four decades ago with its Double Discovery program, which became one of the models for Upward Bound in providing after-school and summer enrichment programs on Columbia’s campus for public high school students from Harlem and other New York City neighborhoods. For many years, this commitment to inclusiveness and excellence has been demonstrated by Columbia’s allocation of significant resources to early college awareness outreach programs across the nation, building contacts in communities that have been underrepresented historically. In conjunction with the University’s new financial aid initiatives, Columbia will continue to expand partnerships with almost 500 nonprofit organizations that help students and families from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, including increased outreach and sponsorship of on-campus and regional college access workshops for counselors and students. To provide further support and guidance to students once they are enrolled at Columbia, the University’s Campaign for Undergraduate Education aims to endow further investment in career education and student advising. “Columbia College and the School of Engineering and Applied Science have longstanding commitments to both the quality and the very broad diversity of our undergraduate students,” said Gerald Navratil, Interim Dean of SEAS. “These financial aid changes announced today extend that commitment by making Columbia significantly more affordable to an even wider range of families.” Funding for these financial aid enhancements is provided primarily by the generous alumni and friends of the University, through annual fund gifts and permanent endowments. The remainder of the needed funding will come from a combination of operating revenue, new fundraising and an increase in the endowment spending rate. Columbia is currently seeking to raise more than $440 million in undergraduate financial aid endowment. More than $260 million of this total has already been committed. Last year, Columbia’s most generous donor, John W. Kluge (CC’37), pledged $400 million for financial aid, half of which is directed to undergraduates in Columbia College. To learn more about the new financial aid enhancements at Columbia College and SEAS, visit www.studentaffairs.columbia.edu/finaid. For details about the new enhancements offered by the School of General Studies, visit www.columbia.edu/cu/gs/announcement. 
 Columbia joins the "Ivy League arms race." In a pinch?&nbsp; Here's John Kluge's wallet. Centralized planning, Soviet-style! If a facade falls on 110th street in the middle of the night, does anybody hear it? Burma Coalition shows some saffron muscle. 
From Wien to Woodbridge to Ruggles, we've explored many on-campus housing options this week. Now, it's time to go off-campus with Brooklynite Bwog editors Zach van Schouwen and Mariela Quintana where they will debate the pros and cons of shacking up in New York's better borough. PRO: Hipsters and $2 Beer Brooklyn! Behind every tenement door a hipster, and behind every hipster a wonderful electronic music ensemble. As one strolls down the storied streets and avenues of the fairest borough, occasionally one's mind is drawn back to the memory of living in Columbia housing. "Oh, yes," one thinks, "how strange a time that was. To think that I agreed to live in a 94-square-foot room with a complete stranger, wore shoes in the shower and woke every morning to the smell of garbage wafting up from One Hundred Fourteenth Street." Still, the memory is so distant that it may have only been a dream, an awful dream: you open a bar's door at random and find a beautiful girl singing clever progressive folk songs under soft lighting, and $2 beer. It is worth mentioning to visitors that there is, of course, no cover. Living off campus, in all seriousness, is pretty fantastic. The key facts: you're often saving money (What? Yes.) by not living at Columbia. There's more space. Bars don't have bouncers -- well, not any bar you'd allow yourself to be seen in. You get a healthy dose of perspective; at long last, you can be surrounded by people who aren't talking about Hegel. Certainly, there are downsides. You'll have to make friends worldly enough to travel outside Manhattan on noblesse oblige. And after stumbling down 16 flights in EC, there's nothing like realizing you have a 52-minute ride on a deserted subway back home. Still, once you climb the stairs and walk into your apartment -- which, by the way, has multiple rooms and a stove -- you'll wonder how you could really have put up with the indignities of Housing. -ZvS CON: The Chronicles of a Commuter Sure, living in Brooklyn may give me a certain mystique and an aloof disinterest in all CCSC gossip.&nbsp; But the guarantee of arriving to every social event fashionably late is not worth it.&nbsp; And really whom am I kidding? Living in Brooklyn has earned me the title “That off-campus chick” far more than it has any mystique.&nbsp; As you I’m sure have already ascertained, dear reader, I am here to offer you a list – a very condensed list, be sure – of the disadvantages of living off campus. Occasionally forgetting your wallet at home becomes a perpetually anxiety. Try getting through a day without your CUID--you will never will hate campus security so much. Relying on Cubmail as a substitute for telecommunication when your cell phone battery unexpectedly dies.&nbsp; Chronic back pain due to your oversized backpack, overstuffed with your laptop, notebooks, econ textbook, art history reader, gym clothes, a spare umbrella and whatever else you dorm-dwellers might conveniently store in your rooms. Deigning to use the lockers in Butler to store your stuff overnight.&nbsp; Think of it as your very own 3x1 apartment – and hey, who wants Scoliosis?&nbsp; Discovering that overnight use of lockers is granted on a semester long basis only after you arrive Wednesday morning to find your lock clipped and your locker empty.&nbsp; Your books, your camera, your laptop and your favorite sweatshirt gone. Arriving to every lecture five minutes late. Realizing the excuse “But, I live in Brooklyn,” doesn’t suffice since all your professors and TAs probably live in Brooklyn too. Taking a $40 cab back to Brooklyn after one too many Long Island Iced Teas at 1020 on a Saturday night. Taking the subway back to Brooklyn after one too many Long Island Iced Teas at 1020 on a Saturday night.&nbsp; Then waking up in a deserted subway car on Avenue S somewhere in Brooklyn.&nbsp; Then taking a $40 cab from Avenue S home.&nbsp; Living your life in two different places. -MEQ 
Elizabeth Rice, SEAS '11, is the champion. &nbsp; 
 Adorable schoolchildren from Williamsburg... they're just like us! Happening right now on College Walk, an elementary school class dressed in orange sashes and armed with colorful poster-board is protesting the closure of a Brooklyn animal shelter.&nbsp; Bwog approached the mini-strikers and remarked that Morningside Heights was pretty far from Williamsburg. They agreed. Why, then, were they choosing Columbia to stage their protest? And was this impromptu activism really a part of their grade school curriculum? "The owner is our teacher's friend!" yelled one. They marched on. &nbsp; UPDATE 6:44 PM: Courtney Bender, mom to one of the mini-activists and associate professor of religion, explains that the kids weren't from Brooklyn, they actually attend School at Columbia. It's apparently just the animal shelter that is/was in Brooklyn. Also, the protest is part of an "independent projects week." Apologies to Courtney Bender and the 4th grade class at School at Columbia.&nbsp; 
 Yesterday, Bwog expressed excitement that David Paterson--the black, legally blind, Columbia '77 grad--will probably be sworn-in as New York state Governor within a day or two. Which is all well and good, except Radar is reporting he has some (less adulterous) legal troubles of his own. Seems Paterson is currently being sued by a former white employee for discrimination after Paterson, according to the employee, fired him because of his race.&nbsp; Paterson, of course, is literally colorblind.&nbsp; And pretty much regular blind, too. Bwog's no legal expert, but this seems like a pretty good defense should this ever go to trial. 
So, Columbia has a new financial aid plan This is a good thing Or is it?! Either way, Columbia needs people who'll get better returns on its money...hire me, please? And in any event, is it at all surprising that GS got the short end of the stick? 
Our all too brief sojourn to Brooklyn must come to a close, as our quest to explore each and every dorm continues. Today: Wallach.&nbsp; Hey, everyone. It's Wallach! Wallach is the kid in class that really isn't the most interesting or social person but is certainly the one that can be immediately described as "nice." He is the kid you are surprised to see at parties, the kid who would never throw a party himself but tried to once and only his roommate's friends showed up. In high school, Wallach probably played a lot of Risk and got drunk for the first time off of a couple of Mike's Hard Lemonades. In college, he still just really wants to play Risk and maybe kick back and have a few red wine spritzers while he's at it. He has a good sense of humor but his stories are almost always about some awesome thing that happened to one of his friends once. Although it's fun to run into Wallach every so often, he may or may not be the kind of person you want to spend a whole year with. Don't get me wrong though, Wallach still has some great qualities. The suite itself is carpeted and spacious when compared to Ruggles or Claremont and my room has a fantastic view of campus. The common room and kitchen allow for comfortable lounging and the water pressure of the showers is ideal. Still, one of the main downsides to Wallach is that the social scene is completely stagnant (I think that I had livelier parties in John Jay). You probably won't become friends with anyone else in the building other than the kids in your suite—and with the mastermind behind the War on Fun living on the top floor (along with her family and two noisy dogs), the epicenter of the anti-drinking storm begins here. Although my own RA is relatively relaxed, I have seen a couple of random RAs walk into my suite and inspect the area for signs of alcohol. Even if these raids are rare, you should still proceed with some caution as any bottle in sight warrants an immediate write-up. So, if you want to drink alcohol in Wallach, just don't be an idiot about it by leaving bottles around.&nbsp; If you're looking for somewhere to be loud and have parties, don't live in Wallach. If you want to live with a bunch of nice people and enjoy a quiet environment with prime on-campus location then Wallach is the place for you. Wallach is a great guy, but he is more suited for a day at the ballpark with your parents rather than a night out at the bars with friends. - Michael Molina 
 Eliot Spitzer, the governor of New York, has just resigned, days after the Times broke the story that he was "Client 9" of a high-end escort service. Spitzer made the announcement standing next to his wife, Silda Wall Spitzer, who was wearing a very fetching Hermes American Flag-ish scarf. Spitzer's long-awaited resignation completes a tri-state trifecta of governors who've resigned in disgrace (after John Rowland of Connecticut and Jim McGreevey of New Jersey). Lieutenant Governor David Paterson, CC'77, will take office on Monday, becoming the state's first black governor. Paterson for Class Day speaker? = 
Last week's felling of the tree in front of Earl sparked a mild-mannered quasi-protest act by an unidentified group of individuals who have placed a papier-mache Lorax on the stump of the Tree That Once Was.&nbsp; Bwog would never suggest, however, that in order to create the papier-mache Lorax, the merry protesters would have had to have used paper, one of man's favorite tree-based substances. &nbsp; 
Bwog received a tip from one unlucky student whose internet was shut down yesterday due to copyright infringement—which can mean anything from sharing or downloading stolen music or movies to illegally copying website content. The unfortunate tipster has not been sued by the RIAA (yet?), but according said tipster, CUIT has reportedly confirmed that one other student has been sued.&nbsp;
See how your classmates live as Bwog resurrects an old favorite feature: Room Hopping. If you (or a friend) has a beautiful, well-decorated, tricked-out, gaudy, or otherwise exceptional room or suite, send word Bwog's way and we'll send a camera crew and reporter. What's the point, after all, of living the high life if no one knows about it? Gabi D’Addario and Tessa Rapaczynski, both CC’10, have been friends since kindergarten. Before the start of high school, the two went to French summer camp in Switzerland. The “camp” was a decrepit house owned by a man the girls knew only as “Monsieur.” The campers had to brush their teeth three times a day, and when their rooms were messy they were sent on “punishment walks” up a nearby mountain. In the rain. Tessa’s room was often messy. One bright spot was the camp’s foosball table. Gabi and Tessa became quite good at the game, and, when Gabi found an abandoned table on the streets of New York some years later, she saved it from the dumpster. It now sits in the middle of the McBain double she shares with Tessa. Floormates came in and played…at first. “We’re a great team,” Tessa said, “We just beat everyone. It wasn’t fun anymore.” Gabi agreed: “We were going to organize a tournament, but I don’t know if anyone would stand a chance.” A shame, but the foosball set serves nicely as a coffee table—Elle and US Weekly was stacked on top of the little red and blue men.&nbsp; A foosball table isn’t an obvious fit with the red paint, mirrors, and jewelry that covers the walls, or the room’s overarchingly Middle Eastern décor, but hey, it works. Even without the table, the room would still be several notches above the usual fluorescent McBain squalor. Gabi and Tessa’s extensive decorating job started when they realized they were going to have a very special double. One of the biggest in McBain, the room has a mutant super-heater to match. “Last year, the people who had the room before us had to move out it was so unpleasant. We knew we would have to make an effort to make it livable,” Gabi said. And after a semester of bugging Columbia to stop the heater from spewing forth a constant column of 90 degree air— “We would be in our underwear, with the door open, playing foosball,” Gabi said, “and people would walk by and go, ‘Uhh…’”—even the temperature problem has been fixed. All is well in the McBain “Red Room,” except perhaps the lack of worthy foosball opponents. They’re still on the lookout, and if you’re brave enough to challenge these two Swiss-trained phenoms, they’ll have their door open. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Why, the Fed is back! And we had thought 'twas lost! My God, Jesus is everywhere I look! One Scotsman has discovered China! In America! Dear me, is that a sexual pun I espy buried within the name of a Columbia landmark?&nbsp; A number of heretofore unknown facts are presented, and in the most delightful format. And, mystery of mysteries, it seems it was that chipotle mayo that had me feeling all out of sorts. 
 Those gungho-y-est of campus organizations, CCSC and the EcoReps, win this week's Bwog award for most funnest use of Microsoft Excel with their new website. One bar graph reveals that the average Carman resident excretes over 5 pounds of carbon a week.&nbsp; A pie chart proves that John Jay is an energy-gobbling monster, which Bwog's resident common sensicalist attributes to the kitchen appliances of JJ's and the dining hall, and which Bwog's your-book-smarts-won't-get-you-far-in-the-real-world arm attributes to high elevator use in such a tall building. For those less concerned with the time-burning joys of pie-charting and bad-joking, here's a feed of environews and the reason our roads will some day reek of french fries. 
 The joy of attending school in New York is that half of the student body has endured a subway ride with a stranger passed out and drooling on their shoulder. In the hope of avoiding unpleasant public transportation experiences, Bwog reposts its pre-break peregrination pointers ("travel tips" seems so overdone). And if you think this is a load of blithering idiocy, kindly email your travel advice to bwgossip@columbia.edu. How to decide upon the lesser of the three evils: train, bus or car? * "I'm going to Western Massachusetts, and booked a train two weeks ago to get there (already most days were filled up) and am booking a Greyhound bus today to get back. I figure the roads will be worse on Thursday&#65533;making Amtrak convenient&#65533;but not so bad in the middle of the day on Sunday, making the bus more flexible and economical." * "If you live in Philly or its environs, any Chinatown bus during holiday season will be packed with everyone you went to high school with. NJ Transit, though a foul, foul beast, is a less awkward experience. I plan to take a very early (7:14) train on Thurs. morning, which will get me into 30th Street at 9:30 am. I hear Thurs. morning NJ Transit trains are pretty empty." * "If your parents are visiting tell them to avoid the LIE at all costs." * "Penn Station is a ghost town past 1:30 in the morning." * "Triboro Bridge to Columbia all the way. And the secret best route to all points north (holidays only) is to take 155th St to the Harlem River Drive to the GW Bridge to the Palisades Parkway. Even to Connecticut. Even to Iceland." So you've chosen to ride the bus: * "If you're taking a bus, get a bus that leaves from Penn Station rather than Chinatown, you save a lot of time in transit on the Subway." * "I typically go to my uncle's farmhouse outside of Hagerstown, Pennsylvania; it always takes a ride on Beiber Bus, which leaves from the Port Authority Bus Terminal in a stink, invariably. It would probably be intelligent to bring potourri or patchouli along with, just in case. Or, if you don't have to go to small-town Pennsylvania, to take Fung Wah for better-smelling buses. Additionally, one must make a point of purchasing tickets at the counter, rather than at the electronic machine: Nobody can explain it, but there are no monitors showing bus departure gates at the PABT. Only the ticket ladies know; that is how they maintain their power." * "The secret of taking Chinatown buses is that the ones that leave from Flushing are less crowded (and harder to plan)." * "The secret of the Port Authority is that while the bathrooms claim that there are 'Plainclothes cops on duty', after 8 PM it's strictly crack addicts. The real secret of the Port Authority is that the pizza place on the mezzanine level has garlic knots and free ice water." * "Fung Wah = death." LIRR * "I've always taken the train home to Long Island from Penn on Wednesdays, usually in the later afternoon, and it is always packed. Always. They run more trains, but still every year I've ended up having to stand the whole way home." NJ Transit * "There are a few days during the year (around the 4th of July, Thanksgiving, etc.) in which the car is as full as it could get. Literally. Avoid NJ Transit the day before a holiday. If you live that close, your parents should give you a ride (goddamn them)!" Metro North * "Full of Wall Street types going to Greenwich, Westport, Fairfield, etc., but nice and empty by the time it gets to New Haven! As a side note: the last time I took the train home, at rush hour, a 60-something-year-old very well dressed and professional looking man actually punched me because I accidentally nudged him with my rolling suitcase. I was so shocked I didn't even say anything, just gaped and rolled on." * "It took me a really long time to realize that if you're taking metro north anywhere (Westchester or CT), it makes much more sense to take the M60 or a cab up to 125th street station than to go all the way to Grand Central, unless traffic is really bad, which it can be." Amtrak * "The secret of departing from Penn Station via Amtrak is to hang around the Red Cap counter, so you know what gate your train is departing on in advance. If you sneak around the NJ Transit level, you can sometimes get to the track before anybody else does (including the train)." * "Take late-night Amtraks from Penn Station; if you take it late enough, you don't lose a night out, and the fare is much cheaper. Then, you get to walk through an empty Penn Station, and if you live in a city that's the center of a metropolitan area, you get to see the commuters taking the morning train to work. Of course, you can't get express, but if it works out for your schedule it's pretty good, and you can have a bench to yourself to sleep until you get to the commuters." * "Don't wait until the last minute! Slack just a couple of hours (i.e. buy your ticket less than like, 6 hours in advance) and a $60 bargain turns into a $92 rip-off. Granted, this is, $30 cheaper than usual, but still." Airports and Planes * "If you're flying out LaGuardia, take that M60 for 2 dollars. It's a nice ride, too, visually speaking." * "Use Mobissimo to find discounted flights, but then go to the airline's website and book the flight directly through the airline. Those services usually just search for cheap flights that are offered by the airline, so you can bypass their convenience charge that way." * "Don't take a taxi to the airport, whatever you do." * "I hear it's much faster to fly out of Newark than out of JFK if home is out West. Like it's one stop away from Penn Station on NJ Transit, which is much more palatable than the epic subway ride on the A out to the hinterlands of Queens." * "For the flyers, JetBlue is cheap out of New York, and as far as I've been able to find out, not listed at all on the sites most people use to scan for cheap tickets. And if you want to go to Europe, you can still go round trip for under $550 with only twenty-four hours to go: book on Air India to London and then get RyanAir or EasyJet from there." * "Don't take the A to JFK. It's much better to switch for Times Square, hop onto the E, and take it out to Jamaica Center, which only takes like 22 minutes. (This is also the airport's recommended route from all uptown points). The A is an endless slog to hell, and you don't even get to ride the one good part: the two-mile causeway across Jamaica Bay." &nbsp; 
Careful perusal of the Bulletin has revealed that New York's governor-in-waiting, David Paterson, is teaching a class here at his alma mater. Because he is employed part time by the state legislature, the class was not due to start until tomorrow. Bwog intuits that this has been canceled. Bad news for the SIPA students who had signed up to learn about Urban Planning &amp; Charitable-Equitable Development! Sadly, only 17 people signed up for a course with a maximum enrollment of 40. Perhaps they couldn't figure out how a blind professor would respond to a raised hand. Commenters are encouraged to find the joke that must be lurking in that last sentence.
 Midterms are gone, spring break is arrived. Praise this little smiling monkey baby deity. 
 The first off-putting parts of "Exclusion Suite," the new campus soap opera, are the silences. The opening dialogue aspires to that cute, pause-filled pace that was charmingly offbeat before Aaron Sorkin pounded it into every episode of every show he ever wrote. But the tentative, plucky background music falls out of rhythm with the lines – oh, and the lines are terrible. This, for example, is the reunion of Natalie (Alex Kudroff) and Brooke (Alice Hu), roommates and best friends, on move-in day: Natalie: Oh my god! I missed you! Brooke: It seems like you were doing all right without me. Did you have a drink for me last night? Natalie: Um, more than one. Brooke: Aw, you're the best friend a girl could want. Perhaps this is a narrowminded attack – no soap opera has great dialogue. Similarly, it seems purposeless to attack a campus production for inane music and poor lighting. And it is necessary to commend "Exclusion Suite" for its one successful moment (and its excellent title). An otherwise infernal flirtation scene between Brooke and Greg (Joe Cummings) is made delightful by its soundtrack: the sappiest of sappy soundtracks and – yes – Natalie vomiting in the bathroom stall next to them: Brooke: What's the phrase? Single and ready to mingle? Would that all the lines were followed by the sound of someone throwing up – though it is a little too suggestive for the unentertained viewer. The strongest scene in the show succeeds because it so triumphantly undermines its attempts at sexiness. The episode drags because the other attempts at sexiness are merely undermined by their own unsexiness. When Rob (PJ Berg) gets in a bar fight, the extreme slow motion shot only emphasizes the poor job of faking the punch. And his braggart "welcome to the EC, bitch!" falls flat. When Rob trips over Simon (Michael Galante) and the two end up entangled on the floor, the staging of the fall is more awkward than the girls walking in on them. And then there's the clothing. Brooke, the feistier of the two female protagonists, appears to be wearing only a shirt and sandals in her first scene, and the effect is more appalling than appealing. Later she dons one of those hats that look like a knit shower cap. Natalie sports a skunk streak in her hair. Two of the three boys (who are incessantly referred to as "the boys) opt for crinkly oxford shirttails protruding beneath sweaters. While Brooke's wardrobe shoots for sexy and misses, the boys' never tries. It's merely Columbia realism. And no soap opera – especially at Columbia – should be realistic. - ACM 
IN SANDWICH NEWS: Gothamist reports that Eisenberg's has debuted its first Elliot Spitzer-themed lunch: the "Sandwich #9", which is apparently just tongue on rye bread. Ew. How long until Hammy's follows up with the "Ashley Alexandra" -- chicken salad, tuna, melted cheese, a failed musical career and some serious issues? (Note: This is the best joke Bwog has at this time.) 
The March issue is headed off to the printers, and you've already left for spring break. Still, please enjoy this preview feature from the next BLUE AND WHITE: A look at Brooklyn's next wave of debauchery. 24 Month-Old Party People Rubulad, the infamous bi-monthly debauch at an apartment-building-turned-commune in the badlands of Brooklyn, is a decidedly grown-up affair. About an hour and a half away from Columbia, it’s a converted warehouse that sits in the shadow of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, reachable only by switching from the 1 to the A to the G. After arriving at the Classon subway stop, the journeying partygoer must venture about half a mile past two stretches of housing projects, four gas stations and a structure behind a barbed-fence resembling a hybrid of a prison and a hospital. What I remember of my last bender—ahem—evening spent at Rubulad are attempts to claw my way out through room after room of sweaty, writhing, half naked and less-than-half conscious bodies before my escape was almost thwarted by a man wearing noth- ing but socks. On his feet. Sort of like Resident Evil meets Fear and Loathing, or flophouse meets rave. It’s been a while since I’ve been back. It turns out the people who run this classy fête have children—yes, biological children—of their very own. And they’re so proud of their new-wave child-rearing skills that they want to share them with you and yours. Future parents, welcome to Kids’ Rubulad, a monthly party for the less-than-inhibited toddler. As Vienna, a laid-back mom from Queens, said, “It’s really great to have a space for parents to hang out with their kids and relax without the pressure to con- form to anything.” Resistance to societal constructs aside, the space is pretty great, especially for children. Rubulad’s standard sultry red light bulbs—so perfect for concealing the wages of age and substance abuse—had been replaced by the wholesome schoolhouse fluorescent variety, casting a charming daycare glow over the kids. The kitchen counters—by night used to sell absinthe shots and pot brownies at the discount rate of $5 a pop—now boasted a buffet of non-dairy vegetarian snacks, juice, and marijuana-free chocolate chip cookies. Since Rubulad technically functions as an “art collective” while recovering from its collective hangover, there are lots of opportunities for kids to learn about free expression. The walls are covered in fluorescent paint and mixed-media murals that look like they were designed by Lewis Carroll on peyote. From the ceilings, plastic severed limbs and surrealist paper-maché sculptures hang, no doubt capable of stimulating the right brain of even the most bookish youth. A sign in front of a canvas depicting Johnny Cash-as-John Paul II-covered-in-feces reads: “Dude! I just got funding from the NRA to make my giant explicit anal sex sculpture at Ground Zero!” But all of the sexually explicit conspiracy theory-themed psychedelia goes unnoticed by the Rubulad Jr. party guest. Illiteracy is bliss. Commune-resident Ben—who had emerged from a bedroom behind an enormous cardboard airplane—described some of the afternoon’s excitement. “You guys should have gotten here an hour earlier,” he said. “Shit is so Lord of the Flies, it was ridiculous.” When we arrived, the kindergarten-age kids who remained were more than content with just plain old Play-Doh. Burnt-out parents sat on the periphery of the crafts circle and discussed how childhood phobias about mixing different colors of doh may or may not have contributed to their current personality disorders. One parent, Young, kept the kids entertained by making swords for them out of clown balloons, but he was careful to keep the environment safe and respectful. “If you guys are going to be swinging swords at one another, you’re going to have to do it away from the baby,” he chastised. Realizing what he had said, he turned to the infant sitting next to him and quickly apologized. “Not that you’re a baby. I didn’t mean to say that.” While the parents bravely confronted their childhood anxieties by finally mixing the red and green clay, the Rubulad kids settled into their future roles as archetypal post-collegiate Brooklyn-dwellers. Sammy, who is eleven, plays the djambo for the Hungry March Band (a 25-piece street band that made an appearance during last semester’s hunger strike) and likes to DJ in his spare time. Though for now he’s content bopping around Williamsburg with his buddies Nula, Liberty, and Illya, Sammy says he’s “not sure if the City of Dreams is for him.” He’s thinking about moving to California, where he can just hang out on the beach and meet people to play rock with. This week’s Kids’ Rubulad was complimented by the volunteer efforts of Dr. Ben Dublin-Thaler, who earned his Ph.D. in cellular biology from fair Alma Mater a few years back. These days Ben spends his days running the BioBus, a converted San Francisco city bus that a prior owner had engineered to run on vegetable oil (“6 miles to the gallon”), and had outfitted with a bathroom and a cast iron woodburning stove. After the bus fell into Ben’s hands—by means unknown in South Dakota—he installed a high-powered microscope, bought some lab supplies, and plastered the walls of the bus with information about cells. Though the value of his scientific inquiries to society at large (not to mention the necessity of his Columbia Ph.D.) may be questionable, the kids seemed to love venturing out to the parked bus. “You guys want to watch me torture some goldfish?” he asked with a boyish gleam in his eyes as he snapped on a pair of yellow kitchen gloves. Ben reached into a blue saucepan that had been sitting on the stove, promptly removed a wiggling goldfish, and placed the ill-fated creature in a Petri dish on the counter. Tweezer gleaming, Ben steadied the animal. The small crowd around him was stunned into a silent revulsion as Ben plucked a scale from the fish’s torso. “I’ve never heard any of them scream,” he shrugged. If anyone could be said to be in charge of Kids’ Rubulad, it’s Jessica. A free-spirit and a loving mother, Jessica was wearing a Peter Pan outfit and had just been dancing in circles amongst a throng of adoring, gyrating tots—for some, it seems, the difference between Big Person Rubulad and Baby Rubulad is negligible. Jessica got started a few years ago by throwing parties for her own son, now eight, out of their Brooklyn loft. For the past year she has held them at Rubulad, where she also helps out as the commune’s plumber. Jessica tries to create a theme for each of the parties based on the most recent holidays, which sometimes leads to slightly awkward combinations. As she spoke to her enraptured audience of candy-hungry treasure seekers about to embark on an epic scavenger hunt, Jessica helpfully reminded them that “those who discover the special containers will get to do some very special science in the spirit of the Irish Easter Bunny!” As we chatted, one especially enthusiastic boy ran up to Jessica clutching a strange frog-like plastic trinket. “I found one! I found one!” he squealed. Jessica poked at the completely unidentifiable object. “That’s… not part of the scavenger hunt.” She glanced around. “But you can probably keep it.” Most months the organizers make a piñata for the kids to take a smack at. Ben was kind enough to show us last month’s, which hung proudly from the ceiling, right next to a plywood rendering of a woman’s spread legs featuring ankle socks and a red thong. “It’s, like, crazy fucked up and beautiful,” he said, gesturing to the piñata. “Some nice psychedelic shit for the kids to stare at.” — Joseph Meyers Illustration by Maxine Keyes 
 Tipster Jason Patinkin relays to Bwog the following story: Apparently a man at the 116th subway stop fainted of what was perceived to be a heart attack or a stroke. The man tumbled off the platform and landed on the uptown track. Subway patrons waiting on the platform began yelling, and one ran upstairs to tell the MTA employees working in the booth on the ground level what had happened. Suddenly, a Columbia facilities worker—identifiable as such because of the logo on his blue jacket—jumped down from the into the tracks and traversed the third rail and started to hoist the fallen man off the track. With help from those standing on the platform, the unconscious man was lifted up to safety, and the facilities worker sprinted across the tracks to the downtown side, "because he's that awesome." The entire subway platform burst into applause. "A hero walks in our midst," writes Patinkin. &nbsp; 
 Several readers have tipped Bwog off that the cover story for this week's New York Times Magazine discusses transgender students, and centers specifically around Rey, a transgender student who enrolled at Barnard last year. The article takes a look at the treatment of transgender students at different universities--for instance, Wesleyan uses gender-neutral pronouns like "ze" and "hir"--as well as what it means to be transgender at a women's college.&nbsp; Rey discusses his first week at Barnard, during which his room mate felt uncomfortable that she was "being asked to live with a man," after enrolling at a women's college. Rey and his parents met with Dean of the College Dorothy Denburg about the situation, and it was eventually decided that enrolling in the School of General Studies might be a better fit. Rey now describes himself as very happy after an awful first semester. The long-ish but incredibly interesting article can be read online in its entirety. Also in the New York Times of Columbia-related interest is an article about everyone's favorite little-controversy-that-could Juicy Campus. The piece focuses on the aftermath of scandalous Juicy Campus posts regarding one student at Yale (who participated in an amateur pornographic film) and one at Baylor University (who was called a slut). The recent attempts to "outlaw" the site at Pepperdine University were also mentioned, but ultimately the student leading the crusade against Juicy Campus expressed regret about drawing attention to it in the first place. “Looking back, it was a mistake,” said Austin Maness, a senior who wrote the resolution but now feels that it only increased students’ awareness of Juicy Campus. “Curiosity killed the cat,” he said, “and everyone started going to the site.” - JNW 
 This April marks the 40th anniversary of the 1968 student protests at Columbia. (For a brief re-cap, you can read about Barnard's Town Hall on '68 here.) In order to commemorate the protests, the administration, along with several activist groups and student organizations, is organizing a three-day conference about the events. Channel all your false nostalgia into a weekend of lectures, tree-planting, and concerts.&nbsp; The event boasts some pretty big names including activist and former Jane Fonda paramour Tom Hayden,&nbsp; British historian and New York Review of Books contributor Tony Judt, '68 protest leader/SDSer Mark Rudd, and hometown favorite and former SDS president Todd Gitlin. The weekend will also feature such events as a Druids of Stonehenge concert at no one's favorite bar Havana Central, an investigatory, "large scale, multimedia narrative" fittingly entitled "What Happened?", and a closing ceremony/picnic lunch. Tickets are not available yet, but Bwog will alert you of when they are. Until then, once again, we'd like to direct your attention to a video of the Grateful Dead playing on campus. It's a lot like that time Vampire Weekend played on the steps of Low during Orientation Week, except you know, completely different. 
 While you sun yourselves in far-flung locales, remember, gentle readers, that the 2008 housing lottery waits for no one. In the spirit of steadfastness, we invite you for a brief sojourn back to East Campus.&nbsp; A Brief Guide to East Campus, from someone who lives in Wien&nbsp; Next door to the dilapidated honeycomb that is Wien Hall rises the stentorious &nbsp;edifice of East Campus. With its own moat-like brick-layed "plaza" serving little or no purpose except during Orientation Week (hotdog party memories anyone?), EC lives up to its reputation as a latecomer to the campus housing circle, a distant add-on to the cozy buildings surrounding the lawns and nestled down among the residential side-streets of Broadway.&nbsp; As an outsider, I'm afraid I have little to offer in the way of gross-out anecdotes about bathrooms or complaints about maintenance or broken doors or somesuch thing. I do offer a hodge-podge of general notes on the dorm, though, that might be helpful to potential residents: Your roommates matter big time, although it's likely yours will be hand-picked from your inner circle of Awesome People, which should put you in the clear. If, as a freshman, you decide to take the risk of being "excluded" in an EC exclusion suite, proceed with caution. Horror stories have ranged from "interviews" with upperclassmen who ask first-years about their sex and drug habits before summarily denying them a spot in their suite to pairs of tender outsiders attempting to survive in the midst of psychotic upperclassmen freakouts/binges.&nbsp; Three varieties of rooms exist: townhouses, high-rises, and 2-person flats. Townhouses include a huge common area with suburban island countertop. Creative and well-funded suites will use this space to set up a home movie theater, foosball/ping pong/whatever table, or at least offer their space for get-togethers and communal dinners. Uncreative suites will merely let the garbage pile up, the white walls go unadorned, and ignore the awesome kitchen setup. Again, roommates matter—you've been warned. High-rises benefit primarily from absurdly cool views and a decent living-room area with adjoining kitchen; doubles are versatile in that they have large single rooms, but before you commit to one, make yourself aware of the super-cramped table and kitchen areas. EC courtyard has been described as dystopian, and I won't deny it bears a strange resemblance to Oceania, with turret-like watchtowers, eerily lit stoops, and swirling piles of leaves and cigarette butts pooling in every corner. At the end of the courtyard, moreover, is the Heyman Center for the Humanities—there is nothing worse than Gayatri Spivak catching you nursing a 40 on the steps of a townhouse. Again, you've been warned. Finally, each floor of the EC highrise offers its own spin on the hall lounge: you'll see some floors with computer labs, others with exercise equipment and even a pool table.&nbsp; If you're an upperclassman, you stand a good chance of ending up in EC. And if you've been in the majority the past two years, you already know you have a lot to look forward to after McBain and Wien/Shapiro. - KER If you live in River, McBain, Shapiro, or 113th and would like to contribute to our housing lottery coverage by writing a post like this one, send an email to bwgossip@columbia.edu 
 For those of you who opted to stay put this spring break and work on your thesis, go to your internship, or just to&nbsp; avoid seeing your parents, we've compiled (a continually updating) list of activities to keep you busy. * designates free. Tonight: Mountain Goats and the Moaners @ Webster Hall 3/18 $18. (Note: this show is not sold out, it is the Williamsburg show that is sold out.) * Manhattan School of Music Percussion Ensemble: Marimba Concert; 7:30 PM @ the John C. Borden Auditorium Attention all dairy and hops lovers: tonight is the Cheesening at Pacific Standard. This Park Slope bar plays host to a tasting of a half-dozen different cheeses, from Wisconsin, Oregon, Vermont and Texas. You can wash them down with Sixpoint?s Hop Obama, a presidential candidate "tribute beer." Whatever your political persuasion, you'll probably be persuaded to raise a glass. (At Pacific Standard 82 4th Avenue between Bergen and St Marks Streets. Take the downtown 2 or 3 to Atlantic Avenue) Wednesday: Lots of new arrivals at MoMA today, including Projects 87: Sigalit Landau and Geometry of Motion 1920s/1970s. For a complete list of all MoMAs film screenings, go here. * Also at Pete's Candy Store in Williamsburg: Quizz-Off 7:30 PM. Test your mental mettle in areas of general knowledge, music, top tens, and visual identification. With prizes! * Lecture: Fashion 101: How to Start Your Own Fashion Line in Today's Market (with Mercedes Gonzalez of Global Purchasing Group). The New York Public Library's Science, Industry and Business Library; 5:30 PM - 7:00 PM * Panel: Voces: Contemporary Actions by Latino Artists (moderated Jose Munoz; featuring the work of contemporary Latino performance artists Nao Bustamante and Nicolás Dumit Estévez.) For advance registration e-mail public_programs@elmuseo.org. El Museo del Barrio; 1230 Fifth Avenue (at 104th Street) #2 or #3 train to 110th Street and Lenox Avenue, walk one block east to Fifth Avenue, then south to 104th Street. Thursday: Much Ado About Nothing at the Gene Frankel Theatre; Thu-Sat 7:30 PM; Sun 3 PM (through 3/16/08) * "In the Flesh" erotic reading series. @ Happy Ending Lounge, 302 Broome St. (B/D to Grand, J/M/Z to Bowery, F to Delancey or F/V to 2nd Avenue With God on Our Side 01: A Tale of Two Cities –A Conversation between Daniel Cohn-Bendit and David M. Reimers. Goethe-Institut New York; 1014 Fifth Avenue@83rd Street; 7:30 PM Friday: If the name "Socrates Johnson" means anything to you, you'll be pleased to know that there is a screening of Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure at the IFC Center as part of their Waverly Midnights series. 12 AM. (Also playing Saturday) * MoMA: Ling yi ban (The Other Half). 2006. China. Directed by Ying Liang. Poetry Slam at &nbsp;Nuyorican Poets Cafe (Spotlight: Ebony). 10 PM; $10. 236 E. 3rd St. Saturday: * The World's Largest Easter Egg Hunt @ Central Park. Egg-dyeing, Easter bunnies, Easter bonnets, and a lot of pastels. 11 AM, enter at 72nd street, from Bethesda Fountain and south. * The Lower Eastside Girls Club: Rachel McKibbens &amp; Ihsan (as part of the the club's Saturday Performance Series). 56 East 1st Street (1st/2nd Aves); 3:30 PM * Newmindspace NYC Pillow Fight at Union Square; 3 PM @ Union Sq. Sunday: * Easter Parade, 5th Avenue (49th-57th). Also featuring pastels and springtime merriment.&nbsp; 10 AM-4 PM. * ASSSSCATS at the UCB theatre Sunday nights. For the SNL afficianodos among us. 9:30 PM. If you know of anything else worth adding to the calendar, send information to bwgossip@columbia.edu and we'll add it to the list.&nbsp; 
 Because of self-described "logistical complications", the Winter 2007 edition of AdHoc could not be printed in Winter 2007. It is, however, now available online. Winter 2007, how we've missed thee! It seems like only yesterday that... ...tents (and one especially hungry sea creature) were set up on the lawn ...a doodle unable to be undid was scribbled in SIPA ...there was also a second kind of graffiti&nbsp; ...the future of a certain stretch of land was uncertain ...Bwog was Googling around for the plural of "noose." ...the Met celebrated dead white men.&nbsp; 
 Campus Character: Jeffrey Hunter Northrop II By Alexander Statman, Illustration by Maxine Keyes Wise men have said that what is closest is also most distant. So for social and holistic learning, I sought a teacher as widely known as he is little understood.&nbsp; From the hallowed halls of Butler to the fertile fields&nbsp; of the South Lawn, there could be no greater guide along the way to self-improvement than Jeffrey Hunter Northrop II, CC ‘08.5. Like most success stories, Jeffrey’s began on a&nbsp; wayward path. And like many such paths, it began in Connecticut. As a first-year in 2003, young Jeffrey arrived in the big city and, like St. Augustine, was drawn toward debauchery and sin. “I own up to my actions of freshman year. I deserved a lot of the shit I’ve been given,” Jeffrey recalls. The five-year-old rumors still fly: St. A’s parties and sleepless nights, Barnard girls and Barnard dorms. Everything was out of control, and Jeffrey’s life became “unmanageable.” So he took a one-year medical leave to put his affairs in order, and has been sober since December 2004. His only remaining chemical vice is a daily hookah habit—one that he indulges morning, noon and night. Jeffrey may have made his reputation in raunchier days and nefarious ways, but his live-hard ethic survives. To study with Jeffrey is to study like Jeffrey, and that means in Butler Library: “I love Butler. It’s my haven.” But Jeffrey, I reply, Butler clouds the mind. “You need to go to the fourth floor. It’s really all about the fourth floor.” On&nbsp; Butler Four, Jeffrey maintains his shrine to the intellect. Until four AM, he fuels himself with an array of books, energy snacks, and most importantly, Red Bull: “Sugar free, of course. It’s healthier.” Artificial sweeteners, healthy? Jeffrey clarifies, “Well, unhealthy, maybe, but better for your fitness physique.” A healthy mind requires a healthy body. Both require dedication. “I literally cannot do work until I’ve been to the gym. Even with a 102 degree fever.” Talk about burning calories! As he surveys the land from the backseat of a taxi on Broadway, a gym catches his attention: “Oh shit! That’s the new Equinox!” Jeffrey is a member of three gyms and he works out for about 1.5 hours a day. Jeffrey’s honesty is remarkable:&nbsp; “I like to look good.” Don’t we all? Without spite or judgment and always with a smile, Jeffrey rejects pretense. Jeffrey encouraged my own budding athletic devotion with a grocery bag filled with two kinds of protein mix and three energy snacks. I was naturally suspicious of the SYNTH-6™ Multi-Functional Micellar Protein Matrix and the NITRIX™, N.O.-XPLODE™, CELLMASS™ and ASTRO-PHEX™, but he assured me that they do indeed maximize physique and performance impact. His rippling&nbsp; biceps and washboard abs, memorialized for all time in a Facebook photo album entitled “Money&nbsp; and Sex,” seemed a good indication. Convinced, I took a big bite of a protein-chocolate chip cookie. It was pretty good. Even though fun-enhancing drugs are out of the picture, Jeffrey’s lifestyle still allows ample time for play. In the last year, Jeffrey has taken up polo,&nbsp; a sport “more addictive than drugs.” “The best fields are in Barbados. They flatten them with lasers.&nbsp; But Jamaica is still pretty good.” Jeffrey’s enthusiasm extends from the polo field to the dance floor. “People ask me, how do you know the owner of every main club, like Bungalow Eight, Beatrice and Waverly Inn?” The trick is simple: networking. “Mostly, I try to be a nice person.” And Jeffrey is nice to everyone, not just the high-powered&nbsp; socialites and Adonises with whom he regularly associates. From hookah salesmen to cab drivers,&nbsp; he wears his gregarious and friendly nature on his muscle-shirt (half)sleeve. 
 A month after GQ featured Vampire Weekend, once again a Columbia alum is profiled in the men's mag. This time, it's blonde blogger and prospective first-daughter Meghan McCain, CC '07. It's an odd interview, as even the writer—who happens to be the deputy online editor at The New Republic—admits. Initially, McCain treats the readers to an insider's look at her refrigerator, revealing two types of beer and twelve cups of Jell-O. The conversation then turns to her time at Columbia ("I loved it!") to her film and television recommendations: “It’s a bisexual-dating show!” McCain says of A Shot of Love with Tila Tequila. “It’s hilarious!” Talk soon turns to politics, as that is (ostensibly, at least) the reason she's being profiled in the first place. Meghan on Obama: "I think universally women find him attractive. Whatever." Meghan on the early days of her father's campaign: “Over the summer, it was like we were uncool."&nbsp; Anyway, you can read the entire profile for yourself if you're interested in what type of guys Meghan is into and not into.&nbsp; (Hint: bad boys who wear Converse sneakers and investment bankers, respectively.) 
Jeffrey Sachs was on the Daily Show last night to promote his new book, Common Wealth, in what turns out to be the least entertaining Daily Show interview ever. It's repetitive and vague; Sachs says we all must work together to fix the world's problems, Stewart asks which problems we must solve, Sachs then names about 5 problems and says we must work together to fix them, etc. Stewart concludes the interview with an awkward, nonsensical joke about Poland and then it's all over. Like it never even happened.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The Center for Buddhist Studies just released the recording of a panel entitled "Tibet's Future... Does it Have One?" The discussion features prominent Tibet and Buddhism scholars Robert Thurman, John Kenneth Knaus, Amit A. Pandya, and John Tkacik. The roundtable is a particularly topical one: Last week, for the first time since 1989, ethnic Tibetans publicly demonstrated against Chinese rule. China has since expelled all foreign media from Tibet and shut down access to the internet. Discrepancies in the purported number of Tibetan deaths have also arisen, with the Tibetan government claiming nearly a hundred dead, and the Chinese government saying just seven. As the semester's coursework has come to an all-too-brief halt, now is as good a time as any to learn about something you might not have known about before. (And it's only going to get more press coverage as the Olympics approach.) Plus, Robert Thurman's voice is hypnotic. Trust us. &nbsp; 
 Bwog now supports the emailing of posts! Please feel free to use the Email buttons at the bottom of each one to send them to friends, family, strangers and enemies who you feel deserve extremely witty spam. We'll have tracking of most emailed posts once we've been doing it for awhile. Enjoy! 
 While some of us are still recovering from the first half of this semester, many of our more motivated, forward-thinking peers are already thinking about their fall classes (I know, I know). Hard to believe, but the course directory has already been updated with next year's courses.&nbsp; Problem is, as many tipsters and readers have noticed, CULPA seems to be down. And without CULPA, there's simply no way to tell the easiest way to fulfill your major cultures or math requirement. (Although, regarding the latter: it's Intro. to Symbolic Logic). Anyway, the reason for CULPA's flaky existence may be the site's lack of a webmaster. In August 2007, CULPA announced that they would be looking for a new webmaster, as the old one had graduated the previous May. A tech-savvy tipster informs Bwog that it is his understanding that CULPA never found its webmaster, which explains why the site's been down. Bwog emailed Seth Berliner, the CC' 08er in charge of CULPA, who explained that he isn't sure what's causing CULPA's blankness. "Though I can tell you that it's blank for me when I login to the site.&nbsp; Also, we periodically have experienced technical problems this year, most of them related to an upgrade of our server, I believe."&nbsp; Berliner explains that the CULPA team is working together to pinpoint what's causing the blankness. Bwog will update with further developments. &nbsp; 
 Tipster Josh Mathew informs Bwog that Westside Market "will soon be using only biodegradable plastic bags and that customers will also have the option of purchasing reusable bags for 99 cents." An environmentally-sound way to transport your fresh, delicious, and fairly-priced groceries from 110th to your dorm. How lovely. Meanwhile, what say you, Morton Williams? Your convenience can only blind us from your mediocrity for so long. And then perhaps a time will come when we will be consistently motivated to walk the extra six blocks to Westside Market. The winds of change are blowing south. 
 As we reported earlier, last week, a Columbia facilities employee jumped three tracks to save a man who had fallen off the subway platform. (Though apparently, the fallen man had fallen due to drunkenness, and not a stroke.) The facilities worked is Veeramuthu Kalimuthu (known as Kali), and his story has since been picked up by Gawker, WCBS, and the Drudge Report. You can watch WCBS' interview here, by clicking on the "Watercooler" on the right. Remember how we also reported that he had gone back and jumped over the rails to get back to the other side of the subway? According to WCBS, it was so that he could get back home to his wife and kids. (Aw!) Kali for class speaker!&nbsp; 
 Break is drawing to a close, and the housing lottery is fast approaching. Use your last weekday off to acquaint yourself with the next dorm in our 2008 housing series: Nussbaum. You could do a whole lot worse than 600 W. 113th Street, a.k.a. Nussbaum. To begin, Nussbaum’s in a great location – equidistant from two subway stops and close to what passes as Morningside haute cuisine (Milano Market is across the street, Community Food and Juice is down the block, Roti Roll is a hop, skip, and a jump away). Nussbaum is also a lot closer to campus than it seems to be, although if you have an early morning class in Pupin or Fayerweather, you’ll probably have to allow yourself more than five minutes to get there. Columbia students inhabit only half of Nussbaum, which means that you’re bound to bump into unfriendly, older residents and their tiny dogs every now and then. However, Nussbaum’s borderline status as a Columbia dorm also leads to a few major pluses. Most of the security guards in this building are familiar enough with residents that they’ll allow Nussbaum denizens to walk past the front desk without swiping in. They’re also pretty lax about signing in visitors. Members of the building’s maintenance staff are incredibly helpful and quick to address concerns. If you have roaches or the mirror on your wardrobe isn’t hung correctly, you can just run downstairs and notify someone instead of going through the red tape of submitting a maintenance request through the housing website. The paucity of students in Nussbaum means that each R.A. is responsible for two floors, so it’s unlikely that you’ll ever be caught drinking if you’re underage. While most singles and doubles are spacious and airy, it’s possible to get stuck in a room that faces the shaft and is small enough to necessitate bunk beds. I live in one of those rooms (note our breathtaking view), although, to be fair, the fact that my roommate and I have our own bathroom partially makes up for being cramped.&nbsp; Then again, we also have to clean the bathroom ourselves and buy our own toilet paper, so it all evens out. Suites here are really just individual rooms that share a kitchen (with two fridges – another plus) and are connected by a long hallway. As a result, Nussbaum doesn’t easily facilitate mass socializing. Every suite has a common room, but they tend to be unwelcoming and creepy – ours contains only two chairs and a TV that flickers like the videotape in The Ring. The washing machines don’t take quarters – in order to do laundry, you have to put money on a special card that your R.A. will hand out at the beginning of the year using a machine that only takes fives, tens, or twenties. For some reason, LaundryView doesn’t show which Nussbaum washers and dryers are in use; it can be pretty frustrating to get all the way to the basement before you find out that there aren’t any open machines. Then there’s the ancient, stoop-shouldered man who sporadically shuffles into the lobby, sits on the arm of one of the couches, and stares for hours at the mailboxes that line the opposite wall. It wouldn’t be so bad if he didn’t smell so strongly of urine that the odor permeates the entire ground floor and remains even after he’s left. I guess this is the price you pay for a clean, conveniently placed dorm that straddles the line between on and off campus living. - Hillary Busis. Photos by Alex Symonds. 
 Not even a fortnight since Eliot Spitzer's resignation, problems with New York's newest governor, David Paterson (CC '77), have already surfaced. The New York Daily News is reporting that Paterson had used campaign funds to purchase clothing, bar tabs, and hotel stays at a Quality Inn on the Upper West Side (at which to carry on extramarital affairs, naturally). He also apparently gave one of his girlfriends $500 in July 2002, but his aides were later quoted as saying that he "misstated" that he had done that. Paterson explains that one of his girlfriends, Lila Kirton, had attended a campaign event, and therefore the $500 he used to reimburse her was a "professional" expense. Paterson maintains that he paid back these expenses (well, most of them). However, this doesn't change the fact that politicians aren't allowed to use campaign money for non-campaign-related expenses. If Paterson is forced to resign, next in line for the governorship is Eliot Spitzer-mortal-enemy Joseph Bruno, the New York State Senate Majority Leader. 
 Matt Damon-fucking comedienne Sarah Silverman is coming to Lerner Hall! Silverman will be performing stand-up on May 9th to benefit Project ALS, an organization which benefits Lou Gerhig's Disease research. Tickets are a minimum of $100 each (and $500 for a VIP ticket), so if you're feeling really (really) generous, best to book early.&nbsp;
 The past week was also NYU's spring break, and our downtown diarist found himself on a cross-country sojourn to the City of Angels. He has since returned eastward with harrowing and enlightening tales of Southern California. Probably we should all move to California. Not for the sun or a chance in Hollywood—if we wanted clear skies and hope we wouldn't have come to New York—but for LA's impossible size. To the students of NYU and Columbia, this unabashedly fake paradise could offer a dose of honesty. The city is hideous, yes, and any beauty or culture it may have had in the 1950s has been eaten away by the smog and covered up by plastic surgery. But its landscape of strip malls and concrete, punctuated almost ironically by the occasional bunch of palms, is infinite in a way that Manhattan isn't. &nbsp; It's not so much a metropolis as a collection of medium sized cities, each washed out in its own way. Between the traffic and the town's size it takes forever to get anywhere, but as consolation most of the places one goes are as dull as sitting in the car. Hurrying is impossible, keeping the youth of the city from pretending that racing down the steps of the subway is the same as being an embattled hustler. The atmosphere of New York—that vaunted "energy" that is so often written about—gives ordinary young people an excuse to feel tough. At home in Nashville for break, reminiscing about Rubulad and the terrors of gentrification lets the speaker build himself into something he isn't—something better than his home town—to feel tough even if those listening smell fraud. Living in a town that is comfortable with the banal would strip us of that privelege, forcing us to define ourselves as something beyond the city where we live.&nbsp; It's easy to hate Los Angeles because the people here are so keen to relax. Good God, they tan! They have A/C! They wear velour! How can they stand being so content?! Recent arrivals to New York are nostalgic for the danger of the late 70s and early 90s, when life and rent were both cheap, and LA is considered the opposite of that tough-as-nails fantasy. But the problem with living in Manhattan and loathing Los Angeles from across the country is that living in LA would be ugly and withering in a way we only pretend New York to be. From the dry canals to the overblown mansions of the hills, it's a wonderful city in which to be truly miserable.&nbsp; Anything cool in New York is quickly written off: first as tired, then as predictable, and finally a tourist trap. Los Angeles, meanwhile, is overflowing. There's so much shit here, from ugly restaurants to half-dead bars, that some of it must be cool and much of it must be undiscovered. If you want to hate what's around you, if you want to be left alone, there's no better place than LA, which is as much desert as oasis. And there's nothing over two stories, so there's never anything towering between you and the sun. - W.M. Akers 
 Over the holiday bwog freelancer Kate Linthicum headed north with four friends and a loose agenda: rollick through Buffalo, Toronto and Montreal, make some art, and do it all for cheap. On Monday we packed ourselves into a borrowed van and fled the city. Goodbye thesis, goodbye job, goodbye anxieties about post-graduation life. In Poughkeepsie we stopped at a friend's house and jumped on his trampoline just to prove to ourselves that we were being spontaneous. Then we rambled west under the bright white sun. Eight hours later, we arrived at our destination. We were greeted with a feast of corned beef, cabbage and shamrock-shaped sugar cookies. Mine eyes, I am now happy to report, have seen the glory of St. Patrick's Day in Buffalo. We gobbled up the food, swathed ourselves in green, and headed to a famous Irish bar for a taste of the revelry. Several pitchers of beer and too many drinking songs later, we retired to a quieter spot: a place called Nietzsche's. I was furtively fashioning some "street art" on a brick wall outside when I accidentally sprayed my entire hand with black paint, a mark of shame that I would have to hide the next day when I handed over my passport at the border of Canada. We crossed at Niagara. The Falls, unfurling themselves in a Listerine-green fury, should have been humbling, but they weren't. Bounded on both sides by cheerless high-rise hotels, casinos, and strip clubs, the Falls looked dismal and domesticated. Later, as we drove at dusk through the gridlocked outskirts of Toronto, I wondered whether Canada wasn't a bit dismal, too. But the next day was different. We stopped at The Big Apple, an unapologetically silly roadside attraction on the highway from Toronto to Montreal, which touts the "World's Largest Apple," as well as a pie factory. We bought a hot one and ate it in a cafeteria lined with pictures of other "World's Largest" monuments. When we got back on the road, we decided to take a detour was due. We drove for miles through fields of sparkling snow before we saw it: The ice-blue waves of Lake Ontario stretching endlessly toward the horizon. We piled out of the car and onto the snowy banks. A storm was moving in, and we watched it skulk towards us across the lake. It filled us with reverence, it made us feel small. It was what Niagara wasn't. That night we rolled into Montreal and were pleasantly surprised. The students who had agreed to host us for free on www.couchsurfing.com were wonderful. They cooked us tasty vegan meals and humored our drowsy, late-night philosophizing (Ex: "Does a peach have consciousness?"). Plus, their house was in the middle of Montreal's lovely Mile End neighborhood, which meant we were blocks from great record stores and cozy bars. We hung out in Montreal for a few blissful days. Eventually, though, the realization that we'd have to return home sunk in. It came flooding back in frightening, fragmentary memories of unwritten papers, unreturned library books and unanswered e-mails. On the last day of vacation, as our impending responsibilities loomed larger, I launched one final rebellion: I wandered aimlessly through the snow-covered streets. I lingered near a playground of screaming students on recess. I let a homeless man babble nonsense at me in French. I ducked into a café and wrote lazily between sips of a perfect café au lait. I put my world was on hold for a few moments longer, and watched this one unfold at my feet.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Gothamist is reporting that CCSC has just voted 25-12 in favor of banning Juicy Campus. The New York Post picked up the story too, and naturally sat down to speak with Matt Sanchez about the issue. "'It's like taking graffiti from a bathroom wall and showing it to the world,' he said." And CCSC—despite the impossibility of actually doing so—has metaphorically knocked down that metaphoric bathroom wall. &nbsp; UPDATE 7:43 PM: Gothamist and New York Post did not fact check. At all. Bwog just got off the phone with Alidad Damooei, CCSC VP of Policy. Damooei—who has already gotten several worried phone calls about the fake news—claims that a mischievous tipster must have sent in a fake tip to Gothamist and the Post. Damooei explains that the discussion of a ban is "off the table."&nbsp; April fools? 
 There were feathers in the air as far as four blocks from Union Square yesterday, a delicate indicator of the third annual all-city pillow battle royale. There was more floating down nearer to the action, and piles of the stuff around the feet of the combatants. Blinking constantly to keep safe from the pointy end of the feathers, a mass of children, parents and whimsical hipsters slapped their bedding back and forth for hours in a messy act of gentle social disturbance. Announced via Facebook, the attendance was just short of overwhelming. This reporter caught a thrown pillow in the face, a not-unwelcome violation of the ground-rules, which had been laid out to protect the gang of photographers and cameramen ringing the melee. It's fun to hit strangers in the face, so the massive crowd was not surprising. Organized by public performance group Newmindspace, who also play capture the flag in parks and have free parties on subway cars, the fight was synchronized with pillow-pummelings around the world, from Hong Kong to scenic Huntsville, Alabama.&nbsp; Piggy-backing on the crowd were various protestors and small demonstrations, from an elaborate but unclear posterboard presentation on Israel and Palestine to a small rally for the District Attorney campaign of Harvey Dent, a fictional character campaigning to clean up the streets of Gotham City. People hired by the Warners' PR chanted "We want Harvey Dent!" and gave out stickers. Annoyed by the intrusion of capitalism into their harmless fun, a group of alternative young teens—a demographic well represented at the fight—murmered something about rushing the fake rally and stealing their signs. They waded through the crowd, were distracted by some shirtless men locked in pillow-combat, and satisfied their rebelliousness by shouting "Shut up!" It was a classic piece of high-school bravado gone soft, and more than any of the costumes or war paint worn by the fighters, it suited the event perfectly.&nbsp; - WMA 
 We stand at the edge of a New Frontierâ€”the frontier of unfulfilled hopes and dreams. &nbsp; Luke, I am your father! United we stand.&nbsp; Divided we fall. We are the champions, my friends, and we'll keep on fighting 'til the end.&nbsp; Another one bites the dust. All that glitters isn't gold. 
 Eschewing their own tradition of booking hip hop acts for spring, Columbia Concerts has booked awesome Brooklyn-based indie rockers Grizzly Bear and awesome Brooklyn-based indie rockers The National for this year's Spring Concert. An anonymous source also informs Bwog that this year's Spring Concert will also differ from last year's because it's going to be indoors and tickets are going to cost a completely reasonable and completely worth it $5 fee. 
 For the next four days, Barnard students (who provide proper documentation identifying themselves as such) will receive a medium 1 topping pizza from the Domino's on 125th.&nbsp; Take note the hungry and budgeted amongst us: Now might be a good time to start dining with Barnard friends. Or making Barnard friends. 
 In case you didn't know, this is up on the Housing home page: Online Registration for Room Selection begins on Tuesday, March 11 after 5:00pm. EVERYONE must fill out the first step of your application by Tuesday, March 25 at midnight. So kids, as you are unpacking from long plane rides and sleeping through morning classes, get your housing app together!&nbsp; Then you can play the waiting game. 
 An anonymous tipster points Bwog in the direction of the website of CC '09 class council hopefuls Colin Drummond, Jason Patinkin, and Colin Felsman. The somewhat confusingly named "LE: MON Party" (Leadership Evolved: My Oh Nine) created the site to announce that they are running a paperless campaign in hopes of minimizing their "ecological footprint." The site will eventually feature their candidate bios, their platform, and videos. While their environmentalist efforts are certainly laudatory, CCSC campaigning does officially start tomorrow, not today. Though even if putting up the site does turn out to be a rules violation, lowering the team's flyering maximum probably wouldn't be too much of a setback. 
 There was no spring break on the campaign trail, so White House Bureau Chief Jim Downie is here to fill you in on what you may have missed during the brief academic hiatus. Your faithful blogger returns from a relatively relaxing and sleep-filled Spring Break (including watching the very good John Adams miniseries on HBO), and hopes his readers had the same. Even though I'm a humanities major, I know enough math to assure you that two weeks between installments means this one will be half as funny! Hang on, no, that's not right... Ok, I can't promise you'll laugh as much as this gratuitously-linked-to baby, but let's not let that stop us. And now, the news: The Wright Stuff: Senator Barack Obama spent much of last week dealing with the fallout from the comments of his former pastor, Jeremiah Wright. YouTube videos showed excerpts from Wright's sermons declaring 9/11 as a case of "chickens coming home to roost," as well as declaring AIDS a government conspiracy. Obama spoke last Tuesday in Philadelphia about the controversy. Many observers feel that he managed to weather the first big crisis of his career, though how much momentum the controversy will have in the fall remains to be seen. From the Dept. of "Whoops": MSNBC makes a subtle attack on Obama's background during the Wright speech. Go With What You Know: Fred Thompson, fresh off of a massively disappointing presidential campaign, is returning to the small screen (he was the District Attorney on the original Law and Order for several years). Now he can pretend to be powerful again. Mulligan Part 2: Florida and Michigan are still unable to create plans for a re-vote of their early primaries, meaning that Senator Hillary Clinton's best chance for closing the delegate and popular vote gaps has gone out the window. She needs to win BIG in Pennsylvania to have a chance of closing the gap. Winning the "cute and cuddly" voters: As part of standard Easter-related diplomatic relations, President Bush meets with the bunny prime minister. Or, if you have a better explanation for the photo, by all means post it below. Crucial endorsement: Former candidate Bill Richardson endorsed Obama this week, after being heavily lobbied by both sides. As the most widely known Hispanic politician, as well as a governor with plenty of foreign affairs experience, Richardson's endorsement is seen by some as a step towards the Vice Presidency. Also,&nbsp; Clinton adviser James Carville compared the endorsement to Jesus' betrayal by Judas, suggesting that Obama isn't alone in being considered divine by some of his supporters. Leno's Opening Joke: Bill Clinton visits Indiana today for a Dyngus Day celebration. Apparently, Dyngus Day is also known as "Wet Easter Monday," and the tradition is men drenching women in water (women can either strike back or, if they're less slightly less feminist-inclined, can throw crockery at men tomorrow). Your blogger will leave it to the late-night comics to connect the dots. - Jim Downie &nbsp; 
 Today, current Barnard students received an emailing announcing that last weekend, admissions mailed regular decision acceptance and rejection letters to the latest batch of Terrible 12s. Barnard has yet to release statistics of this year's admission process and has not yet updated its website to reflect whether or not the class of 2012 includes any former child stars. The 12s, however, have moved quickly, and there are already 177 of them in a Facebook group celebrating their imminent descent on Morningside.&nbsp; "Yay us! :D", reads the group description. When compared to the College's 2012 Facebook group, what BCs Facebook-savvy 12s lack in exclamation points, they make up for in gratuitous emoticons. 
Up Late with Jeff Julian is now on the great aggregator of human creativity.&nbsp; So the genius of the Jester's master comedian is now available for all to love.&nbsp; They even have the commercials for the more market-driven audiences.&nbsp; The intro sequence, in its swinging glory, is below. &nbsp; 
 ESC elects president.&nbsp; No one will have to brush their teeth in Mudd anymore. CCSC campaigns kick off today.&nbsp; Everyone is promising the same thing.&nbsp; What ever happened to off-campus flex? Ticket with a funny name, welcome to the big show.&nbsp; Get slapped with a rules violation. A New face for Bank Street College. Bloomberg, hates hot water that is suddenly cold, saves tenants.&nbsp; 
 Nussbaum &amp; Wu is now officially parent subsidized.&nbsp; That's right gentle reader--one swipe is all you need for the most cream cheese you could ask for on a toasted bagel.&nbsp; HamDel will be coming by tomorrow morning at the latest, according to BB1 (the vendor). BB1 plans to ship the equipment to Fairway tonight, so expect the supermarket to be accepting CUIDs by the end of the week.&nbsp; The original go-live date was Monday, but how long is a day when you've been waiting your whole life for delicacies on your parents' dime? -JJV 
 The naming of buildings at Columbia has always been a project undertaken with the greatest care. Indeed, the majority of buildings on campus carry the names of prominent alumni who have contributed much to the university and to society at large. One is hard-pressed to find a building on campus without a family name of some significance attached to it. Yet, Barnard has deliberately deviated from this fail-safe approach to the naming of edifices at Columbia, in its choice to name the new student center currently under construction at the heart of its campus, the Nexus. While Nexus may not even be the final name of the building, Barnard has suggested that it would consider selling the naming rights to the highest bidder over the Internet, many have claimed that the choice of the word "nexus" for a campus center is quite suspect. Some Bwog tipsters have&nbsp; even recently suggested that the ignominious name of the new Barnard campus hub actually derives from the Latin root meaning "bondage in slavery or debt." Bwog set out to clarify if Barnard's new campus center will indeed be a campus hub of human bondage by emailing Barnard's Media Relations Director.&nbsp; Her response after the jump: "Thanks for your question.&nbsp; The word nexus does come from the Latin word meaning "to bind," but today it is commonly used to refer to a center or focus of something. The Nexus on campus was named with this definition in mind.&nbsp; As a multi-use building with space for classrooms, offices, dining facilities, student organizations, art and architecture studios, theatrical productions, public lectures, and other functions, the Nexus is expected to become the center or focus of academic and social life on campus, as well as a cultural destination for all New Yorkers.&nbsp; Hope this helps." Only time will tell if this colossus of a multi-use center will be the hub of West Broadway's academic and social life, or if indeed the Nexus will be true to its Latin roots and eventually become a monolith of intellectual servitude at the hands of destitute college women.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Tony Gong stayed up all hours to report on the biggest night of the ESC calendar year, with the possible exception of Mole Day. &nbsp; After seven grueling hours, twelve speeches, and far too many handfuls of complimentary grapes and cheese, ESC finally finished up electing next year's Executive Board last night, while everyone I have ever known in my life was sleeping—barring my grandma in China. (What's up Grandma?) The winners and their opponents are as follows: President: Peter Valeiras '09 (vs. Prish Dunstan '09) VP Student Life: Huei Ong '09 (vs. Angela Blackwell '11, Daniel Gundrum '10, Esther Zuckerman '09) VP Intergroup: Lauren Minces '09 (vs. Gunnar Aasen '10, Krissie Zambrano '09) VP Policy: Prish Dunstan '09 (vs. Boris Mindzak '09, Ken Yearwood '09) Secretary: Whitney Green '10 (vs. Jiaying Xu '11) Presidential Candidate Prish Dunstan began his speech and our night with a nonsensical joke that would foreshadow our delusional states by 4:00 AM: "Hi, I'm Prish, and I enjoy long walks and short beaches." The council, no doubt shocked by the hilarity of this man, sat in stunned silence. Prish went on to articulate his primary concern to "remedy the connection between us and student body," which was probably severed when the student body vocalized its affinity for long beaches. LOL. Opposing Candidate Peter Valeiras expressed a similar concern regarding the involvement of students at ESC meetings. He lamented: "While the meetings are open, students do not see the time as a chance to talk with the council members...Everyone else is back here looking at our backs. I want people not just sitting and watching!" An awkward moment followed when the attention of all the council members shifted momentarily to the tacit public, which was looking at Peter's back just sitting and watching. An interesting outcome resulted when Student Life Committee non-member Huei Ong, riding on her strong experience as a CPA, was elected as VP Student Life over the other candidates, all full-time Student Life Committee members. Perhaps this affirms the use of indirect elections, which did not advantage its ESC constituents. Or, perhaps this just shows that Student Life Committee sucks. Regardless, Huei's opponents Daniel Gundrum and Esther Zuckerman contributed highlights of the night with the best speeches I have ever heard, including Jean-Claude Van Damme's awesome speech at the end of Street Fighter, which is probably #3. Daniel, proved to be a charismatic fellow when he prefaced his speech by ignoring the podium and striding to the side of the room, where he was in plain view of the public. He explained: "I don't feel comfortable having my back to people because I'll never turn my back on students." Cue another awkward moment as immediately each council member glanced surreptitiously towards my direction. C Daniel continued demonstrating his charm with a sage-like introduction to his speech: "Let us take a journey, back to the past two years..." What followed was a dramatic and heartfelt account about attending his first Student Life Committee meeting as a freshman, and his current devotion. Daniel ended delicately by informing us that he has never missed a committee meeting before—a fact that nearly had me in tears, until I realized that that sounded pretty geeky. Esther, while maintaing Daniel's apparent fervor, also took on Prish's nonsensical style of humor, amalgamating them into a wonderful speech that left me clueless - but excited about it! Esther expressed crazed enthusiasm for flyering, marshmallows, and planning engineering wide-events for Mole Day (October 23rd! Get it? Because I still don't, someone please explain it to me...). And Esther's plan for Mole Day: "I think it would be really cool to get a huge pinata," which makes a lot of sense. However, Esther demonstrated that she was a layered personality, not just into pinatas on Mole Day. when prompted to speak about her serious side. She responded: "Sometimes I like to use really big words." The final candidate elections were peppered with interesting moments, none of which really lived up to either Daniel, Esther, or Street Fighter. For the VP Intergroup speeches, Lauren Minches gave a well-planned articulation of her characters: "good with numbers, meticulous, able to work well under stress, organized, with good people skills," but cited her love for Columbia as what distinguished her for the role. However, I was much more invested in Gunnar Aasen's speech, during which he accidentally kicked off my laptop plug from the Satow outlet, probably symbolizing something. For the VP Policy speeches, incumbent VP Prish expressed his experienced understanding of the multi-pronged nature of policy, winning him the position. And finally, as the night quietly ended with the Secretary election, winner Whitney Green greeted us cleverly with "good morning," giving me the strong urge to call my grandma. 
 Some of you may have noticed the site was down for the last couple of hours. Apparently the downtime was due to something vague and apparently troublesome occurring with our sever. But we're here to assure you that we're back and we apologize for the inconvenience. And not only that, we come bearing good news! Tipsters Alexandra Muhler and Josh Mathew inform us that two Columbia students--Nhu-y Ngo of Nebraska and Sarracina Davis Littlebird of New Mexico--and one Barnard student, Amanda Catherine MacLellan of New Hampshire--have just been awarded prestigious Truman Scholarships. - JNW &nbsp; 
 Columbia College, never one to be outdone by Domino's Pizza, is going to be throwing a free pizza party too. Only this time, the pizza will not be won over without a fight. In order to receive the cheesy treat, one must participate in a hour and a half long focus group geared toward improving the Columbia College website. It's the sort of thing that really makes you think about how much free pizza really means to you. &nbsp; 
 We now invite you to leave the relative comforts of&nbsp; Nussbaum and venture northwest to Claremont in our continuing housing series. Also, don't forget online registration ends in three hours! A few blocks northwest of the hustle and bustle of midtown Columbia is a calm oasis for the students who call it home. Cozy and intimate where many dorms are large and impersonal, 47 Claremont is the Morningside Heights of undergraduate housing. Former residents of institutional dorms like Carman will be happy to find that the wood floors and crown molding of Claremont reminds them more of home and happiness and less of prison and self-mutilation. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Recently refurbished, Claremont boasts all the amenities of Columbia’s top suites, it’s just a good bit more cramped. The kitchens are large and well equipped, complete with brand new stoves and enough cabinet space to hold all the provisions you will need to survive the long winter days when the wind tunnel that is Claremont Avenue prevents you from venturing outside. Other than the eat-in kitchen, however, there is almost no common space besides a large hallway. Just know that because of the size even the most restrained party can quickly become a sweaty writhing flesh pit once booze and guests are added. Group dinners force most to eat standing up, but don’t worry about the inevitable spills this will cause: at 47 Claremont a housekeeper cleans up your kitchen and bathroom for you twice a week. Unfortunately she is very friendly—only-children, expect to be guilted into cleaning up after yourself within the first month. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sometimes the disparities between classes can become extremely apparent, especially in the seven person suites, where large singles (125 square feet not including massive closet space) sit next to doubles not much larger and a 88 square foot solitary confinement chamber. Word of advice: do whatever you can get one of the big singles. Beg, barter, fellate, or fake an obscure medical condition—I guarantee it will be worth it.&nbsp; To the more scrupulous future inhabitants of the Claremont broom-closets: get ready to rock it like it’s 1955 with a year of the missionary position in your cramped loft bed. Call it retro. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The size of the dorm (120 souls aboard) has its ups and downs. The large laundry and computer rooms in the basement are bleak but rarely full, and the elevator, though crotchety and slow, is rarely in use. However, the stone stairwell conducts noise to every single floor of the building, including the security desk, allowing everyone to enjoy the soundtrack to the aforementioned fleshy party. Luckily the RAs at Claremont are rather laid back, not to mention the small and friendly group of security guards who you will quickly become familiar with. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Claremont: worth the walk! - JCM &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Photo by W.M. Akers For additional photos of Claremont, check out a Claremont Room Hop from last year. 
Today we saw our share of CCSC election controversy, but the E-board race has not been stirred too much.&nbsp; Now that policy can be discussed, however, more substance has emerged from the Krebs and Damooei camps.&nbsp; Damooei seems to have taken the lead in the multimedia department, already having released five videos on Youtube.&nbsp; Expect a Krebs video later in the week.&nbsp; There is a quick breakdown of some of the party priorities after the jump.&nbsp; Alidad (Connect Columbia) Working to actively bring in student groups. Revamp Lerner 6 for student space Get satellite gyms for Shapiro and Broadway Favorite HamDel sandwich: Grilled Cheese George (Experience Columbia) Increase transparency in CCSC by publishing meeting records and the funding process. Reinvigorate CC spirit by spicing up Hamilton, CC's flagship building. Have a convenient student page (like UPenn's) that accesses relevant pages for students. Favorite HamDel sandwich: Grilled Chicken #5 -JJV 
Now that Columbia's Manhattanville expansion plans have been approved by the city, the topic has largely disappeared from most students' minds.&nbsp; But for those who've checked out since late December, the plans are entering a new phase. Specifically, the What-Are-We-Going-to-Put-There phase. Tonight, at the CCSC's Committee on Manhattanville Expansion's panel on the subject, several professors joined Provost Alan Brinkley and Vice President of Facilities Phil Pitruzzelo to discuss the remaining ethical concerns surrounding displacement and gentrification and to largely ignore the question of what's going into the Manhattanville site. This is because, Pitruzzelo explained, except for some of the buildings in Phase I of the plan—which includes moving the Business School, SIPA, and the SoA, and building the Mind, Brain and Behavior Center—Columbia hasn't decided what to do with the northern portion of the site.&nbsp; But no matter, on to what the professors had to say. &nbsp; Brinkley began the evening with a sweeping statement: "The Manhattanville project is the most important event in the Columbia's history since the University moved here from midtown in the 1890s." (And to think that this whole time we've been lead to believe it was the '68 protests.)&nbsp; He continued, "We have to find room for expansion or we have to accept that Columbia will not remain among the leading universities in the world as we are today." &nbsp; Following Brinkley was Elliott Sclar, a professor at the Graduate School of Architecture, who said that development would happen regardless of whether or not Columbia expands.&nbsp; Sclar doesn't see the school's expansion as a matter of gentrifying West Harlem, given that Columbia needs cheap housing around it, too.&nbsp; "Gentrification isn't something that's in Columbia's interest," he said. "Columbia doesn't need to be surrounded by investment bankers…" Urban Economics Professor Brendan O'Flaherty also offered his opinion on the expansion—a rare occurrence, he noted.&nbsp; "I've never said anything about Manhattanville before and I probably never will again." O'Flaherty went on a bit of a rant about how Columbia doesn't pay property taxes (it's a non-profit organization) and he thinks it should.&nbsp; But on the expansion itself, "this is dropping a pebble into a river as far as New York is concerned."&nbsp;&nbsp; The evening's discussion, much to this viewer's chagrin, remained rather staid.&nbsp; There's something passé about debating the morality of the project, given that&nbsp; preliminary construction and utility work will begin this summer. - AMP For more on professors' reactions to the Manhattanville expansion, check out this article in the February issue of The Blue and White.&nbsp; 
 A conspicuously absent Samantha "Powers" piece (see right) ...followed by a full article about Samantha Power. Perhaps Powers and Power are the same person?&nbsp; Even more catching up with Kali, the Subway Hero&nbsp; Rejoice! Real vendors now accepting fake money That One Time Rod Stewart Didn't Suck: A Retrospective&nbsp; Contrary to scientific evidence, less money at GS means more problems &nbsp; 
 The March issue of the Blue and White has hopefully come to a dorm or class building near you. It’s also here in cyberspace—some highlights: Katie Reedy unravels the intricacies of Columbia’s MEALAC department A group of outer-borough parents gives their kids an invaluable leg-up in the world of warehouse parties One daring B&amp;W correspondent listens to a free Odyssey audiobook, finds you mostly get what you pay for Scintillating conversation with former Poet Laureate and current Columbia professor Mark Strand, and steamy olde tyme excerpts from the Senior Class Book of 1900 
 Last night, concerned citizen/tipster Karen Kwan alerted Bwog that Barnard students had once again received an email advertising free pizza. Only this time, it was to inform them that their free pizza party had moved locations. Instead of the Domino's on 125th, the free, medium, one-topping pies had migrated south to Famiglia Pizzeria. "LOCATION CHANGE" the email announced, and this time, the free lunch at Famiglia would also supposedly include a small drink.&nbsp; Bwog was suspicious of the migrating free pizza party and called Famiglia to ask about its legitimacy.&nbsp; "Yeah, you get a couple of slices and a drink," the friendly Famiglia phone-answerer informed us. "But you gotta sign up with Citibank." A-ha! The Mystery of the Pizza Party: Solved. In other food-related/money-related news, President Diamond has informed Bwog that Off-Campus Flex is now accepted at HamDel. One tipster already reports back with details of her HamDel transaction: "I just swiped for a sandwich at Hamdel and it worked perfectly, although I think they're having a bit of a rough adjustment. &nbsp;They've got to punch in a code and it takes longer than paying with cash." 
This week's Newsweek cover story is a piece on Barack Obama, CC '83. Usually reticent to discuss his years at Alma Mater, Obama talks about his reasoning for transferring from Occidental College to Columbia, "By the end of that year at Occidental, I think I was starting to work it through, and I think part of the attraction of transferring was, it's hard to remake yourself around people who have known you for a long time." The article also offers up positively juicy details on Obama's life as a CCer: "He stopped drinking and partying, leading what he calls 'a hermetic existence' for two years. 'When I look back on it, it was a pretty grim and humorless time that I went through.'" Also featured prominently in the news this week is young Meghan McCain, fresh off a oddly discomforting GQ write-up. McCain, CC, '07, is the subject of a long, equally odd Washington Post profile in which a fellow McCain Blogette writer calls her "really articulate." That comment is followed mere paragraphs later by McCain's admission that her dad's campaign bus is "pimped out" and her concerns that"The blog is trying to keep it real, and trying to show how it really is, and I look like crap!" And finally, The Blue and White's very own former editor-in-chief and current Politico reporter Avi Zenilman, CC '07, was mentioned in David Brooks' latest New York Times Op-Ed. 
 This just in: Colin Drummond's CC '09 Campaign will use 10% fewer posters after promising a poster-less campaign.&nbsp; This is coming after Mark Johnson, current CC '09 Vice President, submitted a rules violation due to early publication of this website.&nbsp; The Elections Board felt that the violation was "not malicious, intentional, or fundamentally unfair," so they did not reduce web content.&nbsp; They may however, in a second violation, reduce web content instead of a further reduction in the 0 posters distributed by Drummond's party.&nbsp; Bwog fancies the ideas of negative posters.&nbsp; Email is after the jump &nbsp;-JJV &nbsp; On March 24, 2008 at 7:58:21 pm, Mark Johnson of the Fusion Party submitted a Rules Violation against the LE:MON party in regards to the discovery of the LE:MON campaign website on the Internet on March 24. In his form, he takes issue with the action as it relates to the following rules: 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Section IV, Article B, which states that permitted published web content includes website. 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Section IV, Article E, which states that the official start of campaigning date and time is 9:00am on Tuesday, March 25. 3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Mr. Johnson argues that the www.myohnine.com website is a campaign material, as it "includes statements urging students to vote for them in the upcoming election" and also cites the corresponding Bwog post from March 24. After considering both Mr. Johnson's Rules Violation Form and LE:MON's rebuttal, the Elections Board has ruled in the following: 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Even though the site may have been incomplete on March 24, it still had information that promoted the LE:MON party and its candidates on public display via the internet. As such, the Elections Board considers http://www.myohnine.com to be a campaign material. 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Because this campaign material was on the Internet and available to the public before 9:00am on Tuesday, March 25, the Elections Board rules this action to be a violation of Section IV, Article E. As such, the Elections Board assigns a first violation to the LE:MON party as defined in Section XI, Article G. The corresponding penalty to a first violation is a 10% reduction in posters. However, the Elections Board would like to note that the LE:MON party has publicly stated that they will not use posters, nor have they submitted posters for approval. Because a second violation results only in a further poster reduction (as defined by Section XI, Article G), a further rules violation may be met with an alternative penalty or can be deemed malicious, intentional, or fundamentally unfair (as outlined in Section XI, Article G). If the LE:MON party wishes to appeal this ruling, please e-mail Michelle Diamond at mnd2102@columbia.edu and e-mail the Elections Board at ccsc-elections@columbia.edu. Sincerely, The Elections Board 
At 10:30PM tonight, at Havana Central at the West End, the bigwigs of the Class of 2008 will announce the seniors’ Class Day Speaker. Last year, Ben Stein, CC’66, reportedly demanded a large cash sum, Barack Obama, CC’83, seemingly blew us off, and we ended up with Lost star Matthew Fox, CC’89, a controversial choice who nevertheless gave a well-received speech that poked fun at the controversy. Who will it be this year? Bwog has no idea, but we are crossing our fingers for the usual announcement PowerPoint chock full of Comic Sans font and arena rock—we’ll help cart the projector into the West End. 
 The Pulitzer Prize-winning, Kennedy School of Government scholar Samantha Power graced the halls of Columbia's Law School last night for a discussion with Columbia Journalism professor Bill Berkeley. Power demonstrated the poise and careful articulation of words for which she has typically been known (the recent “monstergate” debacle notwithstanding), and she expressed the hope that she is remembered more for her human rights work and genocide scholarship than for a short sound-byte that has been co-opted by an eager press. &nbsp; While Power’s main aim was to promote her recently published biography of former UN Human Rights Commissioner, Sérgio Vieira de Mello (cleverly named Chasing the Flame, in honor of what Power calls Vieira de Mello’s “Machiavellian idealism”) the event, hosted by the Columbia Undergraduate Human Rights Program, turned more into a candid and critical look at Power’s political career. While Power used the occasion to apologize profusely for her comments about Senator Clinton, her apologetic tone wavered at times, and she suggested that the Clinton campaign is unfairly using those comments as a negative campaign tool driven more by Clinton’s personal ambition to be president than by any actual ideological desire to make a difference as president. &nbsp; Those comments offered Power the opportunity to defend Barack Obama’s approach to foreign policy: she used her podium—in front of a crowded auditorium brimming with eager undergraduates and graduate students—to discuss her affection for her time in the Obama campaign and leave open the possibility that she may seek to rejoin Obama’s foreign policy circle if he were to be elected president in the fall. When Power did talk about Sérgio Vieira de Mello, she focused almost exclusively on his ability to engage all sides (even known terrorists such as Muqtada al-Sadr) to seek pragmatic solutions in conflict ridden areas, solutions that would not necessarily satisfy the conditions of all sides at once, but would offer preferable and realistic policy options with considerable foresight into future violent consequences.&nbsp; Power used this discussion of Vieira de Mello to connect to what she claimed is Obama’s greatest foreign policy asset: his willingness to depart from the current solipsistic nature of American diplomacy and directly engage in negotiations with some of the world’s most problematic leaders. Power seemed to suggest that an Obama administration would bear the burden of correcting many of the American policies of the past, particularly in the realm of rebuilding the legitimacy of international institutions, such as the UN, that carry considerable weight in the decision-making process Q and A, while intended to reign the conversation back towards a discussion of Sérgio Vieira de Mello’s understanding of diplomacy, turned into a lengthy discussion of Obama policies, including the senator’s idea of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and his 2007 Iraqi withdrawal strategy. In all, Samantha Power’s appearance at Columbia offered students a first-hand and quite intricate look at what foreign policy could potentially look like in the future if a “candidate who thinks like a lawyer and not purely out of self-interest is elected,” as Power claimed.&nbsp; Perhaps too, Power used this stage to prime herself for a future role in an Obama cabinet, or as a National Security Advisor.&nbsp; Who knows if any of these political ambitions will actually play out in the coming months, but it sure was a treat to be along for just a brief moment of the ride. - PHS For more coverage on Power's talk, see this article in the Huffington Post. 
 Mad nostalgia for the mid-90s is standard by now, and unsurprisingly many Bwoggers have devolved back to their 9-year-old selves, reveling in the joys of Nintendo 64 and Mario Kart in particular. Though our early Karting experience was largely a tale of character-building losses to nimbler-fingered cousins, we have trained a bit among ourselves and have stoked a more robust sense of competition (future adversaries at Blue Key Society's spelling bee should be wary). Bwog hereby invites all fellow nostalgics for a Mario Kart tournament next Friday, April 4th, on Ruggles 6. If you have deluded yourself into thinking you're game for the challenge - or if you just want a sweet photo of yourself in video gaming action, accompanied by a putatively funny/punny caption, published on Bwog - email bwgossip@columbia.edu. Suite number and time details will follow. 
 Just seconds ago at the 'Stend—amidst a crowd that at 10:30 PM consisted of a dozen people awkwardly milling about, but soon increased to several dozen—2008's Columbia College Class Day speaker was announced. Joel Klein, CC '67, is the Chancellor of the NYC Department of Education and by the looks of it, quite obviously the love child of Wallace Shawn and Rudy Giuliani. Discuss.&nbsp; 
 For people to learn the name of the chancellor of the largest school system in the country For '68 fever to wear off. Well, maybe the first event of the season is a little early for that. For the end of journalism For the epic flooding of Manhattan For all of the above to seep in and dash this editorialist's belief in "the basic decency of my fellow human beings" 
 Tipster Rick Betita noticed that Barack Obama is in New York City today, delivering a speech about the&nbsp; economy at—where else?—Cooper Union. Obama was introduced to the crowd by New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. In the speech, Obama explained his rationale for visiting Cooper Union: "In a city of landmarks, we meet at Cooper Union, just uptown from Federal Hall, where George Washington took the oath of office as the first President of the United States." Also "uptown from Federal Hall?" A certain other university with which Obama might be vaguely familiar. 
 Ah, the change of the seasons! A dash of color on a landscape of concrete and leafless brittle trees! An opportunity for no snark at all. Enjoy this, the habitual replanting of the flowers, with us. Photo by Zach van Schouwen 
 Under the sterling aegis of Jeffrey Sachs, we can make this the bestest world ever!! A letter from the editor about the poorest, richest girls The meta-est Eyepoke ever, in which a campus blog links to a campus magazine article about a campus magazine The best-written review of the worst book ever The tastiest-sounding review of the tastiest meal ever Most avant-garde Eyepoke ever 
Bwog was especially delighted to stumble upon this week's New Yorker. Not only does one Talk of the Town article discuss the decision to dismantle Columbia's Cyclotron—which, we learned, was actually gutted in 1965 and mostly shipped off to the Smithsonian in bits and pieces—the author of the piece is Kate Linthicum, BC '08 and a Blue and White senior editor.&nbsp;
 Bwog once again guides you to the weekend with a slew of events to choose from, including some great ongoing events. Disclaimer: any events sold out were indeed not sold out at the time of compilation. Also, these will be up earlier next week -- we apologize in the meantime. &nbsp; TONIGHT The Secret Society with Sunset Rubdown at the Brooklyn Masonic Temple. Wolf Parade keyboardist Spencer Krug's side project performs tonight with guest bands&nbsp; -- tickets available at the door. Sounds like it could be enough indie to sustain you for the rest of the weekend if you can get there in time... (8PM, $10)&nbsp; Pocket Concertos: Year Three at Miller Theatre. A premiere of new works by Laura Elise Schwendinger, Ichizo Okashiro, and John Zorn. (8PM, $7 Students w/ID) FRIDAY Pinchas Zukerman plays Elgar with the New York Philharmonic at Lincoln Center. The renowned&nbsp; concert violinist performs the Elgar violin concerto in concert. Good luck getting affordable tickets though, seems like there aren't any rush seats on this one...(11AM, $47-117) Manhattan and Raging Bull at Film Forum. See Woody Allen and Martin Scorcese's classics back-to-back on the big screen as part of United Artists' 90th Anniversary. Tickets at FF box office. (1PM/5:10PM/9:20PM; $10.50)&nbsp; *Dark Fair at the Swiss Institute of Contemporary Art. The name "Dark Fair" is quite literal here: It's an art show without any natural or electric light. It's the artwork that will shine—literally, metaphorically.(6PM - 12AM, FREE) Brimingham Contemporary Music Group at Carnegie Hall (Zankel). Thomas Adès, "one of the most imposing figures in contemporary classical music" , conducts this English new-music ensemble. A cast of all-male tenors sings the New York premiere of Gerald Barry's opera The Triumph of Beauty and Deceit. 6:30 pre-concert talk with Adès and Jeremy Geffen, Director of Artistic planning. (7:30PM, $10 Student rush)&nbsp; Eraserhead at IFC Center. The 30th anniversary of another film classic, this time from David Lynch, which will probably leave you in a weird creepy mood all weekend. (12:15AM, $10.50) &nbsp; SATURDAY Manhattan and Raging Bull at Film Forum. See Friday listing. (1PM/5:10PM/9:20PM; $10.50) *Dark Fair at the Swiss Institute of Contemporary Art. See Friday listing. (6PM - 12AM, FREE) CSA (Community Supported Agriculture) Conference at Teachers College. An all day conference sponsored by Just For Food about...well, food. (9:30AM-6PM, $10 Students)&nbsp; Saturday Matinee with the New York Philharmonic at Lincoln Center. Michael Christie conducts members of the NY Phil in a program of Schubert and Copland. (2PM, $12 Student rush)&nbsp; Making Music: Thomas Ades at Carnegie Hall (Zankel). Ades and the Birmingham Contemporary Music Group return, this time performing&nbsp; some of the conductor's own works. (7:30PM, $10 Student rush) SUNDAY Travels in Europe: Charles Tessier at Miller Theatre. The Academy of Arts and Letters hosts Le Poème Harmonique in performance with a concert of vocal works by early composer Charles Tessier. Don't be fooled if you've never heard the name; we hear he was big stuff back in his day! (3PM, $7 Students) The MET Chamber Ensemble at Carnegie Hall (Zankel). See members of the opera pit play works by Mozart and Gunther Schuller, conducted by James Levine. (5PM, $10 Student rush) &nbsp;The Boredoms at Terminal 5. Do you like the Flaming Lips' "Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots"? See the inspiration (Yoshimi, the Boredoms' drummer) live. (7PM Doors/8PM Show, $25 advance/$30 day of show) ONGOING New York Auto Show at the Javits Center. If you're into cars, this is your last weekend to check out what the auto companies have in store&nbsp; for '09 productions. Alas, perhaps one could reminisce about former street racing days on untrafficked roads before moving to Manhattan...(11AM-10:30PM - ends March 30th, $14) The Armory Show at Pier 94. Contemporary art lovers should definitely not miss this showcase put together by some of the leading artists and dealers in the world. (Thursday-Saturday 12PM-8PM/Sunday 12PM-7PM, $10 Students) Bridge Art Fair at The Waterfront. Contemporary Art Fair in Chelsea (occurring concurrently with the Armory Show) featuring more than 50 galleries showing off designers and artists from across the world. Featuring DJ Scotto at tonight's opening reception. (Thursday 5-10PM, $25; Friday/Saturday 12-9PM, Sunday 12-7PM, $10) Sing Into Spring Festival - Moment to Moment: The Music of Henry Mancini at Jazz at Lincoln Center. Itching for some jazz? Special guest vocalist Kenny Washington croons throughout the weekend at Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola. (7:30PM and 9:30PM sets all weekend with 11:30 sets on Friday/Saturday, $31-50) &nbsp; 
We're one day in to Michelle Diamond's CCSC's big off-campus flex adventure, and cold reality is beginning to set in. Bwog's deep and meticulous investigation of anecdotes solicited from fellow Bwoggers shows that CUID transactions are drawn-out processes that challenge the patience of the already rather impatient cashiers at local eateries. Justin Vlasits reports that at Ham Del, "the guy behind the counter was complaining about how the flex swiping machine is quite slow." The estimated time to print a receipt is a shocking three minutes. What's causing the delay? The cashier from Paul Barndt's most recent trip to Nussbaum explained that the card had to be "verified," which left him "standing in an awkward position at the entrance and bumping into old ladies." Is the welfare of our delicate neighborhood geriatric population worth the sheer pleasure of eating Nussbaum's delicious black and white cookies on our parents' dime? Bwog's answer is an only slightly tentative yes. 
Columbia loses sight of its friendship with Floridita, suddenly demands $128,000. The university then promptly forgets to make sure people can use its housing lottery software. Drunkenly sketching on a bar napkin, Columbia proposes a seven block long, seven-story underground fortress, and tells Nick Sprayregen to, quote, "shut up." It then appears to call Barnard fat. It stumbles up the stairs to the Spec office to write a headline before blacking out: "Brooklyn Borough Gyspy's Dual Releases Defies Genre" Finally, the hangover.
Live from the State of the Planet conference, an anonymous tipster with photography skills leads us to believe that the event may be... less than scintillating. &nbsp; Jeff Sachs reads the news and checks his email, after the jump. Slacking off on laptops during lectures -- professors: they're just like us! 
 Allison Halff, Bwog's Argentina correspondent, was kind enough — through the magic of El Internet — to give us Wien sufferers a quick lecture on the wonders of Watt. When my roommate and I got an exceptionally good lottery number at the end of freshman year, the first dorm we toured was Watt. After walking through the building and talking our way into several students’ rooms, we exited the dorm positively giddy with delight, muttering incoherently about marble staircases and laundry on every floor. We did secure a room in Watt for sophomore year, and it was everything we had hoped for and more. Watt has three different types of rooms: studio doubles, which go to juniors and occasionally a few lucky sophomores, consist of one double room, a kitchen, and a bathroom. Studio singles are comprised of one single room (scarcely smaller than most of the doubles), a kitchen, and a bathroom. Finally, walk-through doubles have two rooms that like Woodbridge can either be used as separate bedrooms or one shared bedroom and one living area, a kitchen, and a bathroom. Anyone who gets the opportunity to live in a walk-through or studio single should absolutely do so. The studio doubles are also great, unless your main priority is to have a lot of space to throw parties, in which case you might prefer one of the huge McBain walk-throughs. Watt is located on 113th between Broadway and Amsterdam, almost directly across from McBain. Meaning that while Watt does not have either a computer lab or a gym, they are both only a short walk away. No Watt rooms feature great views, and the a, b, and c lines’ windows face the backyard of frat row. The noise is occasionally irritating, but, because this is Columbia, the parties are rarely very long or very raucous. I would recommend buying curtains, however. Rather than avoiding the back of the building, I would recommend steering clear of the lobby, which does get noisy and occasionally features loud workman yelling on the way down to the basement at ung-dly hours of the morning. Incidentally, residents must venture down into the basement to dispose of all trash bags and can only do so via the creaky elevator, which is a decidedly unpleasant experience. Columbia personnel do not clean bathrooms and kitchens, but they do drop off supplies of toilet paper. Last year, one year older and almost 2,000 points lower, my roommate and I were tragically denied re-entry into Watt and forced to tour Wien instead of our former haven. This exodus has only made me further appreciate Watt, a building not without flaws, but with way more benefits. 
In case you haven't noticed,Columbia's favorite red-tail has his (or her?) own Hawkmadinebwog! To show our affection, Bwog staffers have been writing haikus in honor of the best individual of Order Falconiformes. Ours are pretty good (see below) but we think you, dear readers and hawk fans, can do better. And since one of H-dad's favorite things is contests, we'll give a prize to the writer of his best poetic praise. &nbsp; Haikus by Katie R., Zach vS and Anna C. after the jump! Hawkmadinejad, like wind on early spring days, ravages squirrels. -Anna C. For too long we were stooped in complacency. Now, from the skies something new descends, talons bared. -Zach vS. Sing Muse of Hawk's rage: Such was the wrath of one bird, Breaker of Squirrels -Katie R.&nbsp; 
 This week on Cooking with Bwog we bring you solutions for dealing with those times when nothing in your fridge works with anything else. Questions or concerns? Send them to bwog@columbia.edu. 1. If it's vegetable, it will probably go with other vegetables. Last week Bwog made dinner by cooking every veggie Bwog had in the fridge in a bit of oil until soft, pouring in a little pre-made pasta sauce, and then pouring it over rice (also leftover). Tomato is a good unifier for a primavera sauce since it has a much stronger flavor than most other veggies, especially when they've been cooked in it. You can even throw a choice fruit into a salad - apples and oranges usually work well with lettuce. 2. If you have a meal plan at John Jay, use borrowed food to flesh out the menu. Sometimes Bwog ends up with all meat, or all dairy, or all veggies in Bwog's fridge. Put off stocking up until the weekend and survive by borrowing rice or noodles or meat or salad from John Jay and adding food groups to your table. 3. Put condiments on salads, salad dressings on meat and sandwiches. Ketchup is great to add color to soup. If you mix it with a little oil it will make a passable dressing for salads too. Salad dressings make great sandwich and meat additions, mustard will spice up just about anything, mayo should be spread on everything (including your face). 4. Make a combination of breakfast, lunch and dinner. This might not be that aesthetically satisfying, but your tummy will probably feel fine. If you've got oatmeal, fried chicken, left-over milano salad, and pie, don't bother trying to mix them together, just eat them separately. You'll get a complete meal and get rid of food that you paid good money for and would have to throw away.
 If one was passing through campus early this evening, one might have seen a crowd of over a hundred people gathered in a circle on the Low steps. It's even more likely though, that one might have simply heard the crowd, as the music was loud enough to turn heads on the other side of Broadway. Inside the circle, the crowd-- who were all bundled up in hats and mittens-- was a much smaller circle of the five newest spring 2008 Alpha Kappa Alpha inductees. The five girls wore short-sleeved black minidresses, tights, and sky-high black heels. "They must be cold," the man who seemed to be in charge of the music whispered to another onlooker. The girls rotated between keeping still in precarious position--arms akimbo, smiles plastered on their faces--and performing choreographed dances for the shrieking, clapping crowd. Elder sisters repeatedly emitted a high-pitched noise that registered somewhere between the sound of chalk scratching and a hungry baby eagle. Finally, after about fifteen minutes of performance--not to mention six weeks of prior pledging--the elder AKA sisters walked into the middle of the circle. They wore matching black jackets with pink writing that spelled out a sort of nickname ("Violator", "Hustle + Flow") on top of more pink writing that read: "The Untouchables." The sisters handed the pledges (or rather, at this point, new sisters) similar lime green jackets. The crowd seemed relieved as each dancer was handed a jacket that she quickly buttoned up. The apparently ceremonial handing-off-of-the-jacket also provided each new sister with a nickname; Nicole, CC '10, became "Maniacal"; and Brooke, CC '10, was not born "Galactica," she became her. Everyone now appropriately dressed for the breezy, wintry night, the pink-jacketed girls and green-jacketed girls embraced one another to the delight of the crowd. The music started up again, and Bwog could hear it all the way home. - JNW 
 Take advantage of student theater! The final performance of Harold Pinter's Moonlight is tonight at 8 o'clock in the Lerner Black Box. Go and be literary! Harold Pinter’s Moonlight is in no way the typical drama performed by eager undergraduates and Sarah Wansely’s choice to take on this work reflects a certain courage and confidence both in her own talents and that of her cast and crew. Pinter is famous for word play and subtext and Moonlight is no exception.&nbsp; The script challenges the actors cast to grapple with big emotions and big fears without their usual emotive volume.&nbsp; Here, Wansely offers an almost all too real look at familial relations, intimacy and the responsibilities they respectively entail. Against Birdy Sahagian’s stage, designed all in blacks, whites and gray, the actors explore the blurry boundary between secrecy and intimacy that plagues almost every family’s home.&nbsp; Surrounded by shades gray&nbsp;, the characters quite literally inhabit this nebulous state and subtly voice questions families often are too scared to ask.&nbsp; The action of the play surrounds the declining physical health and mental complacency of Andy (Thomas Anawalt), the play’s protagonist and patriarch.&nbsp; Bedridden, he delivers surly rants and pompous homilies to any audience he can muster, usually his disinterested wife, Bel (Maura Mcnamara).&nbsp; While Anawalt booms with both repressed and irreverent rhetoric, McNamara sings her lines sarcastically and returns his jabs with her own bittersweet venom. &nbsp;Andy has no qualms enumerating his affairs and recounts his former adulterous behavior with a definite sense of pride and nostalgia. &nbsp;Anawalt and McNamara capitalize on the paucity of Pinter’s words, however, when they slow down and let their pauses and sighs hang in the air. &nbsp;When Anawalt lowers his voices to a whisper he poignantly, if perhaps unwittingly, exposes himself as a crumpled man terrified by the prospect of death and grasping for comfort.&nbsp; Intent that his adult sons, Jake and Fred, visit him before he dies, Anawalt delivers a powerful monologue chastising his prodigal sons. &nbsp;In Anawalt’s desperate reiteration of “Where are they?” it is uncertain whether his desire to see them is born of love or of a need for respect. Unfortunately Jake and Fred struggle to either love or respect their father.&nbsp; David Gerson gives a stellar performance as Jake and handles Pinter’s subtext with an impressive synthesis of restraint and urgency.&nbsp; Delivering his lines with a coy grin and an almost poetic rhythm, Gerson’s Jake is all confidence and bravado.&nbsp; With a commanding presence, Gerson as Jake at first seems to have both emotionally and geographically distanced himself from his family. Over the course of the play, however, both the audience and Jake himself begin to doubt his easy detachment.&nbsp; Eventually Jake, like his father, begins to question his confident actions and speeches.&nbsp; With alarming rawness, Gerson three times repeats “What is being said?.” Each time he asks this his voice grows more and more fragile and the audience fully comprehends Jake’s struggle to realize the meaning, or lack there of, of his words.&nbsp; &nbsp;Wansely demonstrates her directorial skill when she encourages her cast to capitalize on the drama and tension that are inherent to Pinter’s script.&nbsp; This, of course, is very difficult because at first glance Pinter’s script seems to lack dramatic conflict entirely.&nbsp;&nbsp; Nonetheless the drama is there, latent in Pinter’s words.&nbsp; As Wansely and her cast demonstrate, Moonlight is most powerful when language breaks down, when words fail and when silence is the only adequate response.&nbsp; &nbsp;In her introductory note, Wansely mentions the initial grumblings the ostensibly inscrutable script received at the first read through. Perhaps the play takes time to develop, but, by the end, Pinter’s meaning is clear.&nbsp; The witty banter and the meandering monologues that characterize the opening scenes of the play are in fact laced with meaning.&nbsp; The questions Anawalt and Gerson ask may be too large for the neat answers they are looking for, but nonetheless they reveal a universal and timeless loneliness that unfortunately, as Pinter suggests, only intensifies as death approaches.&nbsp; - MEQ 
 Bwog's theatrical afternoon continues with Tony Gong's review of the Classics Department's production of Antigone.&nbsp; Last night, I journeyed into Columbia classics undergraduates' first performance of Antigone at the Minor Latham Playhouse in Milbank, buried deep within the Barnard's campus. The mystical and labyrinthine trek was well-worth it—partly due to the unique theater experience that followed, and partly because Hewitt dining hall was pretty good that night. Sophocles' Antigone picks up where Aeschylus' Seven Against Thebes ends, with brothers Polyneices and Eteocles dead, and their power-hungry uncle Kreon instated as king. Kind of like the end of Star Wars: Episode III. And, like the newly asthmatic Darth Vader, Kreon demerits all family and friendship for loyalty to the state by denying the dead Polyneices proper funeral rites for fighting against Thebes. Hence the drama begins, when Antigone, Polyneices' sister, is caught trying to bury her brother, and ordered to death. What's uncommon about this rendition is that it attempts to remain consistent with most aspects of ancient Greek tragedy performance. No anachronistic language here—all dialogue is in Ancient Greek, with a projector screen flashing the English text onto a blue background. The orchestra members even have weird, Greek instruments with enigmatic names I have never heard before, like "bouzouki," and "aulos" and "Cretan lute" and "violin." But despite the Greek dialogue, the characters are well-acted and emphatic, aiding the audience's translation process. A standout performance comes from the blind prophet Tiresias (Lane Sell, GS '09), whose dynamic monologue about gods, and like, arrogance, or something, is very memorable. And he walks into his scene with an excessively twisted walking stick that looks like it probably inhibits the walking process, so we know that he must be blind. Kreon (Vanya Visnjie), who is on stage most of the time, is appropriately stubborn and authoritative. His open chest tunic also reveals a lot of chest hair, which definitely did not make me feel inadequate and jealous. Speaking of which, the costume designs reflect this Greek authenticity as well. All actors wear the eerie white masks we've all come to identify with ancient Greek performances and scary movies. The actors also wear light blue tunics that appeared to be stolen right from a hospital. An entire wing at St. Luke's is probably sleeping naked this weekend. The set, however, was disappointingly minimal. I read on Wikipedia before the performance that the play is notable for its elaborate setting inside the king's palace. You can imagine my disappointment when the stage revealed five white boulders that looked like they belonged in the set of a Power Rangers episode. Although this actually started to get excited—perhaps it was a Power Rangers episode! What's more is that the dim, moody blue lighting that rarely changed throughout the performance also created an usually romantic atmosphere. This resulted in several awkward interactions between me and my male friend, who had joined me last night. My advice for you is to attend the performance with someone you would feel comfortable putting your arm around, because you invariably will. Several times. Antigone is a unique play that emphasized authentic ancient Greek aspects of drama. And while these authenticities do not necessarily make the performance easier to follow, or more enjoyable for that matter, it certainly grants its audience some major intellectual legitimacy. I know what a bouzouki sounds like, do YOU? Oh, you do? You mean it's just kind of like a mandolin? Oh OK that's cool. Catch the remaining performance!&nbsp; WHEN: Saturday Mar. 29, 8PM (should be about 80 minutes long) WHERE: Minor Latham (118 Milbank) HOW MUCH: $2 for students (you can get tickets on smarttix.com instead of at the door, but there is a $1.50 service charge) 
 Bwog daily editor Hillary Busis sends the following tip our way: "There are adorable Girl Scouts selling Thin Mints, Tagalongs, Samoas and shortbread cookies with a name I can't remember outside of the church on the corner of 114th and Broadway right now. $3.50 a box is a little steep, but worth it." Tipster Badge for Hillary!&nbsp; UPDATE, 5:20 PM: Blue &amp; White publisher Maryam Parhizkar writes in with some sad news: "They're all gone! But they'll be back two Saturdays from now, and hopefully every Saturday onwards!" Time to mark April 12 on your calendars, everyone. 
 Tipster Jenny Lam has good news for fans of Freaks and Geeks and Spider-Man: "Stalkers, plan accordingly: I was at the Whitney Museum administrative offices for an internship interview this afternoon. I'm signing in at the security desk, only to look up and see "JAMES FRANCO" written above my name. &nbsp;I turn around, and, sure enough, a scruffy-looking Harry Osbourne is being introduced to a Whitney employee by a British girl, and his hair is a nice shade of bottle blond (orange, rather). &nbsp;As I'm waiting for security to contact my interviewer, I hear JFranc say that he's enrolled at the Columbia MFA Writing Program for Fall 2008, and he'll be taking classes at Tisch as well." Another tipster tells us that Teh Internets are already all atwitter at the news, at least over on oldschool Livejournal community/celebrity gossip blog Oh No They Didn't. Some highlights from the comment thread on their post (which, incidentally, appears also to have been written by Lam): "lolz poor dood he's going to get stalked by creepy people omg but omg jelisss celebrity sightings" "I might be doing the summer drama program and Tisch. LOLOLOL I'm going to eat his face off." "I would pound that like maize" 
 Bwog loves food, especially cheap food.&nbsp;&nbsp; Bwog also loves Brooklyn.&nbsp; Indeed, Bwog loves Brooklyn Restaurant Week.&nbsp; Here, Bwog offers a selective assortment of some Brooklyn Restaurant Week stand-outs.&nbsp; If lines are long at the participating restaurants, Bwog provides a few noteworthy non-participating restaurants. Unfortunately the borough publicizes rather humbly and Bwog just learned of the event.&nbsp; But don't despair! Restaurant Week lasts until Monday night. &nbsp; Participating Restaurants: Bacchus Bistro: 409 Atlantic Avenue (718) 852 1572 Simple French fare in an elegant and understated atmosphere.&nbsp; As its name suggests, the wine list is excellent. Blue Ribbon/ Blue Ribbon Sushi:&nbsp; 280 (718) 840 0408 5th Avenue Large menus and large portions is the MO at the Brooklyn outpost of the Manhattan favorite by the same name.&nbsp; Bwog recommends their pulled pork sandwich! Bogota Latin Bistro: 141 5th Avenue (718) 230 3805 Skip Havana Central and head to a less downtrodden capital.&nbsp; Try the fish tacos or the arroz con pollo. Your Latin American Civ. professor will be proud. Downtown Atlantic: 364 Atlantic Avenue (718) 852 9945 Here, comfort food is served in a refined and fun neighborhood setting.&nbsp; Live jazz late on Saturday nights.&nbsp; Rose Water: 787 Union Street (718) 783 3800 The food is as lovely and delicate as the restaurant's name.&nbsp; Each week the menu changes according to what is in season and fresh at local green markets.&nbsp; With attentive service and well-prepared food, Rose Water's high prices are well worth the splurge. &nbsp; Non-Participating Restaurants: Al Di La: 248 5th Avenue (718) 636 8888 Without a doubt, Al Di La is the borough's finest Italian trattoria and could probably hold its own with Manhattan competitors.&nbsp; Al Di La does not take reservations, so the only way to guarantee a table is to arrive very early or very late.&nbsp; Brooklyn Fish Camp: 162 5th Avenue (718) 783 3264 If Bogota is too crowded, try the quieter atmosphere at Brooklyn Fish Camp just across the street.&nbsp; The grilled octopus salad is fresh with lemon and hint of charcoal; it is summer in a mouthful.&nbsp; Order the lobster roll as an entree and you'll feel just like your on the Cape.&nbsp; Frannys: 295 Flatbush Avenue (718) 230 0221 You'll never go to Koronet's again. The Pizza at Frannys is perfect. The Grocery: 288 Smith Street (718) 596 3335 The Grocery is the perfect place to go if you want a make a night out of dining in Brooklyn.&nbsp; With high-quality ingredients, the chefs at The Grocery prepare refreshing takes on classic dishes.&nbsp; For dessert, the peach cobbler is pure and simple deliciousness.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Several vendors are giving away free pizza to Columbia/Barnard students? Oops - looks like the word free needs to be in quotation marks. Joel WHO for Class Day Speaker? Off-campus Flex is real? And, minus a few technical problems, it actually works? Obama is still committed to visiting every single college in New York City except his Alma Mater? A snark-free Bwog post can exist? "Mayo should be spread on everything, including your face?" 
 Every Sunday, as you roll out of bed and head to brunch, Bwog will be doing the same. Except we'll be writing about our brunching experience in hopes of improving your next one. Bwog's Sunday Brunch will run every Sunday.&nbsp; The Place: Community Food &amp; Juice The Location: Broadway between 112th and 113th Expect to Spend: ~ $20 per person Know this: At Community Food &amp; Juice—the newest (well, second-newest) addition to the stretch of Columbia mainstays south of 116th on Broadway—you will wait. On a Saturday or Sunday morning, be prepared to wait for around 45 minutes for a table. And expect to wait another 10 to 15 for a waiter to come to your table. And then another half an hour for your meal to arrive.&nbsp; Whether all the waiting will be actually worth your while depends largely on what you order and how you feel about paying $3.50 for coffee. (Bwog was not too pleased, though the coffee was delicious and there were free refills.) The restaurant has all the affectations of a West Coast smoothie shop—minimalist interior, the ampersand in the name, the infuriating inclusion of a juice bar that takes up an absurd amount of space yet seems to serve no purpose—but it seems like the unhealthier the menu item, the better it is. The blueberry pancakes were soft, hot and wonderful, and come with delicious homemade maple butter, "which has the consistency of a not-sticky syrup," opined Bwog's brunching companion. Bwog's mouth watered at the sight of the brioche French toast, which comes with caramelized bananas and roasted pecans. In fact, we observed it to be the most popular item ordered during our (very long) brunch. Moving towards the slightly healthier fare, the omelet ingredient selection was diverse—chorizo, double-smoked applewood bacon, fontina are a few examples—but the chefs tend to use way too much cheese, which overpowers all other omelet ingredients and makes the meal almost too rich to enjoy. Though also on the healthy side is the&nbsp;brûléed grapefruit, which is a favorite of Bwog's brunching companion. Community Food &amp; Juice is a nice choice for whenever your generous, patient parents come to visit, but for half the price, half the wait, and basically the same quality of food, Deluxe is a better, if a bit more boring, option. 
 DJ Tanner, the Pike-based hip-hop group comprised of Peter Capraro SEAS '09 and Michael Kosdan SEAS '09, has just released "The Experience," in which DJ T thoroughly reps Krebs and company, citing, among other things, their fresh tattoos and an ability to rock gold hearts like ice cubes. While you can hear the tune here, Bwog recommends watching the video, where you can see a series of goofy photographs of Capraro and the Experience crew, none of which is more amusing than the black and white mugshot of VP Policy candidate Adil Ahmed, pictured above. Bwog wonders, should the Kitchen Cabinet be expecting a phone call from Alidad? - Justin Goncalves Full message and video after the jump. "introducing the first ever CCSC campaign rap... for those of you out there that are able to let your voice be heard, its time you got with the Experience Columbia crew. Talkin bout the typa cats that wear sincerity like fresh tattoos, and rock virtue like new shoes and gold hearts like ice cubes. the crew: http://www.experiencecolumbia.net/ the song: http://www.myspace.com/djtannerhitsthespot the show: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z9mYyzM2wMY spread the word. show some love. make it happen. -djt" &nbsp; 
 The topics for these opinions were chosen specifically because they were not timely.&nbsp; Something tells Bwog that Aristotle would not have enjoyed his name next to this picture. We're all part of Columbia!&nbsp; Yay! Wait up guys, John Adams was President?&nbsp; Somebody should publicize this fact on an HBO miniseries!&nbsp; The words of a sage: "This is part of a general theme: the administration generally does what it wants. Sometimes that coincides with the Council’s wishes."&nbsp;&nbsp; People have strong opinions about gentrification in West Harlem?&nbsp; No... &nbsp; 
 Bwog was curious about the large-ish metal movie trailers currently outside the Starbucks on Broadway. We spotted a man who appeared to be fixing a faulty hinge on a door to the trailer. The man informed us that the trailers were for the movie Gigantic. "Who's in it?" we asked. "John Goodman!" the man replied, very obviously as excited as we are. IMDB informs us that the movie, (which is described as "a comedy centered around a mattress salesman and the young woman whom he meets at his store"), also stars unfortunate bowling pin accident-victim Paul Dano and surprisingly talented singer Zooey Deschanel. UPDATE 2:48 PM: Paul Dano spotted outside Starbucks smoking a cigarette. Swoon/gag. &nbsp; 
 Today is final opening day at Yankee Stadium, as the team will be moving to a new stadium across the street in 2009. The Yankees will be playing against the Toronto Blue Jays starting at 1:05 PM. Reggie Jackson will be throwing the first pitch, and there will be all kinds of opening/closing ceremonies.&nbsp; If you want to play hooky (and you don't mind the rain), you still have a few hours to get to what will probably be a very crowded game. Bring a raincoat and a tolerance of false nostalgia. 
 &nbsp; Currently, a guitarist and a bald tenor are singing outside of the Lerner Piano Lounge, attracting onlookers from all around.&nbsp; Upon approaching the scene, the fragrant smell of free food grows and one finds uniformed Housing and Dining people sitting around trays of deliciousness. So far the troubadour has serenaded Fair Alma with "A Whiter Shade of Pale." Twice. &nbsp; 
 Satow Room Bureau Chief&nbsp; Martha Turewicz reports back from last night's CCSC meetings. Spoiler alert: Calvin Sun and Lindsey Lazopoulos hotly debate a theoretical photograph of Michelle Diamond theoretically shotgunning a beer.&nbsp; The first thing I noticed at the meeting last night was that the audience was packed, since all the CCSC candidates were obligated to be there. Last time so many showed up was for the Great Juicy Campus Detente. Would tonight be just as interesting? No, no it wouldn't. The bulk of the meeting entailed providing an example for the candidates of the progression of a typical meeting—while&nbsp; this was all very meta, a free speech debate it was not. This was not helped by the descent, during the last 20 minutes, into the bureaucratic depths of the constitutional review. To be fair, there were a few bright points. For one, it was interesting to note the presence of previously unseen council reps, namely Max the Webmaster. Another interesting newcomer (albeit a temporary presence) arrived in the form of Eleanor, CC’03 and student alumni chair of the Young Alumni Association. After concluding short Young Alumni presentation and walking back to her seat, she called out that nobody had commented on her ‘strategically worn’ Columbia sweatshirt. There wasn’t really an appropriate response to this. Eric Wang, speaking on behalf of the senior class during updates, mentioned the opportunity for seniors to submit photos of themselves and their friends for the school to display. Lindsey Lazopoulos, VP of Campus Life, asked about the rules regarding photo content, “Are beer cans okay? Is a picture of Michelle shotgunning a beer okay?” Calvin Sun replied that it would be okay since "Dean Quigley gets drunk at the senior dinner." It should be noted that Michelle wasn’t there to defend herself. As Alidad Damooei had noted when he opened the meeting's proceedings, she was in LA. Donna Desilus and Glenn Thompson, working in conjunction with ESC Academic Affairs Rep Samantha Wilner (who also couldn’t make it to the meeting) introduced a proposal (which went on to unanimous approval, as proposals usually do) for professors to turn in booklists in the middle of the semester, thus increasing the availability of used books at the CU bookstore. Also, as you have have noticed, the election is in full swing. Below are important dates and after the jump is the debate calendar for CCSC: Sunday April 6&nbsp; CC’11 Debate John Jay 6pm Monday April 7 CC’10 Debate Schapiro Lounge 8pm Wednesday April 9 CC’09 Debate Wien Lounge 8pm Sunday April 13 At- Large Debate Schapiro Lounge 6pm Monday April 14 CCSC Debate Wien Lounge 8:30pm&nbsp; Tuesday April 15&nbsp; Moratorium On Campaigning 9am &nbsp; Wednesday and Thursday, April 16-17 Election Days Low Plaza 9am - 7pm 
 Relatively unreliable paper The New York Post is reporting that a grand jury has subpoenaed all Columbia's records on Madonna Constantine, citing financial records and personnel records of particular importance. The investigation into last year's noose-hanging incident has yet to pinpoint any possible suspects, while the plagiarism investigation remains tightly under wraps, with both Constantine's lawyer and the University's PR firm declining to comment. The Post also refers to sources who explain that the subpoena could signal "that the investigation is broadening to examine possible links between the teacher, her closest friends and the racially charged incident." 
 An anonymous tipster reports that as of today, the Columbia Music and Arts Library is now allowing undergraduate students to actually check out (as in, take them home) CD's and DVD's for up to two weeks, as opposed to only being allowed to sit around on the 7th floor of Dodge inconspicuously ripping classical, jazz and new music recordings to your computer. Of course, this also means you can sob to those five-hour opera DVD's of Tristan and Isolde -- or if you so please, chapters 1-12 of R. Kelly's Trapped in the Closet -- in the peace of your own dorm room. Alas, no word yet on chapters 13-22. 
 Along Broadway this afternoon, a hodgepodge of Harlemites and Columbia students staged a small-scale demonstration between wooden police divides.&nbsp; The protest was centered around a lawsuit filed by Nick Sprayregen, Manhattanville businessman, and Norman Siegel, his Madison Avenue lawyer trying to get the City to revisit the Manhattanville plan that they already approved in light of environmental concerns.&nbsp; It just so happens that in the basement of the Manhattanville campus there will be a hazardous biotech lab on, according to the protesters, a flood plane and earthquake fault line.&nbsp; His lawsuit is primarily demanding that the board wait until they can read the engineering studies that are in progress before finalizing their decision.&nbsp; Sprayregen said that in a "3000 page document," the City was not able to look at every very minor detail of the document vetted carefully.&nbsp; "We're not against expansion.&nbsp; We only think that biohazard research doesn't belong in Manhattan," he said.&nbsp; The organizing group (Sprayregen said he was only attending to "show support" and that he had no hand in organizing) tended to echo Sprayregen's ideas, randomly citing Klaus Jacob, a climate change scientist at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory.&nbsp; Many threw around climate science and engineering terms that this poor Bwogger did not entirely understand, but they seem to claim that if there is a "bathtub" under Manhattanville that holds the leaking biohazards and if the Hudson water-level rises as a result of Global Warming/Climate Change, it could flood the bathtub and spread the toxins across Harlem. Some, however, were protesting against the expansion on more general terms.&nbsp; The most common call and response chant of the group was that 125th-133rd streets, CB9, barrios, Columbia Students, the Core Curriculum were all "not for sale."&nbsp; One resident's poster contained a rendition of what seemed to be the hunger striker's octopus devouring Manhattanville. After marching around the Broadway side Journalism for about an hour, the protesters got permission from police to make a circuit around College Walk, where they continued their chants to the bemusement of many a student.&nbsp; When they finished back at Journalism, they resumed pacing back and forth on their stretch of sidewalk.&nbsp; While it seems like Sprayregen's lawsuit may be the last stand against the Columbia plan (the statute of limitations on the decision passed last Wednesday), the demonstrators did not seem desperate, rather, determined not to lose their homes and businesses.&nbsp; The full notice of petition and verified petition. -JJV 
 Bwog is currently livebwogging from the Low Steps, where we (like many of you) stumbled upon a rock concert. The music was loud (and catchy) as Bwog yelled around in vain trying to figure out what the concert was for. We first ran into Jeffrey Rodriguez, SEAS '10, of the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship who explained that the concert (which is called Praise on the Steps for Jesus) was to kick off Jesus Week. Bwog screamed a couple clarifying questions, but Rodriguez ran off to enjoy the show. Dejected, we resigned ourselves to Googling. Luckily, Jonathan Walton, CC 08, sat down next to us on the steps and began typing on Bwog's laptop. "Jesus Week is traditionally the week before Easter at Columbia University but because of Spring break this year we decided to have it later in the year.&nbsp; Each year the Christian fellowships come together to worship and reach out to campus through events and service," he wrote in our open Word document. "Thank you!" Bwog yelled. Walton smiled and ran off. The participating Christian fellowships include Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, Korean Campus Crusade for Christ, Campus Crusade for Christ, Remnant Christian Fellowship, and Kompass Christian Koinonia. "Are you ready to love God?!" the lead singer yelled to the crowd. The crowd replied affirmatively, enthusiastically. - JNW 
 No power struggles with new Provost, says PrezBo. Noteworthy politician who previously liked to turn us down, to speak on Class Day. Two hours, nine judges, and PrezBo's haircut.&nbsp; It all comes down to this? Hey! something new: Columbia hates ROTC. Hobsbawm revises revisionist history, again.&nbsp; 
 White House Bureau Chief Jim Downie returns with news from the campaign trail (on a Tuesday!). April fools? Spring means baseball, and on Sunday night, your blogger's favorite baseball team, the Washington Nationals, opened their new ballpark in DC (with a win over the Braves, by the way). The number of people who thought last year that this Democratic primary would still being going when baseball started? Even fewer than the number of people who thought that all four top seeds would be in this year's Final Four (that sound you heard after Kansas beat Davidson? Pool experts screaming as the novices celebrated their winning brackets). As the primary campaign on the Democratic side drags on for at least another month (see below), people continue to ask: when is this going to end? And now, the news: Should I Stay or Should I Go Now?: If you're Hillary Clinton, the answer is stay. The New York senator, despite having no chance of catching up in either the popular vote or the pledged delegate count, has told the Washington Post that she will stay in the race until the&nbsp;August convention in Denver.&nbsp;She appears to be hinging her chances on unpledged superdelegates, despite Obama having closed the gap in that category by more than 50 over the past few months. Observers actually think that she could bow out after May 6 if she doesn't win Indiana, but this race will be going for at least another&nbsp;five weeks. Our Halftime Entertainment For&nbsp;This Evening... Healthcare!: Turns out that the last night of the Republican National Convention will also be opening night of the NFL season (Washington vs. New York). Stereotypes would have dictated the Democrats would not know when football season starts, but either way we get to see just how little Americans actually care about their leaders. (Also,&nbsp;a commenter last weeked thought that no mention of McCain on my part was somehow typical of Columbia. If that person could explain how the Republican primary is still interesting, I'd be glad to talk about it). The CBS Fridays at 10: Poll numbers for&nbsp; the Democrats in Pennsylvania (April 22),&nbsp;North Carolina (May 6), and Indiana (May 6) are here, here, and/or here. The first two should be won by Clinton and Obama, respectively, while Indiana will probably the latest "make-or-break" state that actually won't end the campaign. Learning New Tricks: For all you New Yorker readers who can't get enough of political columnist Hendrik Hertzberg, he has a blog. A small warning to RSS-lovers: it appears there is no Hertzberg-specific RSS feed (at least for Firefox). From the Dept. of Firsts: Clinton may be the first&nbsp;woman president, and Obama the first black president, but John McCain has his own first—the first short president in over two centuries. As Kevin Drum points out, no man more than an inch shorter than the national average has won the presidency in over 200 years. At Least They'll Be Collectible: Despite being from the same state as Lincoln, Obama is open&nbsp;to eliminating the penny. Does anyone know how we'll make change, though? Some of us still occasionally use cash. Spitzer, Patterson, Clinton?: Newsweek reports that some Democrats are floating the New York governorship as a safe place for Clinton between now and 2012. If I were a tasteless late night host, I'd say Albany's had enough affairs. But I'm not, so I won't. They Asked For The Work Though: Ever wonder what it's like maintaining your favorite candidate's Wikipedia page?&nbsp;You didn't? Really? Are you sure?&nbsp;In any case, find out here. 
 The day that the frequenters of collegeconfidential.com live and die by has finally arrived, as Columbia's admissions letters to the class of 2012 have officially been mailed out, and online decisions were posted as of 5:05 p.m. last night.&nbsp; Amidst a careful navigation of the daily chaos that is the post-CC or Lit Hum reunions of friends that one might see daily in the lobby of Hamilton Hall,&nbsp; this bwogger witnessed yesterday Columbia's Director of Admissions Jessica Marinaccio finally at ease, with arms crossed and an unmistakeable cheshire grin on her face, as she towered over myriad hand trucks and several bins of yellow envelopes (looks like they are going with DHL this year) being hauled by burly Columbia athletes into the Admissions Office.&nbsp; These letters of admission it seems were to undergo a final inspection before being mailed out to nervous pre-frosh nationwide first thing this morning. So, fellow Columbians, today marks an ignominious day in the history of our fair Alma Mater where the Terrible 12s regular decisions admits will inevitably join the ranks of their early admitted counterparts on Facebook, and over the next few weeks begin to wreak havoc on the relative peace that has characterized Morningside Heights as of late, as they crash our lovely singles for Days on Campus, play frisbee on the lawns, and ultimately decide to choose Columbia because they happen to be here during Bacchanal and the sunniest weekend of the year. &nbsp; Perhaps this class will offer this university much more than its most immediate predecessors, but if this nugget of journalistic gold is any indication of the disposition of Columbia's newest breed, this bwogger will remain skeptical of Terrible 12s until persuaded differently.&nbsp; In the meantime however, welcome class of 2012 and enjoy the ride! Stats for the class of 2012&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Total number of applicants: 19,116&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Total admitted: 1,660&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Total acceptance rate: 8.7%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Percentage of CC accepted early: 27.4%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Percentage of SEAS accepted early: 23.3% PHS&nbsp; 
 Yesterday, we received an email from Scott Wright, the Vice President of Student Auxiliary and Business Services. Some of you, Bwog guesses, may not be in the habit of reading every email you receive from the Department of Student Auxiliary and Business Services. In fact, some of you may actually delete these emails on a fairly consistent basis. However, yesterday's correspondence was actually quite informative. Besides announcing the old-ish news about the ability to use Flex points off-campus, Wright includes a link to Transportation Services' website, specifically a map of the Studebaker Shuttle. To Bwog's delight (and surprise) the shuttle runs from the Columbia campus (picking up students in a few locations, including Lerner and the Amsterdam side of the gates) to the Studebaker Building on 131st street, which, Wright points out, is a short walk from Fairway. Fairway, which Wright also points out, now accepts Flex points. Everything comes full circle, much like the Studebaker Shuttle, which will drop you and your heavy grocery bags back at the Columbia gates. The email also includes this titillating parenthetical: "(We are also exploring the possibility of operating a shuttle directly between campus and Fairway Market.)" &nbsp; 
Bwog staffer Anna Corke just sent in the following statement: "I was walking on Amsterdam by the underpass and saw a bunch of people huddled around something. When I finally got close enough to see, it was OUR HERO! I'm so sad, guys... actually cried. I can't believe he's dead. Anyway, I took a picture, don't know if this is too insensitive to post. Somehow I think he would have wanted people to see his carcass, since he was so open about his killings in life." Still no word on the cause of death of our dear friend and hero. We'll update as more information comes in. If you'd like to share your grief with us, we'll be having a vigil at sundown at the sundial. Picture posted after the jump (don't click if you don't want to see!) 
 Tipster and burrito-enthusiast&nbsp; Eugene Shapsyuk alerts Bwog to some unfortunate price-raising at Chipotle: "I thought it'd be worth reporting as an FYI that Chipotle raised their prices. Price of a Burrito with guac is now $10.34 up from $9.25 I think. Guac's 10 cent's more and a Burrito is $7.61 up from I think $6.95. It might not seem like much, but it'll add up for those of us that go there at least a few times a week." Sadly, we April Fools you not. Spec Food Editor/Bwog tipster Shane Ferro posits that the rise in Chipotle prices could be related to activity in the international avocado market, where grain prices have soared due to a drought in Australia. Likewise, the price rise could also be explained by a shift on American farms from corn to soybean production. Foreshadows Ferro: "Expect to pay about twice as much for a bagel soon, as well." 
For many journalistic and Internet-based enterprises, April Fools' Day provides that one day out of the year when uptight journalists and uber net geeks can leave behind the utter seriousness of their jobs for just a short while to participate in unscrupulous knavery. As such, today’s day of banter and fun has seen a spattering of tricks across the web, as jovial jesters worldwide let loose with their friendly deceits.&nbsp; Here the Blog (ahem Bwog) offers a quick roundup of the days best fourberie. Never turn in a paper late with Google's new gmail addition.&nbsp; Who ever thought you could learn to live with time stamps?&nbsp; Best part, your CC professor is going to love you! Retroactive time stamps not enough for you?&nbsp; Well, Virgin Corporation and Google collaborate to form Virgle, to send you to Mars. Mars isn't cool enough for you?&nbsp; Then join your NYU counterparts on the moon. Jezebel decides it is now a credible journalistic source. YouTube gets in the habit of Rickrolling. Because we all love the IRS come tax time.&nbsp; Buy your favorite Bear Stearns gear on eBay for more than the price of a share of stock in the company. And of course our favorite here at Bwog: Hawkmadinejad lives! (Or does he?) Bwog tipsters, if any other Internet chicanery of the day may have caught your fancy please feel free to send in a tip to bwgossip@columbia.edu so that we can put it up for your enjoyment pleasure! 
 Did a friend of TC professor Madonna Constantine hang the noose on her door?&nbsp; Atlas Shrugged is the second-most influential book ever; an April Fool's Day column, a day late? Would "impeachment circus" be the correct term? How about "kerfuffle"? Is a hyphen to thank for the sky-high levels of school spirit and sense of community? A guilty Greek pleasure! &nbsp; 
Stressbusters, the student massage team, is in Wien Lounge from 12:00-1:00PM today doling out free mini-back rubs. It’s their weekly “Wind Down Wednesday”—what, haven’t heard of it? WDWs have been happening with semi-regularity for a while now, but quietly, in the hidden reaches of Lerner 7. A widely sent e-mail from Residential Programs guru Darleny Cepin publicizing this week’s WDW, and the relocation of the event to a place where students sometimes go, are both good things. And even if there’s no happy ending, there will at least be a happy middle to your day. 
 Last week's haiku contest proved a jolly good time, so we thought we'd share with you which haikus H-dad liked the best. We'd been corresponding with him via gmail up until yesterday, when we received this report. Is H-dad dead? Prove&nbsp;that&nbsp;he&nbsp;is/isn't by sending pictures and sightings to hawkmadinejad@gmail.com AND THE WINNERS ARE... Sing Muse of Hawk's rage: Such was the wrath of one bird, Breaker of Squirrels Iranian Hawk; cruel, petty aviator. No gays in his trees? Hawk, our Iron Chef Squirrel paella on math lawn Perfect score for taste Runner-up (disqualified because it doesn't directly praise our friend but rather his close relatives featured in Jurassic Park): "Click click" go the claws There's raptors in the kitchen A stainless steel tomb 
 This afternoon, Bwog took a leisurely stroll to admire the baked goods at The Bake Sale of the Year. The immodestly named pastry exchange was set up just inside the Barnard gates. Featuring treats from Nussbaum, Westside Market, Silver Moon Bakery and some other neighborhood haunts, the proceeds of the sale benefit the CARE organization. Bwog stood by as a crowd of about ten stormed the bake sale, thrusting dollar bills at the overwhelmed-looking Barnard girls on the other side of the register. The bake sale will continue until 3 PM today. Deeper into the dark heart of the Barnard campus, Bwog noticed the Barnard mascot Millie, an anatomically-lacking golden-brown bear, climbing a tree in front of Lehman library. At the bottom of the tree, a videographer stood fixated on Millie's struggle up the tree. Apparently reaching a suitable branch, Millie pulled out what looked like a course-packet and began to read. The videographer, clearly satisfied with Millie's posturing, turned on his camera and crouched on the ground. Still deeper into the recesses of Barnard, deep underground and through the tunnels to Milbank, Bwog finally reached the registrar's office. Of interest to any forgetful or indecisive Barnard students: Though today is the deadline to declare a major, there is no penalty (financial or academic or otherwise) for declaring after today. Bwog continues to be "undecided" and decided to remain so for a little while longer. - JNW 
 Three reminders of interest to the competitive games-playing community: Bwog's 1st Annual Mario Kart Tournament will be this Friday at 6:30 PM in Ruggles. All interested parties should email bwog@columbia.edu to sign up yourselves or your friends. We'll provide the food and drink, you bring sportsmanship and good cheer.&nbsp; Also, on Saturday in the Wien lounge (6-9 PM) will be the Blue Key-sponsored All-School Spelling Bee. $30 signs up a group of twenty spellers, with all proceeds going to charity. There will be free food and the winner of the Bee will naturally be receiving an iPod touch. Email bluekey@columbia.edu. And finally, on Saturday, a bit of March Madness comes to Columbia with a basketball throw-down for the ages. George Krebs and the Experience Columbia team has challenged Alidad Damooei and the rest of the Connect Columbians to a 5-on-5 basketball game in the Blue Gym in Dodge at 3 PM. "Be there or be square," Krebs warned in an email. 
 2008's Bacchanal has been announced and a (mostly) complete schedule has been released. In addition to performances by Grizzly Bear and The National, this year's festivities will include stand-up comedy by Greg Giraldo, an outdoor screening of Planet Earth on the Low steps for which absolutely no one will arrive stoned, and a Hawaiian Luau. If you couldn't tell from the indie rock, Hawaiian luau and stand-up comedy, this year's theme is "Bacchanaliens." "Fun has landed," proclaims Bacchanal's flyer; without an article, without a doubt. UPDATE 8:04 PM: The outdoor screening of Planet Earth is on 4/20. Best. Bacchanal. Ever. (Thanks commenter no. 5!) 
 The 40th anniversary of Columbia’s 1968 student protests are fast approaching, so start brushing up on your history! An early point of contention between students and administrators happened in March 1967, when Bob Feldman, a Columbia student and Students for a Democratic Society member, unearthed documents revealing Columbia’s institutional membership in a Department of Defense think tank that was doing advanced weapons research. Feldman recently reminded Bwog that parts One and Two of Columbia Revolt, a Newsreel documentary about the strikes of ’68, are available online. The film begins with monotone monologue and lots of shaky, low angle shots of CU buildings, but gets to the juicy stuff—students occupying buildings, cops, ambulances—pretty quickly. 
 On Monday night, the Student Governing Board voted to elect their new board, as well as to determine new group recognition and to derecognize inactive groups. Their new board is as follows: Chair: Arjun Kapoor,&nbsp; CC'09, Amnesty International Vice-Chair: Jacob Taber, GS-JTS'09, College Democrats &amp; Hillel Treasurer: Devora Aharon, CC'10, Hillel Secretary: Jim Downie, CC'10, College Democrats (and Bwog staffer!) Representatives-at-Large: Nishi Dedania, SEAS'09, Hindu Students Organization Charles Dwyer, CC'09, CU International Relations Forum Sana Khalid, CC'11, MSA, AHIMSA and USINPAC Aaron Krieger, CC'10,&nbsp;Hillel Executive Board,&nbsp;Gayava,&nbsp;Columbia Queer Alliance Ali Shafei, CC'10, MSA Eugenio Suarez, CC'11, Cuban American National Foundation Elissa Verrilli, BC'11, SEEJ New groups and groups-no-longer are after the jump—and in keeping with the theme du jour of objectivism, the ill-fated Ayn Rand Discussion Group is one of the latter. The new groups to the SGB roster include the Burma 88 Coalition (a humanitarian organization), CU Global Medical Brigades, and USINPAC (the US India Political Action Committee). Welcome! Alastair Shearman, the outgoing SGB Representative-at-large explains to Bwog that groups are only derecognized if they had transferred to another governing board (for instance, ABC) or have been inactive for over two years. "The SGB constitution requires a majority vote of the general body to ratify the Executive Board's decision to derecognize any group. (see Article VII, Section 3)," explained Shearman. With that in mind, the derecognized groups are as follows: Action for Immigrant Rights African Students Association (ASA) Ayn Rand Discussion Group Campaign to End the Death Penalty Care for Kids Catholic Athletes Chinese Students and Scholars Association (CUCSSA) Columbia Iranian Students Association (CISA) Columbia Student Solidarity Network (CSSN) DC Vote of Barnard/Columbia Democracy Matters Disability Awareness Excel Ministries Falun Dafa Human Rights Society Peace Collective Project Success Rock the Vote Roots &amp; Culture The Mobius Strip Tibetan Studies Society Value Creation &nbsp; 
 As we reported earlier, CCSC presidential candidate George Krebs challenged his opponent, Alidad Damooei, to a basketball showdown which was to be played this Friday in Dodge. As we also reported earlier, Krebs threatened that Damooei and Connect Columbia "be there or be square."&nbsp; Neither there nor, arguably, square, Damooei has re-buffed Krebs' basketball throwdown with a counter-challenge: "If we are going to play a game, let it be for a good cause and a fair fight. Let us join together in the spirit of community service. On Saturday night between 6 and 9PM, the Blue Key Society is doing a spelling bee for charity. You have to&nbsp;raise $30 to sign up a team of 20. You bring a team and&nbsp;I bring a team. This way, we can promote this service project and have our competition serve a good cause." Oh, shit. Counter-challenge: issued! What say you, Krebs? Or rather, what spell you? Damooei's full email after the jump. Dear George and Experience Columbia, &nbsp; &nbsp; At first when I heard about this, I thought you were&nbsp;probably taking a page out of the Hilary Clinton playbook with her April Fool's bowling challenge to Obama. But, apparently you are&nbsp;serious.&nbsp;While it is true that Jenn played varsity and Veronica dates a basketball player, I still think that Obama fairs a better chance at beating Clinton with his 37/300 than we do playing basketball. After all, you are all on average a foot taller than us and we know you're a basketball addict &nbsp; &nbsp; I would prefer for us to focus on the issues that are affecting this campus rather than playing a game. Obama's bowling skills don't really have much to do with his ability to lead this nation and your basketball skills have nothing to do with your ability to deliver on the promises in your platform. &nbsp; &nbsp; But, if we are going to play a game, let it be for a good cause and a fair fight. Let us join together in the spirit of community service. On Saturday night between 6 and 9PM, the Blue Key Society is doing a spelling bee for charity. You have to&nbsp;raise $30 to sign up a team of 20. You bring a team and&nbsp;I bring a team. This way, we can promote this service project and have our competition serve a good cause. &nbsp; Sincerely, &nbsp; Alidad, Jenn, Cliff, Veronica, and Donna 
 “There are about 1100 billionaires in the world,” David Rothkopf CC’77 said, “and their wealth is equal to that of the bottom 2.5 billion people.” He was the focal point of “Superclass: The Global Power Elite and the World They Are Making,” a panel discussion packed with high powered folks, including PrezBo himself, who delivered some perfunctory introductory remarks. Most of the world’s wealth is in the hands of the few--we all know this. But Rothkopf, the president and CEO of his own international advisory firm, has written a new book called Superclass (whence the title of the panel) that strives to answer whether the wealthy are unjustly wealthy (he seems to think yes), and, if so, what can the planet do about it? The newly globalized world is creating a tiny group of very powerful people--both super-rich Carlos Slims and super-influential Bonos (and Jeffrey Sachses?)--whose power transcends national boundaries, and who seem to identify more with each other than with the middle (or lower) classes in their countries of origin. When the American robber barons accumulated too much wealth, the trustbusters were there to take them down a peg.&nbsp; But which people, and what mechanisms, will keep this new group of global elites in check?&nbsp; Presumably Rothkopf’s book has some suggestions. The discussion, however, consisted of Alan Murray, the affable moderator and Executive Editor of the Wall Street Journal Online, posing variations of this question to the rest of the panel, and not hearing many concrete answers back.&nbsp; Perhaps this was because Murray spent much of the time going around the circle, asking panelists individual questions in their areas of expertise—these brilliant people made smart observations, but there wasn’t much back and forth between the panelists, and they didn’t have to stray far from their comfort zones. Luis Alberto Moreno, the President of the Inter-American Development Bank and former Colombian ambassador to the U.S., admitted that no single NGO had the power to impose anything on these elite people or they corporations for whom they work.&nbsp; Sociology Professor Saskia Sassen said (in the svelte unplaceable European accent that many Dutch people have) that she preferred “multiple normativities” to “one master normativity.” President Bollinger made the interesting point that universities simply don’t move as fast as the pace of globalization: “I still teach my course ‘Freedom of Speech and Press’ in a national way, even though I know there’s a global media. We have to catch up.” Comments tended towards abstract observation and low-key self-flagellation. Bold claims were scarce. The panelists’ reluctance no doubt stemmed from the impossible nature of the question:&nbsp; How do we impose controls on the world’s most powerful people? Perhaps it also stemmed from the panelists’ own considerable power. Arnold, a self-described “revolutionary,” raised this point in the Q&amp;A.&nbsp; Alan Murray, whose bio says he lives in Greenwich, CT and who works for a Rupert Murdoch-owned news outlet that reaches millions of people, conceded the point, but also argued that the media, atomized by the Internet, had very little ability to impose the news that people ‘should’ be reading. When Rothkopf, who was quite funny throughout the discussion, cracked that Alan Murray was “enormously wealthy” and “definitely on the list ,” much of the audience chuckled. But when Murray leaned over to SIPA professor Merit Janow and laughed,&nbsp; “News to me,” she looked back with a strained “You live in Greenwich, asshole” smile. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; —Paul Barndt 
 6,000-strong superclass vs. the rest of us The Abyssinian Development Corp. is mean to little old ladies with doctor's appointments Student councilmen (promise to) wrassle 7% from the cost of your packaged Lit Hum and CC book sets Quirky DJs decimate listening audience Art tussles with hate, apathy&nbsp; 
 In recent months, Bwog readers have risen from limerick-fearing philistines to haiku-handy aesthetes...and just in time for Poetry Month! And after all, rainy April is the perfect time for indoor sports like contemplation and reflection. For a gentle night on the town, consider this listing of poetry events. For the heavy-hearted and heavy-handed who can't bear to click the link, a few highlights, after this link: - On April 19, Jeff Sacks reads from his translations of the poems of Mahmoud Darwish. No, the Columbia-affiliated Jeff Sachs you're thinking of hasn't taken up Arabic poetry translation. This Columbia Ph.D and newly-minted UC Riverside professor reads verses on Palestinian oppression, despair, and resistance. Fun! - On April 21, Mark Strand, the Bwog-endorsed poet and Culpa-endorsed prof, reads at the 11th St. Bar. Drink and be merry! Or contemplative, rather. Finally, Knopf (KN pronounced as in knish), offers a poem a day in your email inbox. Mark Strand, by the way, is a Knopf poet. Sign up here, but beware the promise of "extras"--read: shameless corporate promotions--that will fluff your inbox for the month to come. 
 As registration nears, Bwog worries many of you remain undecided in choosing your fall 2008 classes. To help the undecided and unsure, we've compiled a list of some of the most promising-sounding courses. Know of interesting sounding classes? Send them our way (bwog@columbia.edu) and we'll update the list. Specificity is a Construct Fall 2008 Art History G8608 THE ICONIC TURN Fall 2008 Anthropology W4042 AGENT,PERSON,SUBJECT,SELF Fall 2008 Anthropology G6207 PROFANE ILLUMINATION II Fall 2008 French W3628 DISCOVERING EXISTENCE Spring 2008 Management B9712 PROSEMAINAR Fall 2008 Anthropology G6650 PSYCHOANALYTIC TRAJECTORIES Fall 2008 Electrical Engineering E3043 SOLID ST,MICROWAVE,FIBER OPTCS Fall 2008 Applied Mathematics E6302 NUMERICAL ANALYSIS OF PDE'S Fall 2008 Comparative Literature and Society G8050 TECHNOLOGIES OF EMPIRE Fall 2008 Psychology G4695 PSYCH OF CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS Rage Against the Machines Fall 2008 Anesthesiology N02P_ PRECEPTORSHIP IN ANESTHESIOLGY Fall 2008 Industrial Engineering and Operations Research E4207 HUMAN FACTORS: PERFORMANCE Fall 2008 Electrical Engineering E1101 THE DIGITAL INFORMATION AGE Fall 2008 Computer Science W4731 COMPUTER VISION Fall 2008 Dance BC2501 BIOMECHANICS FOR THE DANCER This and That Fall 2008 Materials Science and Engineering E4250 CERAMICS &amp; COMPOSITES Fall 2008 Electrical Engineering E3801 SIGNALS AND SYSTEMS Fall 2008 Religion V3798 GIFT AND RELIGION Fall 2008 Sociology V2230 FOOD &amp; THE SOCIAL ORDER Fall 2008 Computer Science E0005 VISION &amp; GRAPHICS-TRACK Fall 2008 Electrical Engineering E6950 WIRELESS &amp; MOBILE NETWORKING I Fall 2008 Art History W3941 HOUSE/GARDEN-18C GREAT BRITAIN Fall 2008 Biology W4300 DRUGS AND DISEASE Fall 2008 Psychology W2460 DRUGS AND BEHAVIOR Fall 2008 Psychology G4225 CONSCIOUSNESS &amp; ATTENTION Fall 2008 Computer Science W4115 PROGRAMMING LANG &amp; TRANSLATORS A Matter of Life and Death Fall 2008 Biostatistics P8100 APPLIED REGRESSION I Fall 2008 East Asian W3338 section 001 CULTRL HIST-JAPANESE MONSTERS Fall 2008 Health Policy and Management P8575 CROSS-NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY Fall 2008 Health Policy and Management P8510 QUALITY OF HEALTH CARE Fall 2008 Biostatistics P8108 SURVIVAL ANALYSIS Fall 2008 Anthropology G8545 THE ANTHROPOLOGY OF AFFLICTION Fall 2008 Biostatistics P9111 ASYMPTOTIC STATISTICS Fall 2008 General Public Health P8090 TUTORIAL GENERAL PUBLIC HEALTH Baby Steps Fall 2008 Comparative Literature and Society W3920 WORDS AND PICTURES Fall 2008 Psychology W2235 THINKING AND DECISION MAKING Fall 2008 Physics G6080 SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING Fall 2008 Industrial Engineering and Operations Research E4404 SIMULATION Fall 2008 Computer Science W1001 INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTERS Fall 2008 Computer Science W3203 DISCRETE MATHEMATICS Fall 2008 Computer Science W4705 NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING Abbreviations, Abbreviated Fall 2008 Health Policy and Management P6530 ISS-APPROACHES-HLTH POL &amp; MGT Fall 2008 Nursing N8789 ADV CLIN ASSESS PELVIC/WOMEN Fall 2008 Health Policy and Management P8517 MGMT CHAL IN EVOLVNG HLTH CARE &amp; INS SYS Fall 2008 Health Policy and Management P8520 HLTHCRE ETHCS:DEV/MGT-PUB PLCY Fall 2008 Health Policy and Management P8535 ORG &amp; DEL OF PUB HEALTH IN US Fall 2008 History W4548 AMER SOC POL FR PROGRSSVE-PRES First as Tragedy, Then As Farce Fall 2008 History W4914 THE FUTURE AS HISTORY Fall 2008 History W4127 VICO'S NEW SCIENCE Fall 2008 History W4495 THE AGE OF FDR Fall 2008 Comparative Literature: Slavic W4001 CLIMBING THE TOWER OF BABEL Fall 2008 Industrial Engineering and Operations Research E4703 MONTE CARLO SIMULATION METHODS &nbsp; 
 Now what, pray tell, is a "confetti canon"? Sweet Valley High exegesis Campus-themed haiku: Bwog rip off?&nbsp; You know, provocateurs who insist that "gore-porn" is art aren't really that provocative anymore. Overdosing on analysis, not drugs: yes, that's what Columbia and Harvard bands do.&nbsp; 
 The signs of spring are everywhere on campus: two students sitting on the lawn listening to a radio, absolutely no frisbees whatsoever, and the season's first whiff of insanity wafting up from Manhattanville. This afternoon's distinctive smell is caused by Anne Whitman, the owner of the former Sheffield Farms stable building. The University is still negotiating the terms of a purchase deal with Whitman, which Bwog supposes is why Ms. Whitman is now asking the university to move the building four blocks. Insanity! Back-of-the-envelope engineering! Poorly Photoshopped site maps! All after the jump. &nbsp; The attractive seven-story building, now the home of Hudson Moving &amp; Storage, is built of solid masonry construction, weighing... oh, we don't know. A billion pounds? While other buildings in the city have been moved (City College negotiations are ongoing on the matter of moving Hamilton Grange into nearby Saint Nicholas Park), something with this much sheer bulk seems a little exceptional. For example, the Sheffield building is fifty feet wide and ninety-five feet deep, according to city records. Bwog is not a civil engineer, but since that stretch of Broadway has an elevated train over it and just three twelve-foot lanes, it seems unlikely that the street can accommodate more than forty-two feet worth of building. Is it still a historic structure if you scrape the sides off when you pull it by the McDonalds? But wait, there's more! The lot that Whitman is "eyeing", according to AM New York, is the parcel on the southwest corner of 125th and Broadway. You might remember this plot of land, as it caused a furor this year.&nbsp; Columbia is building a new science and math magnet school at this site, which was the subject of a minor dust-up this year when its students were being temporarily housed at a crowded public school on Morningside Drive. Apparently this project would be nixed. An unnamed Columbia official described the plan to amNY as being "dreamland stuff." Sounds like somebody doesn't want their kids to go to school in a warehouse that's been rolled down Broadway on flatbed trucks (or, hell, helicopters), at tremendous expense. You've got to learn to think big. --ZvS 
 Yes, it's free money to buy food! According to two eager-to-email passersby, Starbucks representatives are giving away $5 gift cards in front of Lerner. Bwog remains perplexed, and skeptical of tipster Ben Isham's explanation that this "string-free free money" is "part of a promotion to 'educate' students about how their parents can reload them monthly." Regardless of stodgy-hearted Bwog's trepidations, undercaffeinated opportunists are encouraged to mob any Starbucksers who may remain on campus. UPDATE 4:10 PM: On a somewhat related note, first ice cream truck of the season spotted on 112th! Photographic evidence after the jump. Photo by Hillary Busis 
 If these events are not enough for you, Bwog recommends you check out the listings linked for National Poetry Month. On a tangent from that,&nbsp; Bwog sincerely enjoys this charming photograph of New York poet Frank O'Hara (who will not be present at any of the events listed). TONIGHT Junot Díaz and Francisco Goldman at the Martin E. Segal Theatre, CUNY (365 5th Ave). "Acclaimed writers Junot Diaz and Francisco Goldman discuss writing lives, through history and fiction with Lynn Di Iorio, Assistant Professor of English at City College and The Graduate Center." (FREE, 6:30-7:30PM) Irezumi Ichidai (Tattooed Life) --&nbsp;part of Gamblers, Gangsters, and Other Anti-Heroes: The Japanese Yakuza Movie at the Asia Society and Museum.&nbsp;Before you&nbsp;become&nbsp;tired&nbsp;of anything upstanding in Japanese culture (see ongoing events), go see a movie about its intriguing underbelly.&nbsp;(7-9PM, $10 students) 11th Anniversary of Basement Bhangra at S.O.B.'s (200 Varick St, at W Houston St, Soho). Mumbai meets Mojitos: Multi-cultural match made in Heaven. Featuring DJ Rekha and Eddie Stats, with visuals by Fictive. Free mojitos from 7 to 8PM, and free dance lessons at 9PM. (7PM-? $12 w/flyer; $16 without; $5 before 8pm) Jorie Graham at the New Museum (235 Bowery, SoHo). If you haven't had the chance to check out the New Museum yet, tonight's your chance. Your ticket gets you museum admission as well as Graham's reading from her new collection of poems, Sea Change, in celebration of National Poetry Month. Seating is first-come, first-served. Go! Now! ($5, 7PM) FRIDAY Junot Diaz &amp; Edward Hirsch at the Village Community School (272 W 10th St, between Greenwich and Washington Sts, West Village). If you missed him Thursday night, you've got another chance -- this time with poet Edward Hirsch. Winner of the 2008 National Book Critics Award, Diaz reads from his latest fiction, The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao with a book party to follow. Wow! (7PM, $5) The Belcea Quartet at Carnegie Hall (Zankel stage). The young string quartet comprised of graduates from the Royal College of Music in London performs a program of Haydn, Bartók and Schubert's "Death and the Maiden." (7:30PM, $10 Students) PICTOGRAM featuring Heather Kravas and Anthony Livingstone at The Kitchen. "The observation and sensation of 'the dancing body': a constantly shifting and coexisting space for love, boredom, violence, pleasure, excess, loss, and wonder. How can one give such work a title consisting only of words? Make the title a pictogram, an image to be uniquely interpreted by each viewer, much like the dance, much like the experience of dancing it." The contemporary choreographers put on a show based on the idea of words, images, and societal customs. (8PM, $10 Students) Prokofiev's The Gambler at the Metropolitan Opera. Based on Dostoyevsky's work, Valery Gergeiv conducts this production, "evoking the seamy underbelly of Czarist society, is brought to life by a cast of Met veterans and the greatest Russian singers from Gergiev’s legendary Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg, including Vladimir Galouzine and Olga Guryakova." No general rush tickets are available on Fridays, but if you are lucky you can get a standing room ticket for pretty cheap too (and swipe an empty seat when no one's looking). (8PM, $15-20 standing room) Janeane Garofalo&nbsp;at Comix (353 W 14th St).&nbsp;Indulge your Gen-X nostalgia! Bwog recommends that after attending this event you go home and watch Kicking and Screaming. (8:30PM/10:45PM, $30 advance/$35 door) Sunshine at Midnight presents The Muppet Movie at The Landmark's Sunshine Cinema (143 East Houston Street).&nbsp;Bwog expects to see you all there. (MIDNIGHT, $11.50) SATURDAY PICTOGRAM featuring Heather Kravas and Anthony Livingstone at The Kitchen. See Friday listing. (8PM, $10 Students) Janeane Garofalo&nbsp;at Comix (353 W 14th St).&nbsp;See Friday listing. (8:30PM/10:45PM, $30 advance/$35 door) Sunshine at Midnight presents The Muppet Movie at The Landmark's Sunshine Cinema (143 East Houston Street).&nbsp;See above listing. (MIDNIGHT, $11.50) &nbsp; SUNDAY Bobby McFerrin conducts the Orchestra of St. Luke's at Carnegie Hall (Perelman stage). The famed a-capella conducts a program of Prokofiev, Ravel, Fauré, and his own work with the chamber orchestra (not associated with the hospital across the street), vocalists Dominique Labelle and Nathan Gunn, and the Morgan State University Choir. (2PM, $10 Students) The Handsome Furs and Violens at The Bowery Ballroom (6 Delancey St, at Bowery, Lower East Side). Animal Collective? Deerhoof? Wolf Parade? Grizzly Bears? What's the deal with all the bestial bands? This Sunday, find out why everyone's going primal over this X based addition to the alternative music scene. (7:30PM, $15) ONGOING Jellyfish at Angelika Film Center. Israeli film about a child who mysteriously emerges from the sea. (Opens Friday - see link for showtimes, $11.75) Flight of the Red Balloon at IFC Center. Hou Hsiao-hsien directs a film inspired by the 1956 French classic. "Hou paints an intimate, note-perfect portrait of contemporary Parisian life, at times stressful and frustrating, but buoyed by affection, the power of art and the city's timeless beauty." (See link for showtimes, $11.50) (C) Murakami and Utagawa: Masters of the Japanese Print, 1770-1900 at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. Traveling retrospective of neo-pop artist/Louis Vuitton muse Takashi Murakami. After you get oversaturated with cute Japanese images at the Murakami show, stay in the museum and check out their&nbsp;exhibit of old-timey Japanese images. (Murakami opens Saturday, $4 students) 2008 First-Year MFA Exhibition at The Nash Building (3280 Broadway @ 132nd Street, 5th Floor). Forget the Hunger strike. Support Columbia's Starving Artists -- &nbsp;Manhattanville will forgive you this time around. (Opening reception Fri. 5PM-8PM/Exhibition Sat. &amp; Sun. 11AM-4PM) Close Encounters: Irving Penn's Portraits of Artists and Writers at The Morgan Library &amp; Museum (225 Madison Avenue at 36th Street). Impressive photographs of impressive people, including Marc Chagall, T.S. Eliot, George Grosz, Joan Miró, Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II, and Igor Stravinsky.&nbsp;(FREE, see here for hours -- ends next Sunday) 
 April is not just Poetry Month, it's also Earth Awareness Month. W.M. Akers reports on NYU's valiant awareness-raising nude protest/celebration. A civic-minded group of students took to the streets outside of the&nbsp; main NYU buildings today, exhibiting their bodies and their concern for the environment. Timing their small march to coincide with the gap in between the 11 AM and 12:30 PM classes, they made a circuit of six blocks several times, chanting and cheering in support of Earth Month.&nbsp; They gathered at the east side of Washington Square a few minutes before noon to trade shirts, pants and brasseires for colorful war paint. Most of the men wore shorts and running shoes, while the women wore pants or athletic shorts and a bra or body paint. It was a few degrees too cold for comfortable nudity, and assorted nipples greeted the air cheerfully. Though they looked a bit silly, the participants had their message ready, as though they expected people to ask why they were running around topless. "We want to raise energy awareness," said a woman named Channing, "and to help build a healthy community. I'm already part of a strong energy community: we have potlucks, freeganism events, dumpster diving, things like that."&nbsp; A girl standing next to her said, "I don't know who's in charge, but I just saw people getting naked and had to come join." She had stripped down to just a bra and underwear.&nbsp; From the blue and purple body paint to the glittering gold American Apparel shorts, color was a theme, a contrast to the whitewashed torsos of those running. Jordan said, "This is supposed to be a fun thing. So much about global warming is like, oh, the world is collapsing. This is a way to have fun and do something good."&nbsp; At about 12:10 PM some one shouted, "All right! Let's start walking," and they took off towards Silver, the main building for the College of Arts and Sciences. Walking in the middle of the street, they attracted less attention than one might expect, but made noise that could be heard from ten stories up. "Less gas, more ass!" they chanted, a slogan written on the back of Ian, one of the young men leading the group.&nbsp; Earth Month apparently had needed awareness; most of the people who saw the half-nude parade were confused. A group of businessmen stood on the corner of Mercer and Washington and giggled like children. "What the hell are they even protesting?" one embittered student asked.&nbsp; As they finished their first turn around the building, a truck driver blew his horn at the parade of flesh. It would have been creepy, but he was picking up reusable vegetable oil and bore a recycling symbol on the side of his tank. It was an old trope revitalized, turned into 21st century, 100% green sleaze. 
 Once again the finger-food was set out at 60 Morningside Drive and once again the president of Fair Alma took a cue from FDR, hosting a fireside chat in his humble, multi-million dollar abode.&nbsp; Employees from the President's Office removed my coat and guided students from every part of the University up an elegant marble staircase to the reception, which featured an array of crusty breads, fancy cheeses and hors d'oeuvres both sweet and savory.&nbsp; After a healthy dose of schmoozing, Bollinger described the format of the discussion: first he would entertain questions posed by the student body and then he himself would ask questions of them.&nbsp; &nbsp; Breaking an uncomfortable silence, Dave Duncan (GS '08) raised a concern about financial aid, a sentiment immediately echoed by other GS students in the room.&nbsp; Bollinger gave a somewhat rote response about the limited funds of the University and the way that endowment money can be earmarked for a certain college.&nbsp; However, he supports that the "trajectory of the University is bringing GS closer and closer to the College."&nbsp; Much of the night's discussion centered on allocation of University funds. Students demanded explanations about costs of tuition and financial aid and Bollinger maintained that while finances, in the midst of the study abroad investigation, seem to be leaching money out of the student body at every turn, "we don't make a profit here.&nbsp; In fact, we specialize in losing money." &nbsp; As the discussion progressed, however, Bollinger was able to open up to his audience with a series of self-deprecating remarks that may not have brought the house down, but certainly lightened the mood of the dark, wood-paneled room.&nbsp; When explaining why he doesn't feel self-important, he said his job, compared with a business executive, is "among the hardest jobs I can imagine…There's a lot of people in this institution over whom I exert almost no authority." What Prezbo seemed most interested in, however, was finding out from the students what they felt about the election and who they supported and why.&nbsp; Stephanie Goodsell (CC '09), who has been working as an intern in Hillary's campaign, felt that the buzz generated this election season has been more than she had ever seen in her three years at Columbia, with buttons adorning many students and discussions around campus.&nbsp; Jason Bello (CC '08) said that in his thesis, he found that the increased excitement in young people was not leading to higher voter turnout among young people, but rather generating people who see the campaign trail as entertainment. As the night drew on, students voiced concern about homogeneity in campus political opinion, the pop culture nature of political campaigns and still more GS complaints.&nbsp; Bollinger, who never fully sat down on the stool next to him for the entire event, began to slouch with fatigue before calling the discussion to a close.&nbsp; Students took the last few minutes to commiserate while stuffing food into napkins to supplement their dearth of Dining Dollars before they made their way out of the veritable mansion at 116th and Morningside. -JJV 
 In the past 15 minutes, Bwog has been deluged with news of an evacuation at Pinnacle that happened between 12 and 1 a.m. Apparently, the soggy pizza peddlers have been threatened with a bomb. Tipster Miriam Manber relays that the NYPD is caution-taping the restaurant off; Vedant Misra tells of four squad cars surrounding the eatery. Regular Bwog jokester Alex Weinberg reports that cops on the scene looked "bored" and shrugged the incident off as an "ongoing investigation." According to roving reporter Justin Goncalves, police were investigating what the proprietor of Pinnacle called a "suspicious package" incident. According to the owner, Justin reported, a man in the eatery had been acting strangely around a suitcase. He added that Pinnacle employees had vacated the premises and that cops looked to be taping off the rest of the block--between 115th and 114th-- as well. UPDATE: First overheard at the scene: "I hope it's a bomb. And it blows up. Because I do not like Pinnacle and I want a new restaurant to go there." UPDATE 1:46 AM: A cop on the scene informs Bwog that a suspicious package was discovered several hours ago at Pinnacle. "We're just investigating," she said, ushering Bwog down 116th and away from the police tape. We'll be updating as more information rolls in. UPDATE 2:18 AM: The firetrucks, EMT squad, bomb robot and police cars start rolling away. It's all over folks. And the cause of such commotion? The ever-so-suspicious package? A bag of cameras. 
Ariel Hudes pluralizes "Roar, Lion, Roar". And, for that matter, uses it in a column. In all caps. As the last line. "Street names carved by old cow trails." Talking about... Boston? London? Oh, um, Staten Island. Cow trails? I bet that fact came from a book. Spec boldly asks a question nobody has ever asked before, ever: "Is this really art?" An AdHoc founder compares AdHoc to the French Revolution. Um. Eager not to be one-upped, Jordi Reyes-Montblanc calls Columbia "a great institution endowed by God with powers and privileges beyond mere mortal men and women of the blue collar working kind." Quick, somebody give him an editorial position. Or at least a column.
This week on Cooking with Bwog, Bwog Chef brings you a recipe from her time whipping up grub for the paying public. It's a crab salad with citrus vinaigrette, tortilla chips, black bean salsa and guacamole. Enjoy! This recipe is a little more complicated than recipes usually posted in this column, but it shouldn't be too difficult if you have a reasonable amount of kitchen supplies and some cash for buying ingredients. Recipe as printed serves four. Dressing 1 small can mandarin orange slices 1 small grapefruit (or 1/2 of a large one) canola oil 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 2 green onions (the long skinny ones), cut small a few pepper flakes Pour the mandarin orange slices with their juice into a bowl. Peel the grapefruit and supreme it (that's when you cut away all the skin so it's just sections made of pulp) and add it to the oranges. Add the vinegar, onions and pepper flakes and toss. Then add the canola oil while stirring to combine. The oil will probably separate out, so just make sure that you get oil and citrus vinegar on the salad when you toss it later. &nbsp; Black Bean Salsa 2 cups of black beans (1 can or 1 cup dry), rinsed in cold water 1 green and 1 red bell pepper, diced small 1 small red onion, diced. If you don't like onion raw very much, soak it in water for a while to soften the flavor 2 limes salt Combine the beans, diced peppers and diced onion. Cut open the limes and squeeze the juice onto the mixture. Salt to taste (I use quite a bit of salt). Tortilla Chips You can just buy some if you're lazy 1 pack of corn tortillas - multiple colors is nice cumin salt oil Preheat the oven to 400. In the restaurant we deep fried them, but you can get a nice effect by baking them, too. Cut the tortillas into the shape you want - I usually do triangles. Oil a cookie sheet and lay the tortilla slices out in one layer. Then sprinkle oil on top, or if you have a brush, brush the tops with oil. Back until they are crispy (10-15 minutes). When you remove them, put them in a bowl lined with paper towels and sprinkle cumin and salt on them to taste. Guacamole Everyone has her own way of making guac. This was how I made it at the restaurant. 2 avocados (or alternatively, you can buy packs of avocado puree at some stores) cumin 2 cloves garlic, minced pepper flakes or chili powder (just a dab!) 1 tomato. Cut it open and remove the seeds, then dice. optional: 1 cup sour cream 1 lemon or lime (whichever you prefer), juice.&nbsp; &nbsp;UPDATE: Cilantro. Just buy several sprigs of it, tear the leaves off and roll them up before mincing. Combine all ingredients in a bowl and mash with a fork until thoroughly mixed. Squeeze citrus juice over the top before storing to keep it from turning brown. Final Salad Romaine lettuce (2-3 heads) A bit of diced tomato for garnish Crab (canned works, or buy it fresh. I would say about 1/4 cup per person) Limes Note: you'll probably have to do one plate at a time. These instructions are written out for plating one serving. Cut up lettuce (amount for one person, 2-3 handfuls) and toss in bowl with the citrus dressing. Take out a big plate and put around 1/2 cup of guacamole on one side and 1/2 cup of bean salsa on the other. Then put the tossed salad in the middle, and place the crab on top of the lettuce. Put a good sized handful of tortilla chips on the side and stick a few into the guacamole (this looks really cool if you've made long, skinny tortilla chips). Garnish with diced tomato and 1 or 2 slices of lime. Serve immediately (crab goes bad really really fast). &nbsp; 
 Bwog daily editor Mariela Quintana peers into the insular, feminine world of insular, feminine authors on a Thursday night at Barnard. Yesterday evening, I crossed over to the other side of Broadway and made my way to across the Barnard quad to attend a reading hosted by Great Writers at Barnard Series featuring authors Myla Goldberg and Elizabeth Benedict. With the help of some emphatic arrows, I was guided to the event in Milbank's Ella Weed Hall. Given the abundant signage, I expected to find a crowd at the reading. But when I arrived in Ella Weed, the audience was small and seemed to be predominately comprised friends and colleagues of the authors. Ella Weed's den-like atmosphere, complete with a fireplace, warmly painted walls and soft lighting, however, made a lovely setting for this intimate reading. In many ways, the reading felt like a glimpse into the lives of Barnard and Columbia professors and the academic social circles they inhabit. Goldberg and Benedict are both currently teaching creative writing courses at Barnard and Benedict is an alum. Given their familiarity with the ins and outs of our collegiate community, it makes sense, then, that much of their writing is inspired by if not directly pertaining to both the Barnard academic ethos and their experiences with it. &nbsp; Goldberg read first and offered the audience a taste of her newest work. Her delicate frame matches her delicate writing. Her sentences merge the poetic and photographic and convey sensitive auditory and visual detail. Her words are easily accessible and lend themselves to her audience. In a different setting, however,&nbsp; removed from Goldberg's engaging presence and quirky intonations, I question whether a reader would be patient enough to sift through her generous descriptions. &nbsp; Reading a passage from Almost, Elizabeth Benedict showed a simple and descriptive style similar to Goldberg's.&nbsp; Her narrative is strongest in the candor of its distinctly female voice. The novel appropriately opens with a quote from Elizabeth Bishop, the pioneering poetess and eternal subject of Women's Studies seminars. Reading from Almost, Benedict's consistent and confident voices gave the audience easy access into the often uncomfortable topics of femininity, sex and frustrated desires.&nbsp; Sexual tension culminated in a description of both the highs and lows of a forty-three minute session under the sheets. "I don't want you to think I traffic in the smut," she said of her book, The Joy of Writing Sex: A Guide for Fiction Writers. "But this is Erica Jong's college," She recovered, "You can take it." Next Benedict read from a recent essay titled "Why Not Say What Happened?" It seems all too fitting this essay profiles the personal and professional life of Elizabeth Hardwick , Benedict's professor, inspiration and object of admiration. The essay is essentially a current Barnard professor&nbsp; writing as a Barnard student on a former Barnard professor. The effect, as can be imagined, is almost awkwardly insular. Benedict's writing is pure and unassuming. But given her subject matter, her lengthy essay, which she read in its entirety, came off as obvious, if not unimaginative. &nbsp; Detailing the modest lessons Hardwick imparted on to her as an undergrad, Benedict emphasizes the importance of listening to and reading the works of others. These are certainly important aspects of a writer's development, but in Benedict's case they seem to overshadow personal ambition and innovation. Despite their attempts to dispel the stereotype stamped on many female writers today, both Goldberg and Benedict's work seems to perpetuate the demure and comfortable genre typified by popular female fiction.&nbsp; Perhaps a more accurate title for the Barnard's Great Writers Series would have been Barnard's Rather Nice Writers Series. 
 In case you haven't already been frantically GChatted by friends, you should know your housing lottery number is now available. What isn't available, despite the Housing site's promises to the contrary, is everybody else's. Begin frantically scrambling to figure out how many people will pick EC suites before you... now! Update: "Daniel", on the housing board, claims numbers will be up Tuesday. He does not, however, work for housing, so Bwog isn't holding our breath. It's almost as if... they didn't plan for this? Nah. 
 This is part one of a two-part series introducing you to the acts performing at this year's Bacchanal. Two separate sets of brothers make up four-fifths of The National. The fifth is lead singer Matt Berninger, whose odd, deep voice is probably the most distinctive quality of the band's brooding sound. Since hitting the scene in 1999, when the band left Ohio and came to Brooklyn to work day jobs, the National have been on a steady rise to prominence. Their first two albums are low-fi and a little muddled, and were released on the band's own label; three years ago, they moved to Beggars Banquet Records, where they made their two most recent (and most popular) albums. They're marked by simple instrumentals and lyrical prowess. Since 2005, The National have been significantly more popular; their last two albums, "Alligator" and "Boxer," were staples on Best Of lists (including Bwog's own). Sufjan Stevens' horns and piano can be heard in the background of a song on their last record, and they'll be backing up REM on their tour this summer. Listen ("Brainy" @ musicisart.ws) Listen (a dozen acoustic tracks @ aquariumdrunkard.com) Listen (three tracks @ daytrotter.com) --ZvS&nbsp; 
 While individual lottery numbers have been available through the "housing portal" since this morning, the full list is now posted on the main housing website, by name and by number. Bwog is pleased to announce the winner, one Brian Oches, a rising senior, with 8. And, in last place, freshman Stephen Chao, with a brutal-looking 2999. Have fun analyzing your chances, and finding your friends to envy and pity. 
WABC TV and multiple student tipsters inform us that a grad student fleeing muggers at 122nd Street and Broadway was hit by a car and taken to St. Luke's with "severe head trauma." More on this as we get more information. UPDATE (1:33 AM): Gothamist post reveals that the student was studying late in Butler before the incident. We now feel worse about this than we already did. UPDATE (11:05 AM): The student, Minghui Yu, died last night at St. Luke's Hospital.&nbsp; The Daily News has the story in classic tabloid form (e.g. "The guy's body was twisted like a pretzel.")&nbsp; The Spec has it here.&nbsp; Bwog, for sorrow, hangs its head. Update (1:19 PM): More coverage can be found here and here. &nbsp; Bollinger's email after the jump&nbsp; Dear Members of the Columbia Community: I am writing to share very sad news about one of our graduate students. Last night a PhD student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Minghui Yu, was struck by an automobile two blocks north of our main campus at 122nd Street and Broadway while he was apparently fleeing an attempted robbery on the sidewalk. &nbsp;The student was taken to St. Luke's Hospital but passed away as a result of the severe injuries he had sustained. An NYPD investigation is underway and is being supported by the University's Department of Public Safety which, last night following university procedures, circulated an alert to student affairs deans at all of our schools with information about possible suspects in the attempted robbery. As a community we mourn the loss of one of our members, and especially of a young person with much to look forward to in a life of promise. The University's counseling services are available to anyone who feels he or she could benefit from expert support in response to this deeply sad event. &nbsp;Please do not hesitate to visit Counseling and Psychological Services on the 8th floor of Lerner Hall today from 1:00 - 5:00 p.m., or call at any time 212.854.2878 if you feel such assistance would be helpful to you. While incidents of crime have been significantly reduced in New York over recent decades, and the area of Morningside Heights is within one of the safest precincts in the city, it is nevertheless imperative that we all take reasonable precautions appropriate to life in a large metropolitan environment. &nbsp;Our Department of Public Safety has worked closely with the NYPD in safeguarding members of our University Community and offers a range of services -- including safety escorts, evening shuttle buses and directed patrols -- that help ensure students, faculty and staff can both be, and feel, secure while living, studying and working here. &nbsp;We constantly review and seek to improve public safety operations. &nbsp;If you would like more information on these services, go to: www.columbia.edu/cu/publicsafety, or call 212.854.2797. The family of the graduate student has been notified. &nbsp;We will begin plans for a memorial event on campus. &nbsp;For today, I know we are united as a community in mourning the tragic loss of a young life. Lee C. Bollinger 
&nbsp; This is part two of a two-part series introducing you to the acts playing at this year's Bacchanal. "Everything but country," is an all too familiar way for unimaginative people to define their taste, or lack there of, in music. Sure, we all like different kinds of music, but the ambiguity of that statement is preposterous and country is just not that bad. Like it or not, Grizzly Bear's music incorporates all sorts of genres and to some extent reflects that glib tag mentioned before. Their music has been described as everything from folk, country-folk, folk-rock and psychedelic folk-rock to electro-folk, post-rock and Baroque pop. Fortunately, this Brooklyn based quartet coordinates their eclectic influences with dreamy cohesion. The pluck of acoustic guitars, reeds, retro organs and the occasional banjo articulate the soporific voice of the band's lead singer, Ed Droste. With breathy gasps and sighs, Droste's vocals give Grizzly Bear's songs a natural, nonchalant sound. Grizzly Bear is at its best when it picks at the flat pace and lyrics of folk with tinny electronic tones. From their 2007 album Friend, "He Hit Me, (and it felt like a kiss)" combines a poppy accessibility with these eerie overtones. The song was originally written by Little Eva, as a rather unfortunate tribute to her sadistic boyfriend, but Grizzly Bear amps up the song's psychological nuance with delicate instrumentation and careful attention to sonic detail. The unsettling horror and humor of "He Hit Me" are less evident on the Grizzly Bear's 2006 album, Yellow House. &nbsp; On Yellow House, Grizzly Bear showcases a warmth and clarity perfect for Columbia's upcoming spring weekend. Also on the album, "Easier," "Little Brother," and "On a Neck, On a Spit," blend the dreaminess of Grizzly Bear's earlier songs like "Deep Sea Diver" with a distinct rock and roll rhythm. "Plans" and "Little Brother" are successful in this effort and are both easily accessible to the listener.&nbsp; Accompanying the steady wonks of the banjo in "Plans," whistles and sighs add refreshing sounds to the song without complicating its tempo. Although "Knife"-- the album's height of pop accessibility -- may not be Grizzly Bear's most technically or artistically innovative track, it is still an incredibly fun song.&nbsp; If you're still wondering why Columbia is shelling out big bucks for some Brooklyn band you've never heard of, take this into account, Dear Reader. On Thursday, the list of artists who will play at Lollapoolza, Chicago's three day summer blowout concert, was announced. This year, Grizzly Bear was chosen for the line up and will be sharing stage with Kayne West, Wilco, Gnarls Barkely, Cat Power, Bloc Party, Girl Talk, Amy Winehouse and Lupe Fiasco among others. The artists making up this colossal line-up are as talented musicians as they are performers-- and Grizzly Bear is no exception.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -MEQ 
 Are you feeling lonely? Have the crossword puzzles, pornography and Georgi vodka you usually distract yourself with, lost their luster? Then come to LateNite this weekend. The show-case of six original one-acts written by Columbia University's high-minded undergraduates will remind you that you aren't alone. The recurring themes of sexual anxiety, pedophilia, and penis envy will remind you that we all share the same problems. The first sketch, "Monday Crossword" by Stephanie Neel, is a brief venture into the land of middle-aged love, Ivy League self-satisfaction, and crossword puzzling. It is set on a subway car where a competitive couple, a Tisch student and Colin Drummond, are each doing a crossword puzzle. It passed before my eyes as quickly as the 2 express trains on the 86th street platform. The next play, "TINMAD DOG", written and directed by Mike Molina, revolves around the fruitful if fraught relationship of Norville Rogers, played by Colin Drummond and his vodka drinking, and his conversational dog Harvey, played by Austin Mitchell. So if you are still feeling lonely next term, maybe you should call Austin Mitchell or get a small dog to keep under your bed, rather than keeping your bitchy girlfriend around. "Rites of Passage" was the more serious drama of the evening. A Lolita-esque version of HBO's "In Treatment", it follows the story of Melinda, played by the convincing Birdy Sahagian and her insatiable lust for intelligent, untouchable men. I think we can all relate. Sam Reisman's "Press Seven" opened the second half of the show with a scene that reveled in the flagging sanity and painful memories of Jeff Julian's character, Chris. The elusive voice of a ghostly answering machine reminded him of his dog, whom he inadvertently killed as a boy by feeding it chocolate. If you have ever mourned your childhood and/or ordered a pizza at four in the morning, you will sympathize deeply with this piece. It is a pitch perfect display of that care-free suite mate (played by Henry Mortensen), who would rather eat Berry Crunch than help you out. Wine connoisseurship was the focus of "A Second Taste" written by Michael Grinspan and directed by Jesse Horowitz. Robyn Schneider was the highlight of the play. She portrayed the most convincing privileged, middle aged, Jewish mother, I've ever seen in college theatre. Hi Mom! Lest you still feel melancholic, fear not! Your evening will end with Jake Green's play "Prick." In a veritable sexual explosion, Lily Feinn decides that she wants a penis. If you have been interested in the gender issues of the 21st century, where sex matters most and what equipment you have doesn't, you should see this play. You will be offended, and showered by cross-gendered cum. Jizz Bang! So rather than blowing all your extra cash on a pizza and Ben &amp; Jerry's, come to LateNite for some FREE and FUNNY theatre. -Rosie DuPont 
 Hurry! From 6-9 tonight, the Blue Key Society hosts a competitive, campus wide Spelling Bee in the Wien Lounge.&nbsp; ROAR, LION, ROAR! For almost every student, Spellcheck is an indispensable tool. Thanks to Bill Gates and his brainchild, Microsoft Word, the once tedious process of editing a paper for spelling errors has been reduced to a series of simple clicks. But then, there are those other students... Yes, at Columbia,&nbsp; there is a strange breed of students whose spelling capacities surpass those of that supercilious dancing paper-clip icon. These students spell with natural confidence and verbal intuition. Their vocabularies are so rich that while Spellcheck may flounder over obvious Greek derivatives, like, dialogism and phyllophyllin, Columbia's superior strain of spellers can easily tackle any word. This evening at 6 o'clock,&nbsp; these literati optimati will face off at the Blue Key Spelling Bee in the Wien Lounge. The event plans to raise money for the organization NYC for Animal Care and Control. The funds will be split equally between the aforementioned charity and a charity of the winning team's choice. In the weeks preceding the competition, many campus clubs and organizations, including The Blue and White, have paid a $30 registration fee for the ability to compete in the event.&nbsp; After registration, each club then elects its superlative speller to represent the team in the actual bee. Tonight these fine heroes have a chance to prove their verbal virtue and spelling strength. Whoever makes it to the end without a mistake wins an iPod Touch and all the glory of the Elysian Fields. EDIT, 10PM - After a heated battle (in which a mere fraction of the teams showed up--Blue Key actually made $0 off of the event) Bwog's very own Alexandra Muhler, CC'10, came away with the laurels of the bee and a new gadget after spelling the word "soliterraneous." Bravo! 
The AP is reporting that a suspect, a 13-year-old boy, has been arrested regarding the death of Columbia grad student Minghui Yu. He is reportedly being charged with second-degree manslaughter, but his name has not been released. UPDATE (1:15 PM): According to The Daily News and Gothamist, the police now suspect that the boys who assaulted Yu did not intend to mug him.&nbsp; From the DN: "We don't believe it was robbery," a police source said. "It was some sort of altercation." The DN also has a witness saying that the 13 year old boasted "Look what I do to this one" before attacking Yu. The NY Post reports that "Yu struggled with at least one of the teens, who punched him in the face, while the other kept watch, witnesses told police." The police are still searching for the second teenager. UPDATE (1:40 PM): &nbsp;The New York Times has a story up now, highlighting Yu's involvement in the Chinese Students and Scholars Association. Quote from the article: "'This area is very dangerous,' said Hyun Kim, a Columbia graduate student...'It could happen to anyone living in this area.'" 
 Given recent events, Bwog placed a call to Public Safety yesterday afternoon to find out how the department is reacting to Minghui Yu’s death and how they intend to make students feel more secure. According to Public Safety, officers do not currently patrol the area where Yu was attacked, around the Jewish Theological Seminary or the Teachers College—they are only permanently stationed at the Broadway and Amsterdam gates., "Officers were patrolling the area where Yu was attacked, both on foot and in vehicles. We have different guards at the gates and patrolling off campus," said CU spokesperson Robert Hornsby in an email to Bwog. In an email from Associate Vice President for Public Safety Jim McShane, McShane announced that in recent months Columbia has been increasing its foot patrols and that as of last night, it had added an additional patrol vehicle (those massive SUVs you see crawling around campus). The area around JTS and TC is monitored by surveillance cameras, but those are only used in investigating crimes and are not watched by officers. In reaction to Yu’s death, Public Safety said they will be hiring more officers to patrol the area and plan to redistribute the officers they do have. More info: Public Safety operates two shuttle buses (one has a route west of campus, and the other, east) that you can catch from college walk that run from 7pm to 11pm and come every half hour. To get an escort to walk or drive you home from 8pm to 3am, call 212-854-SAFE. Bwog suggests you put that in your phone. &nbsp; To the Columbia Community: I am writing to inform you that the NYPD made an arrest early today in the tragic events of Friday evening that led to the death of PhD student Minghui Yu, a promising student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, whose loss is mourned by family, friends, colleagues and community.&nbsp; The subject of the arrest is a 14-year-old boy who will be prosecuted as a juvenile on the charge of manslaughter. We are gratified and relieved that the police investigation has quickly resulted in an arrest in this case. In addition to the close relationship that we maintain with the NYPD, I would like to take this opportunity to reassure you again that your safety and security are our top priorities in the Department of Public Safety. To follow up on President Bollinger’s email yesterday, I would also like to share with you some of the specific things we are doing to safeguard our campus and to help ensure your safe passage throughout the community. Uniformed Public Safety personnel are stationed at fixed locations throughout the Morningside area and at the Medical Center. These posts are supplemented by foot and motorized patrols that provide a highly visible presence around both campuses. In recent months, we have increased our foot patrols throughout the area, and, as of this weekend, we have added an additional patrol vehicle to expand our presence further within Morningside Heights. We operate a series of shuttles to help ensure the safe travels of Columbians around and between our campuses. In addition to our intercampus service, we operate a Morningside Heights shuttle that provides scheduled service between 7:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. Thereafter, we provide on-call service between 11:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. daily. This service ranges as far south as 103rd St. and as far north as 135th St. Resources permitting, we supplement this service with patrol vehicles. Recently, we added an additional point-to-point vehicle to provide additional shuttle service between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. <!-- D( ); D(); //--> We also offer an escort service where trained students, equipped with Public Safety radios, will accompany you to your door any time from 7:00 p.m. until 3:00 a.m. This service is available between 108th St. and 122nd St. At the Medical Center, escorts are available between W. 165th Street and W. 181st St. For this escort service, call 212-854-SAFE on the Morningside Campus and 212-305-8100 at the Medical Center. These and other measures are outlined in detail on the Public Safety website: http://www.columbia.edu/cu/publicsafety . My team and I are here to keep you safe and sound. We look forward to working together with all of you, not only to keep our environment as safe as it is, but also to make our students, faculty and staff - and their families - feel safe. I encourage anyone with a concern to contact Public Safety at 212-854-2797, day or night. Sincerely, James F. McShane Associate Vice President for Public Safety 
 As our tipster notes, today is the first of two Days on Campus, and Columbia's crawling with prefrosh and their parents. Here's a choice quote from the activities fair held earlier today in Lerner: Columbia Student to a prospective student, while convincing him to sign up for a student group: So, where are you from? Prospective Student: New Jersey. Columbia Student: All right, dirty Jerz! Prospective Student: Haha... yeah. His mom, as the prospective student cringes: Actually, we're from one of the most desirable counties in the nation. 
 &nbsp;Every Sunday, as you roll out of bed and head to brunch, Bwog will be doing the same. Except we'll be writing about our brunching experience in hopes of improving your next one. Bwog's Sunday Brunch will run every Sunday. As great as some Sunday brunch specials are, brunch is a remnant of a broken system that says both that you should eat breakfast well before I ever want to be awake, and that Sunday brunch is a crazy way to be bad one day of the week, sleep in, and eat your breakfast in the afternoon. The Basement Pizza Coffee House (at 125th and Amsterdam) has a brunch suited to New York City rather than Hampingtonshire, England: you can get any food at any time, so if you want to roll out of bed and grab breakfast at 1 pm, you’re good to go any day of the week. Despite its strange name, Basement Pizza Coffee House is a (relatively) old school American eatery – the manager wears red pinstripes, the cash register has those big analog numbers, the service is&nbsp; friendly but gruff, and signs, some of them cardboard, ask customers to refrain from giving their orders directly to the short order cook and children to stick to getting a slice and a soda to go. &nbsp;The food is delicious, cheap, and unhealthy, and the breakfast menu is no exception. The real dealmaker is the breakfast platter, which gets you two eggs any style, two pieces of generously buttered toast, a breakfast meat, and a choice of grits, home fries, or French fries, for somewhere between $3.75 (for bacon or sausage) to $4.75 (for pastrami). The waffle and pancake platters also offer generous servings in the same price range. The thick pancakes can be served folded with a filling in the middle, like strawberries in a thick syrup. &nbsp; Listening to our group eat, you could ascertain a lot about the meal: “lots of food” was repeated several times, and “we can should do this more often” was also overheard, along with “this is how you get a heart attack.” Basement Pizza doesn’t do anything fancy with their food, but they do pay attention to detail – their cheeseburgers always come with two slices of cheese, the home fries are never charred, and the corned beef hash is cooked so that it’s crispy but not burnt on the outside and soft but hot on the inside.&nbsp; The pastrami isn’t what you’d get at Katz’s, but compared to the dry, stringy stuff you get a lot of places around here, it’s surprisingly juicy with strong (almost too strong) flavor. &nbsp; The coffee at Basement Pizza, an average brew that gets the job done, costs $0.85 and comes in those ubiquitous Greek coffee cups, but if you want a $3.50 beverage you can go for a thick milk shake (the normal milk shake is $3.00). It is what it says it is: they give you an abundance of straws so that you can use double barrels on the sugary, viscous fluid. They also do malts and egg creams. Just to clarify, Basement Pizza Coffee House doesn’t really have a basement, and it’s not really what people think of as a “coffee house.”&nbsp; However weird the name, it’s not something you should miss out on, although it’s probably not somewhere you should make a habit of going. That's how you get a heart attack, you know. - DHI Photos by David Iscoe and Jason Patinkin. 
 Courtesy of planning staff, here's the moment you've all been waiting for... Bacchanal! A Monday night concert in Lerner! A not-free luau! Exciting...? BacchanALIENS 2008 Keep an eye out for free BacchanALIENS t-shirts and giveaways! Wed. April 9: Comedy Show (Ardie Fuqua w/ Fruit Paunch) 9-10:30pm, Davis Auditorium (Shapiro) *Pick up FREE tickets at the Lerner Box Office* Thurs. April 10: Dinner &amp; Space Comedy 6:30-8:30pm, Lerner Party Space RESLIFE's "Wild Wild Columbia" CAPTURE THE FLAG&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9pm, College Walk Sat. April 12: Relay for Life &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 12pm-3am, All over campus&nbsp; Sun. April 13: Bagels and Bocce Ball &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 11am-2pm, Butler Plaza Sun. April 20: Planet Earth Screening&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 8-10:30pm, Low Library Steps&nbsp; Mon. April 21: SPRING CONCERT: Grizzly Bear &amp; The National&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 8pm (doors) &amp; 9pm (start), Roone Arledge&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *Reserve FREE tickets at the Lerner Box Office* Sat. April 26: Malama Hawaii Luau&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4-7pm, Math Lawn *$5 Admission with CUID (includes food)* 
 According to Bwog contributor Alex Weinberg, "One of the electronic construction signs on 110th between Amsterdam and Columbus has lost its mind." More photographic evidence after the jump. &nbsp; 
 For those still pondering how to make it public, Spec suggests communication! Unveiled: the next tourist trap will be the George Washington Memorial...Lavatory? ESC Candidates make their platforms public so that you can't vote for them. Next year, a large particle accelerator will be made public and according to a Princeton professor, "might make dragons that might eat us up.” Jagger enlightens us on the differences between IMAX and other movie formats, "It’d be very larger.” &nbsp; 
 Bwog diligently follows up on the Mario Kart tournament previously announced on its very pages. Friday night was a veritable throw-down/show-down of epically nerdy scale. Eight players, united by Bwog, gathered in a Ruggles suite to flaunt their mastery of a game they'd been playing since elementary school. Mario Kart, perhaps the most beloved game on perhaps the most beloved console of the mid 90s, had brought together two Ruggles juniors, four boys from EC's Watson House, Bwog's own CML, and a hawk-loving girl named Courtney. All sat beside a door frame topped with the message that on November 1, 2007, Jacob (present on tourney-day under the game name YRYR) went 29-0 in Mario Kart. But these participants were a savvy bunch. The room, clouded with cigarette smoke and a trancetastic mix of Battles, Radiohead, and Om, seemed to inspire an almost hermetic focus in each player. Their deep knowledge of Mario Kart lore showed in their selection of players—slowpokes like Mario and Donkey Kong were seldom chosen—and of races—no one dared elect to drive the interminable, psychedelic mess that is Rainbow Road. And the racers' mastery of cheats was impressive. In his first showing, Dome of Watson House deftly hopped the multiple shortcuts of DK's Jungle Parkway, leaving the old regulars of Ruggles 6 jaws ajar. And Brett, also of Watson House, proved that it's worth butting up against the wall and going in reverse to jump onto the road that cuts across half the track in Wario Raceway. But these cheats inspired the awe, and not the reproach, of a stunned audience. Eventually, conspiracy-minded spectators grew skeptical of controller one's thirteen continuous victories. But in the best-of-five championship, controller two finally triumphed, handing the second, third, and fourth matches to Yoshi—or rather, to the even more curiously-named Watson House representative, Smiles. As the boys of Watson House and a few dedicated Bwog observers trickled out of the Ruggles suite, all giddy and juiced, the owners of the N64 remained in front of the screen, still up for a little more Karting. &nbsp; The victorious Smiles, aka Jesse. - ACM 
Tonight at 5:30, teachers, administrators and friends of Minghui Yu are invited to Low Steps for a candlelit vigil. Bollinger, Dean Pinkham, Statistics Professor David Madigan, Chaplain Davis and representatives of student groups will be speaking and a moment of silence will be observed. 
 With only a week more of campaigning left, both CCSC E-Board candidates are starting to gather up endorsements.&nbsp;While Spec, Christian groups and other heavyweights have yet to back a candidate, Camp Krebs got a big boost with a CU College Dems endorsement.&nbsp;Alidad countered with BSO's first ever endorsement and is currently leading Krebs in Greek endorsements 2-1 (Alidad is a member of Beta).&nbsp; The Arab and Muslim student groups are following former MSA President Adil Ahmed in supporting George while Korean student groups are doing the same for Jen Choi and Alidad.&nbsp;More endorsement gossip to come later in the week--so fret you not.&nbsp;Full endorsement list to date are after the jump. &nbsp;-JJV Experience Columbia Rotaract Progressive Jewish Alliance Kingsmen A Capella Muslim Students Association Pi Kappa Alpha Turath: Arab Student's Organization Columbia Chess Club Columbia University College Democrats&nbsp; &nbsp; Connect Columbia Columbia University Performing Arts League Black Students' Organization Korean Students' Association Blue Key Society Sigma Delta Tau Beta Theta Pi Students for North Korean Awareness Columbia International Relations Council &amp; Association 
 The biggest day in the literary year has arrived: The announcing of 2008's Pulitzer Winners. The Washington Post earned 6 awards this year, while hometown rag The New York Times earned just 2. Bob Dylan also earned a "Special Citation" for "his profound impact on popular music and American culture, marked by lyrical compositions of extraordinary poetic power." Full list of winners—including Junot Diaz, August: Osage County, and Robert Hass—available here. &nbsp; (Also, nearly every current member of the Pulitzer Prize Board is pictured above. However, PrezBo remains conspicuously absent. Maybe he was taking the picture?) 
 The lineup for Barnard Radio's annual outdoor BBQ and concert has been announced in an email from Milano Chowkwanyun, the Co-Promotions Director of WBAR. The show will take place on Friday, April 25th (on Barnard's lawn, Nexus be damned) and will feature the following:&nbsp; Wizards of the Coast Bear Food Will Win the War Liturgy Thee Yetis Les Sans Culottes MegaFaun Tickley Feather Crystal Stilts Cause Co-Motion Awesome Color Skaters Videohippos Japanther Plus, the titillating promise of a "special guest." Ampire-vay Eekend-way? 
 Jim Downie's Political Weekly returns to its regularly scheduled broadcast time with a campaign trail synopsis that doesn't involve George Krebs or Alidad Damooei. As elections draw nearer, the candidates continue to slog it out on the campaign trail. The whirlwind schedule of endorsements, media, flyering, and stumping becomes even more repetitive to both the candidates and their audiences. Though there's a certain thrill for the candidates, everyone looks forward to the day when the results are finally in. But enough about CCSC elections (ba-dum-cha!)—let's talk about the presidential campaign. Just over two weeks away from "The End" version 3.0 (Pennsylvania on April 22), with promises that, barring complete Sptizer-esque meltdown, there will at least be "The End" version 4.0 (Indiana and North Carolina on May 6), the campaigns continue to slog through the most remarkable election in recent memory. Seriously, if you're not excited by this never-ending campaign season, then...well, then you're probably normal. And now, the news: Friday Night Tax Returns: After weeks of speculation by the media, and weeks of pillorying by Senator Barack Obama's campaign, Senator Hillary Clinton released her (and her husband's) tax returns. Much to the media's collective shock, they've actually made money from book deals and Bill Clinton's speaking fees (SNL's take on their money here).&nbsp; The Soft Drink Is Better Anyways: Unfortunately for Obama,&nbsp;there&nbsp;probably won't be a student SURGE for&nbsp;him in Pennsylvania. &nbsp; The CBS Fridays at 10: As always, numbers from Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Indiana, and national polling are available here, here, and/or here. McCain-Rice?: Speculation grows that current Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice is interested in the vice-presidency. John McCain claims this is news to him, but he said that while yet again looking for his keys (yes, it's a memory joke). &nbsp; &nbsp; She Also Wants Us To Skip Ping-Pong: Clinton calls on the president to boycott the opening ceremony of the Beijing Games. &nbsp; &nbsp; Don't Let The Door Hit You On The Way Out: Major personnel moves in the Clinton campaign, as chief strategist Mark Penn was demoted over the weekend. As a major architect (if not the major architect) of her campaign strategy for years, this signifies a huge shake-up. More recent reports clarify that he is still playing a major role in the campaign, though. &nbsp; &nbsp; What Could Be: Actually, there's almost no chance that the Democratic convention will shake out the way former West Wing writer Lawrence O'Donnell envisions it, but it's a great read anyways. &nbsp; What Might Have Been: In a New York magazine interview, Spike Lee ponders what role his movie Do The Right Thing played in Obama's romantic life. He also has some harsh words for Hillary Clinton and her African-American supporters. &nbsp; Stuck Without A Hot Tub Again: The real incentive to hold crucial primaries? Prime hotel spots for your delegation&nbsp;at conventions. 
 The vigil at 5:30 for Minghui Yu attracted hundreds to Low Plaza today.&nbsp; Students from the Office of the University Chaplain handed people candles and hot cider as they heard eulogies for the promising statistics grad student.&nbsp; PrezBo and Dean Pinkham admitted that they did not know Yu or his family personally, but offered condolences to all those whose lives he touched, while the Chair of the Statistics Department called Yu "an academic star."&nbsp; The Chair of the Graduate Student Advisory Council offered an Emily Dickinson poem and noted that graduate students lead "focused, detached and solitary lives" and could perhaps "be encouraged to draw closer to each other in our community." Funds are being raised by Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association to support Yu's family and help them get visas to come to the US for the memorial services.&nbsp; Chaplain Davis closed with a prayer and consolation for Yu's family and girlfriend as the crowd observed a moment of silence.&nbsp; -JJV and AMP 
 The Mystery of Pain.&nbsp; Asked to legitimize the illegitimate, GSSC Elections Commission resigns. Barnard Voting: The eBear Necessities. Congestion plan coughed up.&nbsp; Bob Dylan meet Joe Pulitzer. How safe are we really? In other Columbia-related news:&nbsp; the NYTimes captures the different views on the boy arrested in the recent death of a grad student. 
A reminder to ice cream-enthusiasts that today (until 2:30 PM) CU Snacks is holding a free Ben &amp; Jerry's tasting on the first floor of Lerner. "We are *literally* handing out 42 pints of Ben &amp; Jerry's, hoping only that you'll help finish it before it melts," the email reads. Emphasis theirs, excitement everyone's.&nbsp;
Today's Tomorrow's the day to reserve tickets for the Spring Concert, and contrary to earlier reports citing a $5 figure, tickets are&nbsp;actually going to be free. However, the show is CUID-only and seating is limited. Book early, either online or at the Lerner Box Office.&nbsp;
 Not 24 hours after WBAR's annual WBAR-B-Q lineup was announced (replete with promises of a "special guest" and instructions to check WBAR's website at a later date), insiders have revealed to Bwog the identity of the "special guest." Despite questionable rumors of Led Zeppelin and Daft Punk, which appeared exclusively in Bwog comments, the mystery performer will actually be (The) Juan MacLean doing a d.j. set.&nbsp; UPDATE: A second hipster-tipster explains that (The) Juan MacLean will not appear at the WBAR-B-Q. "We thought we were going to have him but it didn't work out, hence why it says secret guest instead of Juan MacLean." Though apparently word of MacLean's unavailability has yet to permeate the ranks of all of WBAR's staffers.&nbsp; 
 Dear techie Columbians, Bwog, since its birth, has been managed by one web master&mdash;and now he's moving on to bigger things. The sort of things that happen below 110th Street. Meanwhile, we're looking to acquire a good computer programmer to take his place! Besides a love for Bwog and a genial character, the job demands a certain prowess in: PHP MySQL Basic Linux skills Subversion Send a convincing argument to bwog@columbia.edu, and we'll talk. Love, Bwog Staff
 Bwog's Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Tony Gong reports on yesterday's very special (positively Clintonian!) ESC meeting. Considering the sometimes tedious nature of ESC meetings, last night's was one for the books. And not just any books, like Goosebumps or The Giver (just to name a few… I could go on). Last night, not one, not three, but two council members were formally indicted for impeachment review! To my comfort, the expected bizarreness of discussion about beef dinners and secretive ESC operations made appearances as well. Highlights from this first portion of the meeting included a brief introduction to the new CourseWorks website from the senate. This new interface, known as Sakai, will feature Podcasts and allow you to physically drag files onto a portfolio from your desktop, which is obviously very necessary. Next, the non-senior council members listened with fervent jealousy as Class of 2008 reps delineated their upcoming class events: Class Dinner, Forty Days, booze cruises, etc. The key moment was President Eash Cumarasamy's excited update on his much-loved beef option for the Class Dinner: "It's grilled filet mignon, with mushroom sauce. I tasted it today, it's wonderful." Eash submitted no comment regarding why meals for the dinner were being prepared several weeks in advance. Contrastingly, plans from the underdogs of Class of 2011 were not as pleasantly received. President Kamal Yechoor proudly announced their upcoming "luau in the pool," to which baffled council members queried: "In the pool, like in the water?" Kamal, with his ego damaged, abdominal muscles tensed, and a peculiar look on his face, diverted this simple inquiry, and responded "I'll answer questions about that in the end." Then he winked oh-so-surreptitiously in my direction, if I recall correctly. Some serious subtext was afoot, but I was too busy eating an apple to care. But the remainder of the meeting, impeachment reviews, was not to be missed, even for the most crispy and juicy of Granny Smiths. The controversy reached council level when General Studies Student Council SGA Liason Rajat Roy sent an egregiously accusatory e-mail, which called for a "bounty hunt" of Senator Amit Bedi to their Sigma Epsilon fraternity ($2 for every photo taken of Amit). Rajat had been offended by Amit's blatant neglect of Senator duties: failure to attend meetings and participate in votes. Although Rajat sent out a subsequent apologetic e-mail, the council deemed Rajat's initial e-mail inappropriate council behavior. So in an ironic twist worthy of a Harry Potter ending, both Rajat and Amit were reviewed for impeachment. After some weighty discussion, perhaps a bit too sensitive for this humble writer to repeat, the impeachment against Rajat failed with 11 votes against, 3 votes for, and 2 abstentions. Rajat gave an unnecessary statement after the news: "Wow that was an emotional moment for me. I really believe in responsibility to those who vote you in." Amit's inactivity, on the other hand, was too serious to overlook, and the council voted unanimously for his impeachment. But there will be no review for his removal from office! In what will probably be the most dramatic thing I'll witness all week, unless my roommate loses his cell phone again, Amit sent a text message to President Liz Strauss right before the vote was announced, and officially declared his resignation: "just tell them i resign." My daily intake for theater sufficiently met, I exited Satow so that the council members could end the night with their weekly viewing of Homeward Bound, or closed "constitutional review" meetings, or whatever they're calling it now. I know they're watching Homeward Bound. 
 The answer, as six unlucky CU students will probably soon find out, is perhaps a lot more than $200. One Bwog tipster (and probably dozens of other students with decent lottery numbers) received an email from a group calling themselves "Columbia Students." The email proposed an Old-Timey Barter in which housing lottery numbers would be swapped in order for "Columbia Students" to secure a coveted East Campus suite with 6 singles. The email reads: "Obviously, we know that there would be no reason for you to help us out, but we were hoping that with monetary compensation some of you would consider a swap. We would be able to get 6 good rooms in Broadway (or very possibly a 6-person suite in EC with 4 singles and 1 double), so if you are interested in swapping rooms/suite for a decent monetary compensation (at least $200 per person, but price is completely negotiable)" Parties interest in swapping lottery numbers should email the (endearingly utilitarian) Gmail address provided: cu.housing.seniors@gmail.com Full email after the jump Hey guys, &nbsp; This may seem random but we'll get straight to the point. We are a group of 6 seniors going into suite selection with a terrible housing number – and you are a group of 6 seniors with a good housing number. We are assuming that you guys are planning on signing up for an EC suite of 6 singles. In short, due to special circumstances among our friends, we are extremely eager to obtain an EC suite as well. We talked to housing and they said that groups of 6 can swap other groups of 6 after housing registration is over. Obviously, we know that there would be no reason for you to help us out, but we were hoping that with monetary compensation some of you would consider a swap. We would be able to get 6 good rooms in Broadway (or very possibly a 6-person suite in EC with 4 singles and 1 double), so if you are interested in swapping rooms/suite for a decent monetary compensation (at least $200 per person, but price is completely negotiable), please email us back and we will talk more about details. Also, please email back ASAP, because this is a very time-sensitive issue. Thank you for your time. &nbsp; -Columbia Students 
 Bwog received startling news from Tipster Casey Johnston who photographed the distressing sign (see right) outside of HamDel. And just three weeks into Off-Campus Flex's brief flirtation with existence! Bwog called HamDel, desperate for answers. "Um... I dunno," answered a HamDel employee when questioned about the disappearance (death?) of Off-Campus Flex. CC '09 President George Krebs responded first with disbelief ("I went last night and it was working fine. I haven't heard anything from the administration about the system going down") and later shock: "weird....." However, to HamDel enthusiasts, the news of the deli's secession from the restaurants-united-in-Flex comes as no surprise. Explains one such HamDel loyalist: "In the last week they've been getting progressively (and visibly) more frustrated with the card reading device.&nbsp; They collectively roll their eyes and sigh deeply and sadly whenever I present them with my ID." Responses from HamDel manager (who, according to previously mentioned HamDel employee will "probably be in tomorrow") and Michael Novielli, Director of Manhattanville Student Outreach forthcoming. 
 Wandering tipster Faith Chang has just spotted model Hilary Rhoda engulfed in machine-made fog on Low steps. She's wearing Christian Louboutin stilettos and leopard-print St. John's knitwear. Two other models, a bevy of photographers, and a couple of catty interns with bad highlights are also present. Rhoda, the current face of Estee Lauder, reportedly looms a good few inches taller than the beta-models at her sides. Run quick and get a look at her famous bushy eyebrows...in person! Meta-photos of the photo shoot after the jump! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Hot off yesterday's impeachment of an ESC member, Bwog just got off the phone with GSSC President Niko Cunningham, who may or may not have just been impeached. According to Cunnigham, tonight's proceedings went down something like this: Towards the end of the GSSC meeting, after Dean of General Students Mary McGee had already left, someone on council had suddenly made a motion to impeach Cunningham. This may seem like deja vu from last week's motion to impeach Cunningham, but according to the embattled president, this week's proceedings were unconstitutional and therefore they shouldn't count. Cunningham explained that as soon as the council began to vote on the impeachment and handed out slips of paper (with which to vote, exercise democracy, enjoy freedom, etc.), he got up and left the room. "I immediately got up and walked out," Cunningham said. " needed 16 members to have quorum and those devils only had 15 when I walked out." Further quasi-evidence of the lack of quorum rests in the slips of democracy paper themselves, as Cunningham points out that there were only fifteen slips of paper. GSSC requires two-thirds of its members to be present and, as Cunningham is wont to point out, 15 members does not two-thirds make. "They're idiots, otherwise they would have realized this." Cunningham also says that after he left the meeting, he knew that "only the devils remained", meaning that the council members who voted affirmatively to impeach Cunningham last week were all present at tonight's vote, while Cunningham supporters were nowhere to be found. (See Cunningham's own handy Maps of Injustice™ below.) "They're like ravenous dogs, every single one of them. There are just 12 people who won't let this go." Bwog asked Cunningham what was going to happen now, to which he replied: "I am the student body president." However, Brody Berg, GSSC VP of Communications, confirmed the impeachment in an email to Bwog, tersely stating "We confirm." &nbsp; 
 Concerned GSSC members impeach their boss, who, as Bwog reported last night, is concerned that the whole thing was a farce Concerned Speccie pontificates about the provenance of the swastika&nbsp; When there are heating problems in dorms, concerned editorial board suggests taking off all your clothes Manhattanville expansion will cause more asthma, concerned environmental groups say American Sign Language is too American to be a foreign language, according to concerned Barnard admins 
 It's a dark day today on your Facebook, where dozens of quasi-acquaintances and people you hate could be trying to communicate with you via the gruesome new Facebook Chat. The new buddy list type apparatus enables Facebookers to see those who are simultaneously online doing some stalking, picture uploading, friend-deleting and the like. Some details, via CNN: "Facebook Chat only allows for one-to-one conversations. Users will be able to view recent conversations, but the chats won't be logged permanently, and users will be able to clear that chat history any time. Facebook users will also have the option of keeping the conversation on the bottom of the screen or creating a pop-up window they can move. A chat window will also display Mini-Feed stories, which are notices concerning other friends' Facebook activities." 
Dear Columbians, Your housing appointment times are up in cyberspace; selection starts tomorrow. Go here, log into your housing application, and look under where your lottery number is printed to find the time. 
 There was once a Columbia event called "40s on 40," a chance for seniors who were forty days away from graduation to drink large quantities of malt liquor in the Quad (and possibly pour one out for Lil' Saint). Last year the event became "40 Days Until Graduation," a student council sanctioned event, complete with a crowded pen in which students who wanted to drink were corralled. This year's "40 Days" is starting now (and going 'till 4) in Low Plaza. There are free t-shirts for the first few hundred attendees, and free food and drink, including up to four beers. No outside backpacks or containers allowed. Bwog certainly isn't looking a gift horse in the mouth, but, like Lerner Pub, the best of course of action here will probably be to show up early, imbibe quickly, and withdraw hastily. &nbsp; 
 As we reported yesterday, HamDel decided to stop accepting Flex Points. The secession came as a surprise to CCSC and to the positively Lincolnian Michael Novielli (of Student Auxiliary and Business Services), who stopped by HamDel today to speak with the owner, Nick. According to Nick, the long lines of students eager for sandwiches and eager to pay with Flex were alienating his "regular customers." (Though Bwog would have guessed that most "regular customers" are probably students.) Anyway, the long lines and longer wait time defied some basic tenets of economics and somehow equated in a loss of customers/profit, finally driving Nick to oust Flex from HamDel. Novielli's full email after the jump. George, Peter, Brian, Molly, Michelle, &amp; Liz, As you may already know, the BWOG's report that Hamilton Deli was not accepting Flex was certainly a surprise to Scott and me. I stopped by last night and saw the signs, but the owner (Nick) wasn't in at the time. Scott called and spoke with Peter, and he also left a voice mail for George. David Roberts and I stopped by Hamilton Deli today, and we spoke with Nick. He wanted everyone to know that he was supportive of the Flex program, but it simply brought him too much business. He found that the lines were getting too long, and the store was getting too crowded; as a result, he noticed that he was losing many of his regular customers due to the increased wait time. Nick said that he would be open to exploring other options in the future, but, for the time being, he made a business decision to no longer accept Off-Campus Flex. We apologize for the disappointment this may cause, and we will work to bring additional vendors on board over the summer. All the best, Michael
 Bwog is pleased to present the following tidbit from 40 Days: Student: Well, I'm a 3-2 at Barnard and SEAS, so I'm a Barnard senior but a SEAS junior. Official: You're not on the list. Student: But I'm a senior. Official: So, come back with a copy of your transcript. Student: I need a transcript for this? Official: Or a letter from your advising dean. Prospective student (gesturing at the assembled students drinking): What's this? Tour guide: Um, this is Low Library. You'll never go in there. A photo essay by Bwog shutterbug Kate Linthicum will appear later today after the jump. &nbsp; 
 Ann Coulter has written a column that somehow, someway uses the tragic death of Columbia grad student Minghui Yu to insult Barack Obama and Obama's grandmother and grandfather, whom Coulter refers to as "racist" and "worthless and lazy", respectively. Coulter goes on to paraphrase a story about Obama's grandparents in which his grandmother wanted a ride to work and his grandfather told her she should take the bus instead. Turns out, this is because Grandma Obama saw an unfriendly black person on the bus, who frightened her. Grandpa Obama took young Barry Obama aside and explained that Grandma was a racist. Or something. Anyway, directly following the story, Coulter proceeds to make fun of Obama for being offended by his allegedly racist grandmother. Logically, Coulter asks: "If Obama is sent reeling by the mere words of an elderly white woman, how is he going to negotiate with a guy like Mahmoud Ahmadinejad? What if Ahmadinejad calls him 'booger-face'? Will he run crying from the table?" Oh also, in the last paragraph, Coulter manages to refer to Obama's grandfather and Barack's plan to hold talks with Iran "a loser" and "stupid", respectively. Thank you, tipster Christopher Duncan! 
 How will Minghui Yu's death be commemorated? Swastika: symbol of hate or symbol of love? Are education and cash incentives mutually exclusive? How on earth do I pay my taxes? But seriously, can I live with myself if I vote for the cowboy hat party? ...and finally, the return of Spec's housing blog, The Shaft. &nbsp; 
The day of reckoning has arrived, and Bwog will be stationed on a beanbag chair in John Jay, livebwogging your fate. Check back to this post throughout the day today, with frequent updates of what suites are still in your grasp.&nbsp; 11:04 AM: &nbsp; Tensions are running high in the John Jay lounge this morning, and the Metallica (?) on the boombox isn't helping matters, although the soda in the well-stocked refrigerator seems to be. "Hand me an iced tea," a girl in a summery skirt demanded of her (almost) suite mate. "I need one." Don't we all? (The number under the flash is a "2".) 12:35 PM: For some reason unbeknown to Bwog, housing is choosing to update the whiteboard in frustratingly infrequent intervals. (Ignore the 10:51 timestamp in the photo below). 12:41 PM: Housing came over an annouced to Spec and Bwog (whom they referred to as "that Barnard paper") that they're doing a count right now and the board will be updating again in a few minutes. Stand by. Now Playing: Creedence Clearwater Revival, "Proud Mary" 12:49 PM: Suite selection comes to a momentary halt. A housing staffer walks over the the reporters lounge/soda bar in the corner to frown at a two-legged table. The third leg is about three feet away. "What happened to that table?" Bwog asked, guessing that some unlucky group destroyed the table in a fit of rage. "Oh, there are Legos in the legs. I guess someone wanted to build a monster." And lo and behold, inside the legs of the table Legos. And beside the table, a monster. Also, suite selection is on pause until 1:30 PM. Now Playing: Creedence Clearwater Revival, "Susie-Q" 12:59 PM: All the EC townhouses that face Morningside are gone. All the 6-person high-rises are gone. There are a few SIPA-facing townhouses left. 1:02 PM: The board was just updated! As housing is on pause, this is the most current information: &nbsp; &nbsp;1:25 PM: Selection has yet to start back up again and ABBA's "Dancing Queen" is playing on repeat.&nbsp; "This is just what we need!" exclaims one housing employee who's clearly tired of dealing with stressed out students.&nbsp; There's a lot of sugar consumption in this room to keep spirits high.&nbsp; Bwog awaits the sugar come down. &nbsp; 
About 90% of Columbia students are outdoors right now, so the unsheathing of the glorious, emerald South Lawn is news only for a cloistered few. More lawn porn after the jump. This fellow has a good idea for cooling down: liquid nitrogen. It's for Health Services, should anyone fall victim to heat stroke (unlikely, as the weather is summerish, but not quite summerful). 
Nostalgic for the suites you never even had a chance of getting anyway? Reminisce with the morning's liveBwog.&nbsp; 1:42 PM: Housing has returned from lunch and suite selection has picked back up. The white board (as is far too often the case) remains the same, save for a penciled in noticed that there are 11 one bedrooms remaining on the D line in Watt. Bwog slipped behind the screens and noticed that the most desirable line in Woodbridge, the coveted H line, is gone on all floors except the first. (Which makes sense, given Riverside's less-than-stellar track-record for late-night crime.) On the 7th floor, I, J, and C were taken, as rising seniors quickly snatched up the top floor and its views. Now Playing: Silen—nevermind. The iPod has returned with "At Last," by Etta James. 1:50 PM: The last 4-person EC suite has been taken. 1:57 PM: A friendly suite-selector just tipped Bwog off to what she's calling a "little known secret." Apparently, living on the first floor of Woodbridge is a good thing. "My boyfriend lived there, and the ceilings are like 25 ft. and the rooms look huge." Bwog is making no claims to the veracity of any of this. Now Playing: Michael Jackson, "Billie Jean" 2:05 PM: According to a housing staffer, the iced teas have been the most popular drink today, with the middle shelf emptying out quicker than the top. The Diet Sierra Mists on the ground level of the fridge have also been going fast. Most of the Pepsis remain. &nbsp; Now Playing: Destiny's Child, "Bootylicious"&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 2:11 PM: A Bwog informant tips us off that there is a lot of special interest housing in Ruggles and Hogan, more so than expected. There are almost no fours left in Ruggles. After Ruggles and Hogan, fours will probably have to set their sights on Claremont. 2:17: The Board of Knowledge... it's been updated! Now Playing: Madonna, "Crazy for You" 2:20 PM: Four five-person suites in Hogan remain. Just one four-person suite in Ruggles in left. No six-person high-rise suites in EC, and just one five-person high-rise. 2:27 PM: There are two five-person suites left in Hogan and we're down to 65 in Woodbridge. 2:41 PM: There are two more five-person suites in Hogan that are on the A-Line. There are no more five-person high rise suites with five singles. Now Playing: The Jackson 5, "I'll Be There" 2:56 PM: Another EC flat is gone. Its soon-to-be occupants informed Bwog that they were surprised at the number of RA suites on the EC high floors. A few higher floors in EC are "mostly blocked off." Now Playing: Citizen Cope, "Bullet and a Target" 3:02 PM: The word on Woodbridge: Total: 61 High (H, K, C) 6 Medium (A, B, E, F, J, L) 39 Low (G, I, D) 16 Now Playing: Clap Your Hands Say Yeah, "The Skin of My Yellow Country Teeth" Housing analysts are speculating that the in-demand lines in Woodbridge are going faster this year than last. 3:09 PM: In a surprising turn-around from pre-lunch beverage selection, the Sierra Mists on the top floor of the fridge are now running conspicuously low. Pepsi selection remains slow but steady. The single-pack of diet Sierra Mists on the bottom floor—hidden gems to some, undesirable to many—are mostly untouched. Now Playing: No Doubt, "Don't Let Me Down" 3:15 PM: Cross another 6-person EC townhouse off the list. Bwog also talked to the group up next, who are also planning on taking a 6-person EC townhouse, so that's probably going to be two EC townhouses gone in the next few minutes. "I'm surprised that the high-rises are going as quickly as they are," a student in the aforementioned group remarked. "I would have thought the townhouses would be more desirable." Now Playing: Gym Class Heroes, "On My Own Time (Write On!)" 3:27 PM: Only one Diet Sierra Mist left! 3:30 PM: &nbsp;A 5-person suite in Hogan has been taken by Blue and White Copy Chief Alexander Statman and friends, leaving just one five-person suite in all of Hogan. Also, only one 5-person suite left in Claremont. 3:33 PM: Bee Shaffer just walked in! "I don't know my number!" she yelled. "What number?" her suite mate responded. 3:40 PM: All six-person six singles EC townhouses are gone. 3:51 PM: All four-person Ruggles suites have been claimed. Now Playing: The Raconteurs, "Steady as She Goes" 3:55 PM: HOGAN COMPLETELY GONE. ALL ALL-SINGLES EC TOWNHOUSES COMPLETELY GONE. 4:03 PM: Because we haven't had a shot of the Board of Knowledge in awhile. It's been updated here and there for the past half an hour. 4:08 PM: Suite selection for today is winding down, and Bwog finally noticed all the pleasantries that Housing has scattered about the press lounge's carpeted corner.&nbsp; Taboo! You know, in case anyone wants to play a quick round while they wait to be disappointed. It's the game of unspeakable fun! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 4:26 PM Now Playing: The Buggles, "Video Killed the Radio Star." We love this song! A few students waiting around to pick their suite have started softly singing along. Don't think we don't see you, and don't think we're not charmed. &nbsp; &nbsp; 4:42 PM: The day's final count, below: (Ignore the time-stamp) 
 Once again, Columbia monolith vs. Manhattanville individuals: this time, in photos Eye E-I-C overtaken by hostile mononucleosis culture Hungry Jewish students float in an ocean of improperly slaughtered meats At the confluence of storytelling, Africa, rap, and outrage, there lies spoken word No conflict here: bhangra seduces us all Disclaimer: The BwogTM has not endorsed any content related to any image that may appear on the BwogTM. 
The Blue and White is pleased as punch to commandeer the Bwog airwaves for a moment in order to announce the launch of our new site, designed by the ever-brilliant Mr. Robert Stenson, Esq. No longer shall we suffer, as Samson did, trapped between the Bwog's two imposing columns—from this day onward, the print magazine asserts its own new, aesthetically pleasing web identity. Of course, your feedback is desired while we iron out the technical details of our new design. Thanks for reading!
 Lecture Hop editor Pierce Stanley reports on a strange visitor in the hallowed halls of American history. (Hi Daily Intelligencer!) Recent semesters at Columbia have seen the arrival of some of the world's brightest and most eloquent speakers at fair Alma, broadening academic discourse on campus in a very fruitful way. Unfortunately, for all of the good speakers that come to Columbia, some bad ones happen to slip through the cracks. Indeed, these years have also been witness to some of the most controversial, questionable, and even disgraceful speakers on campus in recent years. The appearance this afternoon of Obama Girl (a.k.a. actress Amber Lee Ettinger) in Professor David Eisenbach's American Presidency history course likely falls into the latter category, with Eisenbach's choice of speaker being questionable at best.&nbsp; Amber's visit this evening to Mike Gravel's Communications Director's course (just in case you missed her live-chat on YouTube last night) sparked both interest in the topic at hand--the role of viral videos and the YouTube generation in determining the eventual outcome of the 2008 Presidential election--and it sparked much controversy as to whether a minor actress (who doesn't even do her own singing, failed to vote in the last election, and claims that she does not even really have a crush on one of Columbia's favorite alums) should receive such a reception in the hallowed halls of the classroom.&nbsp; Many Columbia students left the classroom in IAB befuddled by Amber's appearance and by Professor Eisenbach's impromptu decision to hold such an event.&nbsp; Some left not knowing quite what to make of Obama Girl's appearance on campus.&nbsp; Overheard: "Are we really paying $40,000 plus a year to line up and take pictures with her like shes Santa?&nbsp; I feel like a five year old kid again." Amber spoke about a total of ten words this evening. This worked out well, because the mastermind behind the website barelypolitical.com, Ben Relles, handled the bulk of the class's queries quite well, mixing videos from his site with a rather engaging explanation about the nature of his enterprise. Relles argued that hopefully viewers of the Obama Girl video will be able to gain some interest in the candidate and perhaps the political process as a whole. Relles indicated that while he is delighted that candidates are forced to actually watch and respond to these videos, his original intention was not to provoke political events. The video's main goal, according to Relles, is to create an online culture of humor surrounding the political process. University of Chicago senior Michael Stevens, the creator of the Barack O'Bollywood gem, characterized Internet video humor as emblematic of the next generation of voters. Eisenbach suggested that perhaps YouTube, viral videos in the vein of Obama Girl (and all of her competitors including the McCain Girls and Hott 4 Hill Girl), and even blogs are the future of American politics. They are one step ahead of traditional media sources and reach the younger generations, all a plus in a country that is increasingly apathetic about politics. But what does this all mean about the American public if the information that they get about politicians comes exclusively from satirical online video shorts? While Professor Eisenbach's email to the course last night seemed to indicate that the Obama Girl herself would field many of the questions, the event turned into a montage of all the videos that Relles had made for his website. Later, it became a photo-shoot with the budding young actress. However, most were left wondering whether they had just killed an hour and fifteen minutes watching YouTube videos that they would have come across anyway while they put off writing a paper. Perhaps it is still far too early to tell the impact of this movement on elections, but Professor Eisenbach may have put it best when he asked a gushing Obama Girl, "What do you think of the prospect that college classes on the Presidency may be watching your very video a hundred years from now to demonstrate its lasting impact?" Obama Girl just smiled and replied coyly, "That's why you're a professor." - PHS 
Columbia Ping-Pong goes to the Midwest. Next stop: Beijing? No. If an editorial doesn't express an opinion or make a point, is it still an editorial? No. Columbia student locates Brooklyn, but is it "the new Broadway?" No. Will any Columbia student go to this Soho restaurant for $15 Vietnamese tapas? Sigh. A White House spokesman goes to ... a web forum... to insult Joe Stiglitz. And then George Bush calls him a "green eye-shaded accountant." Eye-shaded? 
 UPDATE (1:16 PM):&nbsp; Senior selection is over...except for senior re-group.&nbsp; The lounge is closed until 2pm, so here's the final count. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;UPDATE (12:25 PM):&nbsp; There&nbsp; are two high demand Woodbridge suites&nbsp; left, but all "H" lines are gone. Per Bwog's request, housing is now listing Woodbridge rooms by line.&nbsp; Here's what we've got: A: 4 B: 7 C: 1 D: 6 E: 6 F: 2 G: 6 H: 0 I: 5 J: 5 K: 1 L:7 Advice:&nbsp; As there are a dozen groups of doubles who have yet to pick, Bwog would like to remind you that when picking into Woodbridge, consider that if you pick the "A" and "B" lines on the lower floors, your north-facing windows will look out onto the glorious vista of...the building next door.&nbsp; So if you're a connoisseur of natural light, aim high or go for another side of the building. UPDATE (11:30 AM):&nbsp; Housing selection for groups purely composed of seniors will end at 12:48 p.m. today.&nbsp; In the remaining time, Bwog counts 14 groups of doubles, 6 groups of people looking for 4-person suites, 5 groups of people looking for 6-person suites and 3 groups of people looking for 5-person suits.&nbsp; Woodbridge can easily accommodate the doubles (with many rooms left over for senior re-group and juniors).&nbsp; The 4-person groups are going to have to live in Claremont or break up in senior re-group.&nbsp; The 6-person groups are basically out of luck--there is exactly one of those suites left, and it's in Claremont&nbsp; The 5-person groups are equally unfortunate...there's one of those suites in Claremont, but otherwise it's re-group time. UPDATE (11 AM):&nbsp; Housing, which seems to have a younger and more aesthetically pleasant staff today, is being much more diligent about updating the white board.&nbsp; Changes: there are now only 9 one bedroom doubles in Watt and 35 Woodbridge medium demand rooms.&nbsp; The main entertainment of today is watching rising seniors (who've gone through this process twice before) navigate a system they still don't fully understand. Guy:&nbsp; Watt? A double? Housing: Yeah... Guy: What's a studio double?&nbsp; What is this! Why is this so freaking confusing?! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; (starts to walk out of John Jay) Housing: Um, where are you going? Guy: Off campus.&nbsp; Senior Regroup:&nbsp; In case you're wondering how this works, the housing website is vaguely illuminating.&nbsp; At 2 p.m. today seniors who formed groups but had numbers so high they couldn't pick into suites will all meet in the John Jay lounge, analyze the remaining housing stock, and form new groups.&nbsp; They'll be given new lottery numbers and will begin selecting housing from 3-3:30 pm.&nbsp; In other news, there are now 28 East Campus 5-person exclusion suites left. UPDATE (10:30 AM):&nbsp; There are no more East Campus flats or 6 person townhouses.&nbsp; All that's left in that concrete block of a building are exclusion suites. Good morning, good morning!&nbsp; Bwog apologizes for the delay in posting, as we've been experiencing technical difficulties.&nbsp; But we're up and running now.&nbsp; The photo at right displays the current housing stock--although in the last 20 minutes the number of East Campus 5-person exclusion suites has gone from 32 to 30.&nbsp; Woodbridge is still going strong (good news for those rising juniors among you with your sights set on the shaft).&nbsp; There are 4 suites left in the high demand lines (H, K, C) and 36 left in the medium demand.&nbsp; We're not sure why housing has left Hogan on the board except to taunt people with four-digit lottery numbers. &nbsp;Though the sun is barely in the sky, rising seniors are already&nbsp; munching on chips and drinking sierra mist to replace their fears with stomach aches and greasy fingers.&nbsp; The music is mellow (thank the gods) but experience tells us it will not remain so.&nbsp; Bwog will be here all day, so check back for updates. 
In non-housing-selection related news, this week’s New Yorker has a piece by Jane Kramer (it’s not online, but you can read an excerpt here -- and an interesting critique of the piece here) about Barnard anthropology professor Nadia Abu El-Haj. In truth, it’s something of a misrepresentation to say that the piece is about El-Haj, as it ranges in focus from discussing MEALAC’s history of controversy to examining the tenure process’s relationship to politics. But it is interesting and worth a read, if only because it’s the most we’ve heard out of press-averse Abu El-Haj following the ordeal of her tenure process in the fall. If you’re looking for a piece that will outline Abu El-Haj’s argument, explain her methods of analysis and interpretation, and provide excerpts of her very dense book “Facts on the Ground”, this isn’t it. (If you are, the Current did so subjectively last fall.) While Kramer meanders in this direction, what she’s mainly interested in is how one academic’s tenure process turned into an online firestorm of misinformation and vilification that often said more about Columbia’s Jewish community and faculty than Abu El-Haj’s work. There’s a lot of re-hashing work that gets done. Kramer re-tells the story of “Columbia Unbecoming,” of Professor Rashid Khalidi’s run-in with New York City schools chancellor Joel Klein and, of course, mentions Ahmadinejad’s visit. She questions MEALAC’s ability to connect to its students and writes: “none of the students I talked to actually liked their time in the department.” But much of the piece is devoted to highlighting Abu El-Haj’s most public critics—Paula Stern BC’82 and Barnard professor of Religion and Jewish Studies Alan Segal. Stern has nearly always been misinformed and shrill, and Kramer slams the Spec for publishing her “screed”—but the story of Segal’s involvement in criticizing “Facts on the Ground” is an interesting one. Not only did he hold underground lectures condemning her methods of inquiry and tell the Forward that Abu El-Haj “hates Iraelis,” but he later cordially invited her to speak to his class. “I was so mad. I could have killed him,” Abu El-Haj told Kramer. It doesn’t get more candid than that. In what basically sums up Kramer’s article, and renders some of the reams of pages she spends on back-story pointless, Abu El-Haj says, “What happened last year—it wasn’t about me. I was a cog in the big wheel of the issue of the Middle East and Israel.” —AMP 
 FINAL UPDATE (4:20 PM):&nbsp; It's all over for the day.&nbsp; As expected, senior regroup had little effect on anything other than E.C. exclusion suits (18 left) and Woodbridge doubles (27 left).&nbsp; The photo to the left shows what's left in East Campus, Watt, Ruggles, Woodbridge and Claremont. A word to the wise for you rising juniors choosing housing on Monday: show up at least 10 min. in advance.&nbsp; More than one group in senior regroup was there because a member had simply "forgotten" the appointment time.&nbsp; Update (3:45 PM): A handful of groups still remain--this process will likely last another half hour, at least.&nbsp; Housing isn't going to update the white board until this is over and won't let Bwog back to see what rooms are getting snapped up but it's safe to assume that Woodbridge doubles and E.C. exclusions suits are in high demand. Update (3:03 PM):&nbsp; Morale in this room is so low, people either tend toward entropy (complete depression) or intense exaggeration.&nbsp; Two boys tell Bwog that they owe their current plight to the Jews, jocks, and ethnic groups who get same suite rights every year.&nbsp; Right...&nbsp; "It's ok, we're Jewish," they rush to assure me. &nbsp;&nbsp; Housing has begun the bizarre process of giving people new lottery numbers.&nbsp; Each group has a blue ticket with a 6-digit number that housing employees will call out at random.&nbsp; It's sort of a pre-lottery lottery. &nbsp; And we're back at housing selection where a mass of rising seniors have gathered for senior regroup--perhaps one of the most stressful events housing ever holds.&nbsp; Seniors know they have to break their 5 and 6 person suites apart and either drop down to general selection and try to get singles on the same floor or bundle themselves into E.C. exclusion suites and doubles. Initially confronted with the dilemma, brows furrow and eyes water, but the pain of separation is soon replaced with total confusion as some groups mistakenly believe they can find new group members by holding up a sign saying "2 men" or yelling their demands.&nbsp; Bwog favorites: two boys who have lived in special interest housing for the past two years and are totally lost in this process--several hours ago they had a variety of options and now they've basically screwed themselves.&nbsp; Mostly they just stand around and grin at each other. 
 &nbsp; Tipster Thomas Chau wrote in to give Bwog more information on the state of Pertutti, which has had its windows plastered over with paper for quite awhile now. When we last discussed Pertutti, shortly after its closure, we knew that it would be a trattoria owned by the proprietors of Nonna, a dubiously-reviewed Upper West Side Italian restaurant. Thomas informs us that the new name will be "Campo", and that they'll be serving food until 2 AM and drinks until 4. He cited prices of "around $10 for a pizza and $15-$20 for entrees." Oh, well. Bwog will be following up with the owners to learn more. Photos after the jump. &nbsp; 
 The Columbia website (and daily editor Pierce Stanley) informs us that History prof Samuel Moyn has won a Guggenheim Fellowship for his works on the Holocaust's impact on postwar France. Moyn then informed us, too, by changing his Facebook status to "Samuel Moyn is gloating." Fortunately, he's since wised up and changed it to "Samuel Moyn is no longer gloating." (He's also got one of the better Facebook professor profiles known to Bwog.) Also winning Guggies are professors Margo Jefferson (Creative Writing), Sam Lipsyte (Creative Writing), Alexander Stille (Journalism), Jonathan Weiner (Journalism) and Peter Ozsv&aacute;th (Math), with whom Bwog sat through a dismal Calc IV section Freshman year. Congrats nonetheless. 
While Bwog is trying to avoid posting YouTube video after YouTube video about CCSC&mdash;well, no we're not&mdash;we couldn't resist this gem from the LE:MON boys. Plus, it gives us a chance to tease the upcoming Bwog Political Personals&trade; feature, coming in the next few days. Potential "Kristens" take note.
 Despite (former!) GSSC President Niko Cunningham's cries of unconstitutionality and some Maps of Injustice™ pointing to a lack of quorum, Dean of Students and Associate Dean of Faculty/GS Mary McGee has ruled that Tuesday's vote to impeach Cunningham is, in fact, legitimate. This makes President Cunningham president no longer. In fact, GSSC VP of Policy Nancy Saunders has already assumed (been sworn into?) the position. McGee's full email after the jump. Dear&nbsp;GS students, &nbsp; At the Tuesday, April 8th meeting of the General Studies Student Council, a motion was made to impeach the GSSC president, Niko Cunningham.&nbsp; The GS Constitution requires a quorum for such a vote, and a two-thirds majority is needed for the motion to pass. Fifteen members constitute a quorum of this 22-member voting body, and it was reported to me that&nbsp;twelve people voted in favor of impeachment and three against. &nbsp;By this vote, Mr. Cunningham was impeached.&nbsp; After this happened, Mr. Cunningham asked Dean Stellini, advisor to the GSSC, and me to review the procedures of the meeting and to investigate the validity of the vote.&nbsp; We took Mr. Cunningham’s concerns seriously.&nbsp; Based on our review of the matter and the information we gathered, we found no evidence that there was a violation of the constitution or the rules, and I communicated this to Mr. Cunningham.&nbsp; The GSSC Constitution provides for the Vice President for Policy to assume the position of the president in such an instance.&nbsp; Therefore, Nancy Saunders&nbsp;is now serving as President of the GSSC and I have met with her to discuss the remaining&nbsp;work to be done by the GSSC as this academic year winds down. &nbsp; As you may be aware, the election process for next academic year’s GSSC is now underway.&nbsp; I urge you to attend the debates and read the profiles of the candidates for the various GSSC positions. The GSSC represents the GS&nbsp;student body and your concerns in many capacities in working not only with the GS administration, but with other offices and student groups across campus.&nbsp; Your participation in the voting process can make a difference in selecting the student leaders who will advocate on behalf of the GS&nbsp;undergraduate student body. &nbsp; Sincerely, &nbsp; Mary McGee Dean of Students and Associate Dean of Faculty/GS &nbsp; 11 April 2008 &nbsp; 
 At long last, the Guide to the Weekend has arrived.&nbsp; Bwog apologizes for the delay...&nbsp; Better late than never, no?&nbsp; SATURDAY New York City Anarchist Book Fair An exposition of books, magazines, pamphlets, art, film/video, and other cultural and political productions of the anarchist scene worldwide. Judson Memorial Church 55 Washington Square South &nbsp; The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly Showtimes: 1 pm, 8:30 pm Film Forum 212 727 8110 209 W. Houston&nbsp; The Graduate Showtimes: 9:15 pm BAM Rose Cinemas 718 636 4100 545 30 Lafayette Avenue, Brooklyn&nbsp; West Side Story Showtimes: 4:30 pm Film Forum 212 727 8110 209 W. Houston The Young &amp; the Restless in China&nbsp; A documentary following the lives of nine Chinese youths as they come of age in rapidly changing nation. Showtimes: 2:45 pm, 6:40 pm Cinema Village (212) 924-3363 22 E. 12th St. between 5th Ave and University Pl. &nbsp; Rogue Wave and Grand Ole Party Don't miss your weekly opportunity to hear a sort-of indie California band play at a sort-of alternative downtown venue... It'll be worthy the $17! The Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza 212 777 1224 17 Irving Pl. at E. 15th St. 7:30 pm $17.50&nbsp; &nbsp;The Accidental Death of an Anarchist Simultaneously comic, tragic and grotesque, Dario Fo's play uses physical comedy and an absurd situation taken straight from the news to weave a potent satire. Sat. 8 pm. Sun. 3 pm The Kraine Theater 85 E 4th St, between Second Ave and Bowery $15&nbsp; Betrayed George Packer's first play, based on his interviews in Iraq and other countries, tells the story of three young Iraqis who are motivated to work for American troops until their new-found allegiance is tested. Sat. 8pm, Sat. and Sun. 3 pm The Culture Project- SoHo Theater 212-352-3101 55 Mercer Street SUNDAY B.B. King's Blues Club &amp; Grill Gospel Brunch 11:30am, 2:30pm For less than $40, you get a rousing set by the Harlem Gospel Choir and all-you-can-eat brunch. Praise be to god, or something. $37.50. 237 W 42nd St ONGOING Mikhail Baryshnikov Photographs Through May 4th Photos of Merce Cunningham Dance Company 401 Projects Gallery 401 West Street 212 633 6202 Andy Warhol and Jean-Michel Basquiat Through May 17th Paintings and Graffiti from the mid '80s Van De Weghe Gallery 521 W 23rd St 212 929 6632 
It's the first real street fair of the season! The east side of Broadway is fenced off to make way for crepe-making, halal, carnival games, and the highest concentration of tie-dyed sweatshirts we've ever seen. Bwog took to the streets with a camera to capture the springtime loveliness. (And how about this weather!) &nbsp; &nbsp; - Photos by JNW 
 Bwog just received an email announcing the winners of ESC's 2008 General Elections. It's time to meet your new governing cabal, SEAS. Class of 2011 President: Kamal Yechoor Vice President: Chris Elizondo Representatives: Albert Miller and Dana Ibarra Class of 2010 President: Heather Lee Vice President: Lili Gu Representatives: Gunnar Aasen and Kelly Chen Class of 2009 President: Kim Manis Vice President: Erin Svokos Representatives: Krissie Zambrano and James Tsai University Senator: Rajat Roy CCSC Liaison: Kimberly Lipman-White GSSC Liaison: Epsita Hoque SGA Liaison: Sophie Chu Academic Affairs Representative: Boris Mindzak Alumni Affairs and Professional Development Representative: Pradeep Bandaru Student Services Representative: Emma Lebwohl &nbsp; 
 Tipster/photographer Matt Shields directs Bwog's attention to the South Lawn, where law schoolers are staging a mock hunger strike protesting the ban on drinking in the Black Box theater. They're calling themselves PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Alcoholics) and according to their colorful, upbeat propaganda, they "will not eat until they can drink—on stage." (The third protester holds a sign that inexplicably proclaims "We're not gonna protest.") And look, they even have a tent and a guitar... just like real activist-types! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
There's a lot of talk about&nbsp; Columbia students being too fortunate for our own good.&nbsp;&nbsp; That may or may not be true.&nbsp; But&nbsp; there is no question, we got lucky today.&nbsp; Columbia students could not have asked for a more ideal afternoon for Relay for Life.&nbsp; The event began at noon and will continue until three am Sunday morning. Throughout the afternoon there have been numerous performances to pass the time and keep the volunteers and teams entertained.&nbsp;&nbsp; Just after Jenny Saldana's opening comments, emcees Michael Molina and Colin Drummond introduced the first act.&nbsp; Starting the event off on just the right foot, the Onyx dance team moved across the stage erected in the middle of College Walk with their signature hip hop rhythm.&nbsp; At five o'clock, the Nick Joseph Band gave a more sedate performance that channeled Jack Johnson more than any hip hop performer.&nbsp; Despite the host of musical guests scheduled to perform throughout the event, the music seems to have taken the backseat to socializing and the afternoon sunlight. Students continue to walk around the lawns in small groups as they chat and sip at bubble tea.&nbsp; The walkers maintain a nice moseying pace and provide a leisurely complement to the intense exertion of the numerous of bare-chested hunks playing ultimate on the lawn.&nbsp; Others volunteers and team members&nbsp; pursue even more leisurely activities and lounge on the steps.&nbsp; Although these participants may be refueling from their respective legs of the race, they're certainly not munching on Powerbars. Thankfully sponsors donated a spread of savory and sweet goods – from Mexican food to cupcakes.&nbsp; Sitting on the steps this afternoon, it's hard to imagine how Columbia students could have made it through all those dreary winter afternoons spent in Butler - but we did it! We really made it! Spring is here.&nbsp; And what better way to welcome the season than with this campus-wide charity event? 
 Free bagels outside of Butler til 2 PM courtesy of Bacchanal! Hurry before all the Days on Campus kids snatch them up. &nbsp; UPDATE: According to enthusiastic commenter #3, "there is all kinds of cream cheese imaginable!" 
 Goodbye, Flex at HamDel. Hello, new Blue &amp; White website. Hello, Housing Lottery LiveBwog! Goodbye, rooms in Hogan and Watt. Goodbye, tarps on lawns. Hello, first mediocre street fair of the season. Hello, lukewarm reactions to Obama Girl.&nbsp; Goodbye, Niko Cunningham(?) 
 Last night, Bwog attended the penultimate performance of the CUplayer's performance of Neil Simon's Plaza Suite.&nbsp; Read on to see what you missed if you didn't make it.&nbsp; The high ceilings and picture windows of the Wien Lounge perfectly recreated the elegant atmosphere of Neil Simon’s Plaza Suite.&nbsp; Although Melanie Silver’s stage design could not have been more appropriate, the choice of Simon’s play in three acts seemed less appropriate for an undergraduate theater production.&nbsp; In Act One: A Visitor from Mamaroneck, Jason Resnikoff and Masha Kamenetska play Sam and Karen Nash, a conventionally unhappy middle age couple, who have come to suite 719 for their 24th wedding anniversary. &nbsp;&nbsp;Attempting to extract some tenderness out of her husband’s severe retorts, Kamenetska’s bubbly performance is painfully contrasted against Resnikoff’s sedate resignation.&nbsp; Resnikoff’s furrowed brow and gravelly pitch suit Sam’s perpetually dour mien, but his performance is best when he laces his cruelty with humor. Similarly Kamenetska plays an excellent peppy house-wife, but she adds depth to Karen’s seemingly shallow anxieties when she hisses, “What can I do, Sam? I’m attached to you!”&nbsp;&nbsp; The fine acting showcased here successfully draws out the conflict buried within Simon’s script: What does one do with life or love when it becomes boring? Simon returns to the same question in Act Two: Visitor from Hollywood.&nbsp; Back in suite 719, circa 1968, two estranged high school sweet-hearts, Muriel (Morgan Childs) and Jesse (Yoni Grossman-Boder) reunite.&nbsp; Grossman-Boder plays the preposterously smarmy Hollywood producer and Childs counters him as the clichéd saccharine housewife.&nbsp; Taking his part as Jesse seriously, Grossman-Boder intones his laughably predictable pick-up lines with an almost absurd sincerity. &nbsp;Although she occasionally slips into an unexpected southern accent, Childs delights the audience with her star-struck blunders.&nbsp; But it is unclear whether the humor is intended since the scene unfolds with uninspired dialogue and all too expected action.&nbsp; The end leaves the audience unsatisfied and certain that the scene’s failure is not the acting.&nbsp;&nbsp; In Act Three: Visitor from Forest Hills, Director Christina Macchiarola made many smart choices with costume and staging, but her actors would have benefited from a more judiciously edited script.&nbsp; Dressed all in pink like giant peony, Courtney Soderberg playing Norma, an excitable mother of the bride, never ceased to entertain as she spun about the stage. &nbsp;Nevertheless, the performances would have been more succinct with fewer repetitions and lines like, “Promise not to get hysterical?” &nbsp;But between Norma and her husband, Roy (Dan Liston), the hysterics never stop. &nbsp;&nbsp;Occasionally struggling with choreography, Liston nonetheless affects a broken arm with incredible consistency and Soderberg reacts to it with the perfect mix of sensitive shock and pitiless disbelief.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; The acting in last night’s performances was entirely consistent with the script.&nbsp; But perhaps that is where the production’s shortcomings emerge. Everything from acting to the staging, down to the very double “P’s” embroidered on the pillows of suite 719, was just as would be expected.&nbsp; Perhaps, Plaza Suite would have transcended the mundane platitudes of its dialogue had the directors &nbsp;been a bit less conservative in their vision and provided the audience with a bit more of what was unexpected.&nbsp; But given the structure and content of Simon’s antiquated script, Plaza Suite offered an accurate and enjoyable look at the quiet drama that all too often occurs without being noticed. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - MEQ &nbsp; 
SGA election results have rolled in. &nbsp; President SGA Sarah Besnoff VPSA Maria Luiza Morad Vice President For Communications Kathryn Palillo Vice President of Finance Amy Chen Jr.Rep to BOT Daphne Larose Community Affairs Rep. Emily Kan Academic Affairs Rep. Muzna Ansari Senator Emily Kenison Representative for Diversity Sophie Soares Representative for Student Services Jackie Bundock Representative for University Programming Shalini Agrawal Representative to GSSC Abbey Warner Sr. Class President Jamie Prem Sr. Class VP Katie Goble Sr. Class Treasurer Margaret (Maggie) Marron Sr. Class Secretary Elise Franklin Jr. Class President Chelsea Zimmerman Jr. Class Treasurer Isabel Araujo Soph. Class President Reni Calister Soph. Class VP Lara Avsar Soph. Class Treasurer Eve Guterman Soph. Class Secretary Marisa Franklin 
 Apparently, more "devils" upheld Niko's impeachment. The language of the Devil is...meta! Hopefully, that can be exorcised with some straight-edged journalism. Poeticus Diabolus. Hell freezes over: SEAS kids experience technical delays. 
Today all of you rising seniors can start signing up for fall semester classes.&nbsp; Email bwog@columbia.edu with any tips on system crashes, classes filling up and the like.&nbsp; Stay tuned for seminar admit lists in various departments as well.
Update 1:32 PM: As prospective first-years have long, overwrought conversations about the Core at Low Steps, a spectacle proceeds, ignorant to them, in John Jay Lounge, one that will shake the very bedrock of the school -- Day Three of suite selection. Plus the board hasn't been updated in, like, half an hour. Here's what's left for the underclassmen: Old updates after the jump. Bwog's computer is being a bit fussy, so excuse the lack of white-board portraiture. However, the following suites remain: Woodbridge: A, B, C: 0 D: 6 E, F: 0 G: 6 H: 0 I: 0 J, K, L: 0 Watt: 2 BR: 0 1 BR: 1 Studio Double: 33 EC: ECX: 0 Double (6th Floor): 5 47 Claremont: 3: 2 4: 0 5: 1 6: 1 7: 10 Ruggles: 4: 0 8: 11 6: 1 &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Welcome to yet another issue of Bwog Personals.&nbsp; This time we are advertising the most available 2009 Class Council candidates, so be prepared for some sexy electoral action.&nbsp; This post is D, for explicit manipulation of Democracy.&nbsp; Bwog is providing $10 for a date and as always, nominate your friends (or yourself) for a personal by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; GUY FOR COMPLETE POWER Name: Colin Patrick Drummond Year: 2009 School: CC Major: Anthropology/Environmental Science Hometown: Golden Valley, MN Best Book You've Read for Class: A Clockwork Orange Worst Book You've Read for Class: If it was bad I stopped reading it. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: GoCrossCampus Beverage of choice: LEMONade! What are your most played songs on iTunes? &nbsp; "Gimme Shelter," Rolling Stones &nbsp; "Scotland the Brave," US Air Force Reserve Pipe Band &nbsp; "Idioteque," Radiohead What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? &nbsp; "The Kiss (The Last of the Mohicans)," Trevor Jones &nbsp; "Main Theme (True Romance)," Hans Zimmer &nbsp; "Sparkplug Minuet (The Royal Tenenbaums)," Mark Mothersbaugh Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Buffalo Blue. Unless my Gold Card is full. Then it's a Mona Lisa with curly fries. The title of your memoir: Nonsense -or- A Heffalump of Jabberwock Dream date 5 words or fewer: See final question Thing you're looking forward to most this year: A haircut Thing you're looking forward to least this year: M. Night Shyamalan's The Happening If you could service any one politician, living or dead, in a public bathroom, who would it be?&nbsp; Princess Leia &nbsp; GUY FOR WORLD DOMINATION Name:&nbsp; Mark Anthony Johnson Year: 2009 School: CC Major:&nbsp; Political Science Hometown:&nbsp; Virginia Beach, Va Best Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp; The Iliad Worst Book You've Read for Class: Principles of Economics (Bernanke) Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Laundry Beverage of choice:&nbsp; Whiskey Sour What are your most played songs on iTunes? "My Girl Is Calling Me (A Liar)" Chromeo What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? "Satisfaction" The Rolling Stones Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Chicken Finger Combo from Toms (After a night of drinking) The title of your memoir:&nbsp; The Life and Times of Mark Johnson Dream date 5 words or fewer: Dinner, Party, Vodka, Singing, Tom's Thing you're looking forward to most this year:&nbsp; Graduation, Class Speaker, Senior Events Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Finding a Job. If you could service any one politician, living or dead, in a public bathroom, who would it be? His Holiness, The Dalai Lama 
Theater correspondent Sam Reisman reports back on Trees Like Nails, the latest from prolific campus playwright, Will Snider. There's a whodunit buried in the premise of Will Snider's Trees Like Nails—the body of a young girl, beaten nearly to death, is discovered in the woods. But what unfolds isn't an open-and-closed investigation into the particulars of the crime; a mood, not a mystery, infects the characters connected to the body and drives the engine of the play.&nbsp; It's a remarkable piece of original student theater, finely written with an ear for caustic humor and quiet sadness, superbly acted by an ensemble of strong performers, and directed by Deanna Weiner with an energy and inventiveness that breathes thrilling new life into the old Lerner Black Box, where the production played last weekend. The play is most successful at creating an atmosphere of gloom and inertia in its small-town setting, where the body is, more than anything else, a break out of the mundane, and, for some, even a cause for hope.&nbsp; The production is aided immeasurably by David Gerson's exceptional lighting design, which carves a suburban dead zone out of the theater with stark columns of white light and paints the nearby woods with a haunting palette of blues, greens, and erratic shadows. &nbsp;&nbsp; There are a few lapses in narrative logic in the overall construction of the plot (one act of violence seems motivated more by dramatic fancy than the reality of the situation), and tempers flare into screaming perhaps one too many times.&nbsp; However, in many of the quieter moments, Snider demonstrates a undeniable knack for capturing the tenor of a night spent chatting, drinking, and smoking away idle time in the company of his aimless twenty-something and teenage characters. &nbsp;&nbsp; Each scene unfolds with a serene clarity that exposes, first, the characters' casual cruelties and, later, their hidden pains. As the story develops, Snider's script peels away crass veneers to reveal deep-seated longings, balked hopes, and unspoken anxieties. Punk wannabe Frank's (Josh Breslow) litany of vicious and homophobic slurs leveled at his younger brother, Robbie (Jack Moore), segues, by play's end, to an expression of something like affection for the insecure young girl (Cally Robertson) he's picked up at 7-11. &nbsp; Breslow and Robertson perform their scenes with a charmingly understated sensitivity for their characters' situation. Thomas Anawalt brings dignity and pathos to the smoked-out, perpetual loiterer RayRay, smitten with a girlfriend who doesn't return his calls, wasted on booze and pot, blubbering about the pain of unrequited love within inches of his own vomit. Gerson brings muted charm and menace in equal doses to the role of the drug runner Ford, who utters, with a wicked grin, what may be the play's most exemplary line: "We're all bad, but I like you."&nbsp; Trees is almost certainly best experienced onstage, but in case you missed the production last weekend, there will be a workshop reading at the School of the Arts tonight at 7:00 pm in Dodge 603. - Graphic by Emily Cheesman 
 On Sunday, Low Plaza saw a woman of great intellect and beauty stride on her steps to challenge the great chess minds of Fair Alma.&nbsp; Not one to avoid a fight, Bwog's Chess Correspondent Chris Morris-Lent took up his pawn and rook in an epic battle on 64 wooden squares. It’s been said that “chess is a sea in which a gnat can drink and an elephant can bathe” (Indian proverb), and “chess is mental masturbation” (Bobby Fischer). So how would you classify twenty-nine dorky men (and a few women), including yours truly, participating in a simultaneous exhibition against Grandmaster Alexandra Kosteniuk, a prodigy and sex symbol who was both 1000 rating points higher and 1000 times hotter than the bulk of the participants? At 12 noon on a mild, gray and gusty Sunday, the Columbia chess club, led by impresario Charles McMillan, CC ’08, converged under a tent set up on Low Plaza specifically for the occasion.&nbsp; I myself hadn’t played a game of serious chess since senior year when I was captain of my high school chess team so I justified my presence at the table to myself in the name of gonzo journalism. As in life, I was always much better at the commentary than the execution, anyway. Besides, morbid fascination with the game is made all the purer by the fact that I suck; I am no longer even the best blitz player in the Classics department. Assuming a spot near the center of the yet-to-start action, I note that I’m flanked by a nerdy engineering type who reminds me of a John McEnroe/Steve Urkel hybrid and a corpulent man in a dapper suit who reminds me of Boris Yeltsin. The battle-of-the-sexes subtext aside, Grandmaster (GM) Kosteniuk, sixth-best woman in the world, shows up about ten minutes later, clad in an elegant baggy white outfit. The old misogynistic dictum goes “women are never exceptional athletes” – as in basketball, baseball, or soccer, the top 100 chess players are overwhelmingly male – but that doesn’t mean that Sue Bird wouldn’t disembowel ninety-nine percent of all men in a one versus one. Kosteniuk is Bird, Brandi Chastain, Anna Kournikova, and Danica Patrick rolled into one: in single combat, a match for all but the very best – top 100 or so – in the world. At 12:30, Kosteniuk commences to engage the participants, offering a short handshake and pushing her king’s pawn forward two on every board, a move which Fischer called “best by test.” The first five moves of my game pass perfunctorily. I’m hoping for a tame game where I have good chances of drawing and dulling GM Kosteniuk’s vastly superior technique. (A grandmaster knows EVERYTHING about chess; my knowledge is a pathetic subset of hers – it’s as if an undergraduate were to challenge Michael Seidel to a debate about Joyce). Fortunately, GM Kosteniuk has 28 other people to contend with, and I have 28 times longer to think about my moves than she. Nevertheless, by move 14, I am certainly losing; much more subtly than the guy next to me, who is lamenting cryptically, “I shouldn’t have played Fried Liver!,” but nevertheless, losing. Material is even – we both have the same amount of pieces – but mine aren’t doing anything and my pawn structure is a bit of a mess. How is everyone else doing? Aside from the vocalized death throes of my neighbor, few seem to be completely doomed as of yet. “The guy near the fountain,” someone says, “he’s only rated 50 points lower than her and nobody’s paying attention to him!” I steal a glance at his board, which contains a sharp middle-game conflict, the kind of firefight I ignominiously avoided. GM Kosteniuk improves position with every move while I shuffle my pieces helplessly on the back rank as if Chuck Norris had Terri Schiavo in a hammerlock. On move 21, a deus ex machina: GM Kosteniuk, confident in her position, attempts to chase my bishop away, missing that her move drops a pawn after a short tactical sequence. I exchange rooks; she makes her circuit and returns to the board, gasping in dismay. By move 24 I hold all the cards on my board – bishop vs. knight, an extra pawn – but I also hold tickets to Macbeth at 3, it’s 2:20, and grinding out a win in such a position would have been laborious, probably doomed to failure. A blast of wind knocks the pieces over while GM Kosteniuk is on the other side of the tent; noting the portent, I reset the position, await her arrival, and offer a draw, the apotheosis of my plan from move one. She accepts, and with a handshake and a smile, I embark for the subway station, more than satisfied, with an optimal result, a rictus of joy, a story to tell the grandkids some day; my greatest athletic success since holding the kingship in four-square for like twenty rounds last week. &nbsp; Later that evening I e-mailed McMillan for the full results: Honestly, she wasn't sure what the score was. There were 29 participants in total, and she had 2 losses, and who knows how many draws (could be 4 or 5). So her score was approximately 24.5 or 25. Conrad Ho's win was a total swindle. He was basically down a piece as of move 15 or so. Dan Park won in a nice Dragon game (1. e4 c5 2. Nf3 d6 3. d4 cxd4 4. Nxd4 Nf6 5. Nc3 g6). Dan is seriously a grandmaster in that line, so she picked the wrong opening to play on this particular day. For anyone else who likes chess, my game is annotated below. 1 e4 e5 Lacking the balls to play my typical Sicilian (1…c5), which is only really appropriate for playing other retards during my scholastic days, I conservatively push my king’s pawn forward two spaces (fig. 1), looking to achieve the most boring game possible. 2 Nf3 Nc6 3 Bb5 Nf6 4 O-O Nxe4 5 d4 Nd6 6 Bxc6 dxc6 7 dxe5 Nf5 8 Qxd8 Kxd8 9 Nc3 Playing right into my hands; the consummation of my dastardly plan. The position after GM Kosteniuk’s ninth move (fig. 2) results from the most common sequence of moves following 3…Nf6 and is well-known to chess theory as a boring weapon GMs at the highest level like to use to draw (nobody likes to draw more than GMs). General chess heuristics indicate Black’s advantage lies in his two bishops and his disadvantage in being saddled by the doubled pawns. 9…Ke8 10 h3 h6 11 Bf4 Be6 12 g4 Ne7 13 Nd4 My position indicates my abject ignorance of the line; material is even but GM Kosteniuk’s pieces are working synergistically while mine are either chilling on the back rank or biting granite. 13…Nd5 14 Nxe6 fxe6 15 Bd2 Rd8 16 Ne4 Be7 17 Rad1 Rf8 18 f4 Nb4 I figure that the more pieces I exchange (fig. 3), the less of a chance I have of losing. The strategic subtext is that, with fewer pieces to cramp my corner of the sandbox, my space disadvantage will become less suffocating. I’m surprised by her response to 18…Nb4 – 19. c3 (Nxa2 loses the piece; there is no escape after Ra1) or 19. a3 seem better. 19 Bxb4 Bxb4 20 c3 The second validation and consummation of my cowardice; the move drops a pawn. Rxd8 should maintain the stranglehold GM Kosteniuk has on the position. 20…Rxd1 21 Rxd1 Rxf4 22 Nd2 Bc5+ 24 Kg2 It was at this point that a gust of wind knocked the pieces over. 24…b5 Worse than the obvious Rf2+. Black is better – a pawn up, a bishop against a knight in an endgame with pawns on both sides of the board. He can probably win if he is not me, but I have a less ambitious plan in mind, the logical conclusion of every move I’ve played during the entire game… 25 Kg3 Rf7 (fig. 5) 1/2 …to request a draw. GM Kosteniuk assesses the position, utters a terse, kindly “OK,” initiates a handshake, and moves onto the next board. 
Well dressed and well rehearsed, CCSC E-board candidates strut their stuff for the final time this evening in Wien Lounge, as they debated for the second time, trying to wrangle every last vote before the moratorium on campaigning Tuesday morning.&nbsp; Alidad and George, both looking dapper with slightly loosened ties, recited their stumps as a meager crowd shuffled around trays of chicken wings and curly fries, clearly more interested in gastronomy than governance.&nbsp; A few interesting facts emerged, such as Donna Desilus's revelation that "Alidad is a critical thinker." Mostly press and current CCSC members, the very brief question and answer period was devoted mostly to answering pragmatic problems posed by current VP Campus Life Lindsey Lazopoulos and Student Services Molly Conley.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Stay tuned tomorrow for Bwog Personals for Alidad and George as well as final endorsements counts. -JJV &nbsp; 
 The chickens have come home to roost.&nbsp; Krebs and Alidaddy slug it out for the final time. Student group endorsements, here have one.&nbsp; They're handed out like candy. Even with this, no one still knows what any of those funny acronyms actually mean. Take a brochure, get more confused about Barnard. Phillip Roth is glad its his birthday, not his funeral. New York City has rats, really?&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Another very special Tuesday installment of Political Weekly with Bwog's White House Bureau Chief Jim Downie. It's spring, which means that Columbia can remove those unsightly tarps from the lawns just in time for prospective students to think that Columbia always looks this happy. Of course, spring is also the time of year when&nbsp;the thoughts&nbsp;of young men and women turn to love (and when writers look for new and witty ways to use that cliche). On the campaign trail, though, love is not exactly in the air, as the Democratic race grows more and more tense&nbsp;while the&nbsp;next round of&nbsp;primaries move closer.&nbsp; "Bitter"-gate: The big story this past weekend was&nbsp;Senator Barack Obama's words&nbsp;at a San Francisco fundraiser, where he&nbsp;said of&nbsp;Pennsylvania voters "So it's not surprising then that they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations." Senators Hillary Clinton and John McCain both jumped on the comment, letting America know that Pennsylvanians are actually incapable of feeling bitter. Clinton also spent the weekend honing her&nbsp;new "I love guns"&nbsp;image, trying to paint Obama as too "elitist" for the general election. Almost immediately, Obama hit back, and yesterday he got even tougher, referring to Clinton as "Annie Oakley," and even shouting "shame on her!" ALRIGHT&nbsp;POLICY&nbsp;PROPOSALS! WOOOOO!: Clinton throws back a shot in Indiana.&nbsp; The CBS Fridays at 10: As always, numbers from Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Indiana, and national polling are available here, here, and/or here. C-SPANable:&nbsp;Last week, General David Petraeus&nbsp;testified on Iraq to the Senate&nbsp;Foreign Relations Committee, where he was questioned by all three candidates. SNL's take on it here. Don't Forget About Me: New York magazine has a fascinating profile about John McCain. Something to do in your non-existent free time: The New York Times profiles the citizen journalist who broke the Obama "bitter" remark. A great read for anyone interested in the future of media. But Kentucky food is good: Various Kentucky Republican big shots&nbsp;audition for late-night slots at a district dinner, with jokes ranging from&nbsp;off-color to somewhat racist. Good writing is hard to find: And that's why you should read Hendrik Hertzberg on the campaign and "misspeaking." Just stop it: Obama is certainly flush with cash, but it looks like his overwhelming spending on advertising may actually have a backlash. A new poll finds that his excessive advertising is pushing a full 23% of primary votes towards Clinton. From the Dept. of "Whoops": AP board chair Dean Singleton, when asking Obama about terrorism at a luncheon in DC today, referred to Al-Qaeda's chief as "Obama Bin Laden." 
 Bwog was pleasantly surprised to awake this morning to a beautiful spring day and a pleasant plethora of red balloons scattered around Low quad.&nbsp; One thousand balloons were placed around campus earlier today by LionPAC. According to LionPAC, "1,000 balloons 7,000 rockets that have fallen on the civilian city of Sderot." One Bwog staffer has already began to notice campus reactions to the balloons. Recalls the staffer, "A bearded grad student in a tweed-patched jacket paused on College Walk to stare at the balloons... after about thirty seconds, he removed a pen from his pocket, obviously deep in thought, and popped one."&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
One commenter has pointed Bwog in the direction of Vampire Weekend's latest concert video/interview with Pitckfork.tv, which takes place in the ADP house. The band characterizes their ADP shows as some of their most memorable: ADP is "not really a rock club, and there's something I like about that," says keyboardist Rostam Batmanglij. Bedecked in obligatory sweaters and polos, the band chronicles their creation story for the camera: VW was born on February 6th, 2006 in singer Ezra Koenig's dorm room. You can watch the video in its entirety below.&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 4:27 PM: No walk-through doubles in Nussbaum remain. Only 1 seven-person suite in Claremont left. Now Playing: "Gone," N*SYNC (just like those walk-through Nussbaum doubles!) &nbsp; 4:20 PM: (see whiteboard above for up-to-date breakdown of what's left) 4:04 PM: The day is winding down, and only 2 seven-person suites in Claremont remain.&nbsp; 3:59 PM: "Karma Police" has been played two times in a row and counting... 3:24 PM: No McBain walk-through doubles reamin.&nbsp; 3:06 PM: Au revoir, Watt. The last studio double just went. 2:58 PM: Just 5 seven-person suites in 47 Claremont remain. 2:29 PM: All the walk-through doubles in McBain (save for one on the second floor and one on the third) are taken. 2:09 PM: Two girls run screaming from the tables, a purple ballerina flat flies off of the girl's foot and into Bwog's computer. "WE GOT WATT!" she screamed. "You're annoying little girls," her presumably not-as-lucky male friend responded. Bwog handed her back her shoe and she informed us that just two Watt studio doubles remain. 1:38 PM: A housing staffer informs Bwog that most groups to come in this afternoon have dropped to general housing. Only "a few doubles" have been taken today, and not much else. We'll know the exact number of groups to have dropped into general as soon as the whiteboard is updated, which should be pretty soon. Stay tuned. The latest from the crowded, humid John Jay lounge: &nbsp; Now Playing: Kelis, "Milkshake" 
 It was once said that the only two things that are certain in life are death and taxes.&nbsp; While one's death only happens once, April 15th seems to creep up on us all too quickly every time that the spring flowers are just beginning to bloom and the sun shines bright.&nbsp; This is just a friendly reminder from the Bwog editors to all you lackadaisical Columbians out there, that today is the day of reckoning with the Department of the Treasury ! So, if you are basking prodigiously on the steps of Low, don't forget to keep the IRS on your good side by remembering to file your income tax returns before midnight.&nbsp; Of course, you wouldn't want to be the last person standing in line at the post office tonight, fighting the hordes (and the clock) for an April 15th post mark! &nbsp; 
In a very special edition of Bwog Personals, we invite you to meet your eligible and handsome CCSC Presidential candidates. All interested parties should email bwog@columbia.edu and we'll arrange and pay for a date with one of these fine gentleman. &nbsp; Name: George Krebs Year: 09 School: Columbia College Major: &nbsp;Political Science Hometown: &nbsp;Cambridge, MA Best Book You've Read for Class: &nbsp;Transforming Leadership, Burns Worst Book You've Read for Class: To the Lighthouse Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Mario Kart Beverage of choice: &nbsp;Mango juice with pulp What are your most played songs on iTunes? The Seed, The Roots, Start Me Up, Rolling Stones, Be, Common What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? La Nozze Di Figaro, Mozart, My Favorite Things, Coltrane, Spring, Vivaldi Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Chicken Burrito at Tacqueria y Fonda The title of your memoir: &nbsp;While I Was Busy Making Other Plans Dream date 5 words or fewer: Kind, interesting Thing you're looking forward to most this year: &nbsp;Listening to good vinyl records on my turntable, reading Langston Hughes, hanging out with good people. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Being 3/4 through college If you could service any one politician, living or dead, in a public bathroom, who would it be? Nelson Mandela Name: Alidad Damooei Year: 2009 School: Columbia College Major:&nbsp; Economics Hometown:&nbsp; Thousand Oaks, CA Best Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp; "The Discourses" by Michiavelli Worst Book You've Read for Class: Heroditus; all the Persian-bashing got on my nerves. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Poke wars on Facebook. Beverage of choice: Vodka mixed with something. What are your most played songs on iTunes? An eclectic mix of middle eastern pop, opera, halleluja by jeff buckley, and chicago by Sufjan Stevens. What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? Something that would make it seem as though I have good taste when that conversation comes up during a first date. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Chicken Salad at Le Monde. The title of your memoir: "Who's your Alidaddy?: The Man behind the Nickname" Dream date 5 words or fewer: Beach. Wine. Fire. No blackberry. Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Making CCSC kick ass. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Graduating. If you could service any one politician, living or dead, in a public bathroom, who would it be? This all depends on the definition of "service."
Screw CCSC elections. Last night, the real election everyone on campus was talking about went down: the election for Director of Technology of ESC! But apparently, not everyone was as excited as me. About ten people on the council were missingï¿½enjoying SEAS NY trips,&nbsp;returning&nbsp;Homeward Bound&nbsp;at Kim's, etc. I snuck listens to the various coercing cell phone conversations that were happening: "Yo, can you just come for like twenty minutes? Then you can peace." I hope to someday sound that cool on the phone. The competition was between Daniel Gundrum and Kenny Riveraï¿½both SEAS '10, both into computers, both very nerdy. Daniel, whose&nbsp;oratory skills&nbsp;have impressed me before, again began working the crowd with an undeniable smoothness: "I think you wanna see some of the things I've done." Without even waiting for our validation (that's part of his smoothness), he proceeded to present several games he had programmed in his free time. One of them tested how many times he could click the mouse in thirty seconds, for which Daniel racked up an inspiring 134 clicks, perhaps symbolizing the 134 things I would rather do than play that game. Kenny, unmoved by Daniel's performance like the boulder I can't move in&nbsp;Pokemon Red&nbsp;because no one on my team knows HM04 yet, didn't begin with quite as much rhetoric sway: "I like to create nothing. Let's flip thatï¿½I like to create something from nothing." Nevertheless, Kenny's chief project, the&nbsp;SEAS 2010 website, was an impressive display, and Kenny effectively articulated his passion for the work he would be doing: "I get excited when websites break ï¿½ it means I get to fix them." It was a tough call, but ultimately, Kenny took home the big win. Congrats to Kenny on his well earned position. I've finally found someone nerdier than I am, which will hopefully get my mom off my back for a few days. - Tony Gong, Fu Foundation Bureau Chief 
 Today is BC Spirit Day, and this afternoon, over what was reportedly a less-than-enthralling fireworks display, Barnard announced the new name of the Nexus, its new ominous-sounding student center. The Nexus' new moniker? The Vagelos Center—the name was kindly spelled out in fireworks for all to see. "We're going to go to THE VAG," said one exasperated Barnard sophomore. &nbsp; UPDATE: Today's ceremony featured the word "Vagelos" spelled with fireworks, sending mixed feelings of anger and bemusement throughout the Barnard crowd. According to an official Barnard source, the fireworks honored the family of Diana Vagelos, who has been the project's largest donor. Barnard has also previously stated that the namesake of the building will come from its major donor—hence the natural assumption that the fireworks spoke to both donor and new name. However, as of yet, it's not been set in stone. (Pun intended.) 
 A press release issued today from the American University in Cairo reports that Lisa Anderson, Columbia's Shotwell Professor of International Relations, former chair of the CU political science department, and former dean of SIPA has been named the next provost of the American University in Cairo.&nbsp; Anderson, a specialist in politics of the Middle East and former director of Columbia's Middle East Institute, will succeed Dr. Earl Sullivan who has been the provost of the American University of Cairo since 1973.&nbsp;&nbsp; Anderson will be serving as chief academic officer of the famed Egyptian university at a time of great change for the school, as the school's more than 5000 students and full-time faculty of 400 move over the next year to a brand new, $400 million campus in the New Cairo neighborhood.&nbsp; According to the press release, the selection of a professor of Anderson's caliber to head up academics at the university "is a reflection of AUC's increasing prestige internationally as an institution of higher education," and Anderson, a former president of the Middle East Studies Association, chair of the board of directors of the Social Science Research Council, and CFR member said that she is "privileged to be a part of this venture."&nbsp; Bwog wishes this giant of political science scholarship the best of luck as she moves East and on to the pursuit of new academic challenges!&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
UPDATE (12:45 PM): It's halftime at housing—the process of coming to terms with Wien or the McBain shaft will resume after a lunch break at 1:30 PM. The white board, creature of habit that it is, hasn't been updated since our last photo. However, according to housing, about four or five groups have come in since that time. Their selections? "Mostly Nussbaum and McBain." UPDATE (12:25 PM):&nbsp; This room and the people in it could not be calmer--the entire process and people involved appear to have been lobotomized. Obvious sign: Jack Johnson has been playing for the last half hour and no one has complained.&nbsp; Freshmen lie about and half of them are asleep in the beanbags/synthetic wombs. McBain doubles are in high demand, as are Broadway doubles.&nbsp; Bwog realizes that this goes against the grain, but the walk-through doubles in Wien that face 116th are very nice--lots of natural light and good views. UPDATE (10:53 AM):&nbsp; The board has just been updated.&nbsp; There are now 4 doubles in Furnald, 29 Broadway doubles, 121 McBain doubles and 35 doubles in 600 W.113th. It's the last day of suite selection and rising sophomores with mediocre numbers (in the 1400-1500 range) are currently taking their turn before the vengeful Housing Gods. Most of them appear to have shown up having no idea where they want to live--only where they don't want to live, which is just about everywhere. The last Claremont 7 is gone and what remains is on the board at right.&nbsp; Most are debating between Schapiro walk-through doubles and Broadway doubles.&nbsp; Others are just confused and are focusing more on class registration than housing selection.&nbsp; Biggest topic of conversation among freshmen: the Univ. writing research paper no one has written. Biggest topic of conversation among housing staff: "I can't believe people here care about student government so much..." &nbsp;What's gone: Hogan, EC townhouses, high rises, exclusion suites, Woodbridge, Watt, River, Ruggles and Claremont. 
 In case you didn't hear about the vag being built on Barnard's campus... And in case you didn't hear about former SIPA Dean Lisa Anderson moving to Egypt Columbia was great, pre-hippies Did you know they cut up women in Tibet for sport? Good thing China's there to keep them in line The student body might like more info about the University Senators, but Bwog feels that would be unfair to the candidates looking for some easy, largely uncontested resume-padding. 
 Tipster Jason Patinkin writes to us with two tips. The latter is a complete schedule of&nbsp; Earth Week, which begins today. The week of activities includes tons of free food, tours of environmentally-friendly buildings, and a ton of lectures. Check out the full schedule after the jump. Patinkin also direct our attention to what he refers to as a "staggering" amount of free pizza in Lerner. "2 advising deans are answering questions in East Ramp Lounge and have about 15 famiglia pizzas.&nbsp; They're there till 3.&nbsp; RIGHT NEXT DOOR in the West Ramp Lounge from 12-1:30, the eco-reps will have 5 V&amp;T Pizzas for their every popular "Simple Things You Can Do to Help the Environment" Discussion," he writes of the pizza-bounty. Apparently just one pie has been eaten. Wednesday 4/16: Simple Things You Can Do For The Environment Lunch with Barnard/Columbia Eco-Reps, Lerner Ramp Lounge West, 12-1:30 PM Free V &amp; T Pizza! Keynote Lecture, Barnard Environmental Science Professor Stephanie Pfirman: Melting Arctic Ice Carleton Lounge, 6PM Free Ice Cream and Popsicles! Thursday 4/17: Environmental Fair, Low Plaza 12-3.&nbsp; Free food, Root Beer Floats, and FREE WATER (take the water "pepsi challenge" with bottled, tap, and Britta filtered water) Protecting the Redwoods: Forest Activism 7:30 PM, Lerner West Ramp Lounge (Acadia confirming) Yoni Stadlin, a JTS student, will be speaking about his time spent tree-sitting to protect the Redwoods (he's done it 3 times!). Friday 4/18: Green Bulding Tour of 4 Times Square Led by Megan McNally, BC '10 EcoRep Meet at Columbia Gates at Noon Go behind the scenes to see the inner workings of a green building! Groundbreaking for Community Garden Pupin Plaza, (Probably 3PM) Sponsored by Columbia University Food Sustainability Project and EarthCo. Free Food! Saturday 4/19: EcoTour of New York City (See official advertisement): Come explore what makes New York City one of the most environmentally sustainable urban centers in the world with a FREE Eco-Tour of NYC.&nbsp; All transportation, breakfast, lunch, and dinner are FREE When: Saturday, April 19th, all day (starting 9am) Register: Starting Sunday at 8am, April 13th, Email NYCecotour@gmail.com with your name, UNI, CU Affiliation. First come, first served, space is limited. - Environmental Justice Tour of Harlem with WE ACT - Tour of the world's first green residential tower, the Solaire - A presentation from the Mayor's Office on PlaNYC, the comprehensive greening plan for New York City - Enjoy FREE organic breakfast, lunch, and dinner from eateries in NYC - Attend a carbon-neutral concert on the East River hosted by Solar1 Sunday 4/20: Screening of Planet Earth on Low Steps Sponsored by CUEBS, Bacchanal Monday 4/21: Hawaii in the Balance:&nbsp; Culture, Environment, and Sustainability Carleton Lounge, 6:15 pm Join Malama Hawaii, EarthCo., and Barnard Eco-Reps for a presentation and discussion of native Hawaiian mythology, values, and practices relating to the environment.&nbsp; Hawaii's environment faces many challenges from habitat degradation, development, and invasive species, and connections between culture and landscape that helped mediate the link between people and environment are increasingly eroded.&nbsp; What--both ecologically and culturally--has been lost?&nbsp; What remains? And what can we do for the future? FREE DINNER Tuesday 4/22: Closing address: Water Quality in Bangladesh with Barnard Professor Martin Stute, introduced by Margaret Bounds, BC '08 6PM, Carleton Lounge Sponsored by EarthCo Free Bhakti Club dinner! Harvest Dinner at Hewitt Sunday 4/27: Cane Toads movie Lerner Cinema Sponsored by CUEBS 
 Did you know that lately, some students have been running for CCSC positions? Well it's true, and you can exercise your right to democracy by voting today and tomorrow, either at an old-timey voting site on Low Plaza or on online. Polls are open from 9 AM to 7 PM both days.&nbsp; In case you're still torn between Experience and Connectivity, Bwog's compiled a list of all the students groups to endorse both parties: Alidad Damooei and Connect Columbia: The Columbia Spectator The Black Students' Organization Columbia University Performing Arts League Columbia International Relations Council &amp; Association Political Science Students' Association Korean Students' Association Taiwanese-American Students Association Sigma Delta Tau Beta Theta Pi Students for North Korean Awareness George Krebs and Experience Columbia: CU Democrats CU Republicans Columbia Political Union American Medical Students Association Columbia Queer Alliance Club Zamana Turath (Arab Students Organization) Progressive Jewish Alliance Muslim Students Association Rotaract Pi Kappa Alpha Psi Upsion Zeta Beta Tau Kingsmen A Cappella Everyone Allied Against Homophobia Organization of Pakistani Students CU Chess Club &nbsp; 
UPDATE 9:02 PM: Jungles is ahead right now, with Shallow Seas and Deep Ocean tied for second! Late breaking news about Bacchanal's 4/20 screening of Planet Earth. The mind-wrecking Discovery Channel miniseries is appearing in Low Plaza on a 14' X 26' screen, and you get to pick the two episodes being shown. To vote, just follow the link. But first, let Bwog tell you what to vote for. Paul Barndt: Go for Deep Ocean, the only one of the episodes that seems to take place on another planet entirely. This is a place of strange, malformed creatures so far removed from the sun they've turned transparent. Maybe you'll even see an ultra-squid. But what's this about using the Sigourney-narrated American Planet Earth? Attenborough 4 lyfe, Bacchanal! Michael Molina: I want to see epic battles and Great Plains has two of the four great hunt sequences in the Planet Earth series. In addition to the heartbreaking story of the caribou's fall, the episode also features the pains of a lion's hunger that The Bronx Zoo or a JTT sing-a-long cannot provide. This episode is a varied account of ecosystems that delivers some of the best action sequences of the series as well as fantastic sweeping visuals that instill a feeling that mankind has not completely obliterated Planet Earth. Bonus Dark Horse Candidate! The "subtle merits" of Shallow Seas had considerable underground support on the Bwog listserv. Now get to it! Why vote for CCSC when you can choose between monster jellyfish and and killer cats? &nbsp; 
 The sixth floor of Lerner has long been a wasteland, a dumping ground for catering carts, broken elliptical machines, and other variegated detritus. It was the most visible emblem of the silliness of our overbooked student center, and of our university's dank bureaucratic bowels. But no longer! It is to become... a bank of offices. It seems the plan is to move some offices up to the sixth floor, which will in turn create space to put all the student advising offices on the fourth floor, which will then free up space in dorms for as-yet-undetermined good things.&nbsp; Probably not the sexy "Lerner 6&nbsp; = Health Spa + Infinity Pool" announcement you were hoping for, but we take what we can get. &nbsp; Read the joint CCSC-ESC memo after the jump. We are delighted provide an update our progress relating to the sixth floor of Lerner Hall.&nbsp; The university has committed to utilize the sixth floor to create a centralized Center for Student Advising.&nbsp; The general plan is to move some of the fourth floor offices up to the sixth floor and use the larger and more accessible fourth floor to create the center.&nbsp; Unifying our advising system both structurally and spatially allows students to have access to a broad range of support throughout their four years at Columbia.&nbsp; This plan will also increase student access to other space on campus by enabling the university to move advisors out of residential buildings (like Broadway, Carman, Furnald and Shapiro) and utilize that space for students. Some of the suggestions already being considered are new meeting or practice spaces.&nbsp; Considering the heightened space crunch on campus, we believe that creating more space in residence halls will help alleviate some of the difficulties students have in organizing meetings and events. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us. Sincerely, Michelle Nicole Diamond Student Body President Columbia College Elizabeth Strauss President Engineering Student Council 
&nbsp; QuickFed? QuickSpec! Featuring: ....a Juicy Campus op-ed ...a Manhattanville shout-out&nbsp; ...Barnard stereotypes&nbsp; ...an eerily accurate staff editorial&nbsp; Plus bonus Fed non-fiction! (We think?) &nbsp; 
 Happening right now: CCSC's Do it in the Dark! Energy Challenge is providing free pizzas in the Carman lounge. Though the pies are technically reserved for residents of Woodbridge, Carman and Hartley—the winners of the energy conservation challenge—President Diamond informs Bwog that CCSC will "not turn anyone who's hungry away." Diamond also boasts of "those cinnamon sticks you dip in frosting." &nbsp; 
Lerner 6 being developed. No word on whether the new floor will have a Second Avenue Subway stop. Take Back the Night: Now with men. Floridita is slightly more doomed than usual. Nobody talking about 1968. (OK, except this column.) More CCSC complaints. Well, those are a little more normal.
Bwog's inbox just got word that the Columbia College valedictorian has been named: Maxim Pinkovskiy, majoring in economics-mathematics, a Soros Fellow, and bound for a Ph. D. at MIT. Maxim, from St. Petersburg by way of Brooklyn, has won several prestigious essay contests and took an internship at the Federal Reserve. But did he give to the Senior Fund?
The Eye maintains that the following things suck: Days on Campus sucks. No, seriously, Days on Campus sucks. And it lies to you. Conspicuous consumption sucks. (Unless it's a $355 bikini.) Passover does not suck. But Wikipedia ... does? 
 Gawker, whose staff apparently checks all the Columbia news websites every ten minutes for changes, is muscling onto Bwog's turf a little bit this afternoon. Namely, catching Spec with its pants down with the following correction tucked at the bottom of yesterday's caustic anti-Tibet editorial: CORRECTION: This submission misstates that one Dalai Lama admitted to having sex with hundreds of men and women while knowing that he had AIDS. Additionally, the submission misstates that many monks participated in the dismemberment of female bodies. In fact, there is no factual evidence to substantiate either of these claims. Spectator regrets the error. Well, yes, that's amazing. Good enough for Gawker to walk its fancy self above 96th Street (and to note that relevance, the current Dalai Lama has held his position for fifty years, which means the number of Dalai Lamas an editor has to look up to verify that claim is approximately one).&nbsp; We won't even mention that Spec tagged the article "ignorance." Anyway, we applaud Gawker on their nice catch. However, stealing our headline from earlier today? Man. Clearly, somebody should be paying us. We're looking in the general direction of your faux-loft penthouse, Denton. 
UPDATE 2:42 PM: Damooei just called Bwog to inform us that the final word from Robert Taylor is that the Elections Board is not going to consider Krebs' rules violation complaint because of the deal struck between Ness, Krebs, and Damooei. No idea what we're talking about? Read on...&nbsp; The front page of today's Spectator features an article about George Krebs' plan to file a rules violation against Alidad Damooei in response to a comment made by outgoing CCSC President Michelle Diamond's that Damooei and his party were "a stronger ticket." The Spec article (and Damooei, when Bwog spoke with him) claims that a rules violations deal was struck between Damooei and Krebs. The deal, which was facilitated by Elections Board Chair Andrew Ness, specified that Krebs would not file a rules violation against Diamond's statements (Diamond is not allowed to endorse any candidate), if Damooei would not file a rules violation against Krebs' party for posting a campaign flyer on the glass window of an EC computer lab, which is a violation. According to Damooei, Ness explained to Krebs and him that if either of them were to file rules violations this late in the game, hours-long judicial hearings would prevent them from going outside and getting people to vote. Krebs and Damooei agreed that avoiding this was appealing, and the three shook hands. This last-minute ruckus began several days ago when the Spec ran an article with a quote from Diamond saying that "Connect Columbia is a stronger ticket."&nbsp; The quote, Diamond says, was given off-the-record. Diamond told Bwog: "Now I was talking to on my cell while running to class and while I've had some trouble with working with Lien in the past, I do really think that she has a lot of integrity and has really developed as a reporter this year, so I'm assuming she didn't hear me or I wasn't clear or I was talking to fast or something." Damooei pointed out other errors in the article: "There are major misquotes. They had two quotes from Cliff Massey that contradicted each other. That's because the second one was Jen Choi." Damooei sympathizes with the reporter, Lien, explaining that "she had a bunch of articles coming out that day. There was a lot of pressure that day." To make matters more complicated, Krebs filed a rules violation this morning against Damooei.&nbsp; The reason: several days ago, Diamond printed out and showed to Spec a three-month-old email that was written by ESC President Peter Valerias that said that Krebs had "dropped the ball on off-campus Flex."&nbsp; Krebs told Bwog that the email proves that Diamond's involvement was not merely through quote confusion but through a "thoughtful, premeditated act to really do damage to us. She was clearly trying to sway voters in the final moments." According to Krebs, Ness and the judicial board "won't even consider because we already had this agreement." But things apparently can't end there, so Krebs is taking the matter to Robert Taylor, the Executive Director of Student Life and Activities, who is the final word on all things CCSC. Both candidates were anxious to get off the phone with Bwog so they could head back to voter outreach and both described their focus today as going towards winning the election. "By the time the smoke rises, the battle will be over," Damooei philosophized. - JNW 
 Bwog editor Mariela Quintana tells you about a holiday you might have missed. There’s been a lot of talk about April being the cruelest month. But what’s everyone got against poor old April? Just look at the facts, April’s got the best holidays – April Fool’s, Earth Day, often Easter, occasionally Passover, always 4/20, and Al Green’s birthday’s on the 13th. But April 17th celebrates the loveliest day of all, Poem in Your Pocket Day. In honor of National Poetry Month (April), PIYP encourages you, dear Bwog reader, to print out a poem that you enjoy or perhaps that you have even written. As you carry it in your pocket, read your poem to as many or as few people as you so wish – don’t be shy, let the inner poet come out! The holiday is meant to honor not just Erato – our divine Muse of the Lyric Line – but also to promote poetry, literacy an the arts. Today’s celebration will culminate with an open mic reading in Byrant Park. And there's even a website, so it's legit! After the jump, Bwog offers some pocket-friendly poems. For those with petite pockets: "This Is Just To Say" by William Carlos Williams For the tentative romantic: "Spring is like a perhaps hand" by E. E. Cummings For the Brooding Senior on a Bulter Break: "Sonnets 04: Only Until This Cigarette Is Ended" By Edna St. Vincent Millay For the Debbie Downer in us all: "Nothing Gold Can Stay" By Robert Frost For the artist in us: "In My Craft Or Sullen Art" By Dylan Thomas For anyone who has waited for a train at 96th street: "Subway Wind" By Claude McKay For the lover of the Lost and Found: "One Art" By Elizabeth Bishop 
 Possibly in response to the recent "Kick Coke off Campus" event, the Coca-Cola corporation has pulled up an old-school truck to Broadway Between 115th and 116th, and is playing lively music (Rakim at one point) and giving away vintage 8.5-ounce glass bottles (the rep says it's the 1901 design) of their main product.&nbsp; Find your love for Coke here. Find your hate for them here. 
UPDATE 8:38 PM: Alidad informed Bwog that he received a text message that he lost. However, Krebs has not received a text informing him that he won. Stand by. Just over 45 minutes ago, voting ended for the 2008 CCSC Elections. Ballots were cast, the gauntlet was thrown. While the CC listserv won't receive an email announcing the winners til much later tonight, candidates are expected to receive a phone call around 9 PM with the results. Bwog is going to embed itself with Experience Columbia and Connect Columbia, livebwogging all tension, awkwardness, and bravado of this very special night. Krebs and company will be gathered in Krebs' room in Watt, while Team Damooei is going to be holding a summit at the West End. Check back on this post for updates from both camps and around 9 PM for an announcement with the results. But no matter what happens tonight, I think we can all agree that the real winner is democracy.&nbsp; 
UPDATE 8:54 PM:&nbsp; Shots of Jacks for Experience.&nbsp; (Now playing: "Damn It Feels Good to Be a Gangsta" by the Geto Boys.) UPDATE 8:50 PM:&nbsp; George just called his mom, screaming. (Now playing: "We Are the Champions.") Results are in from CCSC Elections Board: George Krebs is your new CCSC President. (Now playing in Krebs's Watt dormroom, "We Will Rock You".)&nbsp; Mark Johnson defeated outsider Colin Drummond for Senior Class Council.&nbsp; Full results are in an email from Andrew Ness after the jump.&nbsp;&nbsp; -JJV Dear Candidates, Thank you for a great campaign season! You all worked extremely hard and exhibited great diligence in your campaigning. The Spring 2008 Campaign winners are below. Attached is a spreadsheet with the total results of voting. If you have any questions or concerns with the results please contact the Elections Board immediately at ccsc-elections@columbia.edu. Your last task is to fill out a candidate feedback form which the Elections Board will distribute via email in a few days. In the meantime I hope you enjoy your first night away from campaigning! Sincerely, The Elections Board &nbsp; Executive Board Experience Columbia George Krebs Laura Doan Adil Ahmed Robyn Burgess Ian Solsky Class of 2009 Fusion Party Mark Johnson Mallory Carr Zahrah Taufique Heather Oh Colin Felsman (Leadership Evolved: My Oh Nine!) Class of 2010 Your Party AJ Pascua Sue Yang Valerie Sapozhnikova Matthew Harold Joey Goldberg Class of 2011 Continuum Learned Foote Sara Partridge Tom Amegadzie Melissa Im Sean Udell Academic Affairs Rep. Karen Woodin Student Services Rep. Aaron Edmonds Priyanka Gumaste Preprofessional Rep. Melissa Santos Two Year Senate Monica Quaintance One Year Senate Tiffany Dockery Rishika Samant &nbsp; 
 Right now, what seems to be a solid column of rape-whistling women and male allies is making its way down College Walk, chanting in unison. It's cacophonous, powerful!&nbsp;More to come later. Edit:&nbsp;Alex Port sends aerial photos from East Campus--after the jump! Check back later tonight for complete TBTN coverage by Anna Phillips and photos from Kate Linthicum.&nbsp; 
 Bwog spent the first hour of George Krebs' presidency with the man of the hour and the rest of his camp in Krebs' Watt Studio.&nbsp; Krebs bounded down the Watt stairs and greeted us. "Thank you!" he yelled. He ran back up the stairs and slammed the door to his studio open. "WOOOOO!" he yelled. His party and their drunken cohorts yelled affirmatively, and responded with similar "WOOOOs."&nbsp; A random drunken cohort held up a pinata shaped like a donkey. Krebs grabbed a broom out of absolutely nowhere and pounded the pinata. More "WOOOOs." Six Coors Lights fell out of the pinata and they were snatched up within seconds.&nbsp; "I was pleasantly surprised," Krebs said of his win. He described the soundtrack to his mood right now as the musical stylings of DJ Tanner. He then pointed to his left and introduced us to DJ Tanner. DJ Tanner was not surprised at the Krebs win. "I'm going to put on a record!" Krebs yelled. "WOOOO!" He puts on a record and starts to dance. Other join. Bwog yelled to Krebs through the slow jam that was playing: "WHAT DO YOU WANT TO ACCOMPLISH AS PRESIDENT?" He yells back: "A lot of what we wrote on our platform. If we can see the cohesion in Columbia College that I worked to create in '09, then we can move forward on a lot of initiatives." Adil Ahmed grabs Krebs from behind and starts dancing. The slow jam had at that point been changed to a funk ballad.&nbsp; Ahmed moved on to a different dance partner. Krebs described the beginnings of his presidency with optimism: "We will meet with the five out our ticket. In the next week everyone CCSC gets an email—talking about what they wanna get done next year. We're gonna spend the next few days enjoying ourselves and celebrating and then we're going to get our work done." Ahmed re-appears and grabs Krebs, who had been on the phone with Spec. "So much work! Seriously! You were up til 5 AM last night! And we still won! We still won!" he screams, as he hangs on to Krebs' shoulders. Krebs says he wasn't surprised at the outcomes of the other CCSC races. "LE:MON party tried a new campaign tactic and unfortunately it didn't seem to manifest itself in terms of votes," he says of the '09 race.&nbsp; New people seem to emerge from the hall (or maybe some friends had wandered off and had now come back—it was impossible to say). They reappeared shouting: "Nothing's off the record! Transparency!" They pointed at Bwog, who was timidly sitting on a couch. "TRANSPARENCY! WOOO," they continued. "We have a lot of work to do but tonight we're going to celebrate. You can make that the headline," Krebs suggests. But what sort of celebration does this type of occasion merit? "I wanna go for a swim in the fountain!" screams Ahmed, who has handily brought a bathing suit for the occasion. Now Playing: "Hips Don't Lie," Shakira. - JNW 
 Night ravaged by march of 500 Jousting for spots at the Harlem charter school lottery&nbsp; Student groups wrassled to the ground, made to say uncle, in struggle to procure event space Experience Columbia sweeps into power with a mandate-ish percent of the vote And, the most enticing, surprising, exhilarating news: rezoning in Harlem! Welcome, new traffic light! 
 Here are the vote counts for every (contested) CCSC election. Uncontested races include 2010 and 2011 Class Councils and Pre-Professional Rep.&nbsp;A total number of 1921 votes were cast (including paper ballots), which is about 42% of the 4500 Columbia College students.&nbsp;Note: There are two spots for 1-Year Senate and Student Services Rep.&nbsp; -JJV Executive Board&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Votes&nbsp; &nbsp;Percentage&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Experience Columbia&nbsp; 1094&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;58.94%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Connect Columbia&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 762&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;41.06%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 2009 Class Council Prez Votes&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Percentage&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Fusion&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 299&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 53.78%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; LE:MON: &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;257&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 46.22%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 2009 Class Council Reps Votes&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Percentage&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Zahrah Taufique 326&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 27.46%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Heather Oh 313&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;26.37%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Colin Felsman &nbsp;279&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 23.50%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Brandon Shulman&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 269 &nbsp;22.66%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; At-Large Positions&nbsp; &nbsp; Academic Affairs Rep&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Votes&nbsp; &nbsp; Percentage&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Karen Woodin 1068&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 66.92%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Gabriel Castillo&nbsp; 528&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 33.08% (Castillo Dropped out last minute) &nbsp; Student Services Rep Votes Percentage&nbsp; Aaron Edmonds 1211&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 51.25%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Priyanka Gumaste&nbsp; 1134&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;47.99%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Zawadi Baharanyi&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;18&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &lt;1%(Write-in) &nbsp;Senate 2-Year Votes Percentage Monica Quaintance&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 687&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 43.02%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; James Downie&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;536&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;33.56%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Stephanie Wilhelm&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;374 &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;21.41%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Senate 1-Year Votes Percentage Tiffany Dockery&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;670&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;24.17%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Rishika Samant&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;657 &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;23.70%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Billy Freeland&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;649&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;23.41%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Joseph Daniels&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;416&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;15.00%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; David Zhu&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;380 &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;13.70%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 “Do you all have your rape whistles?”&nbsp; We did—we had been asked three times—each time by an eager Take Back the Night marshal.&nbsp; They were roaming the mass of what Bwog estimates was about 300 girls who had gathered in front of Barnard Hall for the march last night and were decked out in purple t-shirts and bottled (for the moment) spitfire and fury.&nbsp; (Spoiler alert: Two Varsity Show people skipped through the gates, grabbed a few rape whistles, and darted back out.) The marching soon began and taxi drivers and motorists pounded their heads against their dashboards in utter frustration as a hoard of students descended upon Broadway. Traffic—as far as the eye could see—came to a halt and passengers in city buses and taxis descended to the shrill whistles and roar of: “Whatever we wear, wherever we go, yes means yes and no means no.” “University silence perpetuates the violence” “Rape is a felony even with a CUID” Old people were stunned; babies waving from windows were delighted, and the one dog that participated in the march seemed to have consented. Many stopped and offered support—one man pushed his head through the sun roof of his sedan and began pumping his fist and pounding the car horn to the beat of the march. His percussive effects were soon replaced by two girls who joined with drums. More after the jump.&nbsp;&nbsp; As the marchers made their way down Riverside Drive, a girl standing on the balcony of St. A’s daintily raised her champagne glass in tacit support. The crowd over at Potluck House hung encouraging signs, as did the Pike brothers, and members of ADP, Delta Gamma, the IRC, and Sigma Nu. Last night’s march was different from previous ones, as this year’s TBTN directors pioneered a movement to allow men to march on the streets alongside women. The idea didn’t go over that well with the Sexual Violence Prevention &amp; Response people over at CU, and it took quite a bit of convincing for the march to have equal involvement of both genders. Ultimately, the TBTN leaders’ view that the event A.) shouldn’t force students to begin the march by deciding on a gender identity and B.) should be supportive of male survivors, won out. Though there was a compromise: the front of the march was women-led. In all, the march was maybe 10-15% male, with Professor Dennis Dalton at the rear and a few boyfriends and Columbia Men Against Violence members scattered throughout.&nbsp; Compared to last year’s march, this couldn’t quite compare. Last year’s TBTN came shortly after the rape of a Columbia Journalism School student in her apartment in Harlem—a tragedy that both frightened students and galvanized 1,600 marchers to take to the streets, compared to this year’s 500 (this is TBTN’s estimate, Bwog thinks it was slightly smaller). Last year, as the march passed frat row, groups of fraternity members broke off and joined the crowd.&nbsp;This year, most of them were at the inter-Greek formal. The evening came to an end in Barnard’s gym, where students inhaled a dozen pizzas and nestled in blankets while a speak-out—the most emotionally wrenching part of the evening—began. With the gym’s lights turned off, men and women stood behind screens and told stories of their own rape or sexual abuse, or that of a loved one.&nbsp;Girls in the audience, many of whom had similar experiences, began to cry, and others fell silent as they recognized the voices and speech patterns of friends telling stories they hadn’t heard. The event went on until 2 a.m.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; --AMP &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -photos by Kate Linthicum&nbsp; 
 Two years ago, Blue&nbsp;and White writer Amanda Erickson presciently profiled '08 valedictorian Maxim Pinkovskiy. But don't show this article to your parents--they'll probably trade you back to the stork for a child like Maxim. "He’s always right. Not almost always. Always," says his former Professor Xavier Sala-i-Martin. Every student in his macro class last year knows his name, and most perk up slightly at its mention. Maxim Pinkovskiy, C’08, was "that kid." "He always sat in the front," one student quickly replied when I asked him what he knew about Maxim. "Always answering everything." Some imitate his nasal voice, his plunking, Russian, almost-sounds-put-on accent, and the way he bobs his head as he speaks. Some immediately bring up his white loafers or his pants, which reach midway up his chest. But while Pinkovskiy shares many of the characteristics of “that kid” from classrooms far and wide, he isn’t another über-driven Columbian looking to get ahead. When we meet, he pulls out my chair for me before sitting down and asks me how my classes are going. He is skinny and pale, with soft brown hair. And when he talks about classes or about books, he reminds me of a kid in a candy store, trying to describe everything he’s seeing. The first time we meet, he wears sweats (pulled way up), a plaid button-down shirt, and big round glasses. What drives Pinkovskiy is not his hope to secure a summer internship at Morgan Stanley, or a full-time job on Wall Street, but his grandmother, whom he talks about in an almost reverential voice. It was her encouragement that pushed him to do well all through school in Park Slope, where he grew up after emigrating from St. Petersburg when he was seven. "She never put too much pressure on me,” he said. When he would get a bad grade, "she would say, 'It’s going to be better next time.'" Pinkovskiy’s mother is a math teacher, and his father is a computer programmer. When he was younger, he remembers sitting with his mother learning about math. "She always made things fun, whether we were learning about right angles or anything else." Some of his fondest childhood memories are spending Friday afternoons with his father, playing with (and later learning how to design) computer programs. "He still teaches me things," he said. "They both do. And sometimes now I teach them something new too." And he has plenty of time to teach. While many of his fellow students pride themselves on their independence, Pinkovskiy spends every weekend home in Brooklyn. It’s not that his parents are forcing him to do so, a fact he stresses more than once. "I don’t want to be one of those students who only sees his family for Thanksgiving and Christmas," he said. While he tells me in detail about each class he is taking, he struggles to come up with stories about sneaking into the West End or playing assassins. He is not a member of any of Columbia’s clubs or activities. Friends he mentions fall into two groups: students from class study groups or former professors. Though he is only a sophomore, Pinkovskiy, who is already taking graduate classes, wants to go to grad school, get his Ph.D. in economics, and work on big problems like his role model, Sala-i-Martin, does. But his lofty goals are tempered with more traditional hopes. He wants to one day settle down, get married, and have children. If possible, he says, he would like to live in Brooklyn, near his family. 
Tipster John Gardner sends photos our way of the Hindu Students Organization's Holi festival. The annual springtime celebration features 1500 lbs. of paint for throwing at your friends and promises (threats?) of supersoakers. There will also be a classical dance performance explaining the origins of the celebration. It's happening til around 2ish on the EC/IAB plaza.&nbsp; &nbsp; More aerial photography by John Gardner after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 A faculty tipster informed a Bwog staffer that the new book for the second semester of Lit Hum is going to be Ovid's Metamorphoses. (Ovid is not going to be taking the place of anything else, it's just an addition.)&nbsp; "They were also thinking about adding Kafka for irony's sake but ended up not doing it," explains the in-the-know Bwog staffer. Because nothing screams "irony for irony's sake" like two books that have little to do with each other but happen to be homophonic. 
 Free theater is one of the many perks of a being a Columbia student.&nbsp; Camino Real is an opportunity to see the work of young professionals that should not be missed.&nbsp; The final two performances are today at 2pm and 8pm at the Riverside Theater on Claremont and 120th St.&nbsp; As Janis Joplin puts it:“Freedom's just another word for nothin' left to lose.”&nbsp; And without a doubt there’s a bit of “Me and Bobby McGee” in Tennessee William’s Camino Real, now being performed at the Riverside Theater Columbia.&nbsp; But instead of wailing out the blues of a broken heart, Williams casts the Camino Real’s wayward denizens in a shroud of obscurity.&nbsp; Tony Speciale’s direction, however, gives Williams’ elliptical script an innovative, new spirit.&nbsp; &nbsp; The performance capitalizes on the surreal setting of the original script – a ghost town somewhere south of the border, haunted by the bygone dreams and achievements of its residents. Even though the Camino fosters its inhabitants illicit cravings, a desire to escape binds them all.&nbsp; The stage, imaginatively designed by Russell M. Schram, divides between the Siete Mares, a seedy resort, and the Ritz Men Only, a flophouse that seems more appropriate for Amsterdam’s Red Light district than the work of a Southern Gothic. Nonetheless, the lurid neons of the Ritz Men Only’s tiki lights work perfectly with Jessica Pabst’s effectively graphic costumes.&nbsp; The chorus, a band of whores, beggars, street performers and gypsies, are decked out in an assortment of ripped lingerie, twisted fishnets and soiled sweat pants and wife-beaters. Despite their seemingly polished presentations, the guests at the Siete Mares also ooze in their own greasy squalor.&nbsp; The combination of the two underscores the wanton desires and the inevitable disappointment latent in nearly all lines of the Camino’s desperadoes.&nbsp; &nbsp; Painfully exhausted and interminably thirsty, these characters inhabit a fantastic world very much removed from reality.&nbsp; The Camino initially bewilders not just the audience, but even Kilroy (Joe Curnutte), a clean-cut American kid and former lightweight champ, who finds himself on the destitute strip.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Unable to resist its intrigue, however, Kilroy soon is immersed in the language and life of the Camino.&nbsp; At times Curnutte’s Texan twang and starry-eyed awe comes off too smoothly and undercuts the authenticity of Kilroy’s confusion. If Curnutte’s performance at times lags, the performance of the chorus invariably compensates for it. Speciale’s choreography and Christian Frederickson sound design are equally excellent and are showcased in their collective chorus. The orchestration builds to startling power in the third act as Esmeralda (Stephanie Wright Thompson), a gypsy Casanova and born-again virgin, celebrates her newfound chastity. An off-hand swish of the hips and smack of the lips seamlessly develops into an outstanding version of Madonna’s classic, “Like a Virgin.” Both the audience and Kilroy are mesmerized. In the ensuing relationship, Curnutte and Thompson bring Williams’ characteristic sting to their lines.&nbsp; But both Curnutte and Thompson are more at ease belting Madonna’s poppy lyrics than they are at channeling the heartache and bitterness latent in Williams’ script.&nbsp;&nbsp; To compensate for the flagging sincerity of their interaction, Speciale relies on well-timed, albeit facile, comic relief and sexual innuendo. If Camino Real initially lacks the direct emotional conflict that drives his other works, Speciale’s brilliantly executed creative vision draws out the nuance in Williams’ drama.&nbsp; As the play progresses, an impressive poignancy emerges and the audience is torn between hoping for and mourning for the Camino’s collection of broken heroes. Exploring the gray area between living in the past and dreaming of the future, Camino Real offers an entertaining and eventually optimistic look at being young and feeling blue.&nbsp; If you’re busted and broke, this is the play for you – it’s free with your CUID! 
 As of 6 p.m., the annual Pakistani mock wedding, Hangama (which translates roughly to "hoopla"), &nbsp;is still going strong on the steps. The "dance floor," also known as College Walk, is abuzz with Bollywood quick-stepping and colorful saris, and has been since about 4:30, when the groom rolled up in style on a white horse. The bride, meanwhile, appeared on Low Steps&nbsp;aboard an elaborate palanquin. Once the couple was settled on the matrimonial&nbsp;seat,&nbsp;members of the wedding party showered them in flower petals, adorned them with robes made of money, and stuffed their faces with laddhus and other sweets. A couple hundred people then clapped and sang along in Hindi and Punjabi for the next two hours as dance groups entertained the mock&nbsp;couple.&nbsp;First, some erstwhile Rais and Khans did a dance number to "Yeh Larki Hai Allah," then CUBhangra and Raas busted out their competition moves, the bellydancing troupe entranced all assembled with their gyrations, and the Bollywood dance team Dhoom (Bwog was most surprised to hear it existed!) performed some cute numbers. Finally, drawing cheers and some jeers, two NYU boys and the groom did a&nbsp;choreographed medley of hits from the silver Hindi screen, beginning with a hilarious "Mast Kalandar." Meanwhile, patrons clamored for dishes from the Chicken and Rice stand, which doesn't look like it's going anywhere anytime soon.&nbsp; Bwog apologizes for the crappy cellphone pictures. 
 Tipster Kirill Skok informs Bwog that the world-famous 53rd and 6th gyro/rice/pita/chicken, etc. cart is currently parked on College Walk. For those of you eating leavened bread tonight, the cart's sandwich selections are cheap, delicious, and highly recommended.&nbsp; Be warned: The cart's been there since 3 PM—you might have noticed the mention of a chicken and rice cart in the Hangama article of earlier today—so it seems wise to hurry. 
 Too much to sift through on YouTube?&nbsp; Life's hard.&nbsp; Bwog's here to help. There's nothing as bad as being in Butler on a Saturday night.&nbsp; But, instead of wasting your study break tonight on another disappointing episode of SNL, Bwog suggests checking out Sarah Dooley's (BC '11) delightful YouTube series, AndSarah.&nbsp; Sarah's face may be familiar to you, but her acting and writing will surprise you.&nbsp; In each of the series' three episodes, Sarah offers clever and carefully crafted portraits of the life and times of college freshman.&nbsp; Her character is a caricature of herself, awkwardly idiosyncratic and simultaneously accessible to all undergraduates. &nbsp;&nbsp; Her self-conscious fidgets and sputters are well-timed and reinforce her ridiculous, and often poignant, blunders. Although it takes a couple of minutes to get used to Sarah's mannerisms in the first episode,&nbsp; it’s impossible to resist her lessons in people watching on College Walk and lunching alone in Hewitt. What is so impressive about AndSarah is the seamless coordination of Rachel Mersky's cinematography and Sarah's acting and script.&nbsp; Rachel's steady hand and sharp editing capitalize on Sarah's hesitant glances at the camera and draw out her self-reflective pauses.&nbsp; The unadorned camera work adds a confessional tone and almost documentary-like effect to Sarah's scenes.&nbsp; The plot of the third episode, however, relies on a familiar subject matter: social outcast attempts to make big impression at campus dance.&nbsp; But despite the stock premise, Sarah's halting intonation and adorably crumpled smile offer an endearing and refreshing take on this theme.&nbsp;&nbsp; By far the best in the series, the second episode is equally brilliant in its plot line as it is in its performances.&nbsp; Here, Sarah explores the hilarious consequences of a google search gone terribly wrong.&nbsp; Her faux-pas may be inexcusably naive, but Sarah adds an integrity and honesty to her lines that is remarkably rare. So if you are uninspired and at a dead end with your research paper, take a look at the some of the creativity and talent of your peers.&nbsp; And if AndSarah doesn't inspire or at least impress, you're probably just jealous.&nbsp; 
 There were debates. There were endorsements.&nbsp; There were controversies. There were results. There were victories. And, of course, there were totally sickass parties with beer-filled pinatas. Even CCSC candidates need love. SEAS and Barnard also had eventful weeks, in regards to elections and The Vag, respectfully. &nbsp; Politics exist outside of Student Council, too! In other news: '08 CC valedictorian is surprisingly adorable, Hindu holiday Holi is delightfully colorful, and Take Back the Night is moving. 
 Tipster Rebecca Salley informs Bwog of the various (free) food activity on College Walk today: 1. The South East Asian League is sponsoring a free fried-rice and shaved-ice give-away. "There arent many people out there right now so I kind of felt like I was crashing a party, but it's all up for grabs," she explains. 2. A few paces away, there's a sorority bakesale topically named "Not Your Tokin' Bakesale." Selling baked goods on College Walk on what happens to be both the most beautiful day of the year and 4/20? Well played, sorority. Well played. 
 Columbia College '07 alumna Courtney Banks was lucky enough to get tickets to Pope Benedict XVI's visit to the Youth Rally at St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers. Bwog was lucky enough that Banks volunteered to write about the experience. Yesterday, I joined some 25,000 seminarians, priests, nuns, elementary and high-school students, and volunteers at the Youth Rally for Pope Benedict XVI.&nbsp; My official capacity was chaperone for two elementary school students from my parish (Notre Dame Church here in Morningside Heights).&nbsp; &nbsp; A complicated choreography of buses departing from Yonkers Raceway to St. Joseph’s seminary transported all 25,000 participants to the festival grounds.&nbsp; We got there early, but it took two hours before we were through the gates, past the metal detectors and ticket takers, and loosed on the seminary grounds.&nbsp; At 12:30 PM, the Pope’s arrival was some four hours away, so my co-chaperone and the eighth-grader decided to scope out food options.&nbsp; I wouldn’t see them again for three and half hours; they ended up trapped in “an angry mass of humanity,” as thousands tried to get their allotment of hamburgers and chicken fingers from, apparently, two concessions-workers.&nbsp; &nbsp; Meanwhile, I sat on the grass with the fifth-grade girl.&nbsp; We were about 100 yards back from the stage, which currently belonged to the line-up of performers who filled the afternoon before the pope’s scheduled 4:30 pm arrival.&nbsp; Mo Rocca was emcee, and the acts included the nondescript contemporary Christian band “Third Day;” the energetic and earnest Christian hip-hop artist Toby Mac; and Fr. Stan Fortuna, a Franciscan friar who performed in his grey habit and played electric guitar. &nbsp; The students around me alternated between enthusiastic and self-deprecating dancing and laughter.&nbsp; Troupes of young nuns picked their way through the crowd, stepping lightly over napping teens.&nbsp; The nuns, priests, and seminarians commanded the prime real estate directly in front of the stage, which became a sea of black frocks and flapping veils.&nbsp; A group of sisters, spotting themselves on the JumboTron, laughed and waved, jumping up and down excitedly. &nbsp; The day wore on, the sun rose high.&nbsp; At one point, Mo Rocca gave a deadpan announcement: &nbsp; “The water in your bags is for drinking.&nbsp; It has not been blessed.&nbsp; No, really, they just wanted us to announce that.”&nbsp; The concert highlight, Kelly Clarkson took the stage around 3:30.&nbsp; She gave us “Walk Away,” Patty Griffin’s “Up to the Mountain,” and “Since You’ve Been Gone;” the performance was quick and flawless, but we were really all just waiting for Act II.&nbsp; &nbsp; Around 4:40 PM, a low cheer erupted from the crowd: the pope’s motorcade was visible on the JumboTron.&nbsp; First was a private meeting inside the seminary with disabled children.&nbsp; His address and blessing were broadcast live to the crowd; when he intoned “Peace be with you,” the outdoor crowd responded en masse “And also with you!” to his image and voice on the massive screens.&nbsp; Around 5:20 PM, more cheering broke out.&nbsp; We all craned and turned: no one knew where the popemobile would pop up.&nbsp; Only catching a few glimpses, we turned back to the stage where Benedict now stood, greeting the crowd.&nbsp; Being far in the back,&nbsp; for the first time I considered the practical value of Benedict’s all-white ensemble: his cassock, skull-cap, and even his snowy hair seemed to glow.&nbsp; The silver cross that he wears at chest-level glinted brightly in the afternoon sun.&nbsp; Benedict greeted the screaming mass with arms outstretched over the crowd, giving what’s been called his “air piano” wave.&nbsp;&nbsp; John Paul II was beloved for his charisma and affection when greeting throngs of faithful; what I observed of Benedict was his natural dynamism.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; The official papal program commenced with an address by Cardinal Egan, who sounded out of his element in such an ebullient environment.&nbsp; The crowd was led in a rousing rendition of “Happy Birthday” (sung in both English and German), in recognition of Benedict’s 81st birthday three days prior.&nbsp; &nbsp; About a dozen representative students spoke briefly and presented the pope with a host of gifts, which included portraits of six saints, blesseds, and venerables who had each served or lived in New York, and an assortment of grains, meant to represent the diversity of heritage in the American Catholic Church.&nbsp; &nbsp; Around 6:10 PM, Benedict addressed the crowd.&nbsp; He commented on the diversity of the six holy men and women (Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha was a Catholic Algonquin; Venerable Pierre Toussaint was born a slave in Haiti), saying “there is no stereotype to this group, no single mold.”&nbsp; Touching on drugs, degradation, and even his own experience growing up in Nazi Germany, he urged the examples of the saints as remedy for the “callousness of heart” that “ignores, then ridicules, the God-given dignity of every human being.”&nbsp; Benedict then reiterated a common theme on his US trip: the condemnation of moral relativism.&nbsp; Here, Benedict couched this call to truth and goodness within a meditation on freedom of thought and discourse.&nbsp; He commented that “in some circles to speak of truth is seen as controversial or divisive” and that accordingly such discussions were relegated to the private sphere.&nbsp; This leads to indiscriminate assignation of value.&nbsp; Truly in his element as scholar and teacher, Benedict told the crowd: “This we call relativism.”&nbsp; Benedict concluded with a heartfelt outreach to the seminarians and religious gathered before him.&nbsp; He urged commitment to vocations and prayer, and did not conceal his excitement in saying he’d heard the numbers of seminarians in the United States is increasing. He then gave a short message in Spanish, and blessed the crowd.&nbsp; &nbsp; All in all, Pope Benedict addressed the crowd for a solid twenty minutes.&nbsp; His speech was complicated, fluid, and carefully thought-out, at once academic and accessible.&nbsp; His English, which is fluent but heavily accented, has a gentle and melodic quality that makes him very easy to listen to with sustained attention.&nbsp; And he smiled throughout.&nbsp; &nbsp; Kelly Clarkson retook the stage to sing “Ave Maria,” humbly off to one side of the pope, and modestly re-attired in a blue frock.&nbsp; We waved our white and gold scarves as the popemobile wound back through the crowd, disappearing from sight. &nbsp;
 Intrepid Bwog contributor, frequent Bwog commenter, and skyscraper enthusiast Alex Weinberg sends us a tip about some questionable iconogrpahy: "KSA is advertising some sort of culture show on a thousand balloons and fliers and posters all over the campus. Non engineers/architects may not appreciate this, but they completely fucked up and branded their show with the skyline of CHICAGO." How does he know? Well, that big building second from the left appears to be the Sears Tower, not the Empire State Building. "The Empire State Building has one antenna built on the original mooring mast," says Alex. "The Sears Tower has double antennae (kind of more, now)." UPDATE: Ask and ye shall receive: the two skylines placed side to side (or top to bottom) for comparison, after the jump. New York's skyline: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Chicago's: &nbsp; 
If you are reading this, that means you aren't on the steps (or, like Bwog, you are, but have wireless). And that means you're missing Planet Earth. Currently: "Jungles". "Caves." The administrators just announced, hazily, that they were playing the episode until 10 PM. If you just left, get back out here! &nbsp; 
 “We’re working on pluralism,” (the role of a third candidate in plurality elections nearly always becomes that of the "spoiler.") The University is not officially supporting the events, but will be providing free space for the events...space where students can see and actively participate in the growth of vegetables. Random passersby were drawn into the atmosphere.&nbsp; And this: the time to be most helpful to students and their parents is now.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog heard a high pitched, triangle-like pulse emanating from College Walk, and upon closer inspection, noticed that a funeral service being held for those killed in Iraq since the beginning of the war.&nbsp; The protest is called "5 Years of Occupation, 5 Days of Action" and the leaders of the protest are marked by their stenciled red and black on white t-shirts.&nbsp; Coffins and petitions currently surround the Sun Dial as a girl stands at a microphone reciting dates and numbers dead. If that mini-gong is bothering you, however, don't hold your breath.&nbsp; The last time Bwog checked, the readers were still on April 2003 and a single pulse is going towards every person who has died so far.&nbsp; And depending on which report they believe, there have been between 104,000 and 1,446,063 deaths since the invasion.&nbsp; -JJV&nbsp; 
Do not forget that the Spring Concert is tonight at 9pm in Roone with Grizzly Bear and The National.&nbsp; And according to some guy with a microphone at last night's Planet Earth screening, there are still tickets available!
Bwog has just been alerted to some curious news.&nbsp; It seems that the bastion of journalistic integrity that is the New York Sun ran a very informative piece about CU by a certain Columbia Alum and Republican District Leader Christopher Lanzillotti. According to this article, it was almost precisely two score years ago when a group of renegade students overtook some buildings of this very campus (urinating out of windows) and protested commencement with "loud rock music" and used "intoxicating substances."&nbsp; It's a good thing that none of this tomfoolery persisted on campus!&nbsp; Lanzillotti seems relatively pleased that the campus was able to overcome this "tumultuous" time and now student activism is no longer an important part of campus life.&nbsp; Apparently, we have been tamed! -JJV 
Bwog would like to welcome a new publication to campus: Columbia Undergraduate Journal of History, a place where undergrads can get their papers edited and published. Lane Sell uses common sense to better estimate the percent of the Roman population that died during a second century plague because something that the academy has been lacking recently is common sense. Alyssa DeSocio discusses the inhumane nature of slave ships as well as the hygiene on the ships.&nbsp; Toilet bowl cleaners and Dawn, unfortunately, are not mentioned. Emily Holland dissects the Soviet expansion in the late 1970's.&nbsp; It's a good thing that Afghanistan hasn't been invaded since. Andrew Tillett-Saks complicates the ideological battles of the 1937 Flint sit down strikes.&nbsp; Michael Moore should be taking notes 
 The School of General Studies has just announced its 2008 valedictorian: Joel Beal. Beal, like CC's valedictorian, is an economics-mathematics major. He is bound for Stanford in the fall, where he will be pursuing a Ph.D. in economics.&nbsp; Congratulations!&nbsp; 
 State Assemblyman confirms what everyone already knows, Morningside Heights is old and has lots of pretty buildings. Iraq activists: Ring my bell, wash my flag. Columbia's killing cancer.&nbsp; Cool! Columbia students are hot for Hookah. Smart Women Securities for Females in Finance. GSSC election circus continues.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Nervous energy borne of coffee and unfinished CC papers pervaded Lerner as the tech crews set up for Bacchanal's annual spring concert last night. Kids who arrived at 8 p.m. camped out near the white plastic barricade like they were at Webster Hall ca. 2003 waiting for the Get Up Kids, or maybe Interpol. In any case, they came, they clustered on the floor, they took out a laptop or two to maximize efficiency. WBAR jockeys spun the de rigueur ambient noise and obscure electronica, and the elite with green backstage passes perched near the merchandise table. It didn't take much prying to determine that a lot of people at the show arrived sans knowledge of what they were in for, despite Bwog's best efforts to the contrary. And if they thought "indie rock" was in any way related to "rock and roll" apart from the implementation of the same instruments, the first swirls of Grizzly Bear's atmospheric noodling hopefully set them straight. But lukewarm crowd responses, ample chatter among the grad students in the back—including one prescient, tight-pantsed character who had slipped a Stella Artois into bone-dry Lerner—and bored-looking couples glued to the auditorium chairs all indicated a lack of rapport between band and crowd, give or take the clusters towards the front who hummed along to each four-part harmony. To be fair, security had pressured the bands into starting before the 9 p.m. mark and would not let balcony occupants down into the half-filled main space—not quite conducive to mass musical rapture. Although the audience swelled to several hundred students, each security guard and walkie-talkied event patroller reminded one that school was still in session. Remarkably, Grizzly Bear adeptly and faithfully worked to translate the melancholy of their music to the Roone stage by employing drum loops and ethereal percussion, recorder, clarinet, flute. Even if their choice of songs to transform into guitar-heavy danceable tunes—"Knife" and "On a Neck, On a Spit"—was rather predictable, they uncrossed arms and set heads bobbing. Midway through "Fix It," GB finally broke through their artful malaise in a shimmering clap-a-long, drawing appreciative cheers from the audience. The National, meanwhile, got rockers rocking and rollers rolling. The band belongs to a special constellation in the indie firmament—the quality older guys who play their instruments really well but still like to rock out despite their seasoned veneer. For instance, when the Wrens performed at the NYU Skirball center two Octobers ago, they ended the show by asking which kid wanted them to perform and party in his dorm room for the rest of the night. The National didn't quite extend the same offer, but they did establish an instant crowd connection, aided by bassist/guitarist Aaron Dessner's confession that he had graduated from Alma Mater some years ago—and his outing of their keyboardist as a Columbia dropout. They began with the sublime "Start a War," the ideological twin of their later fan-favorite "Fake Empire," and divided their set between massive dystopian numbers like "Mistaken for Strangers" and "Secret Meeting" and impassioned rockers "Squalor Victoria" and "Abel," which incited frenzied pogoing in the middle of the audience—generally a good sign that people are actually having fun. - KER 
 Did you know that John G. Roberts, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, was at the Law School a few days ago judging the final round of the Harlan Fiske Stone Moot Court Competition? Neither did we. But he was! Roberts and three other appeals court judges heard two cases presented by law students. The Times calls Roberts an "acknowledged master" of appellate argument, which Roberts explains as when "the judges are debating among themselves and just using the lawyers as a backboard. One of the real challenges for lawyers is to get involved in that debate.” (Bwog's still fuzzy on the details.) After Roberts finished critiquing the students, the other judges took their turn critiquing Roberts. "Two of the appeals court judges said the Supreme Court might work a little harder to establish clear principles." The article is a bit technical and hard to follow if you're not law school-bound, though the law school's own recap is not as jargony and features lots of photos. Imagine all this, right under our undergraduate noses. 
 College Walk finds itself abuzz with excitement this afternoon, playing host to an array of colorful happenings. Spring is here to stay, much to the delight of protesters and peddlers. First, as the beat of a conga drum wafts through the air, one finds the ubiquitous trinketry, cheap spring scarfs, and ethnic food of a street fair. Feeling a little green? Make your way to the base of the Steps and celebrate Earth Day by picking up a few fluorescent light bulbs courtesy of the Earth Institute and Columbia's Sustainability Working Group, but remember to trade in your incandescent bulbs first.&nbsp; Hear a gong in the distance?&nbsp; That's the Iraq War protest group counting five years of conflict by striking a chime for every person killed. They're on day two now, and Bwog just received word that a counter-protest may be in the works!&nbsp; See all those American flags on clotheslines? Courtesy of the College Democrats, it's a flag washing extravaganza to "wash away the negative image associated with the American flag" and restore the flag as an "international symbol of freedom and justice."&nbsp; College Walk and Low steps are very much alive today, and Bwog looks forward to many more hours spent idling on the urban beach. More photos of the sunshine festivities after the jump! Update: Tipster Alex Port sends pictures of an unorthodox Iraq counter-protest. &nbsp; 
 One of the more highbrow student publications on campus, Columbia's Journal of Politics and Society, published by the Helvidius group, is not the average Columbia magazine that you will find strewn on study tables in room 209 of Butler during finals week or hanging lazily on a rack on your way outside of Lerner. Indeed, this publication--which has featured essays by well-known politicians including Bill Clinton, Kofi Annan, Christine Todd Whitman, and former Senator Elizabeth Dole--sells for a hefty price in Barnes and Nobles. What say you, CPR? Bwog was lucky enough to get its hands on a copy of the Spring 2008 issue of the Journal of Politics and Society prior to its official release this Friday on College Walk (free cupcakes are promised!). A quick read of this 168-page behemoth did not disappoint. With a more intense focus on the "society" aspect of its mission and less of a focus on the "politics" part this time around, the Spring 2008 issue packs a full punch, as its keynote piece includes remarks from Jonathan Fanton, President of the MacArthur Foundation and comments about the current nature of the international justice system by Louise Arbour, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Other articles of interest include a well-crafted piece on structural violence in Chinese AIDS villages, "ideal mate selection" by Chinese urban youth, and the spread of conspiracy theories in Italy. The full Spring 2008 JPS will appear on newsstands from May until August and will not be available in PDF form online until the fall. Therefore, Bwog suggests you get a copy by stopping by College Walk on Friday between the hours of 12 and 4.&nbsp; If you can't make it then, email Helvidius today at helvidius@columbia.edu and reserve your free (for all Columbia affiliates) copy. Though you can always head to your local Barnes and Noble or Borders over the summer to get your hands on the Journal of Politics &amp; Society, snag a cupcake or two while you're out enjoying the spring weather this Friday afternoon. 
Our Hero is making some appearances by the church, probably to enjoy the nice weather and the sparrows and pigeons that hang out there. Jeff Chou sent in the following picture of H-dad perched on a lamp by the chapel. &nbsp; AND Hawkmadinejad made his YouTube debut via an accidental filming by Xavier Estevez! He's even got his own tab tag! Video and note from Estavez after the jump. I was headed down to the subway from EC, and as I walked down that annoying ramp-staircase by St. Paul's Chapel, I was stopped dead in my tracks by the sight of Hawkmadinejad, the splendid blond beast, perched on the handrail, displaying his fearsome wingspan for all the world to see and heed his terrible warning. By the time I recovered from the paralysis of awe, he switched to a more staid posture. I intended to take a picture with my phone, but as luck would have it, I had it set to video mode, making this quite possibly the first live video of Hawkmadinejad ever captured. Thanks to our tipsters. If you've seen Our Hero around campus or would like to suggest content for Hawkmadinebwog, send tips to hawkmadinejad@gmail.com -ALC &nbsp; 
 Today's the Pennsylvania primary, which means that it's time for another very special Tuesday edition of White House Bureau Chief Jim Downie's Political Weekly.&nbsp; April 22nd, 2008: Known in the rest of the world as the first of two European Champions League semifinals, Americans know it as Super Tuesday 3.0. Unlike its predecessors of March 4 and February 5, April 22 has had the distinction of being declared not-so-definitive weeks before it actually arrived. Barring a shock upset by Senator Barack Obama&nbsp;in Pennsylvania tonight, the&nbsp;contest will continue&nbsp;at least until May 6 (also known as Super Tuesday 4.0). Of course, many other famous products have taken a long time before getting it right, such as&nbsp;Macintosh (22 years until Mac OS X / the iPod), airplanes (several thousand years until the Wright Brothers), and AOL (when pigs fly). All this while John McCain continues to laugh happily in his corner. And now, the news: The CBS Fridays at 10: If I were a betting man (and my lawyer&nbsp;has told&nbsp;me to say I'm not), I would not bet on an Obama victory. Going into the voting, Senator Hillary Clinton leads one poll average by 6 points, and most every poll gives her a high single digits victory. What will be far more important is if she can break double digits - if she does, look for the Clinton campaign to trumpet its large popular vote margin. In other words, it's as if there was a 10 point spread on the Obama victory (and if you want good offshore odds on that spread,&nbsp;my associates&nbsp;may or may not be able&nbsp;to direct you to&nbsp;a guy who may or may not help you...). Impress Your Junkie Friends: Use CNN's breakdown to impress your friends and family with cogent analysis of tonight's events. It's The Eye of the Tiger: Obama gets&nbsp;compared to&nbsp;Rocky in the latest viral video hit&nbsp;(though Clinton already was comparing herself to the famous boxer). Of course, in the first movie, Rocky lost... I'm Touchy, But I'm Also Feely: For those of you curious about how Senator John McCain is keeping busy, he's been touting his economic policies in a tour of the country. "AND SHE'S GOING TO THE FOLDING CHAIR!": In that same article about McCain, the Boston Globe also details how all three candidates appeared in special messages during WWE's "Monday Night Raw." Imagine what this would've done when wrestling was still cool... Mickey Mouse Would've Been Better: Last Wednesday, ABC News hosted the gazillionth Democratic debate. It was both the most-watched debate of the year, and one of the worst ever. Hendrik Hertzberg of The New Yorker sums it all up. She Knows How To Use A Map: The McCain campaign hires Miss South Carolina 2007 as their intern coordinator. Unfortunately, it's not the Miss Teen South Carolina that made you feel really, really smart. He Hates Puppies, But He Does It So Effectively!: The New Republic profiles Hillary Clinton's former chief strategist, Mark Penn. We Don't Need No Math!:&nbsp;Like&nbsp;the ridiculously shriveled version of Rudy that he is, Ron Paul does not give up - his&nbsp;campaign is&nbsp;still on the airwaves in Pennsylvania. Your blogger takes full responsibility for any Paul-bot attacks upon this website. 
 Today Associate Professor Joseph Massad's Desiring Arabs has been awarded the 2008 Lionel Trilling Award, according an email sent to the MEALAC listserv. The award is given each year to honor the book authored by a Columbia faculty member "that is deemed to best exhibit the standards of intellect and scholarship found in Lionel Trilling's work," the prize's website says. Desiring Arabs is an intellectual history of the last 200 years of the Arabic world that focuses on Arab sexuality and Western interpretations of Arab sexuality. Massad—as well as the book itself—has been the at the center of much heated Middle Eastern controversy over the last four years. Massad was also one of the subjects criticized by the David Project-funded documentary Columbia Unbecoming. Winners of the Trilling Award—as well as the Mark Van Doren Award—are selected by the Columbia College Student Council and the Academic Awards Committee. A Bwog tipster with a friend involved in the latter explains that AACers have been told to remain mum, so other than the fluke MEALAC email, there have been no announcements about the winner. According to the Columbia College website, the awards ceremony will be held on May 8th (although half the dates on the website say "2007" and the others say "2008", this year, May 8th is on a Thursday.) - JNW 
 More news from the Fu Foundation from Bureau Chief Tony Gong.&nbsp; Featuring colorful commentary and discussions about food! I love ESC. I'll love ESC through impeachments, seven-hour meetings, and god knows how many viewings of Homeward Bound. But I love seeing The National perform for free in Roone Arledge just a little more. Nevertheless, at the opportunity cost of missing the second-half of Grizzly Bear's performance, I stuck with my "Satow buds" (please don't tell them I call them that) for a bit last night, and learned about some valuable new initiatives Columbia Dining is cooking up. Student Services Rep Peter Valeiras' silky, student servicing voice delineated most of the policy I was present to hear. First up was a "local brunch" program that John Jay is pushing. The idea for this brunch, in Peter's words, will be to "emphasize that everything is within one hundred miles from the campus." I think this basically means that the food will come from a supermarket in New Jersey. Ferris Booth is looking to diversify its selection: fish tacos and burritos may be added to its night cuisine. Peter was particularly excited to notice: "Asian during the day… and Mexican at night!" Then, Peter brought up the best idea ever again: issuing daily swipes at John Jay rather than set meals. The idea seemed to be developing, and a quick majority vote of the council let us know that a proposal should be written. Peter's follow-up question: "Would anyone be willing to write a proposal?" Everyone's hands dropped quickly, expect for VP of Policy Prish Dunstan's. I felt the urge to also raise my hand, just to break the tension, but something in my head told me 'no'. I'll let you have this one, Prish. Peter concluded his agenda, and I thought discussion about food had all but ended. But then I remembered: we could always count on senior class president&nbsp;Eash Cumarasamy to promote the senior class beef dinners. On cue, he proudly announced, "50% started eating beef!" A very surreal moment followed. The council just sat and nodded their heads in deep, silent approval of Eash's work. I saw a sophomore lick his lips, tasting the wonderful beef dinner in his mind. President Liz Strauss stared off absentmindedly into space.&nbsp;This council is so weird, I thought to myself. Fortunately, my thoughts were interrupted as my cell phone buzzed: a text from a friend, informing me that The National were setting up. I'll crack your mysteries someday, ESC. Last night just wasn't the night. 
 Editorial hates on indie rock of the Spring Concert, pines for pop punk and death metal for next year Comprehending the nature of the universe, on Long Island New GS Student Council news, with only half the bickering! Cheaper birth control after last year's price hikes Iranian Nobel Laureate encourages feminism in Iran, discourages bombing Iran &nbsp; 
 This past weekend was the New York Comic Convention, a massive gathering of everything comic books. New Bwog correspondent and former Marvel Comics intern Shaina Rubin writes a dispatch about meeting the writers behind the heroes. (She's even illustrated the scene with her very own comic.) On first entering the New York Comic Convention, known colloquially as “Comic Con,” video games and movie trailers dominated the scene.&nbsp; But, comics remained the focus of the attendees, who surveyed Iron Man trailers boosting interest in the Iron Man comics, huge posters of DC Comics leading people to Superman and Batman. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Most people crowded the panels discussing shows or comics, wanting to see and hear their real-life heroes. Though it wasn’t the most popular, the Mighty Marvel Kids panel showed an inside peak at the world of the cartoonist-behind-the-comics. Having worked at Marvel Comics as an editorial intern, I’d enjoyed the comics, but I’d only met a few of the writers. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Fred Van Lente, the man behind various Marvel Adventures series, mediated the artists with his biographical humor, showing a picture of himself as a child in a homemade Iron Man costume and various other memorabilia. Chris Giarrusso, the man behind Mini-Marvels, the comic of Marvel superheroes as children, maintained a self-demeaning and dry wit: On the cover of Giarrusso's new book, all the superheroes looked off to the right… except for Daredevil. (Daredevil is, of course, blind, so he wouldn’t know which way everyone else was looking.) The subtle humor makes you look closely at the cover, and that kind of joke is Giarrusso’s style on paper and in person. Also, Chris Eliopoulos, the genius behind Franklin Richards: Son of a Genius, enjoyed juvenile humor, drawing his inspiration from his kids. “Nose-picking! We’ll call it Power Pick!” he said, referring to the child version of the Fantastic Four, the Power Pack. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The brilliance of the comics comes from these cartoonists, and hearing their personal humor shed light on the motivation behind the stories. Eliopoulos has children who come up with silly ideas like “bubble-bombs” while Giarrusso writes humor for himself and if others find it funny, so be it. Both writers embody the tones of their comics. When asked what the biggest challenge was for them in comics, each cartoonist replied “Nate Cosby," jokingly referring to their editor. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The cartoonists are the brains behind the entire Comic Con. It’s not just the illustrations that amaze, but the humor that’s evident in their natural demeanor. People might be wont to write-off comics as just for kids, but even these kid comics’ writers were wry and witty enough to entertain even the most serious adults. &nbsp;
 Writer Paul Auster, CC'69, perhaps best known for the postmodern detective novels collected in the New York Trilogy (and subject of a Columbia College Today cover story not too long ago), has a very enjoyable and candid personal essay in today's NYT about his involvement in the protests of '68. "Being crazy," Auster writes, "struck me as a perfectly sane response to the hand I had been dealt--the hand that all young men had been dealt in 1968. The instant I graduated from college, I would be drafted to fight in a war I despised to the depths of my being, and because I had already made up my mind to refuse to fight in that war, I knew that my future held only two options: prison or exile." He describes himself as a "quiet and bookish" young man who discovered his wild side in the protests, which happened exactly 40 years ago today. "I am 61 now, but my thinking has not changed much since that year of fire and blood, and as I sit alone in this room with a pen in my hand, I realize that I am still crazy, perhaps crazier than ever." Maybe, if we're lucky, we'll see him at the Manhattanville construction site, flinging feces at the gates. UPDATE: See also the funny nymag.com listicle that anoints Auster the "Brooklyn Literary 1" 
 Bwog Lecture Hop Editor Pierce Stanley sends a dispatch with notes on last night's teach-in about the Iraqi refugee crisis and his new understanding of this week's series of Iraq War protests. The distinct sound of a bell has been ringing in my head for the last three days, and it's starting to affect my all too precious sleep cycle. Every time I have tried to sleep this week, I have not been able to help but hear the intermittent chime of the bell commemorating the victims of the Iraq War ringing endlessly in my head.&nbsp; Fortunately for the Iraq War protesters who have been demonstrating against five years of American involvement in Iraq by ringing a bell for every casualty in the American occupation of that nation, they seem to be succeeding in raising awareness to their cause with such an unconventional method.&nbsp; &nbsp; So, still reeling from all of the ringing this week, I decided to head over to Hamilton last night for a teach-in hosted by the Iraq War protest group. The teach-in—which was hosted in conjunction with the Burma 88 Coalition—demonstrated in a more real way the severity of the humanitarian crisis that exists in Iraq five years after the war began. Last night's small and rather impromptu event about Iraqi refugees provided a look beyond what the United States has to say about the nature of conflict in Iraq and a brief glimpse into the situation of a number of those forced to flee their homes and country because of the threat of sectarian violence.&nbsp; Last night's teach-in brought to Columbia Lori Grinker, a photojournalist who has worked with the Iraq Policy Forum, has been featured on PBS for her documentary work about Iraqi refugees, and is a frequent contributor to the Mediastorm project. Also present was Haider Hamza, a young Iraqi journalist who has worked extensively inside Iraq and is currently on a Fulbright Scholarship in the United States.&nbsp; Both Grinker and Hamza showed those in attendance a bit of their work over the last few years. Grinker chose to show a documentary about Iraqi refugees that she has met during her extensive stay in Amman, Jordan. She explained that the images that she showed in her film are just snapshots of the countless refugees that she has encountered, all facing the similar challenges of finding affordable housing outside of Iraq, establishing their identities elsewhere, and reuniting with family members. Hamza, on the other hand, chose to show a montage of photographs that he has collected over the last three years in his travels around Iraq as a freelance and embedded journalist. His images vividly depicted the brutal challenges that many ordinary Iraqis face in their country everyday, such as not being able to go outside between the hours of 6 p.m. and 6 am, the constant threat of death squads and persecution by rival tribes and clans, and the psychological impact that war has wrought on children.&nbsp; Hamza spoke about his hopes and fears for the future of his native Iraq and showed frustration when asked about his journalistic experience in Iraq, noting that many of his pictures and his pieces were not released because of strict restrictions imposed by military liaisons. He noted that journalism in Iraq today is a double edged sword. On one hand, journalists have more access to the front-lines than ever before, yet at the same time much of the information is filtered by military regulations. Hamza suggested that it is through personal blogs and photo-sharing websites that much of the information of what is actually happening on the ground in Iraq actually gets out.&nbsp; As that little bell keeps ringing throughout campus this week, I am quite certain that I better understand the goal of the Iraq War protesters. Amidst all of the flag-washing, name-reading, and bell-striking they are simply trying to establish a commitment to being conscientious about the more nuanced consequences of the Iraq War. Last night's teach-in about Iraqi refugees helped me realize this, and perhaps Hamza's and Grinker's photographs will help me put some real faces to the countless names of the dead being read throughout this week. 
 Bwog contributor Christopher Morris-Lent recently directed us to www.hamdel.com. We think, if you're expecting ABC Specials and E-mail Deluxes, you'll find it amusing. &nbsp; 
 Tipster Faith Chang informs Bwog of free lasagnas—both of the meat and vegetarian varieties—are currently up for grabs in the Lerner lobby courtesy of Blue Key Society.&nbsp; BONUS: There's also free Famiglia in the EC lobby. Supposedly it's only for seniors, but we didn't have trouble snagging a slice. &nbsp; 
 This year Barnard's Class Day speakers will include New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, New Yorker editor David Remnick, famed tennis player Billie Jean King, and organizer of Harlem Head Start programs Thelma C. Davidson Adair.&nbsp; Bwog just ran into outgoing BC President Laura Stoffel who could hardly contain her excitement. Expect a more official announcement from Barnard in the next few days. Worry not jealous Columbians: Luckily, there are going to be unlimited BC class day tickets this year. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 What can we do to reinforce a message of freedom on this campus? How about dancing at Havana Central? Hey, it's better than wishy-washy social justice editorializing Or picketing alone in front of the Mayor's house Maybe there's nothing to do but pray But in this case, the guy should probably just sue their asses 
 Another year has passed, and a new passel of eager young reformers have stepped up to the Executive Board of the CU College Dems. Bwog welcomes the whole crew, along with Chris Daniels (pictured), the new President and issuer of many press releases to come. The full new board, and the email that announced them, after the jump &nbsp; &nbsp; Democrats, The 2007-2008 Executive Board would like to thank you for your continued support throughout the year. This organization aims to be the center for progressive activity at Columbia and because of your amazing efforts from September until now, we are well on our way. We encourage you all to remain as active voices in this organization during the critical election year. Now, let's meet the new board. 2008-2009 Executive Board President - Chris Daniels Vice President- Anna Brower Secretary - Nancy Huemer Treasurer- Linda Magana Speakers Coordinator - Stef Goodsell Membership Director - Kaley Hanenkrat Outreach Director- Lianna Reagan Media Director - Avi Edelman Social &amp; Alumni Affairs Coordinator - Greer Feick Lead Activists - Ross Johnson, Jenna Hovel Thank you all for the chance to be your President this year. It's been an honor to serve on the Executive Board of this organization for the last four years. This has been my second family at Columbia and I know that many of you feel the same way. I'd like thank the 2007-2008 Executive Board for their amazing work, tireless effort and willingness to take on such an ambitious agenda. From Ahmadinejad to the Kentucky campaign trip, to Howard Dean to 5 Years in Iraq, I hope that you have all felt engaged in progressive activity on this campus. Remember to always be leaders, not just participants, in the Democratic Party. Now, let's take back the White House. Signing off, Josh, Chris, Isabel, Stephen, Jonathan, Anna, Kate, Avi, Kevin, Kaley, Mara, Lianna, Nate, Jenna, Cassie, Evan, Ross, Sarah, Adrian, Nancy &amp; Sonali &nbsp; 
It's that time of year again when many of '09's student leaders, activist types, overachievers, and masthead ascenders will be tapped and asked to join a senior society. A tipster sends evidence in the form of a photo of the sidewalk in back of Earl Hall: Three S's, the (dark?) mark of one of Columbia's two (secret?) senior societies, the Sachems.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Demonstrations against the war in Iraq continue today with a walk-out happening right now at the sundial, in the middle of a sea of sunbathers, who have splayed themselves out on South Lawn and and on the Low Steps. Check back for continuing coverage of the walkout plus the rumored "dramatic political statement" occurring at 2 PM by Alma Mater.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Oriflammes are gleaming! The rabble is roused! T-shirts are free for the taking! Five Years of War, Five Days of Action has reached its apex out on Low Plaza. A devoted cadre of protesters walked out of class at noon. Though the crowd has dwindled, there's no reason to think any of the 236 people who confirmed their attendance via Facebook flaked out. Since then, they've encircled the sundial, which has been recomissioned as a podium. The professors invited (Hamid Dabashi, Rashid Khalidi, Zainab Bahrani, and Bruce Robbins) wrapped up their speeches earlier. Three veterans (one a Columbia grad student) have told their war stories. But as the speeches end, hijinks await. The group has promised protestacular mischief at 2 o'clock. An anonymous tipster informs Bwog that Butler, Alma Mater, a banner, and some unfurling may be involved. Stay tuned for live(ish) updates. Update, 1:52 pm: Much of the crowd is now sitting. One speaker, a postdoc student, asked the crowd whether it wanted to engage in any chants--response was unenthusiastic. Bwog is stroking sweat away from its brow, and regretting having bought a black, heat-absorbing laptop. Talk has turned to divesting Columbia from business with Iraq war contractors (some $5M invested!), and to demanding that Columbia introduce scholarships for Iraqi students. This has raised audience engagement to a low whooping level. Update, 2:14 pm: The event reached a monumental finale when a banner was flung from Butler (Bwog was mighty impressed) and Alma Mater was veiled and surrounded by a militant bunch of arm-linkers. Bwog remains a bit confused about why the banner looks like a pink dress, and about why the veil looks like it was made of some sort of do-rag material. Sunbathers seemed befuddled but engaged. The clanging of the bell has recommenced. Photos after the jump &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Bloggers among us take note: The good folk at IvyGate are looking for a handful of summer editors to maintain the site between the months of (late) May and August. Last year's summer editors actually stuck around to edit the site full-time, so it seems it's possible the job could turn into a full-time gig. Plus, you'll be in good company: Past Columbian IvyGaters include Slate wunderkind (and B&amp;W alum!) Chris Beam and Newsweek reporter Nick Summers.&nbsp;
 This Judd Apatow guy is really going places.&nbsp; Frank McCourt and David Sedaris are better writers than Miley Cyrus. Indie rocker identifies with Wes Anderson, likes The Life Aquatic. "Green" is an adjective with a variety of meanings and uses in our language!&nbsp; The Eye encourages you to buy certified organic and fair trade coffee&nbsp; 
The sun has drained you, but in an hour Columbia Men Against Violence will restore you with pizza. And some dubious coffee-flavored energy beverage which the kids (men) call Slap. Bwog is befuddled by why men against violence are advocating slapping, but may hit the Lerner Piano Lounge at 8PM nonetheless.
 Jarid Maged wrote a "17 page admissions essay" to get into GS, which apparently doesn't impose a word limit. (Also, the title of this column makes only weird, self-referential sense.) The Spec is extremely comfortable cursing in print now. And, apparently, fellating the Arcade Fire. Quite literally. Tegan and Sara... still fresh. Still cool. Apparently Columbia should "move on" from the whole 1968 thing. An eight hundred word editorial and 40-year anniversary conference are good first steps. Take-out food... it's delicious! Um, unless you take this article's advice and go to Milano. 
As the members of the senior class saddle up for the long ride into the somewhat clichéd sunset, Bwog traditionally delays them a few minutes to get their final thoughts on their time at Columbia, and their advice to their successors. So we proudly present the first installment of a many-part series profiling the Class of '08. You can follow the rest here. Jonathan Siegel, C '08 Claim to fame: Primus Inter Pares of the Student Governing Board, Failed Barnard Fan of the Year contestant, Failed College Democrats presidential candidate, Economics TA, 8th grade Broward County Math Champion, Reformer, Scourge of secrecy and bureaucracy in the administration and student government Post-grad plans: See every professional Shakespeare play produced in the city for the rest of time.&nbsp; Teach for America—Secondary Math in NYC.&nbsp;&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? Breast stroke until that gets old, then doggy paddle. What are three things you learned at Columbia? Segue is pronounced segway. Shakespeare is amazing. Satyagraha can defeat any injustice. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Death to bureaucracy! What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Since most on-campus controversies involved Student Governing Board groups, I can’t pick favorites. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? I once, and only once, offered to buy a girl a drink.&nbsp; She looked at me quizzically and said, “No, that’s fine… they’re only three dollars.”&nbsp; So I went home and did homework. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Professor Love, who, it turns out, actually teaches at the Journalism school. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 7% Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I prefer cheese to oral sex, but cunnilingus is the cornerstone of my sexual repertoire.&nbsp; It’s a toss up. Days on Campus memory? I didn’t come to days on campus... so, to fill this space I’ve included a sonnet I wrote for my Shakespeare’s Poetry Seminar.&nbsp; It’s about the refractory period: Beaten by love, I am made low and meek. I’ve spent my love and have no more to give: I cannot seek the love that loves should seek, After love’s death I cannot pray to live. I have drunk deep of love, but am now drunk, Without a hope to stand or give again Once all I had had been within deep sunk, And from my lips had passed the last amen. O love, I know that I make poor excuse, For you have loved and lost no less than I. I wish that I could ever be of use, But even with great hopes, our powers fly. Perhaps with time my strength shall be returned; Like that great bird, shall birth where it had burned. Regrets? I should have been a Classics major.&nbsp; Epic poetry is way cooler than Math or Economics. 
 The young at heart (and the fearless of motion-sickness) take note: There are currently two moon-bounces—one features two basketball hoops and basketballs for competitive gamesmanship—stationed on Low. (There is also a dunking tank for the masochistic.) The Anti-Iraq War Demonstration Bell is still ringing strong, though its sounds are slightly muffled by the screams of the unlucky who have been fated to splash into the icy waters of the dunking tank. Bwog suggests you head out to Low to get your last bits of fun in before final paper crunch time begins.&nbsp; Another picture of all the fun you should be having after the jump. 
 If you're not at the WBAR-B-Q right now, you're missing seeing... approximately thirty thousand bands. While Bwog was only able to get out there briefly and is now safely locked up in class, there's no excuse for you not being there. It's free! (Except the food.) Now playing: Wizards of the Coast, featuring Bwog's own Justin Goncalves. Be there.&nbsp; 
 Last night, Project Bluelight, a Columbia University undergrad film project, premiered their first film, "Setup," in Roone Cinema before a Ferris Reels showing of There Will Be Blood the Oscar winning There Will Be Blood.&nbsp;&nbsp; Opening shot: a giant chicken getting run over by a car while fetching coffee.&nbsp; However, this short (6 minute) film was more than just Family Guy-esque comedy.&nbsp; The audience moved through the complex plot effortlessly with the aid of well-timed dialog, tight cinematography and more than one killer Punch Line. To say that it elevated the art of Meta is an overstatement, but they did successfully develop the movie about a play about a play in a remarkably quick and nuanced way.&nbsp; The film's intention is summed up best by Noel (played by Austin Mitchell) when speaking to lusting scriptwriter Jay (Colin Drummond): "So, Ray is trying to break up Bowl and Aubrey by writing a play about a guy who is writing a play in which a guy gets back his ex- girlfriend by casting her in his play to replace the lead actress at the last minute?" The entire production was an undergrad project from conception by V-show writer Rob Trump to score by Craig Flaster. Inspiration for Trump, however, was less than divine.&nbsp; Executive Producers Michael Molina and Jeff Schwartz exposed Trump for his unoriginality, "Surprisingly enough, it is based on a true story of a time Rob tried to get his ex-girlfriend back by writing a play for her to be in (I don’t think she knows about “Setup” though so lets hope she doesn’t read Bwog)." The crew now plans to submit the short to the Ivy Film Festival and Tribeca later in the year and, as for next year, Bwog has heard from a little birdie that we might be treated to “Zombie College.” -JJV 
Tipster Lucy Sun brings Bwog's attention to a clever Facebook group created by Rosalyn Shih. As the group explains, Broadway Presbyterian gives out a free lunch to the homeless, and could use donations of milk, juice, and food. A great place to throw your extra dollars, which would no doubt go to waste? Sounds good to us.
 GSSC elections results are in! An auspicious day for democracy indeed. And now, the winners and losers. (Except of course for any category marked "no winner", which indicates that the candidate did not receive at least 25 votes.) President Brody Berg &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 50% Virdis Bala &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;22% Ishmael Osekre &nbsp; &nbsp; 13% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 15% VP Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Michael Rain &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 35% David Minchin &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;32% Allen Settle &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 30% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 3% VP Student Life &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Richard Adams &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;41% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 59% VP Finance &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Eleanor Colley &nbsp; &nbsp; 89% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 11% VP Communications &nbsp; &nbsp; Evan Madeo &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 83% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 17% Social Chair &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Lisa Fishenfeld &nbsp; &nbsp;59% Gbadebo Williams &nbsp; 33% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 7% Academic Affairs &nbsp; &nbsp; Jacob Matilsky &nbsp; &nbsp; 91% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 9% Alumni Affairs &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; NO WINNER Jessica Collins &nbsp; &nbsp;63% Student Services Rep NO WINNER Senior President &nbsp; &nbsp; Albert Kim &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 49% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 51% Senior VP &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; NO WINNER Junior President &nbsp; &nbsp; NO WINNER Larissa Higgins &nbsp; &nbsp;63% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 37% Junior VP &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; NO WINNER Ashkan Shahsavari &nbsp;30% Scott Jurkowski &nbsp; &nbsp;26% Write-in (other) Sophomore President &nbsp; Alex Katz &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;92% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 8% Sophomore VP &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Joseph Spitz &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 89% Write-in (other) &nbsp; 11% Parent Rep &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; NO WINNER Student Worker Rep &nbsp; NO WINNER International Rep &nbsp; &nbsp;NO WINNER Delegate #1 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Larisa Kolesnikov Delegate #2 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Nathan Miller Delegate #3 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;NO WINNER Delegate #4 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;NO WINNER 
 This afternoon in Hamilton, two writer-professors met to debate whether blogging was “good or bad for literary culture.” Taking the “good” side was Columbia’s own Jenny Davidson, an English professor with a popular literary blog (watch out—it’s a wonderful but deadly place for bookish procrastinators).&nbsp; On the “bad” side was Sven Birkerts, author of The Gutenberg Elegies, Director of the Bennington College Writing Seminars, and non-blogger.&nbsp; Andrew Delbanco, Director of Columbia’s American Studies program, provided light moderation. Like most events, the discussion was not nearly as black and white, or as contentious, as the title made it out to be—the two contenders were mostly talking on different wavelengths. Professor Davidson provided specific examples of the blogs she enjoys and the services they perform, and a personal perspective into how blogging, and internet technology in general, improves her literary life.&nbsp; An avid reader of crime fiction, she can go online, mine a fellow enthusiast’s blog for information on obscure, small-press, high quality detective stories, and then order those books free of charge from BorrowDirect. Professor Birkerts seemed to agree with his debate-mate's points, but his own point was not so much about what blogs can do as what they can’t. For him, the central issue was “centrality,” and like the Empedoklean God, the blogosphere “is a circle of which the center is everywhere and the circumference is nowhere." "There’s no place to stand from which to assess it,” Birkerts said. What we lack in the world of blogs, he argued, is a council of gatekeepers who will impose hierarchies and coherent voices upon the chaos. This sort of literary gatekeeping is exactly what happens at entities like the New York and London Reviews of Books and the New York Times Book Review, and Birkerts lamented their hypothetical destruction in the wake of plummeting print advertising revenues and emoticon-using, short-attention-spanned youngsters. &nbsp; But I wonder: if the NYRB died tomorrow, what would really be lost? An authoritative literary arbiter, a weighty judge of the best and worst books of the day? Surely another arbiter could be constructed online by the people who contribute so much of the content to these rarefied publications: folks with PhDs and the writers they deem worthy (who are often one and the same). Why can’t this group of professors and successful writers, presumably earning a living wage at their day jobs, band together and submit their thoughts about the important literary issues of the day? They may even find enough success that the revenue from their website would cover whatever income they miss from their print writing gigs, and allow them to contract young, aspiring book critics to boot—maybe they can even get the academy to subsidize their project. What’s missing in my picture is the editors, and so the heart of the blogosphere matter, and the place where the two debaters had genuinely differing opinions, is editing. Birkerts, a widely published critic, is in favor of educated people putting other educated people’s massive review-essays through the intellectual wringer, through the first draft and the second draft and the first galleys and the second galleys. Professor Davidson, while a fan of the long-form book review, and a woman who has written some herself, had this to say: “I realize this puts me in the culture of instant gratification, but blogging is the enjoyable part. It lets you talk about one book without sinking all the resources that could be spent reading another book.” Spoken like a blogger, and a lover of literature. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; -PBB 
 If you're in search of a new Saturday night clubhouse for you and your crew - look no further, the Corner Bistro is just the place.&nbsp; Located at 331 W. 4th St in the West Village.&nbsp; Sometimes you want to go, Where everybody knows your name, and they're always glad you came.&nbsp; Not happening at 1020? Well, it probably won’t happen at the Corner Bistro either.&nbsp; I’ve been frequenting the bar for nearly four years now and to this day the bartender still refuses to know name, let alone my drink.&nbsp; But the Bistro cannot be written off as just another amateur haunt with a lax ID policy. &nbsp; Located on the corner of Jane and West 4th Streets, the Bistro has inviting charm that lends itself to all occasions.&nbsp; Really there is never a wrong time to go to the Bistro.&nbsp; Whether you’re pre-gaming, celebrating Saturday night, or just passing through for your night-cap, you’ll always be glad you came.&nbsp; But stopping by for a weekend lunch, when the afternoon sunlight comes streaming through the bar’s front windows, is hard to beat. The burgers are remarkable, arguably the best in the city and even have merited their own Facebook group.&nbsp; The kitchen makes their burgers thick so the outside is always blackened and full of charcoal flavor while the inside is alarmingly pink and dangerously juicy.&nbsp; If you’re not ready to throw your fears of salmonella to the wayside, order your burger well-done.&nbsp; Eating your burger can be a messy.&nbsp; But cutting it down the middle remedies the situation and makes the sandwich ideal for sharing. The recipe for success at the Bistro is simple – just bring good friends and a laid-back attitude.&nbsp; Although the place offers the causal atmosphere found at our favorite Morningside Heights taps, it also provides a refreshing touch of sophistication. The jukebox might be a throw back, but their collection of Mo-town classics is a welcomed alternative to “Buy U a Drank.”&nbsp; The Bistro’s lay out draws its patrons to the back of the bar where there are plenty of deeply inset booths, built for three – but best when five squeeze across. Still, there’s plenty of space to move around. The antique mirror behind the well stocked, if traditional, bar increases the sense of room’s sense of space.&nbsp; And even though you might have to push a bit to get to the bartender’s attention, you’ll find yourself immersed in an authentic New York crowd. You’re much more apt to encounter a traditional crew of guys and girls engaged in conversation and nursing their Stellas than you are to find a bunch of over zealous tweens snapping pics and downing tequila.&nbsp; Unfortunately, there’s evidence – one notorious Facebook album titled “My Life and the Gatos who Keep Me Company” – contradicting both the prior statement and the social integrity of this reviewer.&nbsp; Although I may not be able to say the same of myself, the Bistro has aged well over the years and I am certain it will grow on you too. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -MEQ 
 The second installment of our continuing series, Senior Wisdom.&nbsp; Name, School: Josh Lipsky, CC&nbsp; Claim to fame: Prez of Dems/Founder of Roosevelt/Daily Show intern&nbsp; Post-grad plans: The presidential campaign trail&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? We’ll find out the day before graduation&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; &nbsp; You can take any class you want. Seriously, just keeping showing up ‘til they let you in. Correlation is NOT causation. Because I was confused about that coming in. ‘SIP’ is not really large enough to count as a bar.&nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; I occasionally tried to clean my suite because my friends are lazy. I also sought to help reinvigorate activism at Columbia. I had a similar success rate for both. &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; Let’s see – between ‘Hunger Strike,’ ‘MEALAC’, ‘Minutemen’ and ‘Ahmadinejad,’ I would have to go with the Iranian President. On a personal level, I got to take on an annoying Fox News anchor (see YouTube) and on a community level there were 10,000 students engaged in a political debate like it was a homecoming game. That’s Columbia at its best.&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; Having a bow-tied professor walk in to a class on the first day and say, “Hello, I invented exit polling in America. Sorry I screwed up in 2000, sorry I screwed up in 2004, now let’s get it right for 2008.”&nbsp; And that’s when you realize you’re not in high school anymore.&nbsp; &nbsp; Which prof. do you think would be the best kisser?&nbsp; Certainly not the first time I’ve though about this question. A lot of people have their money on Alan Brinkley and I think that’s a wise choice. He’s studied 50 years of American kissing habits and certainly learned something in the process. &nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; Do you separate SEAS/CC in that? Based on varying levels of desperation I’ve seen at West End and 1020, I’ll put the overall average at 10% and leave it to greater minds to figure out the SEAS/CC breakdown. &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; CHEESE. And so ruins a once promising future in politics. &nbsp; Days on Campus memory? I wasn’t here, so I’ll make one up. &nbsp; I walked on to beautiful campus in springtime and daydreamed of spending my free hours running outside on the lawns and playing catch with friends.&nbsp; Then I came here and found out it’s cold as hell for seven months a year. &nbsp; Regrets? Not taking a class with Eric Foner. A friend made me feel really bad about that last week. Also, only getting flex off campus with four weeks left. What a tease. I suppose the typical answer is ‘not seeing the city enough’ or whatever that means. New York is always here and my personal opinion is that this school is great in and of itself. 
 Catch the final performance of Twelfth Night at 8 o'clock tonight in Barnard's Minor Latham Playhouse. Rebecca Guy and Ralph Zito’s interpretation of Twelfth Night may be traditional, but it offers an entertaining showcase of some of Barnard and Columbia’s finest acting. The play is full of scrambled genders, intricate love triangles and drunken debauchery – themes that too often lend themselves to overacting.&nbsp; But, the current production does not suffer from these common pitfalls. Thanks to many of the actors’ eloquent intonation, the audience easily comprehends Shakespeare’s meaning and wit.&nbsp;&nbsp; But Jill Usdan’s deliberate elocution unfortunately comes off as haughty. Her dry performance as Olivia is demure, but uninspired and misses the silliness and vanity essential to her character. With lines as blatantly promiscuous as “Love sought is good, but giv’n unsought is better,” it’s clear Usdan could do more with the material. Adding a hint of melodrama, Kara Feely dresses the cast in luxurious costumes – a mix of Spanish lace, gaudy rosary beads and billowy genie pants. Set against Betsy Adams and Elizabeth Noth’s colorfully designed stage, Zito and Guy’s vision of Twelfth Night comes to life in a flourishing courtyard. What is most remarkable about the production is that Guy and Zito excel where the script challenges the most.&nbsp; Indeed, Helen Cespedes’ truly impressive performance as Viola greatly aids their efforts.&nbsp; In the guise of Cesario, Orsino’s pageboy, Cespedes perfectly balances a plucky resourcefulness with a tremulous, woundable quality that increases your emotional investment in her.&nbsp; The audience winces as she inadvertently and awkwardly cozies up to her master, Orsino (Garrett Blair). First, there is a tender sigh, then a loving gaze and finally Orsino’s hand creeps across Cesario’s thigh with a provocative caress.&nbsp; Cespedes and Blair handle the intensity of the moment with skillful restraint and draw out the painfully suppressed passion.&nbsp; Singing in an overpowering alto, Feste (Amanda Rodhe), however, disrupts this beautifully built tension.&nbsp; Her voice may be operatic, but it is too forceful for the gentleness of Shakespeare’s ballad.&nbsp; Her stiff performance as Feste makes it clear that Rodhe is a singer, not an actress. Nevertheless, the directors show that they know how to spin the classic comedy into freshness.&nbsp; Under Zito and Guy’s direction, Sir Toby Belch and Andrew Aguecheek, played by Sam Riesman and Nahuel Telleria respectively, make a hilarious and surprisingly endearing duo.&nbsp; Riesman plays up Toby’s drunken slur and delights the audience with a consistent maniacal leer.&nbsp; Telleria brings an adorable foppishness to his performance that gives his subsidiary character unforgettable vitality. Despite his repeated attempts to prove his brawn and brains, Sir Andrew has ferocity and mental capacity of a flea. In this way, Telleria’s Andrew perfectly reflects a Viola’s line earlier in the play, “We men may say more, swear more, but indeed, Our shows are more than our will” – indeed everyone in Twelfth Night is not quite as they seem or say they are.&nbsp; In a wild moment, Sir Andrew finds himself face to face with Antonio, played by the powerful Austin Smith.&nbsp; Swords clash, Andrew shrieks, Antonio bellows – pandemonium breaks out and all the characters’ affectations break down. &nbsp; Malvolio, played by the ridiculously be-whiskered and lisping Zachariah Sheppard, like Telluria and Cespedes, could easily steal all his scenes. That these actors choose not to is a reflection of their skill and the maturity of their talent.&nbsp; Offering an intelligent and admirable rendering of the original comedy, the current production of Twelfth Night guarantees a good time and asserts that KCST is not the only campus company capable of successfully performing Shakespeare.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Beginning&nbsp;at noon today, a strange face-off between Columbia activist-types and artist-types went down under Alma's nose. First, the student council-sponsored Arts Fair unfurled on Low Steps, offering free hamburgers, pizza, models (clothed!) and music. Meanwhile, a clot of&nbsp;more than&nbsp;100 anti-Columbia protesters with home-made noisemakers (corn kernel-filled plastic bottles) marched onto campus and coalesced at the sundial. The Student Coalition on Expansion and Gentrification, who had originally sponsored the protest, pulled out last night when they heard they wouldn't get a permit to demonstrate on the Steps--because the Arts Fair had claimed the space long before. Admins offered the activists the Pupin lawn and told them to come in at the 120th entrance, but community groups refused to take the space bargain. And so the unofficial, ad hoc protesters, led by the Coalition to Preserve Community, the Coalition to Save Harlem, and the Mirabal Sisters, gathered a group of SCEG-ites and bystanders.&nbsp;While Tom "Peter Pan complex" DeMott ululated into his bullhorn, the bands on the steps--including the Kitchen Cabinet and a funk band (we didn't catch the name) drowned out the addresses. One old man, spittle flying from his mouth, tried to rush the stage to stop the "fucking kids" from playing--there are also reports some protesters&nbsp;pulled their amp cords.&nbsp;"Surreal," said one bystander. "This is hilarious," quipped another. More pics after the jump. &nbsp; -KER 
 Department of Head-Gear Design – Visionary! &nbsp; Unbearable Lightness of Being Ben Franklin – Illuminating! Bleaching where the sun don’t shine – Brilliant! A.M. Advice – N.B. Light-Weights! Lo Carb Hi-Qs – Delite-ful! 
 Filling our Hearts with the Sound of Music, Fu Foundation Bureau Chief, Tony Gong shares his comments on Oliver Sacks' lecture. At 11:00&nbsp;a.m. yesterday, I ventured out of my room far too early for a Friday morning to catch Oliver Sacks' Core-wide Music Hum lecture in Roone. But discovering new evidence to prove that not only Disney music is magical justified accidentally waking up my dozing roommate. Professor Walter Frisch, the Director of Music Humanities, started the morning triumphantly by telling us that this was the "first time Music Humanities has sponsored a lecture." Before the audience could grasp Music Humanities' laziness implicit therein, Frisch excitedly went on to introduce Oliver Sacks, whom Frisch praised for his "scientific precision, profound empathy, and graceful prose." In walked Oliver Sacks, a tidy man with an impressive white beard covering his chin and awesome New Balance sneakers. He launched into a narrative about his childhood home, which was "full of piano playing, especially of Bach."&nbsp; In fact, he claimed: "Seventy years before, my two favorite things were smoked salmon and Bach." I had to give it to him – he knew we were a smoked salmon-eating crowd. Personally, I could've listened to Professor Sacks reminisce about his whimsical past all afternoon, but Sacks was beginning to sense that the audience wanted more than his nostalgia and views of his New Balance sneakers, however awesome. That's when Sacks brought up the brain.&nbsp;Ah, yes, that thing, I thought with my brain. "A huge part of the brain – more than language – is devoted to music." To qualify this point, Sacks explained, "The brains of musicians can sometimes be visibly enlarged in certain areas, such as the corpus callosum and auditory regions" – a scary possibility that will perhaps dissuade me from playing music for the rest of my life. But the audience didn't just want to hear about most, normal brains. We wanted to hear about brains that got messed up. Sacks must have read our minds because he obliged with a story about a man with Alzheimer's disease, who "has no idea what he did for a living, and can't remember what he did ten minutes ago."&nbsp;But somehow, as Sacks magically revealed, "He remembers ever baritone piece he ever played…with as much humor and sensibility as before." I was hooked.&nbsp;New Balance sneakers and smoked salmon completely forgotten now, I listened intently as Sacks weaved together beautiful stories about his patients and his findings.&nbsp;He spoke about Parkinson's patients moving to music after years of immobility, socially inhibited autistic people growing confident and expressive when performing music, and the obvious power of music in overcoming depression.&nbsp;To Sacks, "Every disease is a musical problem. Every cure is a musical solution."&nbsp; &nbsp; Like any proper scientist, however, Sacks questioned some of his conclusions.&nbsp;Despite the fact that the autistic patient he studied became more emotionally expressive, Sacks wondered if "the patient actually felt the emotion he portrayed."&nbsp;He ended by giving the audience his e-mail address (mail@oliversacks.com.)&nbsp;He encouraged us to submit accounts of music in our dreams – for although Sacks hypothesized that "music resists the distortion of dreams," he admitted openly to us, "I need more data."&nbsp;Needless to say, I blasted music all last night as I slept, hoping for an interesting story to relay to via e-mail. In the name of Sacks, my roommate's sleep can wait.&nbsp;
 Hey, did you know that some stuff happened at Columbia in 1968? Bwog daily editor Pierce Stanley braved two of this week's numerous '68-centric lectures; here's what he thought about them. That tangible sense of nostalgia gripping campus has not waned this weekend as the commemoration of the Columbia 1968 Protests hits full stride.&nbsp; After its tame opening on Thursday evening in Casa Italiana hosted by PrezBo and Nancy Biberman B '69, the gaggle of aged (and surprisingly boisterous) anti-war and anti-discrimination activists continue to mill around campus, reminiscing about their hours spent hunkered down in Hamilton, Fayerweather, and Low in the spring of 1968. &nbsp; The commemoration, however, has been heavy on reminiscing.&nbsp; Aged protesters have spent much of their time back-patting, reminding themselves that they were the greatest generation of activists, catching up on years spent away from one another and bickering about current day social justice issues.&nbsp; At the end of the day, much of the audience, including this Bwogger, was left frustrated by the single-mindedness of the activists who graced Columbia's campus forty years ago and wondering if they might be still looking for a fight but are just a bit out of touch. &nbsp; Friday's lecture, entitled "What Happened,"&nbsp; set the stage for the ensuing conversations on Saturday which attempted to place the 1968 riots in a broader intellectual context questioning both ethics and the nature of protest in general.&nbsp; The event explored whether some of the tactics used in 1968 can still be used to affect real change today, as well as probing into the similarities between the political climates of 1968 and 2008.&nbsp; Friday’s speeches introduced the activists by name, showed pictures of the event itself, and discussed many of the political realities that existed on campus and in Morningside Heights in ’68.&nbsp; In contrast to the informative discussion the night before, Saturday's decidedly less cogent events broke down into fractious discussions on the nature of protest with very few resolutions. Instead of focusing on a small segment of speakers, Saturday’s commemorators favored breadth over depth.&nbsp; Nostalgia for the '60s was clearly reflected in the choice to have so many different speakers at the "Ethics and Protest" discussion.&nbsp; This caused much confusion and lent itself to a lack of continuity among what the speakers had to say.&nbsp; Rather than presenting a clear picture of what these events actually meant for the nature of protest and ethics today, audience members were subjected to attempts to justify the freedom of a convicted murderer (who happened to be a Columbia activist) and other general and largely unsubstantiated claims about protest movements.&nbsp; Enduring the overwhelming sense of accomplishment and aura of patting oneself on the back at Saturday’s lecture, this Bwogger was left uncomfortably disenchanted by the protesters.&nbsp; Perhaps forty years later, these activists who gathered to discuss their impact on the future do not really have a substantiated reason to engage in such self-flattery. Where Friday’s event succeeded in returning the ’68 protests back to their roots, Saturday’s fell short, essentially giving the protesters a platform for sycophancy (like much of this weekend has done.) Powerful anecdotes were told that exemplified the real challenges that Columbia students faced in the late '60s.&nbsp; For example, several African American former student leaders spoke about the real acts of racism that they experienced everyday on Columbia's campus, and discussed their motivations for creating the first black fraternity at Columbia. Marked by the participants’ willingness to interrupt each other, a hurried Q &amp; A at the end, and a lengthy diatribe issued by a disgruntled and roguish activist of old, the "Ethics and Protest" talk epitomized the disheveled nature of this weekend’s commemoration.&nbsp; Indeed, this enthusiastic Bwogger, once willing to draw parallels between 1968 and 2008, is now willing to put away the riots of 1968 as an arcane product of yesteryear. 
 Senior Wisdom continues with Bwog's very own webmaster/graduating SEAS senior, Zach van Schouwen. Name, School: Zach van Schouwen, SEAS Claim to fame: I'm the campus tech czar—plus I'm a first-generation Bwogger and therefore guaranteed a podium in the Senior Wisdom series. Post-grad plans: Like everyone else in the computer science department, I'll be working at Goldman Sachs. Eventually, a graduate career in city planning. Preferred swim test stroke? The engineer! ... I don't take that test. What are three things you learned at Columbia? * Hungarian Pastry Shop was better before it was in the NYT. * I'm terrified by ambitious people with resources and social skills. * I really dodged a bullet by not getting into Princeton. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. My hand is in every computer here. When I leave, all software will grind to a halt; you'll have to form lines in the gym to register for classes. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? When the Minutemen hit, I was woken up—for the second time that night by journalism. Since then, I've made it a rule to monitor all campus drama from the safety of a bed in an undisclosed location in the outer boroughs. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? A junior-year programming seminar with 12 students that I'd been skipping for four straight weeks. When I finally came in, feeling guilty, there was nobody but me and the instructor. Staring awkwardly at each other for two hours. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Comp sci majors aren't exactly known for our studly professors, but Hannah Arendt taught here awhile back... yum! What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? I think a better question is what percentage of virgins are Columbia seniors. That number's probably well over 75%, globally. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Well, I already don't eat cheese. Days on Campus memory? I was the Carman Orthodox floor's shabbas-goy, and spent the rest of the time getting lost in Brooklyn and in the CEPSR powerhouse. So it was exactly like every other day I spent at Columbia. Regrets? I'm leaving CU a year early—and left the campus permanently, six months into my freshman year—so naturally I've got some legitimate regrets. But it's cheaper and easier to give some old standards: I wish I'd taken more liberal arts courses, wish I'd gotten out more, and sometimes—only sometimes!—wish I'd gone to a college where people played frisbee and talked to each other. 
 It's a sad day for artists and art enthusiasts: Today marks the final day of existence for the Triple Candie Art Gallery on 126th. Triple Candie was once—and still is, until 5 PM today—home to some of Harlem's most promising young artists. To commemorate its 7-year history, the gallery is featuring a retrospective of its life in the main show space. No word yet on what will be moving into the Triple Candie's old home, but Bwog's bets are on a mediocre, over-priced Italian restaurant or perhaps some refurbished apartments. &nbsp; 
 Bwog daily editor Mariela Quintana takes you inside yet another '68 retrospective, this time a reading featuring Columbia writers who were there when the protests happened. Of the four events I’ve attended that commemorate the 1968 protests, not one has started on time. From all the socializing and incessant chattering that precedes each lecture, it’s clear that these aging activists are desperate for a chance to catch up, reminisce and revive the waning spirit of ’68.&nbsp; To an outside observer, the commemoration too often loses sight of its historical and social mission and instead tends towards an intimate, if not insular, college reunion--the likes of which these anti-establishment hexagenarians wouldn’t deign to attend. But last night’s reading, entitled “Voices of 1968,” offered this jaded Gen-Yer insight into what the protestors felt at the time of the event and what they feel now.&nbsp; The reading was most penetrating when authors exposed their struggles, their effort to pick themselves up out the wake of the protests, grow up and move on. As the poets and authors made clear, moving on proved difficult because it required accepting their moment in history had ended. Although their subject matter had the potential to transcend the moment and touch a more contemporary audience, many of the works were too invested in the specifics of the experience.&nbsp;There was an obvious stigma against extrapolating the 1968 protests to universal themes and many authors and audience members even disdained paralleling it with the war in Iraq. Taking a surprisingly conservative approach to the interpretation of their movement, the reading all too often came off as an self-indulgent opportunity for the writers to get on a soap box and for their college buddies to hoot and holler in support. In an honest and steady voice, Paul Spike (CC ’69) read from an essay that methodically, almost painfully so, detailed his ignorance as a white student hoping to relate to the oppression of black students. I could comprehend the meaning and significance of his words, but they were so specific to his experience that I was unable to access the emotion behind them. Nonetheless, the older members of the audience recognized his plea for forgiveness and answered it with a thunder of heartfelt applause. Reading from her novel Pearl, Mary Gordon, BC ’71 and current English professor, succeeded where other authors fell short.&nbsp;Her writing conveyed her observations and experiences of the 1968 protests with a fine balance of honesty and self-deprecating humor. Like many others, Gordon touched on how her “experience inflected by race, gender, class and religion,” but she quickly went on to express how she and her friends were highly sensitive to critical changes that were occurring in history and in their adolescences. Probing into a sense of confusion familiar to all students, Gordon spoke of how being in college means growing up “so easily and so quickly you become a person you would not have recognized.”&nbsp; &nbsp; When he read, Paul Auster CC '70 did not narrate his specific experience of the ’68 protests. Like Gordon, he voiced an affecting account of growing up in a time of turmoil and of grappling with who he was and who he wanted to be. Auster began with a brief commentary about his Op-Ed in the Times earlier this week. “Crazy,” he explained, is “short hand for numerous feelings--frustration, militant refusal of American policy. All that cannot be expressed in an eight hundred word op-ed--all that can be achieved is a small poem.”&nbsp; Returning to his undergraduate days, Auster went on to speak of a hoax essay competition headed by the Columbia Review asking its applicants to describe failure. “Why the compulsion to write about failure--the fear, the sarcasm, the mocking derision of failure?” Auster asked. Suggesting the dwindling legacy of the 1968 protests and the anxieties of Columbia’s current student body, Auster ended with an ominous quote from an influential poet of his youth: “I write for those on whom the black ox has trod." 
 Then: Crazy protesters! Now: Mild-mannered protesters! Then: No gentrification! Now: No gentrification! Also, an Arts Fair. Then, meaning Monday: Hipsters! Now, meaning Friday: Hipsters!&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The NFL, it seems, knows something about Columbia football that the rest of us don't. Despite Bwog's (and most everyone else's) expectations of our football program, our varsity quarterback has proved himself worthy of the majors. Senior Craig Hormann has been signed to the Cincinnati Bengals Cleveland Browns. Though he went unpicked in the draft, Hormann will don a new wild cat jersey in the fall. Congratulations to Craig! Commentors are invited to explain this whole football thing to Bwog. How is one signed after the draft ends? How is one signed after leading one's team to a record of 1 win and 9 losses? 
 Didn't see CMTS' production of A New Brain? Too bad! Bwog daily editor Alexandra Muhler wants to tell you what you missed. A New Brain is, in a few ways, typical musical theater. The lead spends most of the show's two hours in a gown. The ballads are sincere and softly lit. In all, there are about two spoken lines in the play. And, most upsettingly, audience participation is forced at every turn. But A New Brain is also quirkier than your average musical. The gown donned by Gordon (Ross Ramone), the frustrated songwriter at the center of the play, is a hospital gown, worn as he undergoes an improbably named "craniotomy."&nbsp; The moments of cast-crowd interaction toy with the standards accepted in such exchanges—first row audience members will be sung to, chastised, and sometimes even forced to sing along. However, the mushy incoherence of bad musical theater rarely seeps into this production. Though the beginning of the second act lags a little with a string of earnest solos, the show is dominated by a crisp aesthetic. To begin, Claire Halberstadt's choreography is brisk and eclectic. During the many numbers that feature the entire cast, the tiny black box is crammed with ten dancers, snapping, sashaying, and often delightfully seeming to freestyle in a frenetic circle around the hospital bed, which is seamlessly wheeled on and off the little stage several times. The most delightful boogie belongs to Alex Harris-Hertel, in a bit role as the hospital chaplain. Though he never quite hits the beat, and though he apologizes for his "spastically twitching" performance in his program bio, his ecstatic moves have a dorm room dance party pedigree that should endear them to any college audience. The strongest performances are similarly varnished in the veneer of caricature. Danaya Almenares-Mesa, as Gordon's fag hag (all the characters are archetypes), truly knows how to wear a power-pantsuit. She dances with a business lady's boxiness; her most climactic singing moment, in "Whenever I Dream," has her sounding like a hummingbird with an amp. Yonatan Gebeyehu, as a soggily sympathetic nurse with a bitchy side, stares with demonic intention at the very attractive Gordon and his boyfriend, Roger (Jonathon Grant). He flounces false man-boobs and a little tummy under hospital scrubs in his many crowd-pleasing romps. Most literally cartoonish is Mr. Bungee (Kurt Kanazawa, a former Bwog editor), a man dressed up as a frog dressed up as a children's television host. In a green vinyl jacket and plastic frame glasses, he struts like a greaser on his high school parking lot. Without question, he is the worst boss imaginable, and poor Gordon's crisis is quite understandable after you've seen his soul sucked by writing Mr. Bungee's insipid songs. The costumes (designed by Hilary Baboukis) and props (by Cayle Pietras) are minimal and almost purposefully janky, but nevertheless add to the cartoon effect. Mr. Bungee's shoes are topped with green frog-foot flaps. During a song about horseracing, cast members feign galloping on sticks with felt horse heads tacked on the end. And the hospital bed is imaginatively transformed into a sailboat for a rapidfire digression into song. Though this review arrives too late to serve as a recommendation, "A New Brain" is a sugared up spoonful of toe-tapping revelry, pleasing to fans and even to this detractor of the musical genre. For those who can't bear the comic animation that makes this show so remarkable, there is a fairly hot man-on-man shower scene. If the implication of nudity can't get you to the theatre, nothing can. 
 QuickSpec is on hold while we wait for Spec to update their site with today's paper. So in the meantime, let's check in with CC senior Becky Abrams for another edition of Senior Wisdom.&nbsp; Name, School: Becky Abrams, CC&nbsp; Claim to fame: Fruit Paunch, Varsity Show, falling down in the dining hall sometimes&nbsp; Post-grad plans: Land a national commercial and make tons of money!!&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? The “inch yourself along the lane separator floaties and never let go” stroke usually works pretty well, unless the lifeguard is like “stop doing that.” What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) If you loft your bed a little, you can have a fort underneath. 2) You can sneak alcohol into nearly any meal (eg, how about bringing some peppermint schnapps into John Jay to complement&nbsp; your hot chocolate?) 3) Don’t read bwog comments.&nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I just found out that my class’s valedictorian is a guy who lived on my floor freshman year.&nbsp; Hooray Maxim!!&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The time someone poured a bunch of bottles of pee onto the John Jay 9 RA’s door.&nbsp; That was the most heinously disgusting thing that happened while I was here.&nbsp; I guess it wasn’t really a controversy, though, since no one supported the pee.&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Once someone put a condom on a flower on college walk and it stayed there for days.&nbsp; &nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Boh! Vlad Vintila, my intermediate Italian teacher.&nbsp; Ma certo!&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? I think each senior is 35% virgin.&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? It depends – giving cheese or receiving cheese?&nbsp; &nbsp; Days on Campus memory? I unfortunately didn’t attend DOC, but here’s a funny story from freshman year: This guy on my floor moved into the room next to Mark Krotov on the first day of orientation and then never returned.&nbsp; Eventually we picked the lock and looked in his room and the only things there were a hat and a fan.&nbsp; I think he had another place downtown.&nbsp; Regrets? Absolument non! 
 Sexism...it's in your language! Activism...it's gone! Racism...it's in gentrification!&nbsp; Zionism...it doesn't recognize Nakba! Spectator-ism...it sucks!?&nbsp; 
 The winners of the 2008 Lionel Trilling and Mark van Doren Awards have been announced. As Bwog reported earlier, Associate Professor Joseph Massad has been awarded the former, while Andrew Nathan, Political Science Department Chairman, has been awarded the latter for his "humanity, devotion to truth, and and inspiring leadership," according to the press release.&nbsp; The ceremony will be held on Wednesday, May 7th in Low. As all political science undergrads received an email with instructions to RSVP, Bwog believes the event is probably open to the rest of the student body as well. Interested parties can RSVP to academicawards@gmail.com. According to Ian Corey-Boulet, the co-chair of the CC Academic Awards Committee, "For space reasons, the event is open to faculty from the political science and MEALAC departments (as well as all department chairs), various members of the University administration, political science and MEALAC majors, and the winners' friends and family." Also, if you fall into any of these categories and plan on attending the ceremony, according to the AAC press release, the dress code is "business-smart." 
 Throughout last night's CCSC meeting, scavenged foods drove members to use their appetite as a running motif.&nbsp; Satow Room Bureau Chief Martha Turewicz was there, although not feasting. &nbsp; There was some in the back of the room left over from the last meeting of the ’08 class council: chicken, biscuits, potatoes and gravy. Before the meeting, a tray of marzipan pieces shaped like fruit was passed around; outgoing President Michelle Diamond warned everyone that it contained nuts and was not actually a fruit. Then Neda Navab mentioned the swim test party coming up in Dodge, at which pizza will be served: “Hopefully they’ll eat the pizza after the swim test.” Mark Johnson brought up the anti-Manhattanville protestors who showed up during the Arts Fair. Thankfully, since the students at said fair were grilling hamburgers, the protest was diffused as the gatecrashers eventually lined up to buy them. Molly Conley spoke about the importance of not hoarding food when going to John Jay, since leftovers are charitably donated. She felt that renovating the dining hall operation hours might discourage people from "taking home 20 apples"; after giving this example of greed, she called out on someone across the room for "looking guilty." In non-food-related business, candidates for the elections board made cases for themselves one by one, and the CC’11 reps introduced proposals to expand summer abroad programs. Also, at one point Michelle Diamond remarked that there’s a porn star who shares her name. &nbsp; But the most memorable part of the meeting was the joke somewhat inexplicably printed on the agenda handout, which read as follows: &nbsp; "The 6th grade science teacher, Mrs. Parks, asked her class, 'Which human body part increases to 10 times its size when stimulated?' &nbsp; No one answered until little Mary stood up, angry, and said, 'You should not be asking 6th graders questions like that! I’m going to tell my parents, and they will go and tell the principal, who will then fire you!' With a sneer on her face, she then sat back down. &nbsp; Mrs. Parks ignored her, and asked the question again, 'Which body part increases to 10 times its size when stimulated?' Little Mar’s mouth fell open; then she said to those around her, 'Boy, is she gonna get in big trouble!' The teacher continued to ignore her and said to the class, 'Anybody?”'Finally, Billy stood up, looked around nervously, and said, 'The body part that increases 10 times its size when stimulated is the pupil of the eye.' &nbsp; Mrs. Parks said, 'Very good, Billy,' then turned to Mary and continued, 'As for you, young lady, I have three things to say: &nbsp; 'One, you have a dirty mind, two, you didn’t read your homework assignment, and three, one day you are going to be very, very disappointed.'" 
 Bwog's coverage of the 2008 presidential campaign continues with Jim Downie's Political Weekly, now back to its regularly scheduled Monday broadcast.&nbsp; This week in politics is like the eye of a hurricane (or at least a tropical depression): stuck in between two supposedly significant weeks. Life on the campaign trail continues incessantly: campaign strategists will scheme for votes, blogs will comb ever deeper for "news," newspapers will ignore their impending doom as a mass media, and America will eagerly await the coming summer vacation for the next semi-attractive white girl to be kidnapped so they finally get some enjoyable news again. Political Weekly also soldiers on, bringing you the news you might have already found while procrastinating. (Also, in honor of the Ron Paul fans who did not realize I was not comparing him to "former mayor" Rudy, but rather "Samwise Gamgee" Rudy, all introductory taglines will reference Lord of the Rings. Whether I'm proud that I can do this is something I'd rather not confront.) And now, the news: The Road Goes Ever On and On: At this time of year, Democratic presidential candidates and Columbia students both need energy to keep going, as the race moves/drags forward. The Hillary Clinton victory in Pennsylvania was just large enough to support her claim that she should keep going. Thankfully, the end is in sight within about a month (the last primaries are June 3), but for Barack Obama and his supporters, the euphoria and momentum of moving into the overall lead has almost completely worn off. Hillary Clinton shows no signs of giving up soon, though a loss in Indiana next Tuesday (along with an almost certain loss in North Carolina) would give Obama some much-needed momentum in finally closing the deal. Ruling Them All: John McCain, his nomination secured sometime back in the Stone Age, continued to keep a relatively low-profile while touring the country. The Washington Post's blog offers some suggestions on what he should do. Strength In Numbers: As always, polls for Indiana, North Carolina, and national head-to-head are here, here, and/or here. Particularly notable is that Clinton now does better than Obama nationally against McCain. Welcome, My Lords, To Sarcasm: Jon Stewart dissects the post-primary responses of Obama and Clinton (okay, mostly Clinton's). Men? Men Are Weak: As in Ohio, when voters were asked in exit polls whether gender affected their vote, Clinton and Obama split 50-50 those who said "no," while Clinton won those who answered "yes." He's Old, And He Looks It: If he wins, John McCain will be the first president born in the 1930s. Cue generational generalizing. It's His Precious Too: Ryan Lizza of The New Yorker suggests that there may be a policy side to Bill Clinton's dislike of Obama. What Does Your Heart Tell You?: Harvard University polls young people, finds opinions are split on Stewart vs. Colbert There Are Fouler Things In The Deep: Think Hillary Clinton has survived the worst Republican attacks? Hendrik Hertzberg says not so fast. 
 Via Columbia's website: "Julia Kalow, of Newton, Mass., is majoring in chemistry and creative writing. A winner of a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, she works in the lab of Professor Jim Leighton in a synthetic chemistry research group. She also is an accomplished flautist, playing with the Columbia University Wind Ensemble, and a dancer. Her interest in creative writing focuses on short prose forms and fiction. Kalow will pursue a Ph.D. in chemistry next year and intends to teach at the university level." Kalow is also a short prose writer, and a talented one at that. You can read her work in the March issue of the Blue and White and in our upcoming April/May double-issue. And for a fun, semi-Julia Kalow-themed matching game, see our earlier post about Phi Beta Kappa. Congrats! 
Columbia isn't the only New York school with an activist, environmentalist campus. Well, okay, maybe. NYU Diarist W.M. Akers ponders the not-so-radical nature of environmental activism below 14th street. We can probably pinpoint the moment when environmentalism went mainstream to Al Gore's Oscar acceptance speech. From then on, it was a steady march to bio-degradeable mouthwash and organic Agent Orange. The movement had never been composed strictly of surly hippies, but it was "An Inconvenient Truth" that brought it into the limelight. Even if her concern for the planet predates the Florida recount, NYU's Julie Goodness could still be called a mainstream environmentalist, if only because her attitude is so moderate. "I'm not so much the angry activist," she said last week. "There's no reward from it, or any direction, or problem solving. I'd rather do earth activism stuff where you're actually able to make a difference." Goodness is the president of Earth Matters, an NYU student activism group that is not so much Weather Underground as Weather Channel, though it was behind the semi-nude Bare Energy Frolic that kicked off Earth Month a few weeks ago. The group's programming for Earth Week, which began with a large outdoor concert last Saturday, has been informative rather than confrontational. It included a panel on how to start riding bikes in New York, films about global warming, and a used clothing swap. At a meeting last Thursday the topics ranged from co-ordinating cupcakes to hanging a banner in the student center. "We don't have permission," said highly radical co-chair Maggie Craig, "but we can do it anyway." Sam Caravello, the other co-chair, was less cavalier. "I don't think it works that way," she said. "I don't want to put the effort into making a poster if we don't have permission." Doing anything noticeable at NYU takes coordination and imagination, and permission never hurts. The University's problem with energy reform is its size, something that Goodness is inclined to view as a challenge. "Other schools don't have buses," she said. "They don't have ten dorms to deal with, they don't have multiple dining locations, they don't have so many different school offices using endless amounts of paper or their own copy center." Earth Week ended last night, with an event on freeganism, an ideology of stinginess whose name is inexplicably tied to a diet. Like Earth Matters, freeganism is a little bit radical without being confrontational: a practice of using other people's leftovers that falls short of Sherwood Forest-style banditry. Of course, they're not storming student centers. And it takes class to present freeganism without sounding like a filthy hippie. And it was Goodness and her cupcake cronies that were classy about their environmentalism in the same way that Al Gore was, by not being filthy in the first place. 
 Though we previously reported the Death of Off-Campus Flex, we're here to edit that pronouncement. Kind of. While Hamdel sandwiches remain just out of reach (so close, yet also far!), CCSC President Michelle Diamond just announced that University Hardware is now accepting Flex.&nbsp; This way, you can use all the cash you don't spend on kitchen appliances and housewares to buy all the Hamdel you want.&nbsp; Everything comes full circle. &nbsp; 
 For SEAS Class Day speaker engineering is the new liberal arts. FaCU, SGB funding meetings should be open to all. The New Harlem, its a happening place. The mayor of Brigadoon bids farewell. Gandhi scholar to hang it up after 40 years of teaching the same course. Jeffrey Sachs goes back to the future. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Next up in our continuing Senior Wisdom series: SEAS soon-to-be-graduate David Judd.&nbsp; Name, School: David Judd, Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science.&nbsp; (Which should still be called the School of Mines, clearly.) Claim to fame: Left-wing mujahid.&nbsp; (See here &amp; here.) Post-grad plans: For now, a Java programming job in eastern Jersey.&nbsp; Maybe in a couple years, a computer science master's.&nbsp; Someday, the victory of socialism. Preferred swim test stroke? None!&nbsp; (See here.) What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Fox News personnel have a curious obsession with male genitals.&nbsp; 2. There is no demonstration so innocuous that it will not be controversial at Columbia, nor is there any statement so shamelessly callous that some "liberal" Columbia student will not take proud ownership of it.&nbsp; 3. If you share the element of bitterness expressed in (2), it is a bad idea to let it slip out in a job interview.&nbsp; Honesty is important, but so is tact... Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Engineers, who go along with too much shit, need more radicalism.&nbsp; Radicals, who talk too much shit, need more engineering. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Despite all the backlash, not only was protesting the Minutemen a lot of fun, but more importantly I do believe that publicizing their racism and making them look impotent contributed in a small way to their subsequent organizational decline. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Hmm - my college experience was marked by a fairly sharp partitioning of different elements of my life, so I'm not sure there is one.&nbsp; But what pops into my head as somehow characteristic is an argument with a friend one drunken late night in Lion's Head about the need for a revolutionary party, in which I was apparently really persuasive but neither of us could remember why in the morning.&nbsp; Two steps forward, one step back? Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Bashir Abu-Manneh, not only hot but my vote for professor most deserving of greater recognition as a brilliant teacher &amp; scholar. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Fuck if I know.&nbsp; 20? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Well, given my current diet, if I gave up cheese I'd probably starve to death, and therefore lose both... Days on Campus memory? I had such a positive impression of the school. Regrets? Didn't take enough advantage of living in New York.&nbsp; Never took a class with Dalton, Fields, Mamdani, Massad, or Young.&nbsp; Failed to save the policy debate team from sliding into oblivion.&nbsp; Never occupied a building.&nbsp; Never met Lee Bollinger in a dark place with no witnesses. (Which I regret because he's so very sexy, of course!) 
 A tipster alumnus/ice cream enthusiast brings the following to Bwog's attention: In honor of the ice cream chain's 30th birthday, today is free cone day at Ben &amp; Jerry's. Luckily, Columbia is only ten or so blocks away for one of four Ben &amp; Jerry's Manhattan locations.&nbsp; 
 Honing in on honor.&nbsp; How to lose a lot of money really quickly. Preying on a praying mantis. Fancying fallacious funds. Buying your birthright. A cowboy (of sorts) who actually cares about the environment. Lionlink: Lionel and the Liberals. An Aeroplane Analytic.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
While spending a semester studying abroad in Ecuador, Bwogger in exile, Sara Vogel, fell into an internship with the press office in Ciudad Eloy Alfaro, where the country’s brightest and finest (we hope!) are hard at work forming the Republic of the Equator all over again, and for the 21st time. Her dispatch: I just got a text message from Luis Hernández, a bald ex-colonel in the Ecuadorian military and one of the 130 people charged with writing the country’s new constitution. It reads: “Hola, como estas? Soy Luis Hernandez. Cuando conversamos sobre la democracia y la libertad de expresión en USA?” (for the Spanish-challenged: “Hey, how are you? It’s Luis Hernandez. When are we going to talk about democracy and freedom of expression in the US?”) I didn’t expect text messages stalking after I interviewed Sr. Hernández as an intern for the Ecuadorian Constitutional Assembly’s press office. But I also never thought SIT Study Abroad would be able to deliver a job like this for the three-week long final independent study project all SIT students must diligently complete. Maybe it was less the program that set me down in this over-air conditioned office, and more the networks of friendship and patronage that grease the wheels of Ecuadorian politics generally: SIT’s directors knew a woman who knew a guy who knew a guy. And now, I wander the halls and cubicles of the assembly building, which has the aspect of a high school gym in lighting, ceiling height, and frantic activity, looking for interviews with the people who have the power to dictate how Ecuador works – theoretically for eternity, but at least for the next 10 years. After a few digital back-and-forths, it was determined that the Colonel and I will have lunch this week in the Assembly’s cafeteria, where I know there will be plenty of people around. Extravagant by Ecuadorian standards, the cafeteria is free for staff and there are always two kinds of meat with rice to choose from, a soup, a vegetable, and a dessert. I heard from my host-mom that they spend $5,000 weekly to feed all of the asembleistas, advisors, and the personales de apoyo like me. In a country where the average family of 5 needs $450 a month to meet their basic needs, that's quite an expense. The latest Constitutional Assembly is the product of a few years of political tumult. When hundreds of thousands of Ecuadorians stormed the streets of Quito to depose of its last officially elected but very corrupt president in 2005, they also chanted “que se vayan todos,” calling for the expulsion of its entire congress. The new president, a young, left-leaning, and many say guapo economist, Rafael Correa, stepped into power in 2006 and made the people’s demands a reality. He dissolved the country’s legislative body and fulfilled his campaign promise to commission an assembly to rewrite the constitution. Right now, they are also passing emergency legislation in the congress’ absence. That means that while he might not be a member of the dominant political party, Hernández is still one of the most powerful people in the country. That doesn’t make him any less creepy. Update 4-30: We had lunch. And despite all of the catcalls that have come at me from all sides in this place, he didn't follow the trend, and we actually did talk about democracy and freedom of expression.&nbsp; To read more dispatches from Columbians abroad, check out Off Broadway&nbsp; 
In an email sent to the entire Columbia community this afternoon President Bollinger officially announced the appointment of interim dean of the School of International and Public Affairs, John Coatsworth, as the new permanent head of SIPA.&nbsp; PrezBo welcomed Professor Coatsworth to his new role by listing his myriad academic accomplishments and suggesting how they will be put to use in SIPA's transition to Manhattanville in the coming years.&nbsp; Below is an excerpt from President Bollinger's email: "I am very pleased to announce the appointment of John Coatsworth as the new Dean of the School of International and Public Affairs. John has done an outstanding job as acting Dean of SIPA this past year, and it will be a pleasure to continue working with him in this permanent role. This will be a critical period in the history of SIPA, especially as the School prepares to move into its own building in Manhattanville. In the short period of time in which John has been leading the School, he has been able to galvanize the SIPA community to begin preparing for its future. This will be absolutely critical in determining the course of SIPA over the next several years, which will in turn be extremely important in shaping the character of the University, particularly on the matter of our collective engagement with a wide range of public policy issues and globalization. I think we are very fortunate at this moment to have a dean with John's abilities. Let me take just a moment to note John's career. He is a leading expert on Latin American economic and international history. He taught at the University of Chicago from 1969 until he joined the Harvard faculty in 1992. From 1992 until 2007, he was Monroe Gutman Professor of Latin American Affairs at Harvard, where he also served as the founding director of the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies from its creation in 1994 until 2006. He also chaired the Harvard University Committee on Human Rights Studies. His other academic posts have included visiting professorships at El Colegio de México, the National Autonomous University of Mexico, the National University of Buenos Aires, the Instituto Torcuato di Tella in Buenos Aires, and the Instituto Ortega y Gassett in Madrid. A onetime Guggenheim Fellow, John is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Council on Foreign Relations, and numerous professional associations. He is a former president of the American Historical Association and was recently elected to the presidency of the Latin American Studies Association. He first came to Columbia as a visiting professor in 2006-07 and joined the faculty in 2007 before becoming acting Dean of SIPA." Bwog congratulates Professor Coatsworth on his accomplishment and wishes him the best of luck as he will continue to guide East Campus's bastion of future diplomats and ambassadors in the coming years! &nbsp; 
 Tipster/photographer Jason Patinkin just sent the following photos Bwog's way. "Well bwog, I hope you enjoyed the last week of sitting on the steps, because once again Columbia taketh our favorite midday hangout. &nbsp;Indeed the construction of wooden posts and metal bleachers across the steps begins today (or maybe yesterday)," he writes. It's that time of year again when graduation preparation coincides with the most beautiful week of the year. Gather ye steptime while ye may/Old Time is still a-flying/And this same flower that smiles to-day/To-morrow will be dying. More of Patinkin's photos after the jump. &nbsp; 
 Charles Tilly, the eminent Joseph L. Buttenwieser Professor of Social Science, passed away this morning. An official University-wide announcement is still in the works, though some of his students and colleagues have organized a vigil tonight at 7 p.m. that will take place under his Fayerweather office's (514) window. You can read more about Tilly and some of his work here. Although, if you've taken any courses in social science, it's likely you're already well-acquainted with his ideas. 
 Coatsworth: once temporal, now forever. Coatsworth: That whole Ahmadinejad thing made stuff complicated for him Coatsworth, we're sure, has appreciated all the work you've done for the Spectator Coatsworth has enjoyed both the Project Bluelight film and There Will Be Blood, though since Dreamgirls&nbsp; he's lost faith in the Oscars. "If chance may have me king, why, chance may crown me."—Dean Coatsworth ...but Coatsworth is! He trusted you, Pinkberry. And in non-Spec, non-Coatsworth news: Robert Thurman weighs in on Uma's creepy stalker. 
 The latest in our continuing Senior Wisdom series: CC valedictorian Maxim Pinkovskiy&nbsp; Name, School: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Maxim Pinkovskiy, CC Claim to fame: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I was the 2004 M&amp;M Peanut Minute Student of the Year in Xavier Sala-i-Martin’s Intermediate Macro class! Post-grad plans: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Ph.D. in economics at MIT, then – I hope – professor at Columbia University. Preferred swim test stroke? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Walk three lengths on the bottom of the swimming pool on my hands. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How to reconcile Thucydides’ interpretation of history as guided by characteristics of people as a whole – desire, hope, pride – with his deep interest in individual leaders. 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; How to prove the Central Limit Theorem. 3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; “Everything has an economic intuition.” – Xavier Sala-i-Martin Justify your existence in 30 words or less. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Cogito ergo sum (1/10th of 30 words)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Once, a Spectator editorial criticized the way economics is taught at Columbia...my friends and I had a fun time talking about how to respond. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Falling off my chair in Econ Forum while arguing about the New Deal.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sophia Kovalevskaya (1850-1891) What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; That must be an imaginary number. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In the dictionary, the word “turophile” has my picture next to it – I vacuum-clean all the cheese at formal events. I hope this answers it. Days on Campus memory? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I stayed up having a philosophical conversation with some people until midnight – this was the first time I had done this, and would prove not to be the last. Regrets? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Columbia has been a blessing to me all four years, and I am sorry that this phase of my life is coming to a close. I also regret that Professor Seidel moved to California before I could take more of his classes. &nbsp; 
 Every year, an ESC meeting answers all the questions. All the&nbsp;mysterious post-meeting activities, all the jokes that made no sense, and all the&nbsp;surreptitious eye contact&nbsp;– each explained by one ultimate meeting. Well, I probably missed it, because last night's wasn't the one. And it was the last meeting of the semester. Shit. Nevertheless, I could tell right from the start that this meeting was going to be special, when the proposal enabling engineering students to take classes P/D/F was announced to have passed for a one-year trial. The council submitted a lukewarm applause, which seemed to say, "This proposal got a Pass, but you probably shouldn't uncover the grade." Following up on last week's dining initiatives, the council passed written proposals for continuous swiping at John Jay from 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM. Finally, my 3:00 PM breakfasts are becoming acceptable. Next, Class of 2008 got sentimental as Class President Eash Cumarasamy read some school-ending song lyrics to us, featuring standards by Green Day ("… I hope you had the time of your life"), Queen ("We are the champions…of the world!"), and The Beatles ("I get high with a little help from my friends"). Mixed feelings of nostalgia and excitement, like the mixed feelings of attraction I had for Nala when I watched&nbsp;The Lion King&nbsp;for the first time, filled the senior council members. I didn't think anything was going to top that, but the lamest last-meeting activity was yet to come: ESC superlatives. I was told to keep this dubiously entertaining award ceremony from publication, which, ultimately, is probably in the reader's best interest. However, I can't say I didn't like the idea, and in its name, I've compiled my own list of superlatives: Most apt symbolism: Gunnar Aasen (see&nbsp;here). Best clicker: Daniel Gundrum (see&nbsp;here). Most jealous: Class of 2009 (see&nbsp;here). Best absurdism: Esther Zuckerman (see&nbsp;here). Quickest hands: Prish Dunstan (see&nbsp;here). Best apple: Granny Smith – April 7, 2008 (see&nbsp;here). Fondest of beef: Eash Cumarasamy (see&nbsp;here,&nbsp;here, and&nbsp;here). And finally, Liz Strauss left us with her parting statement: "It has been a pleasure to work with all of you my senior year. Thank all of you," which was nice, especially because she didn't finish that sentence "except Tony Gong." The recently elected 08-09 ESC President Peter Valeiras then took the center chair, enthusiastically explaining the agenda for the rest of the meeting: "We're going to do an icebreaker and share some of our aspirations for this year!" New members exchanged puzzled looks around the table, as they wondered fearfully what this charismatic man had in store for them. "So everyone take a few M&amp;Ms!" And with that, I knew it was time for me to leave. I refuse to let ESC ruin M&amp;Ms for me. -Tony Gong 
 Tipster Frances Jeffrey-Coker slyly informed Bwog about a film she directed that took home a Best Picture prize last night: "The nationwide Campus Moviefest competition took place on campus 2 weeks ago, where groups of Columbia students had a week to make a 5-minute movie. The top 16 from Columbia were shown at the AMC theatre on 84th street, and awards and ipods were given to the best comedy, best drama, and best picture. The link to the video that won best picture, called The Face of Poverty, is here. The credits at the end mention all the people involved, and I'm not sure what the names were of the best comedy and best drama but I'm sure that someone who sees the posting on bwog if you put it will know. It will possibly go up against videos in a nationwide competition/viewing being held in the Hudson theatre downtown in Times Square, where the top 20 movies from around the US will be showcased." No need to be coy, Frances! We're proud of you. Bwog did manage to track down the winner of the Best Comedy prize: Bwog's own Tony Gong. His ringing endorsement of his film: "Winners of Best Comedy were my friends Evan Omi and Nathan McAlone and I for our surprisingly unfunny movie "'Boyfriend Material.'" Anyone know who won best drama? &nbsp; 
 They're setting up on South Lawn now—grilled meat, adult beverages (the usual 2 IDs to drink), and 200 pounds of sweet, sweet candy. It'll go from 5 until 8PM.
 It's unofficially academic honors day on Bwog, so in a very special double-feature of Senior Wisdom, we check in with CC Salutatorian, Julia Kalow. Name, School: Julia Kalow, Columbia College&nbsp; Claim to fame: I’m the one you have to listen to at CC Class Day who’s not Joel Klein.&nbsp; Post-grad plans: PhD in organic chemistry at Princeton.&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? Breast.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. The academic part of college (which is all I’m qualified to talk about) is fun if you allow yourself to be a dork enough to enjoy it.&nbsp; Look for the things that interest you, that surprise you, that impassion you, and then have unabashedly loud and dorky arguments about them with your dorkiest friends in inappropriate places. 2. Appreciate your departmental administrative assistants.&nbsp; If they like you, you can get around a lot of red tape.&nbsp; Also, some of them will give you cookies. 3. If someone asks you a question that you can’t answer, the best response is: “That would be a good thought experiment.” I heard Horst Stormer use it once at a seminar, so it must work. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I make sublime scrambled eggs.&nbsp; Heartbreakingly tender.&nbsp; And I know how to fit a 32-inch timpani into the Lerner elevators.&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The one in the chemistry department that no one talks about.&nbsp; Shhh…&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Once I was in Lerner late at night, trying to study, and a girl sat across from me and proceeded to eat spaghetti and meatballs—with her hands.&nbsp; She ate strand by strand, tilting back her head like a baby bird, and when she was done she slid her finger around the container and licked off the extra sauce.&nbsp; Then a mouse ran out from underneath my chair. Since then I’ve studied in my dorm room.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Horst Stormer.&nbsp; Now that would be a good thought experiment.&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Twenty-two and dropping.&nbsp; I assume there’s some sort of last-minute pre-graduation scramble.&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Let me put it this way: Westside Market offers free samples of only one of these things.&nbsp; Days on Campus memory? I applied early decision, so my parents didn’t see the point in my going to Days on Campus.&nbsp; “What’s the point?” they said.&nbsp; “All that bother, sending you to New York for two days to see a school you already know you’re going to?”&nbsp; Regrets? I should have gotten a Duane Reade club card back when I was a freshman. 
 As anyone who has stepped outside in the past hour might have noticed, there are swarms of over-studied, over-worked kids piling out of Butler and Lerner who are descending en masse on the Candyland BBQ. Lines stretch around the quad, with students at the beginning of the line providing Bwog with estimated wait times ranging from "thirty minutes" to "too fucking long" to "a while." Further documentation after the jump. (Bwog also apologizes for placing our thumb over the lens.) 
 Goodbye, Nicholas Dirks's red bandana and the profusion of hair it covered Goodbye, Courseworks! Goodbye, Speccie #1 Goodbye, Other Speccie Goodbye, Israeli-Palestinian conflict (???!!!!!) -- at least among campus student groups -- maybe... 
 Senior Wisdom Series continues as we hear from PBKer, Marshall Scholar and Rhodes Scholar George Olive. You know, in case the salutatorian and valedictorian didn't make you feel insecure enough. Name, School: George Olive, CC '08 Claim to fame: I unwittingly participated in an attempt to burn down Hogan my first week of college. During NSOP, my RA recruited a group of us to help retrieve and carry a stolen fridge back from Hogan. When the negotiations soured, a hot-blooded member of the retrieval party set the offending suite's name-placard on fire, unbeknownst to me (seriously). When the fire alarm went off and we realized what had happened, my RA freaked out and instructed us to leave immediately without telling the security guard, which we did. This, specifically, is what I got in trouble for. The RA and the excitable student were suspended and kicked out of housing, and I ended up with a year of disciplinary probation. At the time, I thought I was going to get kicked out. In my sentencing hearing, I remember feeling both genuinely terrified about this prospect and curious to know whether Kevin Schollenberger was sitting on a booster seat. Post-grad plans: Two years at Oxford in whatever department will accept me. I've applied for a Masters in Economic and Social History. I'll be working at McKinsey for a few years after Oxford, and then hope to spend my life working in the alternative energy sector in developing countries. Preferred swim test stroke? The stroke itself is basically immaterial—flip turns are the true measure of a man. What are three things you learned at Columbia? The marginal rate of substitution between two goods is always y/x. There are hundreds of ways for a person to be smart. You don't have guidance counselors at Columbia, and you don't have them in real life either. Stop looking for them and start looking for you. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Developing economies will need terawatts of new energy infrastructure during our lifetime. It will be coal-powered unless we figure something else out. This is the most important problem on Earth. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? It's a toss-up. Viscerally, nothing holds a candle to the Matt Sanchez fiasco. However, I doubt I'll ever forget just how peculiar and conflicted I felt sitting in a half-naked sea on the South Fields watching our well-coifed President indict—and insult—a head of state, to his face, over and over again. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? I had Lit Hum with an extraordinary group of people, which we all took completely and gleefully for granted. Sophomore year, when people landed in mediocre CC sections, a small group of us decided to start meeting on our own to give those people an outlet for their ideas. I somehow got my hands on the keys to a big classroom in Schermerhorn, and we would convene on weekday nights to drink beer and talk about books and everything else. We've continued to hang out and think together ever since. On some level, I knew that this group was special the whole time, but when that little book club contributed about a quarter of the early inductees of Phi Beta Kappa this year, I realized just how lucky I had been. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Susan Elmes. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Zero, I hope! Be a lover, like John Stuart Mill; don't fear others, yourself, or the unknown. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Cheese. Days on Campus memory? I didn't come for Days on Campus, but I did have a frozen margarita from the Heights when I came to visit in 11th grade, which by seniority makes me THE COOLEST Regrets? No major ones. I think that I was exceedingly lucky throughout my Columbia career, and I don't really have regrets in the traditional sense. I think that happiness is making the best decisions you can a priori and then accepting them no matter what. As far as I can tell, that's all stoicism is supposed to mean. 
 Bwog is taking it slow today and, most likely, so are you. Luckily, the good people at the 114th Annual Varisty Show (a.k.a. Morningside Hates) have unveiled their website. It features high-larious Dateline-style investigations of the V-show's alleged misdeeds. Bwog has, of course, watched all the videos, but isn't quite feeling up to full reviews. Nevertheless, Bwog recommends all the episodes from "Varsity Show Destroys Ozone Layer!!!etal" on down to the bottom of the page. For those seeking a more involved way of whiling away their lives, Bwog will share its most recent hobby: INTERNET COLORING. Yes, with just a click here and a click there, you too can create beautiful images to decorate your soon-to-be-vacated room or soon-to-be-moved-into Butler study space. For the few who wholeheartedly embrace Bwog's critical eye, here are a few recommendations: the sassy "polka-dot top," the mystical "earth wizard," and the magnificent "eating hamburgers," a sad reminder of what the Candyland Cookout might have been. Speaking of Candyland, the Hasbro website has a coloring page, too! The designs are delightful, but there's no purple on the color palette! For shame! 
 Grumbly reactions to Class Day speakers are traditional at Columbia (John McCain, too conservative! Matthew Fox, too pedestrian!). Joel Klein has received only a smattering of disapproval in the comments, on account of his low name recognition. To stoke your envy (or pride--at least we didn't end up with Bianca Jagger), Bwog has collected a list of class speakers at other schools--including some schools we've never heard of. Kudos to Harvard on an amazing combination--prestige and entertainment. Full list after the jump. Edit, 6:15 pm: More class day speakers at the end of the jump. Barnard: David Remnick, Michael Bloomberg, Billie Jean King, Thelma Davidson College of Saint Rose: Gov. David Paterson Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory: Oliver Sacks Cornell: Maya Angelou Furman: George W. Bush Gettysburg: Sandra Day O'Connor Harvard: J.K. Rowling, Ben Bernanke Indiana University: Will Shortz Kenyon: Anna Quindlen MIT: Muhammad Yunus Northwestern Law School: Jerry Springer Oberlin: Fareed Zakaria Princeton: Stephen Colbert, Paul Farmer&nbsp; Simmons College: Bianca Jagger Stanford: Oprah Winfrey Syracuse: Bob Woodruff UCLA: Bill Clinton&nbsp; University of Georgia: Clarence Thomas&nbsp; UPenn: Michael Bloomberg Williams: Richard Serra, LeVar Burton Yale: Tony Blair - only a rumor at this point. The speaker has not been announced due to so-called security concerns Still More! Apparently, in the mind of some middle aged commencement planners, all hosts of button-pushing TV shows are the same. Lucky are the students who have sat for speeches by Jon Stewart, Stephen Colbert, and Seth MacFarlane, but woe to those who ended up with Meredith Vieira and Lisa Ling. And ear plugs to those who must listen to Chris Matthews. Bethany: Bud Selig Bryant: George H. W. Bush Carnegie Mellon: Al Gore Central Connecticut State: Gov. M. Jodi Rell Dickinson: Kwame Anthony Appiah Hofstra: Gov. David A. Paterson North Carolina Ag &amp; Tech: Bill Cosby&nbsp; Pitzer: Samantha Power Quinnipiac: Lisa Ling SUNY Binghampton: Ted Kooser Tufts: Meredith Vieira Vanderbilt: Bob Geldof&nbsp; Wash U: Chris Matthews 
 Perpetual Bwog favorite Richard Bulliet has once again treated the students of Islamo-Christian Civilization to a semester of quotable quotations. Read and learn: this is the wit that lured Ahmadinejad to campus. Too Much Information It's like getting a contact high when everyone around you is smoking dope but you don't do that--you're still sharing a bit of the blessing. But let's not mention Lyndon LaRouche because he's kind of crazy. I wouldn't have brought him up at all if my brother-in-law hadn't devoted half his life to his cause. Life Advice I'm a dentist. If you want to lose weight, drink Raspberry Zinger tea. I'm a pharmacist. When I play baseball, I use Spalding balls. Vladivostok: the southernmost city in Russia. There's a little factoid for your next television appearance. You'll find the most beautiful tilework in the world there. And you should definitely think of visiting it…the next time you're in Uzbekistan. On Culture, Religion, and History These snake-handling sects in Kentucky have quite a number of snake bites. Probably because the snakes were not as tied in with the Holy Spirit as they used to be. Why is Saudi Arabia considered an enemy culture even though it is closer to certain American administrations than their own kidneys are? You get to Heaven and you see everyone speaking Hebrew. You say, "Damn." The Romans were always defending themselves, and increasingly on other people’s land. The hadiths were like a ripe cheese, that just oozed and expanded. On Academia Kursi is also the word for a chair in certain academic circles, where you also have a lot of big butts. (Of certain far-fetched theories) This is the law of regression of causation to the point of least knowledge. (Of Hegelianism) It was an intoxicating bologna sandwich. 
 Gore! Grass! Sorority girls! Tap it! 
Harlem affordable housing: "The sugar on a sour pie." On asthma: "Ninety percent of time is spent indoors." Director: What "nobody else had was my unique view about stuff." Columnist: "we’ve been doing so much, trying so much, and experiencing so much." Reporter: "It’s clear that the Obama-Wright controversy rests on race." Director, on the best aspects of her show: "Short." 
 Name, School: &nbsp; Geoff Aung, CC&nbsp; Claim to fame: &nbsp; Inaugurating Columbia’s Burmese-German-Irish (BGI) population. Starting the Burma 88 Coalition, wrangling friends and enemies to get involved and put Burma on the campus map (right next to the room with all the skulls in Schermerhorn extension).&nbsp; Post-grad plans: &nbsp; Researching rural herding cooperatives in Mongolia for the summer, then researching migrant labor on the Thai-Burma border for the year. Basically, living on government funds and talking to marginalized (and very cool) folks. The Fulbright’s picking up my tab for Thailand.&nbsp; &nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; Thankfully I took the lap-swimming phys-ed class as a first-year. Last time I tried swimming with the long hair I have now, I couldn’t figure out how to keep it out of my face. A couple French people (this was in Thailand) were laughing at me on the side of the pool. I would obviously fail if I had to take the test now. Always wanted to learn the butterfly. &nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; 1. Poststructuralists are still the coolest kids on the block. But what’s next? 2. Jeffrey Sachs is Kipling in disguise, and far less eloquent. Sustainable development is the latest re-casting of modernization theory and old-school notions of progress. 3. Without the Hungarian Pastry Shop, the university would implode. &nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; Sometimes I daydream about permanently relocating to a yurt in the north Gobi. That has to be worth something. &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; All respect to last year’s hunger strike. Columbia’s expansion remains, for me, the ultimate caveat in an institution that otherwise I’ve come to appreciate quite a bit. There is no justifying our plans in Harlem, and I was astounded to see how much other students shrank from the task when the hunger strikers pointed the way to direct action. Ours is a far more conservative student population than our liberal imaginations want to admit. &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; Diving naked into the icy waters of Brighton Beach on a frigid night in February. The preceding subway party would have been completely unsuccessful had I not nearly frozen to death. And don’t believe the lies – I was the only one of the Columbia folks to fully submerge myself. Sadly the bodegas were closed afterwards, as a Baltica 9 would have been great for warming the bones. &nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser?&nbsp; Definitely someone teaching in the humanities – scientists don’t know about love. &nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; Judging by a few annoyed responses to the anti-war protests last week, there are definitely a few virgins around. &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; Is the cheese in the form of cheese curds from Wisconsin? Please clarify. &nbsp; Days on Campus memory?&nbsp; Choosing Dartmouth over Columbia right afterwards because Days on Campus was such a pathetic operation. And then reversing my decision two days later because I realized Dartmouth is a museum piece. And then taking year off to be a ski-bum out west because college had become way less urgent. &nbsp; Regrets?&nbsp; Not coming sooner to anthropology, not spending enough time in Jackson Heights – by far the best place to be in the city. 
 Bwog's resident theater expert Michael Molina managed to weave his way through the large, metal, bleacher-like sets to review KCST's As You Like It, and was kind enough to send us his review. The King’s Crown Shakespeare Troupe’s performance of “As You Like It” brings laughter and general amusement despite rain clouds, graduation bleachers, and a three-hour performance. While Shakespeare seems to be at it again with his “Oh, shit, he doesn’t know that’s not her even though it is” and the typical “Why did that guy do that? Now he’s ruined everything!”, the members of the troupe bring jovial glee to this complicated comedy of silly proportions. Although this piece of student theater is not the most groundbreaking interpretation or presentation of Shakespeare, the profound talent of the cast and the mostly insightful direction of Priyanka Choksi creates a general mood of merriment that can be seen for two more nights outside near the steps. The play begins with low energy and stagnant blocking, but it's immediately jump-started once Kris Wiener and a wrestling ring of Christmas lights ascend upon Low Steps. Throughout the play Kris does a fantastic job of moving the show along with a carefree, cocksure nature. And the Christmas lights foreshadow the imaginative elements of what’s to come. Loaded with melodramatic reenactments, the hunting of forest beasts, and the general insanity of Jeff Julian, the directing is most original when “Shills” or other cast members come on to recreate the subtle extravagance of Shakespeare’s prose. Throughout the story of true love escaping an oppressive, mustachioed duke in order to find itself in the disguises of another (a plot line thankfully simplified by Shaina Rubin’s cartoon in the program), mimed engagements of the text allow the audience to feel a little smarter. Kris is not the only stand-out performance in the show. Austin Mitchell brings painful humor into a depressing and heartbreaking role while Chas Carey gloriously saunters about in his interpretation of the Shakespearean fool. Breanne Lucy, playing Celia, is a talent to be anticipated and Jeff Brown’s Orlando will make any girl in the audience swoon (incidentally, a Shill handed me a letter that read “Call all for a good time. I’ll be there. Love, Jeff “Why am i so hot” Brown). A lot could be said about the performers, as this is a show where many cast members will certainly be somebody’s favorite. At three-hours long, however, the audience will begin to question the liberties that could have been taken in the interpretation of this play. Scenes that could have been thinned occasionally dragged with unmotivated blocking and winding dialogue. While it was fun to move around campus and see the seldom used lawns spring to life, the director needs to consider that the audience is standing and walking for a very long time. Also, perhaps next time the Shills can be used more effectively if their painted faces acted as a color motif and guidance for the characters and scenes taking place. These issues, however, should not deter you from seeing this show. Beware the Shills and bring an umbrella. If you can muster up the strength to stand for three hours and simultaneously digest the fast-paced plot, this is certainly a King’s Crown performance not to be missed. The troupe seems to be having a lot of fun with it and the audience members who stayed to the end could hardly refrain from yelling cheers of happiness and camaraderie when everything ended as it should. 
 Pardon the temporary hiatus -- but if finals and papers are killing you as much as they're killing us, perhaps it's time for a break anyway. TONIGHT Goddard's 60s begins at Film Forum! (209 W Houston St., 212-727-8110). With fashion designer Agnes B. introducing "Breathless" today. Film runs all weekend, event runs through June 5. ($11; see site for show times) The Hold Steady at Webster Hall (125 E 11th St.) The Brooklyn-based band plays as the main act as part of the Tribeca Film Festival Breaking the Band showcase, with The Virgins, Republic Tigers, and Bad Veins. ($15, 6:30 PM) Bobby McFerrin Young Artists Concert @ Carnegie Hall, Zankel stage (57th &amp; 7th Ave., 212-247-7800). "After a five-day Professional Training Workshop, McFerrin and participants specializing in a variety of singing traditions will create Instant Opera—an improvised, a cappella work based on the story of the Tower of Babel. This work explores the origins of language while celebrating cultural differences." ($10 Students, 7:30 PM) The 114th Annual Varsity Show @ Roone Arledge Auditorium (on-campus). Self-explanatory, but in case it isn't: a culmination of all the year's campus jokes rolled into one big musical shebang. ($5/$10/$20 CUID at CUArts TIC, 8PM) The Kings Crown Shakespeare Troupe presents As You Like It @ Low Plaza (on-campus). See a traveling production by Columbia's own KCST only steps away from your building! Just be prepared in case of any strange weather patterns. (FREE, 11:59PM) SATURDAY Sakura Matsuri: Cherry Blossom Festival @ Brooklyn Botanic Gardens (1000 Washington Ave., Bklyn). For those who enjoy cherry trees and Japanese culture (including, according to the website, "some of the country's hippest DJ's spinning Japanese pop sounds"). ($4 Student garden admission, 10AM-6PM) Drums Along the Hudson: A Native American Festival &amp; Shad Fest @ Inwood Hill Park (218th &amp; Indian Rd.) An event that will feature native food, crafts, art, plank-cooking demonstrations and tastings, and "native drumming from around the world, intertribal social dances like the Round Dance, the Iroquois Smoke Dance, and the Jingle Dance." What is a Jingle Dance? Bwog does not know, but assumes you should go if you'd like to find out. (FREE, 11AM-3PM) Cinco de Mayo Festival @ Low Plaza (on-campus). Not quite May 5th and we doubt there will be Corona -- not on the college walk, anyway -- but the Chicano Caucus is hosting an event with dance troupes, mariachi music, and a TACO truck. (FREE, 1PM-5PM) The Kings Crown Shakespeare Troupe presents As You Like It @ Low Plaza (on-campus). See Friday. (FREE, 8PM) The 114th Annual Varsity Show&nbsp; @ Roone Arledge Auditorium (on-campus). See Friday. ($5/$10/$20 CUID at CUArts TIC, 8PM) Rejection Letter Party @The Ontological Theater at St. Mark's Church (131 E 10th St.). Didn't get into grad school? Denied by that internship you were hoping for? This might be the (hopefully not-too-depressing) party for you! The Ontological Society is hosting a benefit party for summer "in response to the specific community the Ontological Incubator serves: burgeoning young artists who frequently struggle with rejection...This is a chance for the community to come together and share in the universal experience of rejection, and in doing so, remove some of the power individual rejections hold." ($15, $10 w/letter, 9PM) SUNDAY Sakura Matsuri: Cherry Blossom Festival @ Brooklyn Botanic Gardens (1000 Washington Ave., Bklyn). See Saturday. ($4 Student garden admission, 10AM-6PM) Yefim Bronfman and Friends @ Carnegie Hall, Perelman stage (57th &amp; 7th Ave., 212-247-7800). An all-star performance featuring Bronfman (piano), Gil Shaham (violin), Lynn Harrell (cello) and the Emerson String quartet. Featuring works by Shostakovich, Tchaikovsky, and world premieres by Marc-André Dalbavie and Jörg Widmann. ($10 Students, 2PM) The 114th Annual Varsity Show&nbsp; @ Roone Arledge Auditorium (on-campus). See Friday. ($5/$10/$20 CUID at CUArts TIC, 3PM &amp; 8PM) 
A Bwog classic, Campus Corners is returning from a two year hiatus -- for one day. Here, we bring you some of Columbia's less crowded study spots, if only to get you to leave Wien's warm embrace for a couple minutes. Getting into the computer science lounge isn't easy. Last year, every undergrad was sent an email with a picture of a balding, middle-aged man in a tweed-patched jacket. As it turned out, this still-unidentified pseudo-intellectual (at whom nobody would have batted an eye were he teaching databases) didn't work at Columbia. His job was to walk into the CS building and steal computers. Since the day that those security camera photos first circulated, admission to the computer science department has required special swipe access. Two swipes after 5 PM. Three swipes for a special windowless room where it's always 52 degrees, but never mind! Because behind the second door, if you're walking behind a gullible or easily distracted programmer, is the computer science lounge. The lounge is a typical nerd-centric space in many ways. Utilitarian metal tables with a few grad students are the norm, with the monotony broken up by the occasional pizza party/giant Halo session. (Monday nights). But there's a fridge, and a nice stove, and a microwave, and -- most importantly -- free coffee. And behind a wall of glass doors is the courtyard. Open space is at a premium on the Columbia campus, of course, so it's a surprise that a space as big as Uris Lawn (check Google maps, hey) is enclosed on four sides and can only be reached through a locked building. But the courtyard is bizarrely sunny and quiet; a few cherry blossom-ish trees break up the bricks and park benches, and there's a view of nearby apartment buildings over the edge of Mudd. The coffee is terrible, but hey, the wireless works, and you can see the students in eighth floor classrooms peeking jealously through windowshades.
Tipster John Hill forwarded Bwog a most interesting link: Trojan is kind enough to release a ranked list (warning: PDF) of American universities on the basis of their standards of sexual health. Breathe easy; Columbia took 12th place of 139 (third among the Ivies, after Harvard and Penn, and 51 places above those filthy Cornell types). Notably, Brigham Young took the coveted 121 seat. Bottoms up! 
It's time for another installment of Senior Wisdom as we check in with Rhodes Scholar and PBKer Jason Bello. Name, School: Jason Bello, CC 08&nbsp; Claim to fame: Almost burning down Hartley (several times) and getting my own CTV cooking show out of it (“The Careless Cook”). &nbsp; Post-grad plans: I am leaving the US during the most exciting election in decades to study political science (thank goodness for comparative politics). &nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? Synchronized swimming with Rahul Jain and Felipe Tarud.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? If you’re hosting a dinner gathering, a surefire way to get everybody to know each other is to come late to your own party :) People who are balder than their opponents get on average between 3% and 6% less votes in open gubernatorial elections (original research from W4911). It’s okay to have a messy room (replies my suitemate: “that is what you think, not what you learned”). Justify your existence in 30 words or less. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3 pounds lamb &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2 tablespoons oil &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Onion &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Celery stalk &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Carrot &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4 garlic cloves &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4 oz tomato-paste &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1/2 cup each: white wine, mushrooms &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Can crushed tomatoes &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Red pepper flakes &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Salt/Pepper&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Oh man, I have to pick one? I’d go with the time Ann Coulter tried to bust the S&amp;M club meeting in Hamilton. &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Me: Girl: I’m a Republican. Me: Oh, you see, I’m politically moderate, I love Republicans, just not the super-extremist kind, you know, like the ones who love George Bush. Girl: I hate George Bush. Me: See what I told you. Girl: He’s too liberal.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Wow, I don’t think I’m going to even venture a guess here… He or she is definitely not in my beloved Political Science or Economics departments. If I were looking, I’d probably go to Anthro.&nbsp;&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? So I took a look at the guesses from last year’s responses, and the comments showed some dissatisfaction with the random speculation. I figured I could put my Poli-Sci Econ education to work by guessing the sexual histories of my first 100 friends (in alphabetical order) on Facebook. From that, my estimation of the 95% confidence interval for the percent of virgins (among my friends at least) is between 13% and 29%. &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? You’re asking the Careless Cook? Oral sex, duh.&nbsp; Days on Campus memory? I was on waitlist and I hadn’t heard yet, so I was back home in Massachusetts behaving like any other second semester senior.&nbsp; Regrets? Not to get all sappy, but none. It’s easy to take it for granted (and I almost forgot to mention it) but this is a pretty cool place with a lot of really awesome people. 
Last night, like many of you, The Blue and White attended the premiere of the 114th Annual Varsity Show. The Blue and White staff reviews. Lions, erections, and bears, oh my! The Bwog is no stranger to hate--for details, see our ill-fated Yorkie Roundtable and that time we reminded you our name is not spelled with all-caps--but we’ve never seen anything like the hate we saw last night. After months of lukewarm anticipation, the 114th Annual Varsity Show unfolded last night in Roone Arledge to an almost sold-out student crowd and a group of terrified-looking adults. It was: sex-soaked, small in thematic scale and oppressively heterosexual--but fun. The musical numbers alternated between sports-movie, heart-stirring exhortations (“Strong, Beautiful,” “Hero”) and quaint Gene Kelly/Busby Berkeley-style throwbacks (“Shoulder to Shoulder,” “Well, Woman”). The dialogue was smothered in jokes about sex, bawdy body humor, hate, and Barnard hate. And the boy-meets-girl, boy accuses girl of lying, boy finds out girl's okay after all storyline—tied into the plot of “Lysistrata”—induced one audience member to comment to this reviewer, “Oh, you poor straights.” Despite some automatic dancing (excepting Kieron Cindric, who gestured and gyrated like a pro), the acting was delightful. One audience member described female lead Sarah Dooley as “the shit,” and she was.&nbsp;Another commented that Lauren Glover “managed to make herself as large as Judith Shapiro, which is impressive, because she's a small girl.” Michael Snyder was appropriately forlorn as a Cornell transfer, and Will Snider hammed it up as a conflicted, sinister James McShane. (Prompting this reviewer to wonder: Do the real people depicted in the V-Show feel strange about random students fictionalizing and mocking their lives?) The spot-on send-ups of the fall semester controversies were well played indeed. Ahmadinejad, the hunger strike, and the hate crimes all had their turn and, in each case, got their due. In these scenes, it was the details that brought the laughs—the carefully placed Gatorade bottles around the strikers' tents, the pitch-perfect parody of “We do not have homosexuals in our country, I do not know who told you that,” and the denunciation of anything written in Lewisohn bathrooms as automatic hate-speech reminded us of how truly absurd the real-life events had been. Remarked another V-Show-goer, “I kind of forgot about that. I can't believe that actually happened.” In its best moments, it was witty, cathartic (another overheard: "It made me feel good to realize everyone else hates it here too"), and inspirational (Alma Mater and Alexander Hamilton dispensing advice is always a sure-fire way to tug at latent school pride). In its worst, it was narrow and crass.&nbsp;But, all said, the former elements overwhelmed the latter, and damned if we weren't all giddy, humming and smiling, when we stepped into the cold, wet night. - B&amp;W 
 May 5th marks the last day of classes and our favorite Mexican holiday, Cinco de Mayo.&nbsp; Read on to for Bwog’s suggestion on how to celebrate the day. Don’t let the reference to Steinbeck fool you, Tortilla Flats is more Mexican cliche than Mexican culture.&nbsp; The menu offers a smattering of inventive, if at times bland, pseudo-Mexican treats, from the taco salad, a mix of shredded iceberg lettuce and sour cream in fried tortilla ‘bowl,’ to the New Mexican Short Stack, a casserole comprised of layers of tortilla chips, Jack cheese and refried beans.&nbsp; But, it is not the fine food or the fine culture that keep people coming back to Tortilla Flats, but rather the utter lack of affectation. With Cinco de Mayo just around the corner, Tortilla Flats stands out among the city’s numerous Mexican restaurants and Mexican themed bars.&nbsp; The sad truth is that many of our favorite Mexican places, from Blockheads to Mama Mexico and Mary Ann’s, are profiting off lackluster burritos and water-downed margaritas.&nbsp; The burritos may be no better at Tortilla Flats, but you’re bound to have an embarrassingly good time, so long as you leave your ego at the door. The interior is bit overwhelming at first.&nbsp; The walls are a pastiche of album covers and concert posters dating from ‘50s and ‘60s and Christmas lights hang from the bar’s low ceilings.&nbsp; In more ways than one, the décor and the small floor space may recall a dorm room in Carman.&nbsp; Indeed the entire atmosphere of the restaurant has something of the spirit of Freshman orientation.&nbsp; But the free-flowing alcohol and kitsch is a welcomed change after eight months spent in Lit Hum or CC. Although there’s often a wait, once you and your group sit down it’s easy to forget all your stressful studies and lonely nights at Bulter.&nbsp; The margaritas are served in big plastic pitchers and you can order chips and fresh-made guacamole for seven dollars with unlimited free refills.&nbsp; The aptly named Quesadilla Grande and slew of other dishes equally ripe for sharing make Tortilla Flats an ideal place to catch up and let loose with friends.&nbsp;&nbsp; If you’re the competitive type, however, the restaurant wide bingo games might lessen Tortilla Flats’ otherwise leisurely atmosphere. These games, emceed by the shameless, if at times irritating bartenders, tend to get heated – especially after a couple pitchers of margaritas.&nbsp; It doesn’t take too much to get belligerent with Tortilla Flats' predominantly bridge-and-tunnel crowd.&nbsp;&nbsp; But there’s no need to worry, unless an intra-table rivalry builds between you and your BFFL.&nbsp; And even if you do beat out your friends, the fraternal atmosphere at still Tortilla Flats prevails.&nbsp; The winner not only receives the honorable title ‘Big Bingo Winner’ and tee shirt to commemorate his victory, but also a round of tequila shots to share with his table. With a lick of salt and a swig of Jose, all aggression and animosity at your table is quickly abated. So if you want a place where you can get saucy and at the same time have some old-fashion fun, head down to Tortilla Flats.&nbsp; Don’t expect to find elegance or sophistication here, but really is that what anyone is any one is looking for on Drink-o de Mayo? Tortilla Flats is located at 707 Washington Street on the Corner of West 12th. -MEQ 
 For the record, here's how wise Columbia seniors responded this week when asked which they would rather give up, oral sex or cheese: "It depends--giving cheese or receiving cheese?" "Well, given my current diet, if I gave up cheese I'd probably starve to death, and therefore lose both..." "Let me put it this way: Westside Market offers free samples of only one of these things." "In the dictionary, the word 'turophile' has my picture next to it. I vacuum-clean all the cheese at formal events. I hope this answers it." "You're asking the Careless Cook? Oral sex, duh." "Is the cheese in the form of cheese curds from Wisconsin? Please clarify." Oral sex fans, don't give up. There's one senior on your side: "Cheese." 
 Next up in our Senior Wisdom series: CQA bigshot and self-described card-carrying lesbian Cait Clancy. Name, School: Cait Clancy, SEAS &nbsp; Claim to fame: Queer Awareness Month Head Honcho, CQA secretary &nbsp; Post-grad plans: Very vague year off, then medical school.&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? I'm in SEAS, punks.&nbsp; I'll build a bridge instead.&nbsp; &nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1.&nbsp; If everyone at Columbia would stop talking about how busy they are, they might actually have some time on their hands. 2.&nbsp; Coalition building isn't coalition building if you don't feel like you want to claw your eyes out. 3.&nbsp; Cardiac output = Heart Rate x Stroke Volume. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. There would be lots of empty inboxes if it weren't for me.&nbsp; &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? I kind of enjoyed all the Juicy Campus shenanigans.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Getting made fun of by my seminar prof for writing all my papers on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, The Series. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Shiro Matsuoka, 75-year-old man (maybe older), Professor of the Science and Engineering of Body Fluids. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? I bet there are MAD secret virgins out there, so I'm going to go with 20%.&nbsp; &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I think I would lose my lesbian card if I said oral sex.&nbsp; (Yeah, we have cards.)&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Days on Campus memory? Sitting on the floor in some kid's John Jay room listening to a group of freshman engage in a philosophical argument about lit hum.&nbsp; They gave me a paper cup full of Bailey's.&nbsp; &nbsp; Regrets? A little less studying, a little more fun? &nbsp; 
 All fans of alliteration will enjoy the Postcrypt Coffeehouse Folk Festival going on right now in Kent Lawn despite the fact that their tent is somewhat obfuscated by bleachers going up by Fair Alma.  In addition to the music, the festival is home to glorious, freshly-made popcorn and thirst-quenching beverage. Acts for the rest of the day: Ginia Sweeney The Smocks Desperation String Band Tony Gong Featuring Michelle Peña The Counterclockwise Revolution Loomer CT. The Kitchen Cabinet     
 Bringing together all forms of media--from song and dance to film-footage and epic rants--Nessa Norich's (BC '08) senior thesis performance of Snow White showcased the rich creative diversity of our campus. Under the guidance of Director David Neumann (BC Theater Dept.), Nessa co-directed, choreographed and starred in a stunning reinterpretation of the traditional fairy tale. &nbsp; Creating an intimate performance space, Nessa chose to seat the audience in folding chairs arranged perpendicularly across the Minor Latham stage. Facing into a narrow wing, where most of the performance's action took place, the audience was forced to engage in the performance in a new, and perhaps, uncomfortable ways. Not only was this choice innovative, but it was completely appropriate given the subject matter and successfully recreated the cluttered den of the Seven Dwarves. &nbsp; As Snow White, Nessa inflected all her lines with an eerie appeal. She mastered Snow White's doe-eyed stare alarmingly well and sung her lines in equally alarming falsetto. Floating about the stage in a white dress and a long black wig topped with a pair of oversized headphones, Nessa's Snow White was more creepy than chaste.&nbsp; After she led the dwarves in an orgiastic shower scene, brilliantly choreographed and backlit behind a shower curtain, it was clear this performance was no virginal fairy tale. The lighting and sound, designed by Kati Fitzgerald (BC '11) and Pardis Dabashi (CC '08) respectively, reinforced Nessa's provocative interpretation of Snow White.&nbsp; Matching red lights and blinding halogens with a mix of exotic music, Kati and Pardis surrounded the audience in an atmosphere of uncertainty. At times there was so much going on that the audience was unsure where to look. What was most impressive was that there was never a wrong answer.&nbsp; Under the direction of Sam West (CC '08) and Josh Breslow (CC '08), the performance capitalized on the use of pre-recorded videos and live film footage. In a documentary-like clip, Sam, affecting a German accent, confronted the camera and detailed the "Snow White Conflict." Perfectly timed cuts to a diagram of a female figure periodically interrupted Sam's frantic rant and emphasized the absurd brilliance of his performance. Instead of distracting the audience, the intelligently edited recordings allowed them to enter the characters' conscious. Supported by an excellent ensemble, Nessa consistently drew in the audience's attention. With the help of some black eyeliner and well-chosen costumes, the ensemble as whole had a mesmerizing stage presence and made the most of their bit parts. Bettina Weiner (GS '09) played a chilling Evil Stepmother and together Ramon Torres (SEAS '09) and Lakshmi Sundraram (BC '08) headed the band of dwarves. &nbsp; Dressed in a uniform of mechanics' coveralls and headlamps, the dwarves excelled as a cohesive unit. Instead of seven dwarves, the gruff pack was made up fourteen miners who were far more bewildered and enticed by Snow White's presence than they were bashful about it. Displaying her impressive creative vision, Nessa directed the miners in a visually stunning dance. Dancing in perfect time to mix of beat-box and Portuguese bass lines, the miners stomped out hip-hop moves with only their headlamps to illuminate the dark stage.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; The cast handled the transitions into and out the production's numerous music and dance performances with skillful control and confidence. At times, however, the performance lacked structure and the pace lagged. At one point, the dwarves donned white barrister wigs and commence a court hearing. Although it was mildly entertaining to see so many white curly wigs at once, the dramatic drive of the scene was buried beneath them. Thankfully, Sam West entered and revived the energy level with an incredible speech. Often, Snow White lacked the clarity and intensity that Sam brought to his lines and that made his performance so effective. But, Nessa's creative vision required her cast and crew to take risks and depart from traditional dramatic techniques. If their performance was not one hundred percent successful, their boldness is still worthy of high praise. With the distinctive brand of creativity exemplified last night, Nessa is certainly bound for bigger and brighter stages after graduation.&nbsp;&nbsp; - MEQ&nbsp; 
 Tonight at 10 PM in the Lerner Piano lounge is the last ever CCSC-sponsored I am Light Blue event. Like most I am Light Blue events, meta t-shirts and blue-hued frosted goods (by way of Kitchenette) will be plentiful.&nbsp; In an email to Bwog, a good-natured, V-Show appreciating President Diamond explained, "Also we will have like SNACKS and like T-shirts in sizes that fit no one! Hee hee hee ." The study break will also feature a video that highlights the work of students who were awarded "light blue nominations" on the basis of positively impacting campus and city life. The video stars Josh Lipsky, Hannah Weinstein, Reni Jablonsky (AKA Reni Laine), Gabby Apollon, Jessie Leiken, Alex Greer, Jason Kim, Allie Feldberg, Nahema Mehta, Calvin Sun, Neil Mehta and others. 
 IPO: Undergrad History Journal Stock falling: Print journalism Stock rising: Rowing Value buy: Almost as good an investment as Haitian penny stocks. Some things, however, never change. &nbsp; Stay tuned today for a very special Bwog commemoration of the last QuickSpec of the year. 
 Today is the last day of classes, and to celebrate, Bwog will be organizing a Primal Sigh of Relief (more on that later), but for now, we have one last assignment: We'd like you to recall the odd, insane, hilarious and touching things that your professors say to end the last class of the semester. Send them our way (bwgossip@columbia.edu), and we'll post the best at the end of the day. If you're not yet in the mood to wax nostalgic, a glance at the Opening Remark Anthology might do the trick. Look how far we've come! Happy note-taking. And congratulations: we made it! &nbsp; 
 Though classes stop, Senior Wisdom continues as we check in with CPR editor-in-chief and n+1 pamphleteer Mark Krotov.&nbsp; Name, School: Mark Krotov, CC&nbsp; Claim to fame: Editor of the Columbia Political Review, Former editor of The Birch, Spectator film critic. Oh, I also handed out n+1 pamphlets last fall, which compelled many denizens of Butler to give me (rightfully) mean looks.&nbsp; Post-grad plans: Currently murky. I wish I could say that there are options, but right now, they’re mostly hypothetical options. In other words, I’m terrified.&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? I think the swim test is very stupid, but when I inevitably give in next week, it’ll be freestyle. Quick, easy, and there’s not much flailing involved. &nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? - There’s a lot to fight for. Struggles that are often portrayed as self-serving or irrelevant by certain students have, in my experience, been deeply meaningful, necessary, and productive. Particularly after this year, I hope to never dismiss any form of activism as irrelevant or petty before I find out a lot more. - Before I came here, I believed that I could fully explain a text (because it spoke to me—and only to me!—in a language that I understood completely!), that I could precisely pinpoint the root causes of a historical event, and that my critique could capture the scope and ambition of a work of art. I was wrong. In other words, education is essential. (Yes, I know, one of the things I learned at Columbia is that education is essential. I fully recognize that this makes me sound like an idiot.) - How little I know.&nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Hopefully, I took things (art, politics, everything else) seriously and helped create spaces where others could take things seriously, as well. &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? I hereby start a new one! Boycott Joel Klein’s forthcoming appearance at Class Day! Klein got Rashid Khalidi fired from a NY teacher training program in which Khalidi voluntarily participated. In other words, the individual whom we have invited to speak to Columbia College seniors and their families has positioned himself against Columbia faculty, and thus against the community as a whole. That would be as absurd as selecting anti-UN advocate John Bolton to be the US Ambassador to the UN! &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? I hate to cheat, but here are two my favorite memories from college: - Spending a night in a tent during the hunger strike—keeping watch, writing a movie review for The Eye, and speaking with some terrific, thoughtful passers-by. - Gleefully walking out of Hamilton last Thursday night because the Columbia Political Review’s extraordinary new editor-in-chief (who puts me and all previous editors (sorry, Paul) to shame) had just been elected. &nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Orhan Pamuk.&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 30%?&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I think I looked through every single Senior Wisdom column and did not find a good response to this question. There is simply no good answer. So I will say cheese, but I will be happy to offer all caveats and hesitations over e-mail.&nbsp; Days on Campus memory? I couldn’t make it. But I imagine that if I had, orientation week would have been less confusing.&nbsp; Regrets? I regret that I: did not take school seriously until junior year, did not do enough of the reading, was not an English/Anthro/Russian major, did not learn Chinese, did not practice the languages that I already know, was not involved enough in campus activism, did not cook nearly enough, read too many blogs without absorbing their content, got angry at petty things, did not get angry enough at big things, did not treat everyone I met with respect, did not discover the brilliance of M2M until about a month ago (how did this happen?). 
 Bwog noticed a circle of six or so boys standing around a homemade car, which is currently parked on Low plaza. The car is the project of the Columbia Society of Automotive Engineers who will compete in a major race next week in Detroit against 140 other teams. Members of the SAE stood proudly around their creation and bragged to Bwog that the car goes from 0-60 in 3.5 seconds and can reach a speed of 120 mph. "Though you wouldn't want to drive it that fast," one SAEer warned. The car's not street legal, but the team half-seriously speculated that maybe some fenders and a bumper or two would do the trick. You can watch videos (thanks to a handy Helmet Cam) of the SAE taking it out for a test drive here and after the jump &nbsp; 
Tis a dreary day in academia as professors from all around decide how to end their time with students. Some opt for wit, others tears. Here is our first installment of Closing Remarks to what will be a continually updating post. Send your own anecdotes to bwgossip@coumbia.edu. Latin American Literature professor Alfred Mac Adam: "If anyone needs me before your papers are due on Monday, I'll be in my office, gathering cobwebs as usual. It'll be a race between you and the janitor -- who empties the trash once every six months -- to see who finds my decrepit, decaying body there first, covered in dust in a spider web cocoon" Calc professor Elliott Stein "Okay, that's it. Party's over." One person applauds, while the other 10 who were still coming to lecture at that point leave immediately. "No, really, you don't have to do that." History of the American Presidency professor David Eisenbach: "...this has been a dream of mine..." Spanish Professor Helen Aguilar "The bad news is that almost nobody will get the grade they want, but they will get a grade marginally above the worst possible grade" Film Professor Jameel Khaja Professor Jameel Khaja asked how many students saw Iron Man this past weekend. When only one student raised his hand Jameel ran out into the hall and shouted, "There's still hope! There's still hope!" Today Paige West concluded "The Interpretation of Culture" in this way: After a lecture on globalization... "I just have to tell you some things that don't have to do with class. First, wear a condom! Condoms condoms condoms! Remember: 'condom' rhymes with 'fun'!...No, seriously. A friend of mine is doing AIDS research in Papua New Guinea and the results are really terrifying." By "Prof Mass" (Professor Stephen Massimilla) in his Modern Poetry lecture, while urging students to continue passing around the bag of cookies he brought: "Everything is organic. &nbsp;There are M&amp;Ms in there that are organic. &nbsp;If you look closely you'll see orange stuff which is organic orange juice. &nbsp;...You can't buy these in a store; they can only be made by someone who LOVES YOU." &nbsp;(vocal emphasis on the last two words.) Dr. Jack McGourty: Actually he didn't say anything, but he was spotted dashing out a side door while final presentations were still going on. Professor Achilles Varzi (Metaphysics) He read a quotation from this book Flatland: “To The Inhabitance of SPACE IN GENERAL And H.C. IN PARTICULAR This Work is Dedicated By a Humble Native of Flatland In the Hope that Even as he was Initiated into the Mysteries Of THREE DIMENSIONS Having been previously conversant With ONLY TWO So the Citizens of that Celestial Region May aspire yet higher and higher To the Secrets of FOUR FIVE or EVEN SIX Dimensions Thereby contributing To the Enlargment of THE IMAGINATION And the possible Development Of that most and excellent Gift of MODESTY Among the Superior Races Of SOLID HUMANITY” 
 This past semester, Spec has chronicled the trials and tribulations of ups, downs and ins and outs of graduation speakers, impeachments (Was it overplayed?&nbsp; Are we including resignations?&nbsp; When will it end?), and all other news that's fit to print (and some things that are not news).&nbsp; Meanwhile, Bwog has diligently chronicled Spec's daily chronicle, despite sleeping in occasionally.&nbsp; Therefore, is it not appropriate that, in the spirit of meta, we take a stroll down memory lane and revisit the QuickSpecs of this past semester? The semester started off with big news about the basketball team.&nbsp; And an entire package about cupcakes&nbsp;and legistation. Heart-breaking journalism inspired an unusual fit of old-timey sentimentality from Bwog.&nbsp; Yes, we got back together. Then, coming as no surprise, we were beset by the usual controversies: academic honesty, housing, Kulawik, oppresive euro-centrism and just complaints in general. When everything seemed to have fallen apart&nbsp;and there was no one to talk to, what were we to do?&nbsp; My mother always said that you can't just throw money at the problem and hope it goes away.&nbsp; There are only two things to do when all seems to be lost (see pictures). Barnard, however, was able to set everything right on the Morningside campus, while writing half of the Varsity show! And then it was 1968, because controversy loves company!&nbsp; Wait, you guys weren't celebrating?&nbsp; Don't worry, campus activism is dead! Worry not, fellow students, for Spec seems to be selling high right now, unlike Bear Stearns. -JJV 
UPDATE 10:03 PM: Fear not, commenters once fearful that our hero had up and left us forever. Tipster (and upcoming Senior Wisdom profile) Nat Gale has just spotted Hawkmadinejad and snapped a photo that we're pretty sure Dining won't be postering around John Jay.&nbsp; Astute and protective tipster Jon Hill informed Bwog that he had noticed a poster outside the entrance to John Jay Dining Hall that features the likeness of campus hero and bird-about-town Hawkmadinejad.&nbsp; It seems that Dining Services has taken tipster-generated photographs of our hero from the Hawkmadineblog and has reproduced them to advertise dining plans. Though why Dining thinks that particularly bloody photos of a hawk devouring a squirrel on a grassy knoll will convince students to sign up for a meal plan is beyond us. While the bottom-most Hawkmadinejad on the poster does have a speech bubble that reads "Have You Seen My Blog?", Dining Services doesn't credit the photographs as the masterpieces of photographer/French Department administrator Isabelle Chagnon. 
 Barnard is celebrating Cinco de Mayo with a traditional free-pancake offering at 10 PM tonight in 406 Barnard Hall. Perhaps it's a taste (pun) of what's in store for this year's Midnight Breakfast.&nbsp; Yesterday, readers were apparently disappointed with the quality of CCSC's light-blue cookies cupcakes. "Tiny and stale," you cried in comments of rage. Bwog has high hopes for tonight's pancakes, but let us know how they stack up (again, pun). Barnard will provide syrup, you provide the feedback. 
 In about a week, when we can barely even see the unfinished papers and problem sets behind the stacks of Redbull and tissues, Bwog will invite you to participate in the traditional finals week Primal Scream.&nbsp; But this is not a time for that. This is a time to find great comfort in a class-free week. So tomorrow sleep in, cook brunch, read the morning paper. And tonight, at midnight, we invite you to pause from your evening of merriment or early studying and heave a Primal Sigh of Relief. Sigh like you mean it!&nbsp; &nbsp; 
As the spring semester came to a screeching halt all too quickly yesterday, levying reading week and an ignominious batch of finals upon Columbia students quite eager to enjoy the pre-summer sunshine, Columbia Daily Spectator production also came to a halt yesterday, with an equally cheery promise to resume coverage in the fall.&nbsp; While Bwog has very much enjoyed offering you a daily dose of Spec this year, sadly today there is no Spec over which Bwog editors may voraciously pore.&nbsp; Therefore, in lieu of QuickSpec this morning, Bwog invites you to have a gander at its very own Columbia news roundup trawled from a Gmail inbox chock-full of Columbia University Google Alerts.&nbsp; Speaking of Google, Bwog also recommends that readers check out Google's device called Google Reader to stay caught up with and organize all of the blogs, news, and gossip that might ever suit your fancy. Wait, Columbia doesn't already own the NYT? How hard is it to get a Columbia degree? City Journal is still silly over 1968.&nbsp; Graduate!&nbsp; It'll do the economy good. Superhumans and Columbia's supercomputer. Save water to avoid eating your neighbor. Did Lindsay Lohan steal your $11,000 coat? 
 As graduation nears, Senior Wisdom presses on. Today, we check in with CC senior and Delta Sigma Theta President Tyeisha Chavis Name, School: Tyeisha H. Chavis, Columbia College 2008 &nbsp; Claim to fame: If I served the Lord according to the calling He placed on my life, than I would have done a job well done. &nbsp; Post-grad plans: New York City Teaching Fellow&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? Front stroke &nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. God has a purpose for my life. &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? The historic memory of the 1968 riots and most recent protests that have shaped my experience at Columbia, and contributed to the ways in which I acted to affect change. &nbsp; Days on Campus memory? The massive step show on college walk with a wide array of National Pan Hellenic Council Greek steppers. &nbsp; Regrets? I make a conscious decision not to live with any regrets.&nbsp;
 Tipster and video game enthusiast Nick Camp directs Bwog's attention to the new Grand Theft Auto IV, specifically the Varsity Heights neighborhood of Liberty City. Buildings eerily similar to Low, Butler, and Hamilton are located just off Ivy Drive—there's even a College Walk.&nbsp; Bwog daily editor Paul Barndt pointed out that this homage to Alma Mater is much more accurate than Columbia's representation in the Spiderman games, "where Low is like 15 feet tall." Bwog contributor and resident GTAIV expert Alex Weinberg was kind enough to snap some screen shots as "he" stood on "Ruggles" with a sniper. Aerial shot (featuring a helicopter!) after the jump. 
Just a week after unveiling its Spring 2008 issue, the Current, with a brand new staff in tow, is out with a brand new issue to last Columbians the entirety of the summer.&nbsp; Bwog had the pleasure of perusing this new release and has deemed it perfect for those moments of procrastination (or desperation) one might encounter during finals studying. Debating Deportivo Diplomacy Charming: Cemeteries? A Human Rights Harbinger Samantha Power, Chasing flames left and right An unlikely couple Holy Land Homosexuality 
 Every week this year seems to have its Super Tuesday. It's time once again to check in with White House Bureau Chief Jim Downie for the last Political Weekly of the semester.&nbsp; Reading week is the time when Columbia students (supposedly) "take it to the next level." Unbelievably, the same is still true today of the Democratic presidential candidates. That's right, it's Super Tuesday 4.0, what may turn out to be the most important day of the campaign. With Hillary Clinton carrying the momentum, Barack Obama looking for a new victory to try and close the deal, and John McCain, well, doing absolutely nothing except shaking his head at yet another Democratic hara-kiri. On another note, this will be the last column of the semester, due to exam-related circumstances. Unfortunately, there is no grand movie theme to go out on, but rest assured this column will return in the fall (and possibly make an occasional summer appearance) with even more news to keep you procrastinating. And now, the news: Expectations Time!: As voters go to the polls today in Indiana and North Carolina, the candidates, their surrogates, and, most importantly, the media are all playing the expectations game. The results tonight could be the most crucial in the campaign so far. If Clinton wins Indiana and keeps North Carolina close, her case against Obama becomes significantly stronger, while a double win for Obama could possibly end her campaign, or at the very least give him back the momentum that she desperately needs. More expectations storylines here. Turnout Watch: As usual, turnout in both states is shattering previous records. Also as usual, the key groups will be African-Americans in North Carolina (high turnout = big Obama victory) and women in both states, who will continue their streak of being even more important to Hillary Clinton than they are to Tasti D-Lite's solvency. What Murder Is By: Polls for Indiana, North Carolina, and the rest of the nation here, here, and here. He's Waiting: John McCain focuses on picking a vice-president, and will also appear on the Daily Show. Interestingly, McCain has appeared more than any other guest in the show's history. From the Dept. of "WHAAAT?": According to James Carville, Hillary Clinton's got a different kind of anatomy. Seriously, do the math. YouTube Gold: Yet, even with three cojones, Clinton can't figure out how to use a coffee machine. Truly a woman of the people... I'm John McCain, and I'm Asking For A Soy No-Whip Chai Latte: John McCain loves himself some Starbucks. Which is good, because DC is one of those cities where you can measure distance in Starbucks. Alright, NOW I Denounce Him: Old Obama bogeyman Rev. Jeremiah Wright resurfaced last week, making the talk show rounds and generally showing the world that he actually does believe all that crazy stuff he shouted in the YouTube videos. Obama responded by strongly denouncing him in a press conference, thus bringing back one of the Clinton campaign's favorite issues. As one pundit put it, "this is the first time I've ever seen two people simultaneously throw each other under the bus." Enough Videos for Syndication: Yet another Vote Obama video, this time with cameos from Kayne, Jay-Z, and others.
 It's reading week, and we know you need something to tide you over between "re"-reading an entire semester's worth of material. That's why we've decided to run a very special additional senior wisdom with help from commenter favorite Nat Gale. Name, School: &nbsp; Nathaniel (but call me ‘Nat’, please) Gale, SEAS&nbsp; Claim to fame: &nbsp; Not quite screwing up COÖP, WKCR, and Engineers Without Borders – Ghana.&nbsp; Post-grad plans: &nbsp; Hmm that’s a tough one.&nbsp; I’ve been telling people that I’m about 70% likely to be in NYC, with a 30% chance of Portland, OR on my horizon.&nbsp; Time will tell.&nbsp; Summer will hopefully be packed with the likes of New England’s Rising Star (Hartford, CT), Minneapolis, Halifax, Thailand, and Vietnam. &nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; &nbsp; As a swimmer I like ‘em all.&nbsp; I’d recommend the ‘helicopter stroke’ if you’re looking for some fun. It’s like half freestyle, half backstroke with you rotating through the water like a bullet twirling through a chamber.&nbsp; Makes you dizzy as hell.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; The importance of being able to say ‘no.’ Sometimes (but only sometimes), the monetary cost of something isn’t all that matters. Buy, rent, or steal a bike.&nbsp; Explore.&nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; Late nights and early mornings make for a lot out of life.&nbsp; Although it’s a tiring existence, every second is worth it.&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; I was pissed when Hugo Chavez had to cancel (or was he disinvited? scared of snipers? we’ll never know) on the World Leaders forum.&nbsp; And I had a ticket, too…&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; Getting cornrows for the entire week of finals fall semester freshman year because I thought it would be good luck, only to result in my academically worst semester.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser?&nbsp; Definitely Amber Miller in the Physics department.&nbsp; With a first name like ‘Amber’ she’s gotta be great.&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; 0%.&nbsp; After four years here, we’ve all been fucked by Columbia at least once.&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; In all honesty I think I could go without oral sex in lieu of pizza, cheese danishes, and pretty much all the food from Taqueria y Fonda.&nbsp; Plus, oral sex is only a handful of positions.&nbsp; There are hundreds that are more pleasurable.&nbsp; See ‘Italian Chandelier.’&nbsp; Days on Campus memory?&nbsp; Watching Anton Glamb and the Kingsmen perform for the first time in the Lerner Party Space.&nbsp; Realizing how it was kinda lame that at a College University there is a room called the “Party Space.”&nbsp; Not that Lerner Pub hasn’t been fun.&nbsp; Regrets?&nbsp; Not too many.&nbsp; Sex in the stacks?&nbsp; I’m still holding out… 
Another person—besides, of course, all of SEAS—exempt from the swim test? Apparently, swim team captain Henning Fog.&nbsp; Name, School: &nbsp; Henning Fog, CC&nbsp; Claim to fame: &nbsp; Swim Team Captain, Sigma Nu Recorder Emeritus, “Life of the Party” (3/10/06) &nbsp; Post-grad plans: &nbsp; Am I too old to still say “astronaut” or “Tony Hawk”? Aside from mooching off my practical I-Banking friends, most of my future is TBD. As of now I have no job, no place of residence, and no long-term financial plan. I’ve got dreams, though, among them: a) sell a screenplay b) befriend five hip young Manhattanites, have hilarious misadventures and c) find my real dad.&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; I recently discovered that as someone “officially more than capable of completing a few laps” I am not required to take the swim test. Special treatment? Not on my watch. I’ll be there with water wings in two weeks, doggy paddling my way to graduation.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; Fight everything. Always. Just fight. In club form, especially. That kid in your discussion section full of “brilliant ideas” and “insight” is more often than not just full of shit. Don’t get sucked in by empty eloquence. You’re never as dumb as you think you are. Make yourself uncomfortable as much as you can. Whether trying a new lunch-stop instead of HamDel again (but it’s so clooossee) or taking a class without your friends, you only grow by trying new things. College goes by too quickly to constantly stick to what you know. There are three Barnard jokes that get repeated ad nauseam and they’re all retarded. Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; I was once told that I’m “fairly good looking… until I open my mouth.” Looks being everything, I feel pretty secure with my place in the world.&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; I loved them all so much, it’s difficult to choose! If I were telling the truth, the one that affected my “community” most significantly might be Ginia Sweeney’s anti-athletics rant/editorial in the Spec last year. I would have written her a letter if not for my shocking illiteracy.&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; Offering a pack of Cherry Frosted Pop-Tarts to the homeless woman on 113th and Broadway (you know the one) only to be turned away. “I don’t eat that shit, you got anything else?” she said. This woman had unusually high expectations, apparently.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser?&nbsp; Horst Stormer, Physics. Like his trademark navy sweater, rolled-up cuffs and jeans combo, his kiss would be unassuming and comfortable. Plus what Nobel Prize winner isn’t a good kisser?&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; 38% sounds reasonable. With three weeks left, though, everyone’s looking to make some new memories. 36% after Reading Week?&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; Oral sex. All the best foods have cheese in them. Pizza, chicken parm, Ritz Bitz. Not to mention those that actually have it in their names: cheeseburgers, cheesesteaks. Easy Cheese? Call me sexually immature, but a world without that stuff is no world I want to live in.&nbsp; Days on Campus memory?&nbsp; Didn’t participate. I’ll never forget the Bowl-Mor Lanes event from Freshman Orientation, though. In an effort to make new friends, I decided to join a random group rather than play with kids I had already met. We had a great time - sharing embarrassing high-school stories, making fun of each other’s bowling technique. It was beautiful, an ideal orientation moment. Unfortunately none of those kids went to Columbia. I had unknowingly spent two hours with NYU students.&nbsp; Regrets?&nbsp; I’m trying this thing as we inch toward graduation where I pretend there is no past, only present and future. But yeah, lots to regret: Dropping a class because it conflicted with The Office Getting on Annette Insdorf’s bad side Not participating in the Naked Run (body-image issues) Whatever lack of academic rigor/effort led to these undercooked responses and the inevitable roasting in Bwog comments. That said, have at me. 
Bwog tipster Daniel Wong stumbled upon an old timey map of campus dating back to 1981 A.D. The map is fairly similar to those being handed out today, but Wong and Bwog noticed several differences, which we have archived for posterity—along with the full map—after the jump.&nbsp; The East Campus Construction Project Hartley/Livingston Johnson (not Wien) The Schapiro parking lot Missing Broadway &amp; CEPSR Miller Theatre formerly known as McMillin What is "Kings Crown" (116 &amp; Morningside)? Ferris Booth, of course The bookstore used to be attached to Journalism Maison Francaise = East Hall Those buildings attached to Milbank, have they always had names? Plus two bonus historical facts from Bwog Webmaster Zach van Schouwen: "In the name of 'the past', two random things I learned this weekend from reading The Ungovernable City: 'During World War II, the blocks between West 110th and 113th Streets and Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway were placed off limits to Navy midshipmen training at Columbia because of the plethora of prostitutes working out of the buildings.' Similarly, Plimpton replaced the Bryn Mawr Hotel, which was apparently a classic NY hooker-and-drug-dealer hotel." See? Now, don't you feel better prepared for your Urban Studies final?&nbsp; 
 It's official, Bwog tipster Jarid Maged informs us:&nbsp; "about 2 minutes ago, columbia won the ivy league title in baseball. 7-5 over dartmouth in game 3 of the ivy league championship series in hanover. i am not making this up. tried snapping a shot of the pile after the game, but my stupid computer wouldn't allow anything from windows media player. but damn. they won something huge in sports for once. now they move on to the ncaa tournament." Congratulations, boys. 
 We know you miss your daily dose of the Spec, and we're here to help. Some more highlights from the "Columbia University" Google Alerts pile of the last week. More Murdoch-owned news outlets report in on the Lohan coat scandal Columbia physicist lays out the exorbitant cost of reducing CO2 emissions San Diego State kids know how to party; nerdy Columbians provide statistical evidence Sachs and Bhagwati bringin' their usual game&nbsp; Ben Bernanke was here a couple days ago to accept an award Chronicle of Higher Ed editorial proposes universities buy ailing publications, which the Bwog hinted at a week or so ago &nbsp; 
 Despite previous statements to the contrary, the Academic Affairs Committee has invited the entirety of Columbia College to tonight's Academic Awards Ceremony. The ceremony will honor Lionel Trilling and Mark van Doren Award winners, Joseph Massad and Andrew Nathan, respectively.&nbsp; The reception starts tonight in Low at 6 PM with the ceremony to follow. We're assuming the earlier proclamation of a "business-smart" dress code still applies. For those of you stuck in Butler (or those who only have "casual-smart" or "business-mildly intelligent" wardrobes), check back for Bwog's coverage of the event. 
 Around 3:30 PM, the men's bathroom on the 5th floor of Butler (the one by the east elevator) was promptly closed, locked and surrounded by two police officers and a CU Security official. One B&amp;W staffer overheard the policemen saying that an incident had occurred around 3 PM and heard the cops muttering the words "hate crime." The staffer also reports that the police have not questioned any students on the 5th floor of Butler. &nbsp; Bwog just finished talking to the police officers and security official, who hastily doled out three "No comment"s and suggested we call Public Safety. Public Saftey, was "not at liberty to say anything." According to the policemen and security official, they have no knowledge of any Univeristy plans to release a statement about the incident. Check back as the story (maybe?) updates. UPDATE 6:50 PM: Two more Public Safety officials just showed up to the bathroom, one of whom directed Bwog's questions to James McShane and refused to comment. However, as Bwog was walking away, conversation started up again. The Public Safety official asked the policeman, "How were you guys even notified about this?" The policeman replied that someone had sent an email. "There's a swastika on the wall," he said. UPDATE 7:11 PM: Another staffer tipped Bwog off to the fact that the second floor men's bathroom has also now been locked. The staffer explains that he was in the bathroom, men rushed in and began photographing the wall of a stall. The men left, locking the door behind them. The third and fourth floor bathrooms remain open. Bwog's been scurrying around Butler for ten minutes and has also noticed that inconvenienced male studiers are not pleased. UPDATE 8:10 PM: About eight official-ish looking people with reporters' notepads (including two cops) are standing around the second floor bathroom. A third B&amp;W staffer reports that he saw the group looking at printed photographs of the fifth-floor swastika. Both bathrooms are now open, despite signs on their doors proclaiming otherwise. 
 Bwog contributor Alex Weinberg just frantically passed along the following tip: "There is a huge amount of ice cream in the Wallach Lounge and they are begging people to come eat it or steal it. I walked away with a box of ice cream sandwiches. TIME IS TICKING" And for those of you who foolishly doubt that ice cream can constitute dinner, Cliff Massey wants you to know that CCSC will be offering free Havana Central food from 9 PM - 10:30 PM in room C555 in Lerner. Alternately, Bwog suggests freezing your findings from Wallach and saving them for after dinner. 
 Name, School: Reim Salaheldin Atabani, BC Claim to fame: I don't make any claim to fame, but I'm a former MSA exec and RA. I've managed to know a lot of people without really being known. And I suppose I'm the last person you'd expect to be from Las Vegas who actually is. Post-grad plans: Self-actualization? I'm not sure. I'd like to work for a year. Then I'm convinced I'm going to take photographs and learn Arabic in Khartoum. Eventually, I'd love to practice urban planning in Muslim societies as I listen to the call to prayer five times a day and try to live a carbon neutral life. Preferred swim test stroke? I haven't stepped into a pool in over a decade, by choice, which is one more reason I appreciate Barnard (and swimmers!). What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Even at a place like Columbia University, where we're surrounded by a certain type of accomplishment, there are still a million different ways to be amazing. No personal effort or experience has to be insignificant as long as it's a positive contribution, even if just in your own life. So trust your instincts enough to live by your own expectations and values instead of others'. 2. Good character is rewarded far more often than ego. It's more rewarding, too. I was lucky enough to have friends who proved that to me this past year. 3. The community here is incestuous, so it's a good idea to be nice as you tell that obnoxious person in Butler to be quiet. She'll probably end up being your RA. 4. Sleeping at odd hours or not at all for four years seriously impairs your ability to do things, like count properly. Plus, I think college is much more worthwhile when you're not sleep walking through it. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I might not come to your party, but I'll help you bake a cake. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? MEALAC/Ahmadenijad/Nadia Abu al-Hajj's tenure battle/the SIPA graffiti/Horowitz's two visits/Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week/half the things the Republicans did/Joel Klein, I guess/etc. I think that was every Muslim student's favorite controversy. What memory best exemplifies your college experience? That's kind of tough. I have lots of really circular, serendipitous stories that embody recurring themes from these past four years, namely, late nights, good people, new experiences, and especially happy accidents. The flip side to that would be all those awkward times I've had to explain why I wasn't doing what everyone else was doing ("I don't drink/No, I'm actually not Dominican or South Asian or Ethiopian/I go to Barnard.") People make lots of assumptions. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? You know, Khalidi's wife seems pretty happy despite all the heat that couple takes. I think that speaks pretty well in his favor. Days on Campus memory? Over the course of one rainy weekend, I fell in love with Barnard, accepted my spot, and canceled the rest of my college visits. I think the deciding factor was the thought that attending college at an old school in New York would be like a mix between some urban summer camp and a happy boarding school, neither of which I had ever attended. That's probably why I was wrong (though the Quad does feel like a summer camp at times).&nbsp; Regrets? Sure. I wish I had visited home at least twice a year, been less timid, actually mastered Arabic (I wish!), trusted myself to learn a lot of things sooner, and let more people know how wonderful they are. But I can appreciate that some lessons take longer to learn, and in the end I'm simply blessed to have met and loved so many inspiring people. Thanks for a&nbsp; bright future of being impressive by association. 
 Spectator's done but the rest of the world keeps spinning, so Bwog brings you links to Columbia related news. Today is unusually dry, so there will be a special emphasis on links to blogs, things only tangentially related to Columbia, and stories that have already been covered to death (no need to tip us on BlondMinkGate ever again, thank you). Gas into stone? A Columbia professor invents the new alchemy. Matt Sanchez (dreamy as ever) knocks the J-School and its limpwristed liberal "theory" (contrast with hard-earned, hard-abbed "experience"). For avid fans of campus poster culture, a preview of Friday's look. And for avid fans of Barack Obama, something to do on Friday. Still more coverage (i.e. absolutely nothing new) on the most amazing scandal of reading week. 
 Join Bwog this morning in welcoming a new publication to the Quick process. The Columbia East Asia Review prints scholarly articles by undergrads on a myriad of East Asian topics. There's something for every Columbia type! The kid who watches the NBA playoffs while you try to study! The human rights crusader meddling in foreign arenas! The comp lit hipster who's into translation theory and speaks fluent Norwegian and Chinese! The history fiend who talks your ear off about bureaucracies of yore! The Korea buff who uses the word "Korean" an average of 3 times per sentence! The Japanese Christian? &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Yesterday, Daily Editor Pierce Stanley decided to sacrifice a day's work on a ten page paper in order to bring you this report on yesterday's academic affairs. He hopes you, and a sympathetic professor, will appreciate his efforts. While most Columbia students were holed up all day in Butler yesterday in preparation for exams, academic life carried on in the outside world yesterday. Thankfully, outside Butler, these affairs carried on with a less perfunctory (and to be honest, less smelly) air than that which has pervaded among the poor and huddle masses of the library in recent days. Indeed, academic life was abuzz at Columbia yesterday outside of the confines of reading rooms, as many departments offered end of the year parties, bestowed awards upon students and professors, and launched journals or publications to celebrate the culmination of a semester of hard work. Yesterday's Academic Awards Committee's reception for Professors Joseph Massad and Andrew Nathan and the Herbert Aptheker Undergraduate History Conference were just two of my stops along the way in an ill-advised day of hopping around campus in search of worthwhile procrastination. While I initially set out in search of academic pleasures, I was pleasantly surprised by tantalizing culinary delights at these events as well. At the Deutsches Haus end of the year party, I was entertained with succulent chocolate chip cookies and seltzer water. Later, the Academic Awards Committee presented a host of fine hors d'oeuvres. A mingling in the Faculty Room of Low Library offered a selection of chilled white wines as well as deliquescent hors d'oeuvres expertly prepared by a catering organization other than Columbia's own. Similarly pleasing was the release party for the Columbia Undergraduate Journal of History, which proffered a smorgasbord of garlic bread, rigatoni, and ambiguously Italian concoctions from Carmine's. Kebabs happened to fall into my hands as I left Fayerweather in the evening and came across some the delights of a departmental party on the grass outside of Philosophy Hall, MEALAC methinks? Finally, the undergraduate history conference provided me with a few mere leftovers and a Sprite. But onwards and upwards from the realm of the gustatory into academic matters. It was quite a sight to see Joseph Massad praised for his scholarship by his SIPA mentor of yesteryear, Lisa Anderson, even though the nature of his tenure decision still remains in limbo. Fittingly, perhaps, Massad praised his students but chose not to even acknowledge the work of the faculty that has denied him tenure. Massad did not seem quite at ease as he sat amongst his colleagues and spoke about the honor of being awarded the 33rd Annual Lionel Trilling Book Award, a student prize for the publication of his work Desiring Arabs, a book about the nature of homosexuality in the Arab world. Maybe he should have enjoyed a bit more of the California chard that was flowing quite freely in the Faculty Room. Just as the chilled chardonnay was beginning to wear off for a certain Bwogger, there was Jack Snyder to roast the likes of Professor Andrew Nathan, who received the Mark Van Doren Teaching Award. While Massad's acceptance speech had a certain tenseness and nervousness about it, the political scientist's had the typical dry humor one might expect in a lecture from his Introduction to Human Rights class. Nathan, an occasional CC teacher well-respected in his field, accepted the teaching award as he joked that after 37 years of teaching at Columbia, he is only one year from catching up with Mark Van Doren's 38 year stint in Morningside. He celebrated by reading his fortune cookie slip from lunch at Columbia Cottage that afternoon, which said "You're off to a good start." While the awards ceremony in Low had quite a jovial tone to it, the Herbert Aptheker Undergraduate History Conference exuded more confrontational vibes, as three bold history students presented long essays that were followed by faculty critiques. While the students were praised for their achievements, professors were not afraid to point to flaws in argumentation or to suggest revisions for the papers. For a Bwogger direly seeking the most effective methods of procrastination during reading week, when all my favorite youtube videos had been watched, my favorite blogs in Google Reader exhausted, and my email had been checked and rechecked, a turn to the academic side of life was a welcome and quite refreshing alternative. Perhaps now I can wrap up this lecture hop and get back to the other academic side of my life—that ten pager I've been putting off all week. Maybe not. I think I might just peruse the Undergraduate Journal of History a while longer. 
 Bwog has been readying a list of procrastination tips, but an ambitious group of SEAS students has outdone every activity we Bwoggers suggested. James Williams reports that just outside of Butler stands--yes--a frisbee-throwing machine. And daily editor Justin Vlasits overheard a poetic passerby mutter "and my heart is like a frisbee flying onto the lawn." Bwog is mystified by this utterance, but that might just be because Bwog's heart and mind are like a squirrel's wrinkled corpse, sucked dry by a masterful hawk. Thank you, reading week, for your joys (see photo at right) and terrors (see previous sentence). 
 Because we know how cramped and claustrophobic Butler is at the moment, Bwog would like to remind you that the lovely, large, (basically empty) classrooms in Hamilton are open and available and yours for the taking.&nbsp; In fact, Bwog is sitting in a Hamilton classroom right now and the blackboard is filled with notes from some class' earlier CC review session. Helpful, eh? And while the building technically closes around 10 PM, security is usually pretty lax about letting students occupy classrooms into the wee hours of the morning. 
 Bwog's favorite publication, the Spectator's poetry-and-photography spin-off, 116, is baaack! In case you haven't had enough of the "not quickspec" tag today, here are some more links to click. Look at these people, they are hip! And look at the things they do with their fancy cameras! - Thing 1 - Thing 2 - Thing 3 Girls have feelings! Golf clap. - Girl 1 - Girl 2 - Girl 3 ...and Spec EIC avows, "but I am no poet." 
 &nbsp; It was just 11:35 PM when studiers started drifting into Butler 209 and perching themselves on ledges and chairs. 209ers, futility be damned, started Shh-ing the newcomers. One such 209er was one-half of Chromeo (the half that attends Columbia), though he soon made a quick exit. At midnight exactly, the spirited Columbia University Marching Band made their entrance as they played the CU fight song. Butlerites, amazingly, not only knew the words, but sung along. The theme of the 69th Orgo Night—a performance with roots in attempts to lower the curve on tomorrow's organic chemistry exam—was undoubtedly politics. The enthusiastic and adorable CUMB speaker began with mentions of ex-Governor Spitzer and his lady-friend Alexandra Ashley Dupre. It might have been the only time that the words "suck my own jizz" and "bareback anal sex" were uttered in Butler—inside the stacks doesn't count. The first Barnard joke came early (pun!), as CUMB wondered why Dupre never received a scholarship to Barnard, given her mastery of whoremanship even before graduating high school. The mention of new governor and CC grad David Paterson gave way to a rendition of "I Can See Clearly Now." The political satire took a turn for the local as CUMB hit on student council happenings. Adopting a Michelle Diamond impression that might have been familiar to anyone who saw the V-Show last weekend, the speaker chronicled Diamond's valiant ban-JuicyCampus-from-the-Columbia-server crusade and suggested that a place was waiting for her on Bollinger's Free Speech syllabus. GSSC President two times removed Niko Cunningham also scored an Orgo Night mention. CUMB also touched upon the politics of the Ivy League financial arms race, poking fun at the College Republicans, Harvard and its affinity for tweed, and Yale's use for the skulls in the Skull and Bones house, (hint: they're for fucking.) Princeton, on the other hand, had slightly different ideas about financial aid. And "Aid. Isn't that what the gays get?" received about a 6:1 laughs to this-is-controversial-"oohs" ratio. More this-is-controversial-"oohs" followed jokes about the summer Olympics and the civil unrest in Tibet and China, but CUMB received hugh laughs as Spec was forced to relive the Tibet Editorial Fact-Checking Mini-Scandal. Naturally, the band played "Build Me Up Fact-Checker." Jokes about the upcoming election were blissfully short and sweet, as CUMB brilliantly described the our criticism of Obama's shying away from Columbia as actually, oddly relatable. He's a Columbia, because just like most of us, he often doesn't really like Columbia all that much. "He bleeds baby blue!" the CUMB speaker shouted. An unexpected segment about crazy Yalie Aliza Shvarts (which was funny, though a few people standing around Bwog didn't know what CUMB was talking about), gave way to the climax (pun!) of the performance: The Vag. Huge cheers at the mere mention of Barnard's unfortunately named student center, or, as CUMB put it: "the Nexus-cum-Vag." What followed was a spirited, dance-y rendition of "All Along the Vagelos". CUMB doled out some punny advice for the few students in the room who would actually be taking o-chem tomorrow, and then it was all over. The band took their exit, once again playing the fight song. Audience members began to file out too, back to the quiet recesses of Butler and Hamilton. Bwog made our leave with an orgo night novice who could not stop grinning. "This is so great! I've never been happier to go to school here!" she said. The smile suddenly disappeared. "Don't tell anyone I said that." - JNW 
 Davisson: I like Spectator Robinson: Sports is irrelevant; I like sports Kamran: I hate protesters; I like sports (and shoutouts) Erickson: I like Spectator; I read other people's email sometimes Stup: "Gaying" is a verb
 Bwogger and hawk fan Anna Corke lost her Lerner mail key yesterday - which wouldn't be that big of a deal if the keychains attached to it weren't of personal value. One keychain is a surf board with the Brazilian flag on it (from Florianopolis, Brazil) and the other is a beaded&nbsp;Resplendent Quetzal (from San Andres, Guatemala). Send any news of the keychains or key to bwog@columbia.edu And if you've lost or found something yourself, send us a tip! 
In which Bwog Daily Editor Zach van Schouwen gives in to the demands of anonymous commenters and buys a plastic bag full of curry powder. In a previous edition of Cooking with Bwog, our high esteem for fried okra was called into question by a number of advocates of bhindi. Bhindi is the Hindi word for okra, but also refers to a particular way of cooking it, using curry, masala and yogurt. Anyway, it wouldn't be cooking if we didn't get to act like imperialists. So I promptly co-opted the Indian tradition and made some bhindi myself. It was pretty damn good, anonymous Bwog commenters, I'll give you some props. My version of the recipe follows, with instructions and a backstory. First, it's necessary to cobble together the necessary ingredients. Hopefully, you have a friend with a spice rack, because you're going to need (1) curry powder, (2) masala, (3) cumin, (4) turmeric, (5) red chili powder, (6) salt. You also need about 15 pieces of okra (go to West Side), peanut oil (vegetable is OK) and a cup or two of plain yogurt. Curry and masala are hard to find (although you can probably get them at West Side). I couldn't find them at my neighborhood supermarket, so I took a nice 90-minute stroll to Jackson Heights and bought them at the Cash and Carry, which is probably the least organized supermarket in New York. But cheap! If you can find curry leaves, use them instead of the powder. I couldn't lay hands on any, because my Hindi is... not so great. (I only know the word for "okra." It's "bhindi.") Anyway. Go home and get cooking. First up, chop the okra up into nice rings. Keep the crispy tail end, cut off the stub. Coat it with a pinch of cumin and a generous dollop of curry powder, toss it around. Then, churn up the yogurt in the cup until it's lumpless, and add 1/2 teaspoon each of the masala, turmeric, salt, and chili powder. (I like the masala a lot, so I use a little more.) Set this aside. Heat the peanut oil (medium heat); once it gets going, toss the okra in. Cover the skillet up, and let it sit for about 10 minutes, shaking it occasionally. The okra will crisp around the edges, but this only makes it better, so just chill out. Uncover the pan, turn the heat down to low, and stir in the yogurt mixture. Let it cook on low for 5-10 more minutes, stirring ocasionally. If you're using generic American yogurt (as I did, thanks, Dannon), you might want to drain some of the watery gunk out periodically. Extract the dry okra from the pan and serve hot. Rice is I guess recommended. I served it with a little extra yogurt on the side, because I am a real wuss for spicy food. Delicious! Just like Mom never made. Bigger, better pictures of the cooking process—and the mess that is Bwog's kitchen—can be found here. &nbsp; 
 From the deepest corner of our hearts, Bwog wishes underclassmen the best of luck on today's Lit Hum and CC exams. We'd wrap this post up with a classical reference, but Bwog is being edited by an engineer today, so we'll just allude to the Wretched of the Earth with a dash of übermenschen and leave it at that. Excelsior! (Also, um, hopefully the exam stayed secret this year. Everyone hates make-ups in September.)&nbsp; 
Learned Foote tells Bwog that there's free Koronet slices and hot wings in John Jay lounge, for exam-takers and slackers alike. The handouts start at 4:30, courtesy of CCSC. We're told there's soda. (This event was originally scheduled for the EC plaza, but has since relocated.) Go forth and devour!
 In lieu of a typical Guide to the Weekend, Bwog has decided to poll its listservs and aggregate a more helpful list of activities. The following are answers to the question "What do you do to procrastinate?" We hope you'll try out one or two (or nine) of our ideas and use the comment thread to suggest your own. Happy weekend! Change the font and wording of my resume Decide to take up short story writing Even though I live in a dorm, check Craigslist for apartments Make new Gmail labels Paint with nail polish on Post-It notes Change my desktop background Translating Spanish philosophers Taking four hour midday naps Fixing my bike Going to review sessions for classes I'm not taking Googling my professors Eat Nutella out of the jar, licking it off the knife Practice my dance routine Read articles from Go Ask Alice NAPS Catch up on three years of blog archives Cook everything I have been meaning to cook Determine which foreign language could be learned in the least time Slate Watch entirety of giant DVR backlog (Millions! I Heart Huckabees! An SVU episode about comic books!) Make a list of every single thing I own, for future reference Read through the Savage Love archives Read the New Yorker online Moisturize my upper arms over and over again...there's no reason for this, at all Arrange the jackets in my closet in order of warmth Email my parents everything from Stuff White People Like that applies to them Write a Mother's Day card—I would never remember this if it weren't in the middle of finals Watch sarah dooley's youtube show www.surfthechannel.com Read New York's assessment of Gossip Girl episodes Clean Do laundry/dishes Wait in line in Pinkberry (that could take like an hour during peak time) Make conversation with the security guards in your building—they are often very interesting gofugyourself.typepad.com jezebel.com nymag.com/daily/entertainment avclub.com Looking something up on Wikipedia, clicking on a link to another article, repeating this for ten minutes Organize your "Favorites" into different folders Argue with people on YouTube Create macros Join OhNoTheyDidn't Drink Diet Coke. Slowly worry yourself into an early grave. Chipping away at the 1167 new emails labeled "bwog" that have come into my inbox since I went abroad... Just spent 5 minutes lying in bed and throwing the blinds cord at my light. I reckon I could burn another half hour or so on that, it's almost fun. Line up the books I'm using for an essay on my desk in alphabetical order, by author Peel grapes before eating Read all the New York tabloids (even The Voice, why? why?) Test pens, throw out old ones Order novels on amazon, tell my mother they're textbooks for fall semester http://offbroadway.wordpress.com/ Revise poems written in 10th grade and send them to ridiculously prestigious journals. Fold socks Read g-chat status messages Browse other people's shared iTunes libraries in Butler Dig through odd jobs on Craigslist and other public listings so I can figure out how to make pocket money in the few weeks that I will be home this summer Analyze how the Eurorail works; develop a dream travel plan for the summer that probably won't pull through Sort all the damn paper that has piled up on my desk since the fall semester Laundry: no explanation needed Browse through websites of prospective grad schools (in spite of really despising school right now) Search iTunes for that song I heard one time that sounds kind of like Gnarls Barkley maybe... Shave my legs, it's Wednesday, I have a paper due tomorrow I might be going out Google "famous moms in history" Google "bad moms in history" Google my mom Respond to all email threads Facebook chat Gossip Girl reruns—those NYmag episode summaries are my reason for living Crafting the perfect gchat/facebook status update Wash month-old dishes Wash my hair, every night (though this emphasis on hygiene is totally detrimental to the whole finals aesthetic) Try all forgotten lipglosses buried somewhere in my sock drawer Come up with glorious melodramatic recaps of HOW MUCH WORK I HAVE TO DO and spend hours telling them over and over to any friend within earshot Spend the rest of the day "reading" on the lawn and/or steps (i.e., people watch and eavesdrop while worrying that everyone can smell my dissipating deodorant) Change outfits at least three times a day (dissipating deodorant) perezhilton.com Turning my Gmail notifier and the Gchat sounds off ostensibly so that I'm not distracted by the noises.&nbsp; In reality, I'm forced to alt-tab back to the Gmail screen to see if I have any new emails or messages. Sadly consider why I don't have any new emails or messages after step 1. Pump the porpoise. Find and listen to T-Pain's "Low (Apple Bottom Jeans)" on Youtube Find as many remixes of T-Pain's "Low (Apple Bottom Jeans)" on Youtube as I can Find and listen to the Alvin and the Chipmunks version of T-Pain's "Low (Apple Bottom Jeans)" on Youtube Listen to all of the Alvin and the Chipmunks covers on YouTube Pump the porpoise. Watch YouTube videos of Robert Horry clutch shots (check out the western conference finals against the Kings) Remember the glory days of under 13 soccer games Read my hometown newspaper and realize that not much has changed @ home Write a LectureHop Order books from Amazon that I will never read, but will get free shipping on Spend way too much time thinking whether its a good idea to legitimize Collegeboxes again or not Realizing that I could use some &nbsp;help packing all of my shit come move out time New episodes of Degrassi at the-n.com Dinosaur comics! http://www.qwantz.com/archive/000300.html Sending e-cards to my parents explaining why I was unable to call them on their anniversary Edit my ical to include things I've done in the past Read Gossip Girl recaps on televisionwithoutpity.com (and now NYMag) Google "top 100 books of all time" and judge myself based on how many I've read on various lists Read about the extended primaries obsessively, not because I'm still interested in the election, but because I´m finally beginning to figure out what happened during that West Wing episode where the nominee was chosen at the Democratic convention Shop online, freely adding items to my virtual baskets that I know I will never purchase Be a huge nerd and browse through the Columbia library's digital resources for new classical/jazz/world music to listen to, while gradually falling in love with the Naxos label more and more and making a mental list of every piece I wish I could play And when I'm feeling a little less nerdy and more quasi-mainstream, I kill time browsing music blogs through hypem.com Watching an abridged version of the noxious Anna Nicole Smith biopic starring Willa "I Wanna Be Bad" Ford that was too awful even to be released straight to DVD Applying for jobs Sleeping Eating sandwiches makin tea makin out writing postcards! Realizing that the bizarro dude who's always in Butler, usually talking about double meanings in Proust, is also the guy from Chromeo. I'm bouncing key limes off my ceiling and catching them. Discovery: KEY LIMES IS TOUGH AS SHIT, THOSE SUMBITCHES HOLDING UP REAL WELL They are also small enough that they don't make a sound that goes through. Become Facebook friends with Obama Girl Think about getting a haircut Respond to a high school alumni thread for alums living in NYC, realizing that it's a bunch of 32 year old investment bankers that I am talking to (probably also procrastinating) The Wikipedia page for Columbia University faculty &nbsp; 
 Today, Bwog heads to Bogota to catch up with The Spectator's latino cousin, El Espectador.&nbsp; Que Guay!&nbsp; Colombia's got Controversy too: La Homofobia El Espec swims in journalistic riptide too:&nbsp; The Challenges of Periodismo Moderno They're prudish too: &nbsp; What percentage of Colombians are virgins? Colombia remembers too: Los Recuerdos de 1968&nbsp; Mannhattanville in Colombia? Estudiantes like to protest too 
 Senior Wisdom checks in with former LionPAC president and Achille Varzi fan Ari Gardner. Name, School: Ari Gardner, CC’08&nbsp; Claim to fame:&nbsp; former Prez of Lionpac Served on both the ABC and SGB, and lived to tell about it… Was once quoted by a United Arab Emirates newspaper under the heading “Minority Perspective”&nbsp; lived on the illustrious John Jay 5 freshman year, and the Deuce (in Wein) junior year Post-grad plans:&nbsp; I plan to spend this coming year in Israel doing research… Following that, I plan to attend Law School.&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; Backstroke, because if I get tired I’m already in the right position for a nap…&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; That it’s important to maintain perspective. No matter how trite it may sound: things have a way of working out and few things are really worth getting stressed out about.&nbsp; That the best cure for writers block/inability to focus is a 30 minute run. That Orientalism is not a major at Columbia… It’s a way of life (joke…) Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; I’m a pacifist by nature and an activist by necessity.&nbsp; My curiosity is insatiable.&nbsp; I make a mean shakshuka but my specialty is stews. I like to schmooze. &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; My favorite controversy would definitely have to be Ahmadinejad’s coming to Columbia, for a number of reasons: 1) The media frenzy that accompanied it was rather humorous to behold, with CU invitation of Ahmadinejad being vilified by the far right, lauded by the far left, and heatedly debated about by those who fell in-between the two extremes; 2) The student response was also pretty amazing to behold: The campus went CRAZY, with students mobilizing both for and against the invitation and/or the man himself.&nbsp; Everyone had an opinion and was willing to voice it. Yet, the most amazing thing was that, despite the heated and at times polarizing nature of the debate which ensued, students remained remarkably civil throughout it all. It was impressive; 3) The soundbites that came out it were also pretty great: “In Iran we don't have homosexuals like in your country...” “Women in Iran enjoy the highest levels of freedom...”&nbsp; You all remember... Priceless.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; I’m working on a paper. It’s 2AM. Not making much progress.&nbsp; Suddenly, my phone rings. I pick it up. “Hello?” “Guacamole!” “huh?” “Guacamole!” “What are you talking about?” “You and me. We’re making guacamole. Now.”&nbsp; “But it’s 2AM, I have a paper to write…” “You have guacamole to make.” “You’re a bad person.” “possibly.” “fine..” “that was easy…” “you know my weaknesses… Damn you!”&nbsp; I don’t entirely know why, but for some reason that not-too-distant memory just kind of resonates for me.&nbsp; &nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Professor Jay Topkis, esquire.&nbsp; The man may be getting up there in age, but he’s got class.&nbsp; &nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; Based upon an unscientific polling of 20 Orthodox Jewish seniors…. I’d say about 95%....&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; As an avid lover of le fromage my choice is clear.&nbsp; While oral sex is all well and good when you’re receiving it, I ask you this: can you buy it on demand at any bodega or grocery store?&nbsp; Does it only get better with age? Does it come in wedges or wheels? Does it go well with lightly toasted 9-grain bread, tomato, basil, and a dash of red pepper?&nbsp; The answer to all of the above is, of course, ‘no.’ And thus, though it pains me to say it: far rather would I give up oral sex, than bit eternal adieu to my precious cheeses.&nbsp; Days on Campus memory?&nbsp; I’ve passed many a day on campus and have many fond memories, which I would be happy to impart, but sadly never attended Days on Campus… Don’t remember why. &nbsp; Regrets?&nbsp; Not seeing more Broadway shows, never actually learning to salsa or swing, not having taken a class with Achille Varzi (Check out this youtube video, it’s kind of amazing….&nbsp;).&nbsp; I think that my biggest regret though, is that I simply didn’t have more time… I’ve had a great time at Columbia and am sorry to be leaving.&nbsp; &nbsp;
 Ever wonder what life would be like if you went to NYU?&nbsp; Take a trip to NYU's favorite coffee spot for a cup of joe and your daily dose of meta! Grade inflation isn’t the only reason to wish you went to NYU.&nbsp; Just a few blocks south of Washington Square Park, Think Coffee serves up some of the city’s best coffee to NYU students and downtown denizens alike.&nbsp; Although Oren is a classic campus spot and Hungarian perfects the bohemian coffee house aesthetic, neither of these places are appropriate for studying. &nbsp; Living up to its all too apropos name, Think Coffee on the other hand is an ideal place to study. The space is well lit and equipped with plenty of power outlets. Indeed, you’ll find many Macbook users here, enjoying Think Coffee’s free Wi-Fi service.&nbsp; With three separate seating areas and plenty of plush couches, it’s easy for students to spread out their books and make themselves at home.&nbsp; Like any well-equipped home, Think Coffee has a collection of board games, including Scrabble.&nbsp; And there’s even a book nook where patrons can borrow and swap books. &nbsp; Despite the accommodating digs, Think Coffee is free of the common coffee shop blights.&nbsp; The couches remarkably are free of coffee stains and coffee stench and even the archetypal stained and stinky coffee shop bum. Although the baristas can be a bit surly, students are usually welcomed to stay as long as they like and as long as they buy something. Balancing everybody’s dorm room favorites with some gourmet twists, Think Coffee offers more than just caffeine fixes and brain food.&nbsp; But, it is clear Think Coffee capitalizes on the traditional study break fare.&nbsp; Warm and cinnamony, the oatmeal raisin cookie and the ruggalagh are the perfect afternoon pick-me-ups. Nonetheless, Think Coffee’s menu includes more than just sweet treats.&nbsp; The peanut butter and banana on whole wheat is a childhood classic that doubles as an all-natural and much needed alternative to your Red-Bull and Clif Bar lunch at Butler.&nbsp; If your palate has matured, try the baked black forest ham and Vermont cheddar. &nbsp; Both of these sandwiches are reliable and satisfying, but if you’re willing to take a risk, the menu also has some innovative, if not entirely successful, options.&nbsp; The soba salad and tofu and vegan artichoke pesto panini, for instance, substitute fiber for flavor and really should only be ordered by vegans.&nbsp; But that the menu includes options for the carnivore, the vegetarian and the vegan a like is indicative of Think Coffee’s accommodating M.O.. Think Coffee’s claim to fame is, however, obviously its coffee. The coffee selection here is conservative-classy.&nbsp; Combining simple recipes with high-quality ingredients, Think Coffee prepares excellent renditions of the Italian stand-bys – cappuccino, Americano, espresso and the like.&nbsp; In whatever form you chose to order it, you’ll find their coffee is strong and smooth.&nbsp; If you’re in the mood for a less powerful coffee experience, try the ice coffee.&nbsp; Somehow Think Coffee has managed to perfect combining ice and coffee – who knew it was an art? If the prices are higher than your average cup of coffee, that’s because Think Coffee is better than your average cup of coffee.&nbsp; Moreover, Think Coffee’s uses only fair trade, organic and local ingredients.&nbsp; Although the labels ‘fair trade’ and ‘organic’ often are advertising ploys, at least Think Coffee actually donates a portion of their profits to environmental protection charities and sustainable initiatives. &nbsp; So if you want to see how the other half lives, head down to NYU’s favorite coffee shop. Combining domestic touches with efficient and up to date design elements, Think Coffee is productive place to work and a relaxing alternative to Butler. -MEQ&nbsp; Think Coffee is located at 248 Mercer Street Between 3rd and 4th Streets and at 1 Bleeker Street on the corner of Bowery. 
 Citing the dining services webpage, Tipster Peter Labuza, informs Bwog that Chipotle will be accepting flex at some point this summer. According dining services, students can reap the nutritive benefits of Chipotle's burritos and at the same time exercise their creativity as they build their Mexican creations.&nbsp; It is unclear when this initiative will begin and how long it will last.&nbsp; But given off-campus flex's turbulent history, Bwog recommends taking this news with a grain of salt.&nbsp;&nbsp; If Chipotle follows the path of HamDel, there will be many disenchanted burrito enthusiasts and many empty stomachs. 
 Senior wisdom continues with the illustrious Kieron Cindric.&nbsp; You may know him as Associate Professor Bradbury from V114, but Bwog's got your backstage pass.&nbsp; &nbsp; Name, School: Kieron Cindric, CC '08 Claim to fame: Varsity Show, Xmas: A Secular Spectacular, various other musical productions; being naked on stage and dressing as cupid for Halloween Post-grad plans:&nbsp;&nbsp; Starvation.&nbsp; That is, trying to earn money singing and dancing Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; Flipping above the water! (I passed through taking Diving as a gym course) What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1.&nbsp; Though I love campus, and being on campus, Columbia isn’t really in “New&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; York.” 2.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Hewitt’s food is just better. 3.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Bonobos are incredible creatures (thank you, Biodiversity!) Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; Eating things like chocolate and various pumpkin-flavored things makes me happy; so do pop songs with good beats.&nbsp; Such simple things make me happy.&nbsp; Is that good?&nbsp; I don’t know… What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; How about moment of controversy?&nbsp; I liked Ahmadinejad comments on the state of homosexuality in Iran.&nbsp; Maybe I’ll visit someday.&nbsp; Then they’ll have that “phenomenon.” What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; A group of friends and I get together each week to watch Grey’s, and we all make food (or most make food), and we eat, and talk.&nbsp; One time, I think, we went from discussing how Meredith looked old to musing—very sincerely—on sexual orientation (non sequitur).&nbsp; I think it’s that variability and the mix of very smart but (often) very real people here that has made Columbia a great experience.&nbsp; I have made some great friends to whom I can relate on lots of levels—I’ll miss that and them (and the spontaneity of discussions)! Which prof do you think would be the best kisser?&nbsp; Possibly my Black Paris prof, Brent Edwards.&nbsp; He’s just super smooth. And cool. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; 30% Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; Oral sex.&nbsp; Cheese is just too damn good. Days on Campus memory? Thinking that if Columbia were anything like Days on Campus, it would be sad—thank God it was so different! Regrets? None big enough to recall 
 Name, School: Jon Cioschi, Columbia College&nbsp; Claim to fame: My great, great, great (I’m not sure how many greats, to be honest) uncle, Antonio Meucci, may or may not have actually invented the telephone.&nbsp; Alexander Graham Bell may or may not have stolen the designs from him and patented it before he could.&nbsp; Reason being, Meucci couldn’t drum up the equivalent of something like $200 in today’s dollars to realize the design.&nbsp; While it would have been nice to never have had to worry about money – which would have been the case if Meucci beat Bell to it, it’s been so much fun to tell this story just for the reactions I’ve gotten.&nbsp; If you don’t believe me, Wikipedia (aka the source of all truth and the only source of truth in the world) will tell you all about him, along with ardent Italian nationalists and spiteful Italian-Americans who are quite pissed that they can’t claim to have been the cultural source of the foundation of modern telecommunications.&nbsp; Objective truths, I swear.&nbsp; &nbsp; Post-grad plans: I’m now officially committed to work for the Man…(hattan) District Attorney’s Office as a Paralegal in the Appeals Bureau for one year, beginning June 23rd.&nbsp; After that, maybe I’ll work there another year.&nbsp; And, after that, I hope to embark on, perhaps for the 1000th time in world history, Che Guevara’s motorcycle tour of South-Central-Latin America.&nbsp; And, after that, I will be heading to a yet-to-be-determined law school to begin my mission to become a poor lawyer in the service of social justice.&nbsp;&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; Backstroke.&nbsp; I am afraid of keeping my head down in the water.&nbsp; I planned to take the test this morning, but I did not make it happen.&nbsp; Oh crap.&nbsp; I’m not gonna graduate if I don’t do it soon.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; Un: The overwhelming importance of doing whatever it is that gives meaning to your life from day to day – including, for me, building great relationships with friends, keeping an open mind by trying new things and pondering different ideas, and discovering and focusing on my passions.&nbsp; Deux: That helping other people smile and feel good about themselves makes me happier than most anything in the world. Trois: That I love learning more than I thought I ever could.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; This is a loaded one.&nbsp; Can I get back to you when I am on my deathbed?&nbsp; Any answer right now will be inadequate, for sure.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia?&nbsp; Ahmadinejad’s visit to campus.&nbsp; Seeing the student body mobilized for various reasons, witnessing and engaging in rigorous debate about some critical issues, and just plain watching the speech with my friends and hordes of students reminded me of just how excellent and valuable the opportunity to study here has been.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience?&nbsp; Sophomore year, all of my best guy friends and I organized a ridiculous 21st birthday party celebration for one of our buddies, which involved (a) renting a limo (mind you, about 14 of us went in on this, so it was dirt cheap), (b) surprising the birthday boy by picking him up after a birthday dinner with his family, (c) driving to Times Square and making him put on a ridiculous outfit in Times Square to which all of us contributed one article of clothing, (d) driving to the Brooklyn Bridge and walking to its precipice, and (e) rolling back uptown for drinks at Soundz Lounge, Harlem’s finest.&nbsp; &nbsp; This is my favorite memory, no doubt. And it definitely exemplifies my entire college experience – I haven’t done anything here except that over and over again.&nbsp; How am I graduating, you ask?&nbsp; Well, hate to be hackneyed, but that’s for me to know and for you find out.&nbsp; &nbsp; Runner up: two time, Varsity participation in the Naked Run (What the hell happened to this amazing Columbia tradition?).&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser?&nbsp; Haha.&nbsp; Great question.&nbsp; My answer will probably get me in trouble, which makes like the question even more.&nbsp; Hmm.&nbsp; Janakhi Bakhle – she’s really passionate about what she teaches and skilful in the classroom, and, for some reason, I feel like that passion and skill would translate effectively into kissing.&nbsp; Wow, she’s gonna change my grade to at least a C if she reads this.&nbsp; It’s a compliment, Professor Bakhle, please don’t be mad!&nbsp; BWOG made me do it!&nbsp; &nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins?&nbsp; I’m inclined to say about 0%, considering all of the raucous orgies (and naked parties – thanks, Ann Coulter!), wild and incessant partying, and out-of-control drug-use that my peers have engaged in to my dismay for the past 4 years.&nbsp; Shame on you, CC ’08.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; Cheese.&nbsp; Hands, heads, and mouths down.&nbsp; Wow, that was dirty.&nbsp; &nbsp; Days on Campus memory? Coming out to the steps on a beautiful and sunny April day like this one and seeing tons of students hanging out and having a good time, and, realizing only 8 months later that days like these, regretfully, would be few and far between at Columbia.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Regrets?&nbsp; None.&nbsp; &nbsp;
Professors bid their classes adieu, claim, "There's still hope!"Hawkmadinejad should consider taking a leaf out of Woody Allen's book. Stressed about finals? Maybe look into the therapeutic benefits of being a sniper--only virtually, of course.Way way back in the 1980s, Columbia employees map campus, and Wallach was called Livingston! Will wonders never cease? No snark alert: Columbia baseball wins Ivy League championship!It's just Lindsay Lohan's luck that the Columbia student whose coat she stole is pressing charges.
 The final Blue and White of the year is now on newsstands near you, and it's a very exciting double issue. But because we know you don't want to have to get up—thus forfeiting whatever prime Butler real estate you managed to snag—we've gone ahead and Quick'ed it for your enjoyment.&nbsp; &nbsp; Valuable advice, from graduates and almost-graduates&nbsp; Celebrities, as graduates and almost-graduates (...and valuable advice from a celebrity who's neither) Finding yourself, online and abroad You shouldn't judge a book by its cover, except of course, when you should Learning to accept and appreciate flaws Silence is golden, harmony is communicative 
The depths of procrastination have truly reached a new low: We've taken to Googling our professors on YouTube. An anonymous tipster points us in the direction of "Prolegomena to any Future Numa Numa," which features philosophy professor John David Collins and one of who we believe to be the children of Collins and one of who belongs to philosophy professor Christia Mercer. It's dancey and has nothing whatsoever to do with Kant, making it prime reading week procrastination material.&nbsp; &nbsp; After the jump, logic professor Achille Varzi weighs in on the 2000 re-count in Florida. It's dated, but very enjoyable for anyone who's ever had class with (or even just spoken to) the wonderful Varzi. Do you know of any other professorial stars of YouTube? Email Bwog or use the comment thread to post links, and we'll update the post. &nbsp; 
 As several commenters have kindly reminded us, the 3rd(?) Annual Finals Eve Pillow Fight will be taking place on South Lawn in front of Butler tonight at midnight (or 11:55, according to the Facebook event). Please bring you game face and a pillow. Pictured at right: some of the carnage from last year's battle royale. UPDATE, 11:45: The fun begins in just fifteen minutes, but Bwog just realized that our camera phone doesn't have a flash. If you're attending the pillow fight, send us your pictures, and we'll post them once we recover from our war wounds.  UPDATE, 12:15: Shit is out of control. At 12:00, Bwog witnessed two tidal waves of sleep-deprived humanity crash against each other in a Braveheart-style battle royale. There was an audible "oomph" as bodies and pillows smashed into each other. The Primal Screaming has not ceased in the past 20 minutes--new waves of yelling are coming about every five minutes. Insane. 
 &nbsp; Tonight marked the 3rd Annual Pillow Fight/Primal Scream. Not that we needed to tell you that; anyone who wasn't getting a good night's rest before a final (ha!) or listening to very loud music probably just heard about 25 straight minutes of screaming emanating from South Lawn. The be-pillowed masses started to gather at 11:50 PM or so, slowly migrating out of Butler and the dorms and congregating by the sundial. An official-sounding girl with a pillow (UPDATE: "The lovely" Nina Bell, founder of the pillow fight&nbsp; Correct UPDATE: Lindsey Kaley, this year's event organizer.) instructed the ranks to split in two, and half retreated to the steps of Butler, while half stayed put at the sundial. A midnight exactly, the two troops charged towards one another—pillows were flung, screams were primal. Bwog personally noticed two pairs of glasses break and heard of the destruction of at least one pillowcase. Bwog asked one sophomore who the winner of the pillow fight was, the Butler side or the sundial side. She paused. "Neither. The system. The man." More portraits of cotton-y carnage below. 
 Name, School: Niko Cunningham, GS Claim to fame: Student Body President of GS – you know the rest Post-grad plans: Going back to LA – getting back together with the gang and making movies. Preferred swim test stroke? “If a student takes beginner swimming for one term and is still not able to pass the swimming test, the requirement is waived.” - from the Columbia website. That was my strategy. What are three things you learned at Columbia? PODUNK – Pissed Off Deans Unleash No Kompassion FARMING – Financial Aid Reform Must Include Non-traditional Gsers CRAPS – Casbah Rouge and Pizza Slices ..Damn, I miss the Casbah! Justify your existence in 30 words or less. “Daring ideas are like chessmen moving forward; they may be beaten, but they may start a winning game.” Goethe "The finest steel has to go through the hottest fire." – John Mitchell What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? I’ll plead the fifth. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? In October 2005, little known sophomore Marvin Eiselrod successfully penetrated the heavily guarded fortress known as John Jay Dining Hall without swiping one of his meals. Now given the courage to navigate the loopholes of the Columbia bureaucracy, Marvin proceeds to pilfer pre-made sandwiches from Café 212 without paying. Marvin studies the Columbia bureaucracy and by his senior year has developed the blueprints for the now infamous “suit and tie” scheme, borrowing a friend’s navy blue ensemble two to seven times a week, only to lift cheddar cubes and chicken empanadas reserved for Investment Banking information sessions held at the hallowed halls of Faculty House. He becomes the hero of EC; earns mad respect; and gets the girl. We are all Marvin Eiselrod. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Have you seen some of the Econ professors’ wives? I have no idea how they do it, but perhaps it is worth pursuing that PhD. in sustainable giffen good econometrics. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? SEAS: 1- (1/pi) CC: The College boasts an 8.7% “admittance” rate. Barnard: 9 (Ways of Knowing) GS: Our motto is “The light that shines in the darkness.” ‘Nuff said. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? To be determined after a double-blind taste test. Days on Campus memory? Hmm…. (after just googling what that meant) - those would definitely be good for transfer students to have. Regrets? (we can all have regrets madlibs style)… Not taking that course with __________.&nbsp; Not getting that A+ in ______________.&nbsp; Not approaching that girl in _______________.&nbsp; Not pursuing that phenomenal ___________ which they guaranteed ___________ and _______________ in exchange for me _______________.&nbsp; Eating too much _____________ after ____________ o’clock. Not using the blunt edge of a ____________ to smash ______________and laugh __________-ly. Going to sleep with not enough _________. That one time I showed up in class with _______________ in my ___________. Not taking up ________ on the offer of having that ___________-some at the club. &nbsp; 
 The new issue of the Fed—the last one of the school year—has hit the internet and newsstands. Annals of architecture, ad eundum quo nemo ante iit&nbsp; Contemporary Civilization, ad nauseum Our culture's decline, reductum ad absurdum Thank yous, ad infinitum The dormitory life, ad captandum vulgus Knowledge, ad vitam aeternam! &nbsp; 
 With nearly the entire student body locked up now in finals or the library, you may have forgotten that we live in quite the dangerous city!&nbsp; While tipster Alex Weinberg was able to stand on Ruggles in GTA IV, Columbia sociology professor turned underworld expert Sudhir Venkatesh noted in Slate that the first person shooter bears close resemblance to actual life on Chicago's South Side, where he studied social trends in drug dealing, gang-leading and prostitution with Freakonomist Steven Levitt.&nbsp; He also suggests improvements, including the option of being able to run over his book publishers.&nbsp; The city is not just killing urban youth, but also innocent red-tailed eyases!&nbsp; Cityroom, after first reporting the existence of three hawk babies in our beloved Riverside Park, now tells us that it seems like they have died.&nbsp; Only one corpse has been found, but a local birder said that cause of death is most likely poisonous food, which would have probably killed all three hawk chicks.&nbsp; We are still not sure what relationship these 81st Streeters have with Hawkmadinejad, but they are probably related to our Hero. -JJV 
Bwog ventured into the dark heart of Butler to snap some photos of the most lived-in cubicles, desks, and chairs. Columbia, what we saw, it frightened us: A Red Bull bottle converted into a flower vase for a single dying rose, sheets and sheets of notebook paper used as a make-shift gum cemetery, more of 212's salads than we'd ever cared to smell--we thought we had seen it all. But then a boy, having noticed our camera, went up Bwog and informed us that somewhere on the fourth floor, a creature was dwelling who had taped pictures of her family on the walls. While we weren't able to locate this girl, we encourage you to email us (bwog@columbia.edu) artifacts from your own Butler safari or photos of your workspace. More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 This year's final issue of the Jester hit the internet a few days ago and will hit newsstands Thursday — you may have received an email from Jesterbot informing you of such. The theme of the issue, as you might have immediately noticed from the front cover, is Tragedy. Editor in Chief David Iscoe explains, "We made an issue of a humor magazine devoted to Tragedy, and we believe that the cover is appropriate for such an issue." On to the Quick-ing: The defining question of the post-(Civil) War era (page 6) A dream, not deferred, but flat-out rejected (page 7) Isn't the real tragedy the absence of Gmail? (page 11) Come not between Bertrand Russell and his wrath (page 12) Confess your sins, brought to you by the US Postal Service (page 14) A veritable brawl between the houses of Armstrong and Armstrong (page 15) The anguish of the human condition, all a'twitter (page 25)
 Name, School: Amanda Erickson, CC&nbsp; Claim to fame: Former Spectator managing editor&nbsp; Post-grad plans: Covering politics in DC for the Chicago Tribune this summer, then hopefully covering meetings about parking permits and roundabouts in a small town newspaper somewhere. Or else volunteering and backpacking from Argentina to Mexico. &nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? Floating on my stomach and trying not to run into the person in front of me.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. It’s worth giving the benefit of the doubt. Most people at Columbia really want to make things better, though they disagree pretty fundamentally about how to do that. 2. Checking your email several times an hour will not result in more frequent, interesting mail. 3. There really isn’t enough time to do everything you care about here, so you may as well choose one or two things you love a lot and accept that there will always be others you wish you had done.&nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I give more hugs than the average Columbia student.&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? I’m sort of partial to Ahmadinejad’s visit. There were so many issues to consider – the role of free speech on a campus, what academic freedom really means, and the horrible but subtle ways Americans’ prejudices against Islam play out at Columbia.&nbsp; It was also depressing to watch the media descend and in more than a few cases, distort (I’m looking at you Fox News) what happened here that day. It made me think a little more carefully about what role a press can and should play on a college campus. &nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Promising my roommate (who kindly and valiantly tried for three years to establish some order in my life) I’d by home by 9, then spending most of the night at the Spectator office trying franticly to confirm that Ahmadinejad was coming to campus. Finally breaking the story, going to JJ’s afterwards, then getting home at 6 AM to read a book and write a presentation for an 11 o’clock seminar.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? I’ve always had a thing for President Bollinger. Great hair and a penchant for defending the freedoms of the press. What more could a girl ask for?&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I’m Italian. I’m pretty sure my grandmother would never cook for me again if I gave up cheese, and she makes very good meatballs and lasagna.&nbsp; Days on Campus memory? Taking a tour with a student who told us the architect who planned Lerner designed it so that students would run into each other on the ramps, befriend one another, and form lifelong bonds. Believing him and feeling a little disappointed when people didn’t stop and talk to me the first time I went to check my mail.&nbsp; Regrets? Not taking better advantage of student rush tickets. Never joining ROOTEd. Not spending enough time reading for history classes I loved. Spending too much time looking for my glasses or CUID. Not walking more places. And graduating too soon. 
 Just a reminder to those sending belated Mother's Day cards, yesterday the price of a first-class stamp rose to 42 cents. (It's a price increase of a penny.) You can check out the rising price of stamps since the '50s via this graph (which is itself on a stamp)—both meta and informative.&nbsp; 
 An anonymous tipster spotted the pictured stack of books in the Butler computer lab. "If only my finals were this interesting!" he laments.&nbsp; The books include: Cannabis Culture Marijuana Marijuana-The New Prohibition Sexual Power of Marijuana Man and Marijuana Marihuana Reconsidered Marihuana Papers Bitter Pill Birth Control From Private Vice to Public Virtue New Concepts in Contraception National Com. on Marijuana and Drug Abuse It looks like there may be at least one student who's a little less stressed than the rest of us. &nbsp; 
Things are looking up! The treachery of finals week is drawing to a closeâ€”despite some Butler settlements indicating the contrary. Plus, tipster Keith Leung just emailed to let us know that Haagen Dasz is giving away free scoops of their new ice-cream flavor (Vanilla Honey Bee) from now until 8 PM. Leung has also assuaged any worries of hellishly long waits, explaining that "the line was around 10 people, but they're basically just scooping ice-cream for people without asking any questions, so the wait was like 2 minutes."
 Tipster Daniel Tyner-Bryan is reporting that just a few moments ago, the fire alarm started going off in Hamilton, thereby interrupting finals and forcing all the students, teachers, and bluebooks onto the lawn outside. Stand by for updates/photos and tip us (bwog@columbia.edu) if you have any. UPDATE 7:31 PM: Tipster Srijata Chattopadhyay informs us that the fire alarm was triggered by a trashcan fire on the third floor women's bathroom. 
 As is customary before any break, we've re-posted our peregrination pointers list in hopes that you will have the quickest, safest, cheapest, most comfortable ride home. And if you have a travel secret that doesn't appear on the list, email bwog@columbia.edu. Sharing is caring. How to decide upon the lesser of the three evils: train, bus or car? * "I'm going to Western Massachusetts, and booked a train two weeks ago to get there (already most days were filled up) and am booking a Greyhound bus today to get back. I figure the roads will be worse on Thursday&#65533;making Amtrak convenient&#65533;but not so bad in the middle of the day on Sunday, making the bus more flexible and economical." * "If you live in Philly or its environs, any Chinatown bus during holiday season will be packed with everyone you went to high school with. NJ Transit, though a foul, foul beast, is a less awkward experience. I plan to take a very early (7:14) train on Thurs. morning, which will get me into 30th Street at 9:30 am. I hear Thurs. morning NJ Transit trains are pretty empty." * "If your parents are visiting tell them to avoid the LIE at all costs." * "Penn Station is a ghost town past 1:30 in the morning." * "Triboro Bridge to Columbia all the way. And the secret best route to all points north (holidays only) is to take 155th St to the Harlem River Drive to the GW Bridge to the Palisades Parkway. Even to Connecticut. Even to Iceland." So you've chosen to ride the bus: * "If you're taking a bus, get a bus that leaves from Penn Station rather than Chinatown, you save a lot of time in transit on the Subway." * "I typically go to my uncle's farmhouse outside of Hagerstown, Pennsylvania; it always takes a ride on Beiber Bus, which leaves from the Port Authority Bus Terminal in a stink, invariably. It would probably be intelligent to bring potourri or patchouli along with, just in case. Or, if you don't have to go to small-town Pennsylvania, to take Fung Wah for better-smelling buses. Additionally, one must make a point of purchasing tickets at the counter, rather than at the electronic machine: Nobody can explain it, but there are no monitors showing bus departure gates at the PABT. Only the ticket ladies know; that is how they maintain their power." * "The secret of taking Chinatown buses is that the ones that leave from Flushing are less crowded (and harder to plan)." * "The secret of the Port Authority is that while the bathrooms claim that there are 'Plainclothes cops on duty', after 8 PM it's strictly crack addicts. The real secret of the Port Authority is that the pizza place on the mezzanine level has garlic knots and free ice water." * "Fung Wah = death." LIRR * "I've always taken the train home to Long Island from Penn on Wednesdays, usually in the later afternoon, and it is always packed. Always. They run more trains, but still every year I've ended up having to stand the whole way home." NJ Transit * "There are a few days during the year (around the 4th of July, Thanksgiving, etc.) in which the car is as full as it could get. Literally. Avoid NJ Transit the day before a holiday. If you live that close, your parents should give you a ride (goddamn them)!" Metro North * "Full of Wall Street types going to Greenwich, Westport, Fairfield, etc., but nice and empty by the time it gets to New Haven! As a side note: the last time I took the train home, at rush hour, a 60-something-year-old very well dressed and professional looking man actually punched me because I accidentally nudged him with my rolling suitcase. I was so shocked I didn't even say anything, just gaped and rolled on." * "It took me a really long time to realize that if you're taking metro north anywhere (Westchester or CT), it makes much more sense to take the M60 or a cab up to 125th street station than to go all the way to Grand Central, unless traffic is really bad, which it can be." Amtrak * "The secret of departing from Penn Station via Amtrak is to hang around the Red Cap counter, so you know what gate your train is departing on in advance. If you sneak around the NJ Transit level, you can sometimes get to the track before anybody else does (including the train)." * "Take late-night Amtraks from Penn Station; if you take it late enough, you don't lose a night out, and the fare is much cheaper. Then, you get to walk through an empty Penn Station, and if you live in a city that's the center of a metropolitan area, you get to see the commuters taking the morning train to work. Of course, you can't get express, but if it works out for your schedule it's pretty good, and you can have a bench to yourself to sleep until you get to the commuters." * "Don't wait until the last minute! Slack just a couple of hours (i.e. buy your ticket less than like, 6 hours in advance) and a $60 bargain turns into a $92 rip-off. Granted, this is, $30 cheaper than usual, but still." Airports and Planes * "If you're flying out LaGuardia, take that M60 for 2 dollars. It's a nice ride, too, visually speaking." * "Use Mobissimo to find discounted flights, but then go to the airline's website and book the flight directly through the airline. Those services usually just search for cheap flights that are offered by the airline, so you can bypass their convenience charge that way." * "Don't take a taxi to the airport, whatever you do." * "I hear it's much faster to fly out of Newark than out of JFK if home is out West. Like it's one stop away from Penn Station on NJ Transit, which is much more palatable than the epic subway ride on the A out to the hinterlands of Queens." * "For the flyers, JetBlue is cheap out of New York, and as far as I've been able to find out, not listed at all on the sites most people use to scan for cheap tickets. And if you want to go to Europe, you can still go round trip for under $550 with only twenty-four hours to go: book on Air India to London and then get RyanAir or EasyJet from there." * "Don't take the A to JFK. It's much better to switch for Times Square, hop onto the E, and take it out to Jamaica Center, which only takes like 22 minutes. (This is also the airport's recommended route from all uptown points). The A is an endless slog to hell, and you don't even get to ride the one good part: the two-mile causeway across Jamaica Bay." 
 Hot off last week's swastika-in-Butler fiasco, it seems a rogue vandal or two continue to try to cram in as much vitriolic graffiti as they can before graduation. A tipster reports that there might have been another hate crime in the 3rd floor men's bathroom in Lerner. Says the tipster, "Yesterday afternoon there were 4-5 policemen and public safety there, and for the rest of the night a guard was stationed outside not letting anyone in. Today, there's an 'out of order' sign on the door and maintenance guys frantically repainting two stalls. When they went on break I went in but couldn't find anything." 
 A few commenters and tipsters have been asking about the whereabouts of CULPA, which has seemingly vanished from the internet. Bwog emailed CULPA man-in-charge Seth Berliner who explained that "CULPA is down while we move the site to a new (and more reliable) server, which will allow us to make some upgrades over the summer.&nbsp; We apologize to our loyal readers for the inconvenience; hopefully the new server and the summer improvements will prevent this sort of thing in the future." So there you have it. &nbsp; 
 Name, School: Laura S., Barnard College Claim to fame: Student Government President Post-grad plans: M. Levin, Project Analyst Preferred swim test stroke? Swimming isnt part of the Nine Ways of Knowing. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) He's not the one... 2) Neither is the other guy... 3) Nor is that guy's roommate. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. As a Barnard woman I refuse to answer this question formally, as 'justifying my existence' is what I've been doing informally for four years. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Funding at Columbia University (also known as F@CU). All five &nbsp;governing boards have been fighting for the process to be open to the general public. This year all of the four Councils agreed, but ironically no one showed up for the party. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? This year's Varsity Show. Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Professor/President Bollinger. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? "There is a sacred realm of privacy for every man and woman where he makes his choices and decisions-a realm of his own essential rights and liberties into which the law , generally speaking, must not intrude." - Fisher Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I'm Swiss, it would be unpatriotic to give up cheese. Regrets? Only one: filling out this Senior Wisdom and putting it on Bwog :) 
 Today is a momentous one in terms of free food: some stars somewhere are aligned marking this rarest of occasion when two dining establishments are simultaneously offering free products. First, McDonalds will be serving, until 7 PM, free chicken biscuit sandwiches (fine print: the sandwiches are only free with the purchase of a medium or large drink.) Second, it's free iced coffee day til 10 PM at Dunkin Donuts, and there's no fine print, just 16 oz. of really good iced coffee.&nbsp; The nearest McDonalds: 125th and Broadway Two Dunkin Donuts options: Amsterdam beween 105th and 106th and Amsterdam between 125th and 126th. &nbsp; 
 As the school year comes to a close, free time, along with Bwog's Guide to the Weekend, makes a triumphant return. We'll continue keeping you updated every Thursday throughout the summer about concerts, movies, special events, and lectures.&nbsp; All Weekend/Continuing:&nbsp; The Films of Kenji Mizoguchi IFC Center Friday-Sunday; 11 AM $11.50 Heavy Light: Recent Photography and Video from Japan International Center for Photography May 16 th-&nbsp; Sep 7; Tuesdays-Thursdays (10am-6pm); Fridays (10am-8pm); Saturdays-Sundays (10am-6pm) This Friday, several of the artists will appear in person to sign exhibition catalogs $12 No Fun Fest Three days of noise-rock featuring Religious Knives, Thurston Moore, Tony Conrad, and Hair Police. The Knitting Factory Friday May 16 (7pm); Saturday May 17 (7pm); Sunday May 18 (6:30pm) $20 - 22 daily / $50 three-day pass James Nares Retrospective Anthology Film Archives May 16th-22nd; 7:30 PM $8 GlassLab Ever wonder how glass-blowing works? Now's your chance to see it happen. Cooper-Hewitt Garden May 17 -June 3; Mondays-Thursdays (10am-5pm); Fridays (10am-9pm); Saturdays (10am-6pm); Sundays (noon-6pm) $15 Brooklyn College MFA Thesis Exhibition NYCAMS, 44 W 28th St May 18 to June 1; Opens Saturday May 17. (6 to 9pm) Tuesdays to Saturdays (10am to 5pm) Sundays FREE&nbsp; Godard @ Film Forum Continues... May 15th/16th: La Chinoise May 17th-19th: Weekend Thieves Like Us @ Film Forum Through May 20th Times vary according to day Friday:&nbsp; Comedy Cures, Presented by the Onion Featuring Pete Holmes, Kurt Braunholer, Seth Herzog, &amp; John Mulaney @ Comix 8 PM $20 at the door, $15 in advance 11th Annual NYC Tattoo Convention Roseland Ballroom Noon-Midnight Over 80 tattoo artists from across the world, over 80 different options for pissing off your parents right before graduation Saturday: 2nd Annual NYC Dance Parade Check in at 12:30pm on 28th Street between Broadway and 6th Avenue. 1-8PM FREE Sunday: The Virgin Suicides @ BAM Sunday May 18 (2, 4:30, 6:50 &amp; 9:15pm) $11 &nbsp; 
 We check in with Noam Harary (right) Name, School: Noam Harary, CC 08 Claim to fame: Jewfro &nbsp; Post-grad plans: Living on a friends couch in the city while bartending and acting.&nbsp; I'll be out West next winter teaching snowboarding. &nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; Butterfly, then desperately treading water once immediately exhausted.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) You could forge your professor's signature on the add/drop forms, and the registrar never checks or keeps a copy of that document. Hoo-rah. 2) Deadlines are a state of mind.&nbsp; Extensions are always given if asked the right way... (hint: no one wants a jumper) 3) You can graduate with only a concentration. Seriously, no major, no thesis. What's lazy, has two thumbs and a B.A.? This guy. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Gam Zoo Letovah&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Columbia women giving condescending looks to Barnard girls after they say, "I could have gone to Columbia, I chose Barnard"&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? It's a tie between slip and sliding on the Carman 8 floor freshmen year using laundry detergent and Saran wrap, and the time I was officially accused by the Philosophy Department of being mentally ill.&nbsp; Both equally epic.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Vandenburg.&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? The ugly percentage.&nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Oral sex is good, but cheese is forever.&nbsp; Best Days on Campus memory? The one with the hot redhead, I think that was last year's.&nbsp; Wait, my DOC?&nbsp; Regrets? Not including obscure philosophical references when answering this questionnaire.&nbsp; I can't even directly quote Foucault- how will I live?
 With Spec on summer vacation for over a week now, it's time to check in with that other journalistic medium: the internet. And now, a closer look of what some of the blogs on the sidebar have been publishing.&nbsp; Roar Lions Roar: Columbia athletics, the high school years The Phlog: Diners go Greek The Blaaag: Finals week, we're nostalgic already! The One Train: Bwog can't quite figure out where this bench is. Any guesses? Off Broadway: More from our Ecuadorian correspondent Reflective Pundit: Fancy graph points to sensibility of Clinton nomination&nbsp; 
 After so many hours locked up in Butler, Bwog couldn't help but notice a few smoldering glances flying from person to person across the brutally well-lit study spaces. It got us thinking, and we decided to start a feature that we'd been considering for a long time: Missed Connections. Oh, my, yes. While some of you have already moved out of the dorms, there's still a few days left to catch the eye of whoever's been sitting next to you in CC missing your incisive comments about Kant. You can just do it on the Internet. Here's how it works: add a comment on this post with a description of the object of your desire, and some way to get in touch with you, like an email address. (The comments are hidden.) We'll repost these, without the identifying emails, and gather the replies, then make the appropriate matches. It'll be great. We await your responses with bated breath. UPDATE: Since time is fleeting, you have one hour (til 1:30 PM today) to post a missed connection. At that point, we'll be posting the comments. It's the last day of school, so like every teen movie tells you, now's the last chance to talk to the girl/boy of your dreams. 
 Bwog received word that several Columbians are spending the first days of summer pining for the English class/Lion's Head/McBain romance that never was. If you think a missed connection is directed your way, email Bwog and we'll put you in touch with your inamorato/a. "I met you under the influence of alcohol at the Lion's Head. Then we walked to hamdel--just the way drunken nights should go. You're nice and it's too bad you're graduating, but at least it makes it less awkward to post this since I'll probably never see you again." "he was in mac adam's lit class. he sat in the back row of the middle section of the classroom and looked ever-so-sexy in his striped polo shirts and blue jacket." "You and I work together, and I have had a crush on you since the first day I met you, but I have never mustered up the courage to ask you out on an actual date out of fear of ruining the friendship that we have going on. I had a great time at senior ball tonight when I was with you. You probably don't even visit this website, but I figured what the hell. (Thank you alcohol)" "I'm not going to be ignored. I had English class with you all semester. I think you're really intelligent and unafraid of carnal desire. I want this for us. Holla back." "Guy from McBain 8: have you just started smoking recently or do you just smoke in your room? I haven't seen you smoke outside except for the last couple of weeks. Let's smoke together." "Ok. The pretty Boy in question is about 6'1" or so, dark brown-black straight hair, blue eyes, kind of thick eyebrows, chiseled features etc. Looks just like my ex. Drives me nuts that I don't know who this guy is. I see him pretty often at 212, and once in Butler last week, and on 117/Amsterdam last night around 11:30. Really good looking guy. I'd like to know who he is so I don't get freaked out and think it's my ex every time I see him!" 
 Bwog realizes that for the last few posts we've taken a cue or two from Craigslist, but in the spirit of usefulness, we're posting a list of items that students are currently selling. If you'd like to add your items to the list, use the comment thread or email bwog@columbia.edu. Sanyo SR-3770S Counter-High Refrigerator, Black and Stainless-Steel. Bought it for $200. Used for a year. Good condition! Need to get rid of it by Saturday! (Original info). Contact: ys2248@columbia.edu Sony Triniton TV, black, 24 inch screen.&nbsp; Three years old, good condition, just too heavy for me to move.&nbsp; $20 Contact: amp2133@columbia.edu Yamaha Clavinova CLP-130; Three years old, excellent condition; $2000 Contact: pbb2101@columbia.edu White Raleigh Cruiser Bike; $75&nbsp; SOLD Contact: katelinthicum@gmail.com FREE Fridge; 2 years old; door slightly damaged (by CollegeBox movers), but still runs perfectly. (Must claim by 8 AM Saturday morning) Contact: kas2143@columbia.edu or 310 266 9774 Dell A920 Printer Plus Two Black Ink Cartridges Excellent Condition (Seller Just Purchased a New Printer) $60 for Printer and Cartridges or Best Offer Contact: crb2116@columbia.edu Sanyo 3.5 Cubic Ft Refrigerator (w small freezer built in) $50 or best offer. 1 year old. Like new condition Contact: crb2116@columbia.edu 
 The AP ran a story today in which they talked to Obama's old friends from his days at Alma Mater. There are tales of bravery, like that time on Broadway when Obama courageously fended off a hobo. And fun facts about Obama's developing fashion sense—did you know he was kind of into the grunge look? (So ahead of his time!). Also: he had a heart of gold. "Siddiqi would mock Obama's idealism -- he just wanted to make a lot of money and buy things, while Obama wanted to help the poor." He was also a vegetarian.&nbsp; Ah, memories.&nbsp; 
 Name, School: Jesse Cooper, CC 08&nbsp; Claim to fame: BWOG Mario Kart Tournament Champion, &nbsp; Post-grad plans: Proctoring SATs, Mowing Lawns, going to the West Coast, finding a home, working for Steve and Barry's&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? CHICKEN-T-SWIM BABY! The Inverted backstroke.&nbsp; Yeah, its alright.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) I can drink a whole Hennessey fifth.&nbsp; Some call it a problem, I just call it a gift. (To plagarize Xzibit).&nbsp; Oh I guess I learned that too. 2) Anytime there is free anything, line up about 5 hours early.&nbsp; When student council advertises 100 free anything, keep in mind that 60 of them go to members of the student council and their closest friends 3) The ability to bullshit 5-7 pages about absolutely anything, with footnotes, in 5 hours or less.&nbsp; Its really a remarkable but invaluable skill. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Anyone who can proudly admit to still liking Limp Bizkit deserves a nod, right?&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? When I found out that despite his bitter departure, PresBo continues to root for Michigan football.&nbsp; O-H-I-O GO BUCKEYES.&nbsp; What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? The ability to get a group of friends to do just about anything with you at anytime of the night good or bad.&nbsp; This is actually going to be a reasonable answer.&nbsp; Want to play ball, send out a mass text, next thing you know, half of Wein is on South Field.&nbsp; Want JJ's at 3AM? Once again, there will be 15 people waiting there.&nbsp; Its just a remarkable aspect of how small Columbia is, anything from partying to playing put-put at Chelsea piers is always an option with a group of people.&nbsp; Which prof do you think would be the best kisser? Kenneth Jackson.&nbsp; He's got that sweet Southern Charm, stays fit riding bikes and unquestionably has done a walking tour of every single one of the most awesome lookout points in the city.&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Don't know but send them to Watson House. &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Lactose intolerant, this one is easy. Days on Campus memory? I was in a traffic jam on the way home from a high school baseball tournament.&nbsp; Baseball or kegger maybe that's what I regret.&nbsp; Regrets? Gotta learn to live with regrets (plagiarizing again, Jay-Z). 
 Unsure of how to entertain your parents in New York this weekend? Bwog staffer Mariela Quintana suggests Casa Italiana, where you can put your Art Hum skills to use.&nbsp; Between the dank Amsterdam overpass and SIPA's bleak backside, stands the alabaster Casa Italiana, home of the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America. With an imperious entryway articulating the ground floor and high arching windows coursing across the second level, Casa Italiana epitomizes the architecture of the Italian Renaissance.&nbsp; Under the auspices of Michael I. Sovern and Francesco Cossiga, presidents of Columbia University and the Republic of Italy respectively, the Italian Academy was established in 1991 to ostensibly promote the study of Italian culture and society.&nbsp; Thanks to their courageous demands, the Italian Academy intends to promote the place of Dante, Boccaccio, Michelangelo, Verdi and other Italian masters in the academy. (Though it's been said that the palazzo was a gift of Mussolini, more affectionately known by scholars and party members alike as Il Duce.) Despite the incriminating rumors, the Italian Academy website justifies its relationship with the university as follows, "Given its international scope and its long-standing commitment to all aspects of Italian culture and society, Columbia was seen as an especially appropriate context for such a venture."&nbsp; Though recent trip to see "Eyes on Piemonte" a photography exhibit currently on display in the Casa Italiana marble salone, was somewhat strange.&nbsp; Given the attendant's incredulous greeting and the pile of dusty exhibition programs, it's clear that there have not been many visitors. Although its collection of photographs is small, the exhibition offers an opportunity to see free culture on campus and a funny corner of Columbia.&nbsp; The press release focuses on the renowned photographer, Henri Cartier Bresson, and in doing so immediately wins points with the aesthete in us.&nbsp; But be forewarned, "Eyes on Piemonte" contains none of Bresson's work.&nbsp;&nbsp; Instead the exhibit is comprised of about fifteen photographs, the majority of which are unmemorable.&nbsp; But the work of Alex Majoli stands out.&nbsp;&nbsp; The exhibit intends to portray the region of Piemonte.&nbsp; In this endevour, most of the photographers have produced somewhat interesting shots of light and shadows on Piemonte's palaces and architectural details.&nbsp; But Majoli distills the spirit of Piemonte's people. &nbsp; In Big Screen at Piazza Castella, Majoli focuses on the anxiety and dedication of Italian futbol fans.&nbsp; Shot at night in a crowded plaza, the image is grainy and the blacks and reds of crowd contrast with a Technicolor vibrancy. But Majoli's large aperture freezes the street lights against the dark background and renders them emanating, almost star-like, specters of light. Majoli's camera angle captures the fans awed upward gaze and instills the atmosphere with religious reverence that verges on the sublime.&nbsp;&nbsp; In The Beach, Majoli again uses a wide-open aperture to silhouette a woman against a dark crowd.&nbsp;&nbsp; A helicopter looms on a projector screen in the background and offsets the intrigue of the woman in the foreground.&nbsp;&nbsp; Majoli's images are by far the strongest in the exhibition, but neither of them evoke the atmosphere Italy or Piedemont. And it is for this very reason - a mysterious, indefinable ambiance - that these images are so striking. &nbsp; Although the exhibition is small, Majoli's images alone are worth the trip across Amsterdam. And if you've got&nbsp; friends and family in town for Commencement festivities, a postprandial browse through Casa Italiana's salone is an affordable and convenient way to entertain the troops. &nbsp;
 Those of you who have stepped onto the subway recently might have noticed a new series of advertisements featuring famous quotes from the likes of everyone from Edith Wharton to Galileo. The sponsor of the subway's most intellectual wallpaper? Alma Mater, naturally.&nbsp; It's unclear what benefits the University is receiving (if any) by having its name plastered next to advertisements for law firms specializing in asbestos malpractice. Though against the backdrop of the sordid history of subway posters (remember The Tudors? The Six Degrees disasters of 2006?), Bwog's actually quite grateful for the quote-ads. 
 Tipster Armin Rosen alerts Bwog to some tragic news. Dr. Phil, a night-shift employee at Appletree and the subject of this Blue and White profile has passed away. He was 56 years old. Dr. Phil is responsible for beginning Appletree's movie rental program in 1992, but he may be most famous for his impressive vintage Columbia postcard collection, which he proudly displayed throughout the market, or perhaps for his preference for wearing a lab coat. However you knew him, he will be missed.&nbsp; 
 The New York Observer just released their list of this year's 100 Most Powerful People in Real Estate. Rounding off the upper echelon of the city's developers, scions, and politicians is none other than PrezBo. Says the Observer: "In a town where real estate is rarely measured in acres, Lee Bollinger is leading Columbia toward a 17-acre expansion, adding 6.8 million square feet to the campus. With the help of eminent domain, or at least the threat, he will be responsible for the wholesale transformation of West Harlem." PrezBo narrowly beat the guy responsible for NYU's 6 million sq. feet of Greenwich Village expansion as well as New York's new governor, David Paterson. &nbsp; 
 CC Class day, though never a particularly riveting experience, was cold, blustery and, well, boring this year. The afternoon began with clear skies and salutatorian Julia Kalow, a double major in chemistry and creative writing, whose speech tended toward the latter. She told the story of a writer who informs her friends that she’s written a story with no ending. They balk, as does a snobbish boy in the corner reading the Iliad, who then notices, “Troy hasn’t fallen, the war isn’t over—perhaps the stories didn’t need endings.” Kalow reminded seniors that though they may be graduating, their “illustrious Columbia experience” doesn’t “end when our IDs expire,” or “when the University stops asking us for money.” Rather, it never ends, which was ambiguously comforting. Following Kalow was Joel Klein, who in 2002 became Chancellor of the New York City Department of Education, and whose speech sounded remarkably like his resume, with assorted quotes from Alan Alda and Theodore Roosevelt thrown in. Clichés abounded. The glass was half empty or half full. Columbia had given seniors a car and gas and now they just had to drive. College is a “cocoon.” Acknowledging that “this was a hard assignment” and no one would remember what he said, he finished with: “The only thing I want you to remember from what I said today is, ‘go for it.’” Unfortunately by that point half the audience had forgotten who he was. Dean of Student Affairs Costantino Colombo announced the award recipients as two of his staffers, who stood behind Bwog, loudly commented that writing speeches for the man is a sheer impossibility as he will only improvise. This is unfortunate, they noted, for words are the enemy of the Colombo. Then there was senior class president Neda Navab, who continued Klein’s theme of giving a speech largely about herself and her trials and pitfalls in the last four years. She announced that her sister would be a freshman in the fall and as the cameras panned over her sister’s face, the audience cooed in unison. “Can it get any better than this?” Navab wondered. It can! It did! Thank goodness for Dean Quigley and PrezBo, who between the two of them managed to be charming. “I’ve decided that I care too much to allow you to graduate,” joked Quigley. PrezBo gave some inspirational asides and then referred to the college as “one of the greatest dating services,” that appears to have failed quite a few of its seniors. “You seem to be a generation that wants to take your time to match up—the alumni association can help you!” he said, adding "Columbia and you are now wed." A hearty Bwog thank-you goes out to the kid wearing the spiderman costume under his gown--you made it all worthwhile. --AMP&nbsp; 
Tipster Sumeet Shah sends word that PrezBo had a rollicking good time at SEAS's class day yesterday. Shah sends a photo of PrezBo laughing—real human laughs—at speaker Armen Avanessians' speech. Says one SEASer of the speech: "Hilarious but uninspiring. The whole speech was nerd jokes... he got a laugh with the phrase '1.5-micron CMOS', as did the random engineer in the crowd who yelled out 'size doesn't matter' right afterward. There was a lot of yelling at the SEAS ceremony, actually." &nbsp; 
 It's not only seniors who are receiving diplomas this week, outgoing President and Varsity Show protagonist Judith Shapiro (pictured with her signature sass at right), will be receiving an honorary Columbia University Doctor of Laws degree, presented to her tomorrow by none other than PrezBo. In a press release, PrezBo commends JShap on doubling BC's endowment, instituting the Nine Ways of Knowing, and launching construction on the Vag.&nbsp; Congrats, JShap!&nbsp; 
 NY1 is reporting that a mother and a daughter graduated together from GS yesterday. "'It was very competitive, she loves to compete. Like what grade did you get on your paper? How well did you do on your midterm? And in the end when I got a B+ and she got an A-, she was like "I did better than you did," she rubbed it in my face,' says mother Insaf Abdullah." As for post-grad plans, daughter plans to return to the Middle East while mother opts for grad school.&nbsp;&nbsp; Bwog offers accolades to both mother and daughter, but frankly we're a bit shocked that this exact situation has never been lampooned in a Varsity Show before. 
 Bwog apologizes for the delay in Barnard class day coverage.&nbsp; Our camera wasn't working and we couldn't have you just take us at our word. On Tuesday morning, as a faint drizzle turned into a steady downpour, 597 “awe-inspiring women” graduated from Barnard, along with their president.&nbsp; Let me the spare you the burden of reading the rest of this post: Barnard class day won this year. Although the college had boasted of a star-studded class day with Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Billie Jean King (tennis star), David Remnick (New Yorker editor-in-chief) and Thelma Adair (Head Start founder), only hizzoner addressed the graduating class.&nbsp; The rest received Barnard medals of distinction.&nbsp; New Yorkers are accustomed to seeing Bloomberg on TV for the occasional press conference, and he usually appears somewhat lovable, schlumpy and uninspired.&nbsp; But during his class day speech he was practically animated—funny at all the right times, legitimately inspiring at others—and reminded everyone why he’s Joel Klein’s boss and not vice versa. He began by mocking JShap’s poodle, Nora, who he called a “one poodle canine security patrol” and questioned the dog’s legal right to parade about an otherwise dog-free campus.&nbsp; He then addressed the subject of the wall around the Vag’s construction zone with the tone of an amused civil servant.&nbsp; “You’ve all spent your senior year learning to be graffiti artists,” he said. “May I remind you—your tagging days are done.&nbsp; What happens at Barnard stays at Barnard.”&nbsp; “Except, you’re not staying at Barnard,” he added.&nbsp; And from there on, he advised the graduating class not to worry about their salaries, but to “make sure your first job will teach you and humble you.”&nbsp; He recounted his experience being fired from Salomon Brothers, which led to his decision to start Bloomberg LP in 1981, and his emergence in the political arena in 2001.&nbsp; He urged graduates to go into public service, noting, “there’s never been a better time for women to enter government” and gave shout-outs to a few city hall interns.&nbsp; “Go get ‘em” he bellowed, to a standing ovation. Following this, Jshap was treated to a surprise speech—“Each and every one of us is more than a little verklempt to see you go”—and another standing ovation (there was much standing and clapping and cheering).&nbsp; And after the degrees were conferred—“political science and theater…interesting…” commented Dean Denburg—Jshap gave her own farewell address, which unfortunately was a rundown of all her speeches given in the last 14 years in sparknotes form.&nbsp; “You are entering the working world in some seriously interesting times,” she intoned, echoing the vaguely foreboding the-economy-sucks-the-government-sucks sense every speaker this year has suggested.&nbsp; And what will she be doing while Barnard grads are wage-slaving?&nbsp; “You’ll see me on campus,” she said, in bookstores, at lectures, and in Starbucks.&nbsp; “I’ll be the relaxed one with my triple grande nonfat latte.” Prior to this, senior class president Remi Coker, SGA president Laura Stoffel, and Ruth Talansky, gave speeches.&nbsp; Bwog admits to missing most of Coker’s speech, but the last five minutes were quite nice—an assertion of “how far we’ve come” as seen in the V-show.&nbsp; Stoffel’s had a theme of “pioneering” while Talansky’s had a theme of “legos” and interconnection and began “I would like to talk to you about legos.”&nbsp; Bwog, while a fan of pioneers, legos, and themed speeches in their respective independence, found the interconnection a bit much. More photos brought to you courtesy of Barnard's PR people.&nbsp; The top two were taken by David Wentworth and the bottom three are by Monika Graf. 
 Just over an hour ago, Austin Quigley announced via email that next fall would be his last year serving as Dean of Columbia College. At this time, information on why he's leaving and who's replacing him is scant, but we'll be updating as we find out more. Below is the email: UPDATE 6:20 PM: Bollinger assures CC that Quigley will continue to hang out around CU, specifically continuing "as the Brander Matthews Professor of Dramatic Literature after he steps down. He will also devote half of his time serving broader University initiatives working closely with me as Special Advisor to the President for Undergraduate Education." "Dear Student, When you return to Columbia this fall, my term as Dean will become the second longest in the College's history. &nbsp;2008-09 will be the fourteenth year it has been my privilege to serve as Dean and it will also be the final year. &nbsp;Deciding when to move on from a position of responsibility is always a challenge, but wisdom is on the side of doing so when things continue to go well, so that a successor will have the opportunity to steer that positive momentum toward new priorities. The fundamental responsibility of any Dean of the College is to leave the institution in better shape than one found it and I have sought every year to pursue that goal. &nbsp;I do not need to detail here the familiar record of progress in the College: admissions statistics, facilities renewal, fundraising levels, faculty investments, curricular innovations, student achievements, financial-aid upgrades, student services enhancements, alumni program initiatives, and so on have all characterized College renewal in the last thirteen years. I would rather reiterate what I have emphasized so many times before: success on so many fronts is always collective success, not that of any single individual. It has been my good fortune to work closely with a talented College staff, a dedicated faculty, a creative and supportive university leadership, a deeply committed group of alumni and parents, and a remarkably talented student body. Together, we have strengthened an already prestigious undergraduate College to make it one of the most sought after educational institutions in the land, carefully preserving its long established historical character while setting new goals and instituting new traditions. Our collective achievements have always been precisely that, collective. Like so many Columbians, I began my life in a place some distance from here and in a world very different from that of Columbia University in the City of New York. &nbsp;But like so many others, mine has become, in enduring ways, a Columbia life, and my pride at feeling a valued member of the Columbia family is reward enough for the part I have had the good fortune to play in making Columbia just a little bit better. I look forward to my final year as Dean and to working closely with all of you. Best wishes, Austin E. Quigley Dean of Columbia College" 
 One astute, politically-inclined tipster sent Bwog a list of all the candidates for New York's City Council, pointing out that one of which is former University Senator Marcus Johnson, CC '07 and table-dancer extraordinaire. Johnson is running for a City Council seat in District 12, which is located in the North Bronx. The seat's open, as current City Councilman Larry Seabrook is on his second term and ineligible for re-election.&nbsp; Johnson is up against Andy King, the developer of Uptown Developer's Corporation and Cheryl Simmons Oliver, the District Director for Jose Serrano, a council member congressman from the Bronx's 16th district. Best of luck Marcus! (We love you, but you might want to update your website). 
 Tomorrow kicks off Memorial Day weekend, and the city is likely to fill up with tourists while New York locals try to skip town anyway—and anywhere—they can. Bwog's doing our part to help you out by suggesting a few public transportation-friendly, relatively close beaches.&nbsp; Beach: Belmar Beach, NJ How to Get There: Take the NJ Transit New Jersey North Jersey Coast Line from Penn Station. The train stops at Belmar, but it's about a fifteen to twenty minute walk through Victorian-style neighborhoods to the beach from the train station. Duration of Transit: 1.5 - 2 hours Dining Options: Ice cream, hot dogs, chicken fingers and the like are available right on the beach. For dinner, go to Klein's Seafood Market. It's right on the water, and though the live music features mostly poorly-performed reggae-influenced classic rock covers, it's bearable when you sit outside by the wharf. The seafood is fresh and delicious, and priced fairly reasonably. What's To Do: There's not too much to do in the way of boardwalk activities, so bring a book and an iPod. There's a gift shop or two that sell clothing, sunblock, and waterproof cameras, but that's about it. In terms of swimming, the water's still fairly cold, so bring accessories for non-aquatic fun like Frisbees or cigarettes/flasks. Fellow Beach Patron Hook-Up Potential: The crowd was mostly older (40-year-olds with their children) and native Jersey high-schoolers. So, not very high, unless that's your bag. Unofficial Bruce Springsteen Song: "Kitty's Back" Beach: Wildwood State Park How to get there: Take the LIRR to Riverhead, and then hitch a ride to Wildwood (Long Islanders are friendly! But you should do it with a friend, and look for minivans). Here's a map of the area. Duration of Transit: Kind of a long time--like 2-3 hours depending on transfers--but it's a nice ride, especially if you haven't been out on the Island before. What to do: No swimming until June 22, but it's an idyllic beach for campfires, fishing, frisbee, and watching large clans of locals grill burgers and pretend to like each other. Children abound, but you can avoid them by striking out on one of the trails from the beach through sun-dappled forests to the camping area. If you've got a night, staying over is the best use of your time. Fellow Beach Patron Hook-Up Potential: The crowd tends more to the aging and overweight, so it's best to bring one with you. It's worth the effort--the beach empties out further down after about 6pm, which makes for the best hook-up spot a kid could want. Unofficial Bruce Springsteen Song: "Rosalita"&nbsp; Beach: Point Pleasant (5 minutes away from me!) How to get there:&nbsp; Take NJ Transit to Brick (I think the 139 bus) or take the NJ Transit New Jersey North Jersey Coast Line from Penn Station. The train stops a Point Pleasant, and it's a pleasant 5 minutes walk to the shore. Duration of Travel: Basically the same for Belmar.&nbsp; The beaches for Manasquan, Point Pleasant, Spring Lake, Sea Girt, Belmar, and Brielle are all pretty close to each other. Dining Options: Typical board walk food (funnel cake, fried oreos, ice cream) but you MUST MUST MUST go to Hoffman's Ice Cream Parlor.&nbsp; (800 Richmond Avenue)&nbsp; On summer nights, the line is huge, but it is so worth it. What to do:&nbsp; What is there NOT to do?&nbsp; It's the boardwalk!&nbsp; Swimming!&nbsp; Rides!&nbsp; Boardwalk games!&nbsp; There's even an aquarium as well as the very seedy but popularly beach bar "Jenks."&nbsp; Fellow Beach Patron Hook-Up Potential: High schoolers, senior citizens, bennys from Long Island, and Indian American college students returning to their roots.&nbsp; Of the listed beaches, the hook up potential is actually pretty high at PP. Unofficial Bruce Springsteen Song: "Thunder Road" Beach: Davis Park, Fire Island, NY How to Get there: Take the LIRR from Penn Station to Patchogue via the Montauk line. Then it's a short walk down West Avenue to the Davis Park Ferry Landing. Yes, you take a ferry. Davis Park, and the entirety of Fire Island for that matter, is a spit of land off the coast of Long Island. &nbsp;It's basically a big sand bar and you can easily pretend you're in international waters. &nbsp;Don't be alarmed by the open bottle policy on the ferry; I promise it will be the best ten minutes of your summer. Total travel time: 1 hour and forty five to two hours. Including the ferry. Dining options: Casino Cafe: it's a little pricey, but it's right on the beach. &nbsp;Better to do a picnic for lunch and catch sunset drinks here. &nbsp;The clientele is superb, beach bums, salts of the sea, sorority girls... What to do: &nbsp;There's a lovely boardwalk that courses the length of the island. &nbsp;You'll pass numerous Irish flags, a Catholic Church, a marina, a campsite, a state park and eventually you'll find yourself in The Pines, a far more upscale and image-conscious enclave. &nbsp; But, if you're more in the mood for low key relaxing, the beach at Davis Park is wide and flat, perfect for spreading a sheet and taking a snooze. &nbsp;And if you're of fair complexion, the beach front houses are on stilts and offer plenty of shade. Fellow Beach Front Hook-up Potential: You'll probably be offered a beer or two by your neighbors. &nbsp;Depending on how many you take, you could easily find yourself a beach beau. Unofficial Bruce Springsteen Song: "Mary's Place" 
Bwogger Lydia DePillis noticed that attempting to reach the Spec's website now brings one to the following message: Ruh-roh. Has Spec not been footing the bill's for its web presence? Or perhaps it simply went the way of the Barnard Bulletin, whose foray into the world of the Internet was all too brief. 
Believe it or not, second semester is over and done with. And it's like it never even happened. In fact, you might argue that the 2007-2008 school year had something of a premature ejaculation; fall was a time for Ahmadinejad, hunger strikes, and the largest collection of racist graffiti in the western hemisphere while second semester... well... the Vag sure is a silly-sounding name, isn't it? Bwog's here to serve as tour guide, as we commence our annual Year in Review and officially start our summer season. We'll still be posting a couple posts a day, but as always, the more you tip us (bwog@columbia.edu), the more we post.&nbsp; September:&nbsp; Bwog welcomed the class of 2011 by convincing them that they made the wrong decision to come to Columbia, and later helping them nurse their wounded spirits with alcohol. (Though quicker than you can say "McLovin" area bars installed scanners, which may or "may not" have been purchased by CU.) GS unveiled a new mascot that we named Gulliver and promptly never heard from again. The War on Fun kicked off as the line to even get into EC stretched around the corner. 2006 antagonist Jim Gilchrist was falsely rumored to be returning, but it turned out a fellow named Mahmoud Ahmadinejad would be coming instead. In response, FOX news, beacon of all that is truthful and good, interviewed everyone you've ever met, while folks at school protested and pontificated. And in the midst of the chaos, more chaos, as JJ's Spicy Chicken briefly disappeared from existence. He arrived and we watched (and sometimes protested) from the lawn and liveBwogged the event from Roone. Plus, the first Problematic Graffiti of the semester was located at SIPA. Naturally, an emergency meeting was called and there was never any racist graffiti again. October The activist-y spirit that began in September stayed strong throughout October, as the month kicked off with a Jena 6 awareness walkout. We welcomed Spec and Barnard to the Internet, and 2011 welcomed their new class councils. SCEG symbolically riled against expansion, while Columbia Coalition Against the War utilized cupcakes to expose the travesty of the Iraq War. And while the troops are still in Iraq and Columbia did wind up expanding, thanks to student complaints, JJ's Spicy Chicken did return, thus preserving social justice. But back to our regularly scheduled protesting: David Horowitz also announced his plans to spearhead Islamo-Fascist Awareness Week while various student groups demonstrated against Columbus Day. Plus, we stumbled upon the web presence of potential First Daughter Meghan McCain, CC '07. TC Professor Madonna Constantine discovered a noose hanging from her door, inspiring more protests. Meanwhile, the media started to pick up on this whole Vampire Weekend thing. Also: the sky fell. Literally. The Blue and White engaged in a battle royale with Mark Zuckerberg, months before it was en vogue to do so while Bwog embedded ourselves in DMZ between Tasti DLite and Pinkberry. But for all the commotion, David Horowitz's visit was remarkably civil, with the real battles being fought on the bedsheets and scalps of Schapiro and Barnard. Oh, and we stalked your professors. November A new anti-racism coalition headed by Jenny Oki and Bryan Mercer was born, sans acronym, demanding increasing funding for ethnic studies and bureaucracy reformation. (SPOILER ALERT: It's Team Hunger Strike.) Nadia Abu El-Haj received tenure and Kentucky received some help from the College Dems. But back to the Hunger Strike, which dominated all news. Forever. There were vigils! Ambulances! An octopus! And protests, protests, protests! And finally: peace accords—kinda. Well, not really. The Varsity Show, on the other hand, had only just begun. We learned to appreciate life—and the Gates, though really, what's the difference? Though some folks in Manhattanville had a less than lovely Thanksgiving. (But everyone had a happy anti-hate day!) December Philo joined in on the Social Justice Spectacular. There was tragedy on 118th and Amsterdam and triumph on 113th and Broadway—and both on Furnald lawn, ushered in on the wings of Hawkmadinejad. We checked in with anti-Joel-Klein Robert Maschio and wished a very special young man "Mazel Tov." The Terrible 12s received ED acceptance and couldn't wait to tell all of Facebook. Their future classmates taunted their high spirits from the recesses of Butler. Some accidentally emailed their CC papers to their CC sections and the Committee on the Core; others played instruments and made topical jokes. And still more resorted the the old Columbia stress-busting standby: the racist graffiti. Bwog made a holiday wish list, and so did Bollinger, apparently, because all his Manhattanville dreams came true. We signed off with a Semester in Review (meta), and wished you all the happiest of (very long) winter breaks. January We started off 2008 right: with optimism and environmentally-friendly SUVs. Others preferred 1968, started the year off with a healthy dose of nostalgia. We unearthed the political preferences of your professors and met some Terrible 12s from Hawaii. New years mean new names for old things, and brand-new happenings on Broadway. Harvard and Yale got financial aid reform... and Columbia got really shiny new elevators! Barnard got some "racist" "graffiti" of its own. Strange found objects were spotted near the Building Not Yet Known as the Vag, and strangely high candy prices materialized in 212. (But we have your cash-flow problem covered.) Megacelebrities Jeff Sachs and John Legend teamed up to fight evil. Barnard announced its new president and threw her a party, a party that featured megacelebrity Anna Quindlen. But otherwise an otherwise joyous January was rocked by fraternity/sorority incest-y turf wars, pitting brother against sister in a battle for a brownstone. February The first crop of PBKers was announced, and we stalked them. Hometown heros/thoroughly mediocre football team the Giants won the Superbowl. On the other hand, Morningside Heights was the big loser (winner?) in health code violation points. Ominously-named Dean Kromm kickstarted the War on Fun, and we watched the CPU kickstart its involvement in the 2008 presidential election. Glass House Rocks outlawed merriment, while some Catholics outlawed other things. Bwog traveled back in time to New Jersey's Camelot and CU basketball coach Joe Jones traveled to Florida with your puppy. CCSC bled light blue, while Bwog readers showed us what's in their hearts. Exclusion Suite was the new Gates, oh, and it snowed like one time total the whole winter. Barnard had leakage problems—both on the quad and on the information superhighway. Varsity Show gave us an excuse to trudge down to "Havana Central." ABC announced its budget, Pertutti announced its departure. Also, SGB announced its budget, and the New Pertutti (aka Campo) announced its arrival. Madonna Constantine, of possible hate crime fame, came under scrutiny for allegations of plagiarism... an investigation which she kind of implied was also a bias incident. Bwog turned two and had a birthday party, and Howard Dean became briefly relevant again. March The CCSC race began to heat up and so did second semester's only vaguely scandalous event: the Great Juicy Campus Debate. (Though Bwog informed you why there was really no debate to be had.) Niko Cunningham ruffled some feathers over financial aid, and CCSC race kicked off (as it is prone to do) with a rules violation. We produced digital homages to our professors, and kicked off a tour of all Columbia's dorms. The Hawkmadinebwog was created in the violent aftermath of a squirrel mauling. We heard about the Juicy Campus Pledge that never was and the CC grad/current governor that came to be. Plus: financial aid reform! And um, a Dr. Seuss-themed "protest"? The Subway Hero engaged in heroism, and CU indulged its nostalgia. CULPA disappeared from existence, and Off-Campus Flex came into being. The Spring Concert eschewed hip hop for hipsters. ESC chose their new leaders, the LE:MON party chose environmentalism, CCSC chose Joel Klein, and James Franco chose Columbia. April Hawkmadinejad died (just kidding), and we found out there's a class called "Agent, Person, Subject, Self" (not kidding.) A bag of cameras was mistaken for a bomb. A graduate student was tragically killed. Suspects were identified, and a memorial service was held. The Pulitzers and WBAR lineup was announced—guess which one included Bob Dylan? HamDel did away with Off-Campus Flex and GSSC did away with Niko Cunningham... twice. The War on Fun marred 40s on 40, and we liveBwogged the Housing Lottery. Barnard vastly, vastly over-estimated our maturity. Lerner 6 was put to use (in theory). There were 11th hour CCSC rules violations, and ultimately George Krebs proved victorious! And sort of drunk! Take Back the Night took to the streets while Lit Hum took to Ovid. Anti-Iraq War Protesters inundated College Walk with laundry, bells, and signs fraught with metaphorical significance. Joseph Massad took home a Lionel Trilling Award and Bwog readers took wisdom from departing seniors. May We took a quasi-coherent stroll down memory lane with Richard Bulliet and the rest of the professorial gang. We saw and loved the Varsity Show. We played and loved GTAIV. Racist graffiti in a Butler bathroom was so first semester, another trend apparently being stealing a fur coat. Orgo Night relieved our stress and, hopefully, some of us from our desks. We procrastinated by helping you to do the same. Pillows were thrown, and love was found. Bloomberg rocked the mic at Barnard, and Joel Klein... is a very nice man. And finally everyone went to the beach. Except Dean Quigley. - JNW 
 Bwog's back from our Memorial Day sojourn, and we hope you had as lovely a weekend as we did. Here now, the Spring 2008 issue of AdHoc, distilled for your reading pleasure.&nbsp; The Tibet Question, Answer The CSER Beginnings, Future The Manhattanville Question, Answer, Beginnings, and Future Patrick Cockburn’s Muqtada Read, Reviewed Birth Control Control It's All in the Game 
Bwog operative and newly-minted alum Zach van Schouwen noticed something a bit uncanny when visiting the College's homepage. The following photo, aside from giving the false impression that the 9 train is still running, which it is not, pictures the subway entrance as a grandiose marble affair, which it is not. (See below for visual confirmation and here for a larger shot.) ZvS also found insurmountable evidence something that might lead us to believe in the subway's Photoshoppage in the form of what appears to be a 1 and 9 symbol that float in midair behind the entrance, as well as JPG jaggies around the white-on-black text. We just hope the class of 2012 isn't too heartbroken when they find out what the subway entrance really looks like. The blood is on your hands, Columbia College. (Reality is pictured at right.) UPDATE: Some things we've learned: The movie poster on the background on the College's subway is for Bait, which came out on September 15th, 2000. Also, noticed how the One sign in the background hangs off into oblivion. (There is no black background surrounding the left edge of the red circular "one.") Stay tuned, as we unearth this mystery. 
Tipster Michael Wymbs alerted us to last night's episode of the Colbert Report, on which Physicas Professor Brian Greene was a guest. Greene was promoting the World Science Festival (of which he is host), which will take place this weekend in all over the city. As part of the festival, Greene will be a panelist in an "Invisible Reality" lecture (moderated by favored West Wing Republican Alan Alda.) Check out the Festival's full schedule here. The Festival's Street Fair will take place on Saturday in Washington Sq. Park and will feature a 12-foot tall animatronic dinosaur and a real-life version of the Magic School Bus. Bwog will see you there. &nbsp; 
 A recent Columbia grad emailed Bwog with the following tip: &nbsp; A Columbia student in her early 20's was found dead in her apartment at 435 Riverside Drive, Apartment 22. The EMTs found her there -- they got a call at 12:38 p.m. about a possible cardiac arrest -- and said the place smelled awful and she'd probably been dead for a few days.&nbsp; They suspect suicide, but can't be sure, as they found her dead on the floor and cause of death hasn't been confirmed. The building's security guard confirmed that the woman was a Columbia student. Stand by as the story develops and be sure to send any tips to bwog@columbia.edu&nbsp; UPDATE 1:25 PM: Bwog just got off the phone with Public Safety, who is not commenting. The have confirmed that there has been "a situation" at that address.&nbsp; UPDATE 2:02 PM: More from our tipster: "The girl was apparently Italian and she was found by her roommate/subletting landlord." UPDATE 9:44 AM: More from our tipster: "Apparently, the student was subletting either the whole or part of the apt at 435 Riverside. The person she was subletting from came home after being gone for several days and found her lying dead on the floor of one of the back rooms, possibly her bedroom. According to this person, the girl had said she was extremely depressed the last time she was seen. Thus, the suspicion of suicide (which of course cannot be proved or&nbsp;disproved&nbsp;without an actual&nbsp;autopsy)." 
 Playing the Building May 31st - August 10th Weekends, 12 PM - 6 PM Free Yesterday Bwog attended the opening of David Bryne's Playing the Building, an amazing, interactive art exhibit by the South Street Seaport. The installation is located in the Maritime Building, an expansive and beautiful abandoned space located right on the water. (Though Bwog found out from an intern that the space will soon become a gourmet food court as soon as this exhibit ends.) Bryne's piece itself isn't so much on the second floor, it is the second floor. Planted in the center of the room is an old wooden organ, and attached to the organ dozens and dozens of cables that are connected to different parts of the room. Cables extend from the organ to the pipes on the wall, the walls themselves, the windows, the ceiling, and the support beams. There's a long line to actually sit and play the organ -- though yesterday Lou Reed and Laurie Anderson stepped right up to give it a shot. Each of the organ's keys and pedals corresponds to a cable, so when hit or pushed, a certain part of the building begins to boom, squeak, or moan. Hence, "playing the building." The organ's sounds are unforgiving to most non-piano players; most people Bwog listened to yesterday were only able to produce a few disjointed notes. But it's worth waiting to listen to an actual piano player give it a shot, as hearing the 9000 sq. ft. space moan and crescendo in unison is a really unusual and off-putting (in a good way) experience. It's a far subway ride to be sure (take the 1 to 42nd and the N the R to Whitehall), but it's definitely worth the trip, especially considering that admission is free and posters of the exhibition are only $1. 
 ABC has just released a spreadsheet of 2008-2009's club allocations. (As you might remember, ABC released their 2007-2008 allocations/debt spreadsheet in February, prompting SGB to do the same and creating a minor brouhaha in the process.) So onto the compare-contrast: The most noticeable budgetary increase is that of Bacchanal and Special Events, which received just $18,000 in initial allocations for 2007-2008 but this year was awarded an envious $75,739. (Here's hoping -- er, demanding? -- tickets for next Spring Concert will be free.) Most groups, including the Black Students Organization ($6,229), the Blue and White ($12,075), Helvidius ($5,500) Clefthangers ($1,115), and The Fed ($4,075), among others, received similar allocations to those of last year. The Society of Automotive Engineers' allocation shrank from $8,669 to $7,997 -- maybe ABC wasn't as impressed with their homemade car as Bwog was? Philo saw an increase of about $300, up to $1,875 from last year's $1,510. Varsity Show's budget remains a mystery shrouded in an enigma, as do those of heritage months. For your own investigative purposes, last year's allocations are here and this year's are here. (Though keep in mind, many of the clubs are recognized by both ABC and SGA and receive dual funding.) And for all the ABC news and updates you'd ever want, visit their new-ish blog. 
 As one commenter pointed out, this week's New York Magazine Daily Intelligencer section features a short piece that references an article in the Chronicle of Higher Education that speculates that Joseph Massad might be up for a second round of tenure review. Both the New York piece and the Chronicle piece have no on-the-record information to indicate such, though Columbia PR director cryptically explained that "it is consistent with our review process that cases sometimes extend beyond a single academic year or committee." In addition, the Chronicle piece quotes Cary Nelson, president of the American Association of University Professors, as saying "that while it is 'highly unusual' for a university to establish a second ad hoc review committee, 'it seems to me a good thing in this case, if questions have been raised about the decision making.'" According to the Chronicle article -- which is only able to be read with a subscription but was luckily forwarded to Bwog in full by tipster David Judd -- " decision followed what professors describe as a narrow vote in favor of Mr. Massad by an ad hoc committee of five scholars who judged his tenure file. When the provost subsequently rejected the bid, professors say, the decision prompted an angry letter from senior faculty members at Columbia who support Mr. Massad. They apparently have persuaded the provost to reconsider the case and give the professor the unusual opportunity of a second chance at tenure at Columbia." 
 Over at Gawker, which time and time again has displayed a curious fascination with the Good Ship Spectator, it seems there's been a tiff between Speccie Alexandria Symonds and star of MTV's delightfully realistic The Paper/soon-to-be NYU student Amanda Lorber. Lorber apparently took issue with Symonds' review of The Paper published nearly two months ago in the Spec, which characterized Lorber as "a fundamentally lonely girl. Sure, she’s overbearing and annoying, but it’s obvious that it all stems from crippling self-consciousness and a terminally unfulfilled desire to be liked." Retaliated Lorber to Symonds in a most unkind (and what should be noted as formerly private) email: "I'm not saying I don't have enemies, obviously I do. You seem to be one of them, but as I write now, I'm starting to see where it's coming from. It's a different kind of jealousy. The type spewed from young women who resent teenage girls that get their names out there. You, Ms. Symonds, are obviously a fundamentally bitter woman. You degrade the work ethic and academic values of a 17-year-old in order to cure your self-consciousness and upset at perhaps never being recognized for your work when you're through with "The Specator." In fact, if my staff hadn't been excitedly 'googling' every article written about our (national television) show, I would never had come across your disgusting piece." Is this finally the NYU-Columbia rivalry we can all get behind? Perchance! 
 Two Columbia-related articles of interest in the New York Times recently: First up, an op-ed from physics professor/Colbert Report interviewee Brian Greene sent to Bwog from tipster Lucy Tang. In a piece currently #1 on the Times' Most Emailed list, Greene recounts receiving from a letter from a soldier stationed overseas from whom Greene's book (the immensely readable and enjoyable The Elegant Universe) was "something of a lifeline. It speaks to the powerful role science can play in giving life context and meaning. At the same time, the soldier’s letter emphasized something I’ve increasingly come to believe: our educational system fails to teach science in a way that allows students to integrate it into their lives." Greene goes on to lucidly and convincingly argue for a "cultural shift" that would emphasize the philosophic importance of science. Next up, via tipster Ian Corey-Boulet, a piece which focuses the on Sisters Colleges' (your strong, beautiful Barnard College among them) initiative to recruit more students hailing from the Middle East. According to the article, admissions deans from the Sisters believe that their schools' emphasis on encouraging women to engage in science and math-related fields, in addition to providing a less-jarring transition from single-sex high schools, would make them an especially appealing option for prospective students from places like Bahrain, Jordan and Kuwait. 
 Bwog will admit to a slight fascination with the Society of Automotive Engineers. We've swooned over their homemade car, we've felt their pain as their ABC allocation shrunk, and today, we shared in their elation when tipster Jonathan Battat informed us that SAE placed 67th (the team's highest ranking to date) at the Formula SAE competition in Michigan. 2008's FSAE was also the first in which the CU team completed every event.&nbsp; Pictures from the event are available here, here, and here. Congrats, engineers!&nbsp; 
 Bwog White House Bureau Chief Jim Downie's Political Weekly returns for a special end-of-times/beginning-of-times look at the Democratic nomination and a wrap-up of last month's campaign trail happenings. And then there were two. One year, three months and twenty-four days after declaring his campaign for the Democratic nomination, Senator Barack Obama finally crossed the elusive delegate threshold and declared victory. CNN's Wolf Blitzer (normally as blase as his first name is silly) was heard to declare time and again "people are seeing history being made." His soothing voice and Helfand-esque beard made this blogger want to be a ridiculously small part of that "history," and so Political Weekly returns for its first of several irregular summer appearances. Whether this post will live up to that history is another story -- probably a story of complete failure. And now, the news: IT'S OVER! SWEET LORD, IT'S OVER: As of writing, Senator Obama looks set to end the night with around 2150 delegates -- about 32 above the 2118 needed to numerically clinch the nomination. Fortunately for his campaign, this allowed him to declare victory on the last primary night, when the networks were all ready to cover his victory. His speech, at a packed arena in St. Paul, Minnesota, can be found here, and video of the start of the speech can be found here. Saving Their Best for Last: Obama may have had Will.I.Am and ObamaGirl, but Hillary's supporters had this. No comment necessary. IT'S NOT OVER! WE'LL SAY WHEN IT'S OVER: Despite the, um, mathematical facts, Senator Hillary Clinton did not concede tonight at a speech at Baruch College in Manhattan. Text of her speech can be found here. Many observers considered her speech, somewhat surprisingly, yet another argument for her nomination. Pundits questioned why she would continue speaking in this manner. This blogger, though, felt they were missing the biggest question: Baruch College? Really? That's the best she could do? How...Dare...You: Bill Clinton tees off on a Vanity Fair reporter who criticized his role in Senator Clinton's campaign and his dealings with sordid billionaires. HEY, OVER HERE!: John McCain tried to steal the spotlight and get a jump on defining the general election race by giving the first speech of the night in New Orleans, Louisiana.&nbsp; He both hit Obama hard on foreign policy, and tried to distance himself from President Bush on that same foreign policy. He was introduced by Governor Bobby Jindal, considered by many a vice-presidential possibility. Also, this blogger just wants to observe that McCain's biggest enemy in this election may be HDTV: his skin in HD can best be described as "like a walnut." Turning It Around: John McCain wants to emulate Ronald Reagan's&nbsp; method of dealing with the age issue: bringin' the funny. He appeared on SNL several weeks ago, and recently debuted his latest joke about age. Wonky Time: All the usual polling sites are here, here, and here, but here's another for the mathematically-inclined: FiveThirtyEight, which tries to weigh the polls in a much more accurate formula (it's run by a guy from Baseball Prospectus). Again, for the mathematically-inclined: those who don't enjoy hearing about statistics and poll weighing and so forth might want to avoid having their brains exploded. Lot of Latte Drinkers Over There: A poll of Obama-McCain race in England, France, Germany, Italy and Russia finds that, shockingly, Europe is more liberal than the United States. Who knew? Photo via NYT 
 Gothamist and Daily Intelligencer are reporting that Dean Kathryn Yatrakis' daughter Catherine, and her lovely Greek shipping magnate husband Alastair Economakis, have decided to convert a rent-controlled building on 47 E. 3rd (a building they already own, pictured at right) from $625/month apartments to their personal private 6 bedroom/5 bathroom residence. While the conversion is perfectly legal, and the Economakis had informed their tenants of the proposed transformation years ago, it's doesn't exactly bode well for the couple's public image. (Or give the impression that council with Associate Urban Studies Professor Yatrakis was sought.) Which is precisely why they've launched a website: to share "the other side" of the story, or so says Alastair in the site's epigraph (in which he quotes himself.) Anyway, the whole sorry, sordid tale is available for parsing on Economakis.com.&nbsp; 
 Gawker is linking to Vanity Fair's just released "All Access Summer Guide," which features the city's best beaches, bars, restaurants, and pools. Second on VF's list of the Best Bars for Drinking Under the Stars? None other than everyone's favorite backup for when 1020 is just too crowded, the Heights. "Columbia students drink their cares away at this second story Morningside Heights bar," the guide truthfully (we guess?) points out.&nbsp; So be on the lookout for an influx of hip forty-somethings with an inexplicable desire to drink their cares away with a bunch of "twenty-one-year-olds" under the stars. 
 With the pomp and circumstance of Class Day and graduation weeks behind us, Bwog was surprised and delighted when we were contacted last night by Maxim Pinkovskiy, the Columbia College valedictorian. Wrote Pinkovskiy: "As the valedictorian of Columbia College does not give a speech on Class Day, I did not get to make a speech. However, some students asked me to write one on my own, so I am sending you what I composed a few weeks after graduation." Read on, nostalgic recent alums hoping to relive Class Day. As we leave Columbia today, we are likely to ask ourselves: what has been the meaning of the past four years? Does our diploma indicate that we “have satisfied the onerous and nearly insuperable requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Arts,” or does it mean something more, even if just to ourselves? What do these medieval maces and baroque berets mean in the age of I-Pods and internships? As Plato might have said, what is the form of a university education, and might it have changed irrevocably from the days of yore? Like a good Columbian, when faced with these questions, I turn to the classics. More than two thousand years ago, in a China in the flux of social and economic transformation, Confucius, like us today, was asking himself: what are the fundamentals of a proper education in this world? His response was, as usual, an aphorism:&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“To study and in due season to practice what one has learned, is this not a pleasure?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“To have friends coming from afar, is this not a delight?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“To remain unembittered even though one is unrecognized, is that not to be noble?”&nbsp; Confucius, Analects 1:1 So, “To study and in due season to practice what one has learned, is this not a pleasure?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I will never forget how Professor de Bary’s eyes shine as though he were seventeen when he teaches this aphorism, nor George Olive’s appreciation of Isaiah Berlin’s biography of Marx; nor, for the matter, my own delight when seeing Professor Chiappori demonstrate how to test for optimal insurance, or Professor Vytlacil adapt the Wald Test for any continuous function. Yet, even the purely formal part of education goes beyond study alone; as Confucius suggests, what matters is not only the material but a well-paced progression from understanding the basics to gaining the necessary proficiency to make one’s own contribution to the subject. In the definition of James Joyce and Professor Michael Seidel, my first Columbia mentor, education makes us “classical” rather than “romantic” artists – instead of being blown about by sentiment with no technique, we judiciously and deliberately create masterpieces that appear to be spontaneous. While studying fascinating things at Columbia, we also learned through experience what the “due season” is for us, and we developed the awareness of ourselves as students that will enable us to continue learning and practicing what we learned along the paths that we choose to pursue. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“To have friends coming from afar, is this not a delight?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have been fortunate that many of my friends, having graduated, came back to visit me from afar when I turned twenty-one. Perhaps the most beautiful of Confucius’s aphorisms for me is “walking along with three people, my teacher is sure to be among them” (7:21). Many of our friendships are with people from afar – both in space and time – hence, more subtly, one can say that many people from afar are now our friends. The specialty of a university education is that we meet people entirely unlike ourselves and grow to befriend them and bond with them as we had not bonded with anyone before. My friends come from Berkeley to Bangladesh, from San Francisco to Amarillo, Texas, and age from 18 to 89. In the tumultuous world around us, as Columbians, we have the responsibility to continue embracing people from afar for the content of their character and the nobility of their deeds. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;“To remain unembittered even though one is unrecognized, is that not to be noble?” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Confucius’s final aphorism is his most autobiographical, and brings me to what I have found most impressive in the Columbia community. Confucius argued his philosophy to many Chinese princes; although he succeeded with none, he did not become discouraged, but professed his teaching all his life, even if just to a few students. While Confucius lived in a feudal age, in a free society his lesson is even more relevant. Our fortune in living in a pluralistic and diverse society ensures that although our views and ideas may be recognized by some, they will never be recognized by all, and we cannot strive to change society without regard to the wishes of others. In a sense, we will all be unrecognized someday. It is a part of a true education to be able to muster the strength not to surrender, but to continue to advocate what we believe in and work for it, and to retain the fundamental humanism in our outlook without allowing it to become jaded. This means to act on our conscience or to express our opinions even though we are just college students or young professionals. At Columbia, I have been struck by how ready my peers have been to engage in civil debate, to challenge the pronouncements of authorities in a respectful manner, to consecrate themselves to causes that woke their passion, and most importantly, to look at the world with the eyes of a critic, seek out aspects that can be improved, and negotiate the institutions of a free society to make these improvements happen. Some of us have reformed University institutions, others created spaces for interests hitherto unrepresented – from a sign language club to a club for academic economics – still others campaigned for political parties and used the knowledge they learned at Columbia to improve public debate. It is the ability to remain unembittered, but always ready to be serious advocates of our causes, that we will call upon for years after leaving Alma Mater. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;History passes us like a tableau, but human nature never changes, and Confucius in his day was prescient enough to realize that neither book learning, nor a utilitarian drive to succeed were enough to prepare a person for the world. The true noble person would have to be proficient in the study of oneself, be capable of meeting new minds and gaining from them, and above all, be ready to teach the world through one’s own example of humaneness and rightness whatever one’s station in life. I believe that Columbia has given us the means by which to be noble in our lives.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Confucians emphasized five relationships: parent and child, ruler and minister, husband and wife, older and younger, and friend and friend. One of these relations does not apply to me at this date, but the others stand salient in my mind. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would like to thank my mother, father and grandmother for being the greatest and paramount blessings in my life, for sharing every second of my existence with me, and for always being wherever I am and accepting whatever I choose. Thank you for teaching me that one cannot go far in the carriage of the past, and for giving me the motto of Tennyson’s Ulysses: To struggle and to search; to find and not to yield. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would like to express gratitude to this country for taking me in as though one of its own – for in it I have become one of its own – and for creating such an environment that its citizens can remonstrate without fear if they feel that affairs are not right. Having been born in a country where such remonstration has been suppressed, this difference is as palpable before me as is my hand. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would like to thank all my teachers and professors at all stages in my life; and above all: my nurturing thesis advisor Professor Michael Woodford, my role model and President and Founder of the M&amp;M Peanut Minute Student Association of America Professor Xavier Sala-i-Martin, and my sagacious advisor Professor Susan Elmes, who counseled me four times against my inclination and was right every one of these – I am glad I listened. They gave me the power to realize myself, and surrounded me with so much care and support that I didn’t always know I wasn’t home. May I be worthy of your expectations, for you have set a high bar for me. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Finally, I would like to thank my friends from Columbia and from school, who have reached out to me, made me understand what it means to be a person in this world, and set me examples of true nobility. Wherever you go – to England, to Chicago, to New York – may the road rise up to meet you, and roar, lion, roar! --&nbsp; Maxim Pinkovskiy 
 Earlier this morning, Barnard students received a message from outgoing President Judith Shapiro informing them that their would-be Vag will not be completed by its scheduled Fall 2009 date -- something about subcontracting gone awry -- but will instead open in January 2010.&nbsp; But there are silver linings abounds: Starting this fall Lewis Parlor will function as a cafe/student lounge, and Shaprio promises that student-oriented events will receive a higher priority when assigning space. The fully functioning Vag, Shapiro assures us, "will definitely be worth this uncomfortable wait." Oh, we have no doubt. Full email after the jump. "To the Barnard community-- I am writing to share news of a development in Nexus construction. &nbsp;We have been informed by Bovis Lend Lease, the construction manager for the project, that due to difficulties with a subcontractor, the Nexus will not be ready for occupancy in fall 2009 as originally planned. &nbsp;The grand opening of the building is now scheduled for the start of the following semester, in January 2010. Delays are certainly disappointing, but as you know, not uncommon for projects of this size and complexity. &nbsp;Since construction began a year and a half ago, you have all exhibited outstanding patience and resourcefulness, and your continued understanding and cooperation will be much appreciated. &nbsp;The completed Nexus will serve as the heart of this campus for decades to come, and will definitely be worth this uncomfortable wait. Meanwhile, we will continue in our efforts to maximize existing campus space to compensate for the lack of a social and cultural center. &nbsp;For example, beginning this fall, the lovely Lewis Parlor will serve as both a student lounge and a daytime cafe. &nbsp;Also, the Committee on Events Planning will give student-oriented events a higher priority when assigning spaces throughout the academic year. We are mindful, too, of the extended pressure on the management of classroom, library, studio and performance space. &nbsp;Faculty, staff and students will all be involved in further planning related to this delay. Updates will be forthcoming as we receive more information. &nbsp;To learn the latest on Nexus construction at any time, please visit www.barnard.edu/nexus. Thank you again for your forbearance and cooperation. Judith Shapiro" 
Bwog noticed the following masterpiece chalked into the sidewalk in front of the Citibank on Broadway. (It reminds us of the chilling day that Ron Paul supporters had somehow obtained and mastered chalk.) To ward off any devastating criticism of a possible political bias, the artist has assured us in a note written next to HRC's cheek, "McCain and Obama to follow." Check back later in the week for photographs of said Portraits of Straight Talk and Change/Hope, respectively. (Hello, Politico!)&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The school year has ended and next fall many professors will be packing their bags and leaving behind their Metrocards for the greener pastures of other universities -- Yale, in particular, seems to be popular among Columbia's professorial population. (Another way professors are just like us!) Bwog's rounded up some arrivals and departures of your beloved faculty, but let us know who we missed and we'll update the post.&nbsp; David Kastan, the chair of the English Department and Edward Said Professor of English and Comparative Literature is heading to New Haven.&nbsp; Noam Elcott will be joining the Art History Department as an assistant professor. Bonus fun fact: Elcott was The Blue and White's first moder editor (in 1998), following its 100 year hiatus.&nbsp; Also heading to Yale is the Music Department's Brian Kane, who was at CU for a post-doctorate teaching fellowship. Owen Gutfreund, responding to the University's decision not to grant him tenure, announced in January that he was uncertain whether he would remain at Columbia (as an associate professor of urban studies and director of BC/CU Urban Studies Programs) after this spring. A quick glance at the course directory reveals that Gutfreund will not be teaching any Fall 2008 classes. Lit Hum lecturer Jill Muller did not receive a contract renewal Say goodbye to Annalies Wouters of Classics Another loss for the Music Department as Ruth Rosenberg heads to the University of Illinois, Chicago. Professor of Political Science Thomas Pogge is headed to Yale's Philosophy Department (if you're keeping score, that's three for Yale). Philosophy professor and YouTube user Christia Mercer is taking a sabbatical, as is Bwog's inamorato, the Abelard to our Heloise, the Antony to our Cleopatra, English and Comp. Lit professor Bruce Robbins.&nbsp; Next school year marks the beginning of Barnard's hunger-striking Professor of Political Science Dennis Dalton's retirement. Philosophy professors/married persons Patricia and Philip Kitcher return from sabbatical, the later of whom will be teaching Michael Seidel's Joyce course in the fall. 
For those searching for a (very) warm weather weekend activity, tipster Emma Jacobs suggests heading to Fulton Ferry Landing to check out the enormous Telectroscope. The artist/inventor/mad scientist behind the creation is Paul St. George, who explains that original blueprints for the device purport to allow New Yorkers and Londoners to wave to one another via some sort of forgotten magical Trans-Atlantic tunnel. Tenuous science non-withstanding, the thing is only around until June 15th, at which point it will evaporate, along with Paul St. George, back into the fourth dimension from which they came. &nbsp; Photo on left by Emma Jacobs, photo on right via Telectroscope site 
 It's been a long time since Bwog last checked in with the kids of Exclusion Suite, this year's answer to the campy and wonderful Gates. Episode two was released mid-May, but Bwog, in our efforts to escape the offensively unfriendly heat, just got around to watching it. Exclusion Suite episode two begins with an acoustic version of Phantom Planet's "California," a sly nod towards a certain other teen melodrama. (Those who closely follow ES will note that this is the show's second allusion to The OC, following last episode's painful "Welcome to the EC, bitch!") The plotlines for the episode are established within the first five minutes: Simon (Michael Galante), the one with the guitar and the chords to Phantom Planet overhears Brooke (Alice Hu) singing and asks her to join his band. Meanwhile, in 212, Natalie (S. Alex Kudroff) and Greg (Joe Cummings) have a realistically awkward and loud screaming match ("I lied when I said I liked that thing you did with your tongue!") about their previous liason. Natalie eventually storms off to Hamdel. Brooke and Simon invite the gang to their gig at ADP. ES's attempt at capturing the incoherency and casualness of party/bar banter has historically been the show's weak point, and the concert scene is no exception. Luckily, the plot takes a genuinely welcome and unexpected turn as Rob (PJ Berg) and the cute bartender come to the conclusion that they were in the same Frontiers class and begin to flirt. "I hit my limit with calculus," the bartender tells Rob. But unlike most of the scene's dialogue, there's self-awareness during the delivery of the dorky and adorable pun, and instead of cringing at the script's self-seriousness, it becomes one of the truest moments in the show's two episode run. We then meet Meredith, who's rushing ADP and as she explains why she's doing so, the episode delves into a monologue that tows the line between a pitch-perfect portrait of the obnoxiously name-droppy ADPer (" liking LCD Soundsystem and Jim Jarmusch just sweetened the deal") and an informericial for joining the literary society. Bwog also appreciated ES's idea that ADP, as if a collective unit sharing a single set of opinions, all agree on the merits of LCD Soundsystem and Jim Jarmusch. Brooke and Simon sing a plaintive meta-melody about characters on a TV show hoping for perfection in love, and Brooke catches the eye of Kyle, an audience member from whom she eventually turns down an offer for a drink. Later, Brooke confesses to Rob that she's a virgin. "That makes sense," he assures her. The reason? She wants to find a guy she really likes. "That's a perfectly reasonable reason," Rob says reasonably.
 While most of you are probably relieved to have exited Columbia's campus, free of Butler and Lerner for an entire summer, there's an entire generation of earnest young people who just can't wait for August. They were born in 1990, their SATs were probably out of 48,000, and we're calling them the Terrible 12s.&nbsp; Every now and then Bwog likes to take a look at their Facebook activities, and oh what a bevy of activity there's been! A certain hyper-social member of the the Columbia - Class of 2012 group who calls himself "Stephan" has already volunteered his Carman room for a party the first night of Orientation, giving ResLife nearly three months to prepare for the task of breaking up the party. Within another group, this one dedicated to the good folk of Carman, "Stephan", who Bwog can only hope is an English major, again advertises his fete by announcing: "we r throwin da sickest party to get the year started rite.... Carman the sexyest dorm house ever.... we're goin show these other dorms who runs shit..." Other burning questions amongst the Terrible 12s on the "2012" group include marijuana (answer, according to one: "DO IT, DUH.") and the virtues of their own individuality ("I beat all the varsity girls on the crew team on my erg score my freshman year.") Looking forward to meeting you, 12s! See you at Stephan's party. &nbsp; 
 One recent grad forwarded Bwog the following email, which contains some bad news for the unluckiest 5,000 of you. Apparently, housing information that included names and social security numbers was accidentally posted online by a former student employee in February 2007.&nbsp; Housing &amp; Dining is very sorry, and has even bought you and your probably-stolen social security numbers an apology gift to make it up to you: "As an additional precaution, Columbia has arranged for you to receive a free two-year subscription to a credit monitoring service, Identity Guard CreditProtectX3SM. This service will provide you with a copy of your credit report, monitor your credit files at all three major credit bureaus and notify you of certain suspicious activities that could indicate identity theft." Full email after the jump. UPDATE 11:32 PM: One Bwog operative calling himself "Person who's SSN was exposed" has located via Google cache the Excel document that used to contain the SSNs and names in question. According to the aforementioned operative, the Excel document was created apparently in relation to "a HW for CS4733, aka 'Computational Aspects of Robotics.'" Also, the Spec has published the story. UPDATE 11:11 AM: A Bwog writer and SSN victim just called Student Services and the email is not, in fact, a scam.&nbsp; Sorry folks. ---------- Forwarded message ---------- From: Student Services Assist &lt;studentservices-assist@columbia.edu&gt; Date: Tue, 10 Jun 2008 19:25:55 -0400 Subject: Important Security Information To: June 10, 2008 &nbsp; "Dear : On June 3, Columbia University's Housing and Dining department was informed that one archival database file containing the housing information of approximately 5,000 current and former undergraduate students was found on a Google-hosted website. Google removed this file, at our request, that same day. Columbia Public Safety investigators have concluded that this security breach was unintentional. No financial data was included in the file in question, and we have no evidence of wrongdoing or identity theft. It appears that the file was inadvertently posted by a former student employee in February 2007. Nevertheless, it is important for you to be aware that your name and Social Security Number were included in the file. We are very sorry for this occurrence. Information security is a serious issue for us, as we know it is for you. Columbia University is continually strengthening its measures to protect Social Security Numbers where they are required in our systems. Housing &amp; Dining manually eliminated Social Security Numbers from its online room selection process and contracts in April 2007. Further, in spring 2008, Columbia Housing and Dining implemented a new software system to manage and improve the housing assignment, contract, and billing processes which also does not use Social Security Numbers. Unfortunately, this file was uploaded prior to when these changes were made. As an additional precaution, Columbia has arranged for you to receive a free two-year subscription to a credit monitoring service, Identity Guard CreditProtectX3SM. This service will provide you with a copy of your credit report, monitor your credit files at all three major credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian and Trans Union) and notify you of certain suspicious activities that could indicate identity theft. You will receive additional information about enrolling in this service in the next week. If you do not wish to enroll in this service, you may still choose to activate a fraud alert with the major credit bureaus, or periodically request a credit report to look for potential irregularities and ensure that no new accounts have been activated in your name. Each agency has an automated fraud alert process. If you activate a fraud alert, the agency you contact will notify the other two agencies so that those agencies also can place fraud alerts on your accounts. In addition, each agency will provide you a copy of your credit report at no cost. The contact information for the credit agencies is as follows: Equifax - (800) 525-6285 - www.equifax.com Experian - (888) 397-3742 - www.experian.com Trans Union - (800) 680-7289 - www.transunion.com We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience this has caused you. Please know that we take the protection of your identity seriously. We are confident that the changes we have made since this file was posted have made all students and alumni safer. If you should have any questions or comments, please contact us by calling 1(888) 882-7331 or by emailing studentservices-assist@columbia.edu (mailto:studentservices-assist@columbia.edu). Sincerely, Scott Wright Vice President Student Auxiliary &amp; Business Services" 
 The New York Times is reporting this morning that Anne Whitman, who up until very recently was one of three Manhattanville landowners who refused to sell to Columbia, has decided to throw in the proverbial towel and has agreed to turn over her land to Columbia. In exchange for selling the property currently home to her moving storage company (now located on 129th/130th on B'Way), Whitman will receive a stretch of property in Washington Heights, which Bwog hears is quite lovely. A few years ago, Whitman had the following to say when CU offered her $4 million: "'No way Columbia is going to steal this property right out from underneath me. Remember that man who stood in front of the tank at Tiananmen Square? That’s me.'" Which, of course, didn't turn out to be quite true -- probably-unintended anti-Communist implications non-withstanding. Nonetheless, that leaves just Nick Sprayregen and a conspicuously unnamed family as the only two landowners resisting the charms (re: money) of PrezBo. 
 In response to a goofy mix-up in which five thousand of your names and social security numbers were posted on the Internet for 16 months, one student wishing to remain anonymous has posted a statement of disapproval/demand for change on Petition Online.&nbsp; Students bothered by the incident (we hear there may be a few of you) are encouraged to sign the petition, which will later be emailed to Scott Wright, he of yesterday's fateful email, Elizabeth J. Keefer (CU General Counsel), and Joseph A. Ienuso (Executive VP, Facilities). &nbsp; 
 If you've been a little sour on dear Alma Mater lately, an anonymous Bwog informant has just stumbled upon something to restore your faith in your degree and your Columbia. This gal's a CU grad -- just like many of you! (Go Lions!) She majored in Anthropology. And also like many of you, she loves to just gab away on the telephone, except her telephone conversations are infinitely more lucrative and sexy (?) than yours: "Men call me for an in&#64257;nity of reasons. Of course, they call to masturbate. I call it 'Executive Stress Relief.' It’s not sex; it’s a cocktail of testosterone, fueled by addiction to pornography, loneliness, and the need to hear a woman’s voice." See? Plus, there's hope for those of you questioning the worth of your English/Anthro/Philosophy/Comp. Lit. degree: "I make twice the money I made in the corporate world. I work from home, the money transfers into my bank account daily. I’m Scheherezade: If I don’t tell stories that fascinate the Pasha, he will kill me in the morning." Ha! Hear that econ. majors? Twice the money and 100% more phone sex. 
 In response to the week's SSN shitstorm, it was quickly discovered that there had been two emails sent to the afflicted persons: It seemed that some of the luckier unlucky were offered two years of complimentary credit card monitoring service and the unluckiest unlucky were not. One Bwog operative fell into the latter category, so she telephoned the good folks at Student Services for some answers. Turns out, luck (or alumni vs. student status) had nothing to do with whether or not you were offered the service. Our operative returned to Bwog full of answers and hope: ", in order to be eligible for Identity Guard 'the company requires that you have a valid U.S. Social Security Number and a U.S. mailing address.' A-ha! And now here's where the aforementioned hope comes in for alums/students outside of the US: Novielli also wrote: "If you indeed have both, please let me know and I'd be happy to add you to the list of individuals who will receive an access code granting them a two-year subscription to the service." Our operative summarizes: "So moral of the story: if you didn't get the two year offer and really want it, bitch to Student Services (through the address that was included in Scott Wright's email) and try to come up with a US mailing address that works for you. If the issue is that you don't have a U.S. SSN, you shouldn't be worried in the first place because what leaked is the wonderful fake SSN that Columbia made up for you. Ask, and ye shall receive." 
 One Bwog operative has sent word that our PrezBo has compiled a scrapbook of the Best of PrezBo, celebrating five years of memories, fun, and friendship. Lovingly called "The President's Report," the Best of PrezBo categorizes the Columbia experience into easy-to-navigate sections like The Student Experience (that's you guys!) and A Stronger Columbia, which is a fancy-sounding euphemism for the capital campaign/Manhattanville. And like any yearbook, PrezBo has even given shout-outs to all the friends he's made over the years. Our operative also noted that PrezBo scholars have determined that this is, in fact, Lee's sixth year of presidency. We also located Bo's predecessor George Rupp's adorably pre-Millennial Five Year Report, which boasts a photo of Low with old-timey edge blurring. Rupp points to things like the creation of Lerner Hall and the Nussbaum Broadway dorm as triumphs of his presidency. Though in the New York City section of the report, Rupp discusses the inauguration of a month-long arts outreach program called "Morningside to Manhattan," for which the only Google results are from Columbia's 1997 archives. Nonetheless, let's hope the goals laid out in the Best of PrezBo -- for example the University's pledge to reduce its greenhouse gases 30% by 2017 -- are achieved and Columbia prospers happily ever after. 
 After Saturday's Flag Day and Sunday's Father's Day, our glorious three-day holiday trifecta continues as Bwog would like to take the opportunity to wish everyone a very merry Bloomsday, a special day reserved for celebrating the events of a book we most likely have not read. Every year, on June 16th, bibliophiles commemorate James Joyce's Ulysses, which follows protagonist Leopold Bloom as he wanders around Dublin on that same date in 1904.&nbsp; Local James Joyce retailer Book Culture features nothing on its calendar indicating any Bloomsday reading, but Symphony Space, on Broadway and 95th, will be holding a performance of the Ithaca Episode and Molly Bloom's soliloquy tonight at 7 PM. Also starting at that same time and going until 4 AM, 99.5 WBAI will be broadcasting its annual Radio Bloomsday, which features readings from Ulysses and Joyce's other works, and stars apparent Joyceans Alec Baldwin and Anne Meara, among others. If you know of any other Joyce-centric activities, use the comment thread and we'll update the post. 
In a bold real estate move, the likes of which fair Morningside hasn't seen since Pinkberry's merciless eclipse of Tasti D-Lite, a restaurant called Empanadas Joe's has opened a few blocks down from Havana Central and just mere stores away from Chipotle, igniting a battle of Latin-influenced Broadway establishments. The empanada retailer will be taking the place of the darkly mysterious Wrapp Factory. Little is known about Empanada Joe's: There's a restaurant called Empanada Joe's in Tulum, Mexico. And the company is apparently a registered business. Also, when Bwog was outside, a man approached us as we were taking a picture of the storefront. He suggested that we email the photo to the company, and that they would pay us for it. "If it's good," he added. As you can see, it is not. A sign hanging outside announced that they were hiring (which means there are summer jobs still available!) and that today the store held a "meet and greet" for prospective employees. We assume EmJo will be open for business quite soon, at which point Chipotle and Havana Central will maybe be in for the fight of their lives, but probably not.
 About an hour and a half ago, Bwog was journeying south on the east side of Broadway when we noticed three men sprinting west across moving traffic towards the other side of the street. People stood on the sidewalk between 111th and 112th and observed the men as the chase unfolded. "I hope they get him!" yelled one spirited citizen to no one in particular. Bwog asked a passerby what was happening, and she informed us that one man made off with a wallet that did not belong to him. According to our passerby-informant, the wallet was taken from a pedestrian on 111th street. The first man (whom Bwog could barely make out in the distance) was the bandit, and the second two men who followed him were good (and fast) Samaritans. Public Safety wasn't aware of the incident when we spoke with them on the phone a few minutes ago, so not much is known about the current whereabouts of the wallet or the wallet bandit. &nbsp; 
Bwogger Mariela Quintana attended yesterday's Bloomsday on Broadway celebration at Symphony Space. Here, she explains what to expect from a seven hour performance of two episodes of Ulysses. Last night, literati, and admirers of Eire convened on the academic megaplex that is Symphony Space to celebrate the 104th anniversary of Bloomsday. Each year the venue hosts “Bloomsday on Broadway”, a commemoration of the day Leopold Bloom traversed through Dublin in Ulysses, James Joyce’s epic and famously esoteric novel, one of the few canonical works left off the Lit Hum syllabus for the welfare of both freshmen and their professors. How could a work that could not be encompassed by our august Lit Hum be circumscribed in single, public event?&nbsp; Dressed in a sharp white summer suit and a royal blue button down, emcee and co-founder of Symphony Space Isaiah Sheffer introduced the reading with the cavalier familiarity that only twenty-seven years of tradition could afford. In his opening remarks, Sheffer discussed the enduring relevance and accessibility of Joyce’s work in New York City street culture and in the mix and flow of voices on Broadway.&nbsp; The night, Sheffer explained in his sedate, NPR timbre, would consist of a multi-voiced reading of the entire “Ithaca Episode,” a musical interlude and then the reading of the final episode, “Penelope,” performed by Fionnula Flanagan. As the final two episodes in the novel, “Ithaca” and “Penelope” are collectively known as the "Homecoming" and detail the culmination of Bloom’s day (after he has returned home with Dedalus) and Molly Bloom’s final address, respectively. &nbsp; Despite Sheffer's insights, what I heard when the reading began was entirely out-of-the-ordinary and at times unintelligible to my sophomoric ears -- though many savvy audience members brought their copy of the text to follow along with the live performance. The format of the reading, however, clarified the writing and made Joyce’s text into what in many ways could have been radio drama, especially fitting since the reading was being streamed online.&nbsp; For the clarity’s sake, "Ithaca" was broken down into thirty-one vignettes, given explanatory titles like “Getting into the House,” “Leopold, father of Millicent” and “Pillow Talk and Falling Asleep.” The length of the each vignette and the number of performers reading for the various voices and thoughts within the vignette depended on the content of the passage.&nbsp; As only can be expected from a seven-hour performance, some of them dragged, and due to space and equipment restrictions readers often had to share microphones, which added to the overall sense of confusion. Although Joyce’s words are as compelling to listen to as they are to read, the sit-back-and-relax tactic, from my experience, proved unwise. A silvered dame and former stage and silver screen star, Marian Seldes lent her rich voice to the busy “In the Kitchen” scene.&nbsp; Drawing out her vowels and hissing her fricatives, Seldes transformed “its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea,” into a mesmerizing dirge to a dripping tap of a kitchen skin.&nbsp; On my homeward trek I asked myself what had I learned from this festival of bibliophile pride, if anything. During my journey back home, I indulged myself to believe I was tuning into the atavistic spirit of Leopold, Stephen Dedalus, Bloom’s doppelganger and a figure of Joyce himself, and perhaps even a hint of the Wily Odysseus, the novel’s ancient inspiration, titular tributary and guiding force.&nbsp; Am I not just like Joyce himself by writing for this very piece for Bwog -- fostering the osmotic transferal of thoughts and perspectives? Why, you too could be Dedalus!&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Fourth of July, the most romantic holiday of the year, is quickly approaching. Bwog would hate for you to celebrate America's independence without a summer love, so we decided it was high time for another go-around at our own attempt to unite would-be couples. Not to mention that just last night, one tipster directed our attention to this forlorn Craigslist missed connection. Clearly Columbia, you are in the mood for love.&nbsp; As with our first Missed Connections post, use the comments section on this post to describe your love&nbsp; along with some way to get in touch with you, like an email address. We'll re-post the descriptions (without the contact info), and if a description applies to you, let us know and we'll get you in touch with your inamorata/o.&nbsp; 
 When we posted an update about all the new professorial friends you'll be making (and losing) next year, we weren't aware that we had made a grave and conspicuous omission. One recent grad informed us that Cheryl Mendelson, wife of Edward Mendelson, is filling in as "Term Associate Professor" in the Barnard Philosophy Department next semester. Cheryl Mendelson is also the author of such fine books as Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House and Laundry: The Home Comforts Book of Caring for Clothes and Linens, which are 884 and 400 pages, respectively. Oh, dear. According to scholarly database Amazon.com, Mendelson has also dabbled in fiction, namely a book called&nbsp; Morningside Heights: A Novel, which Publisher's Weekly described as a "talky, occasionally stilted debut." Apparently, it's about an opera singer and his wife, who turns "domesticity into a deeply creative act" -- kind of like Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House and Laundry: The Home Comforts Book of Caring for Clothes and Linens. (From Home Comforts: "Until now, I have almost entirely concealed this passion for domesticity.&nbsp; No one meeting me for the first time would suspect that I squander my time knitting or my mental reserves remembering household facts such as the date when the carpets and mattresses were last rotated.&nbsp; Without thinking much about it, I knew I would not want this information about me to get around.") Anyway, Mendelson will be teaching two classes in the fall: Mind and Morals and What is Philosophy?&nbsp; 
 We received only a few responses to the Missed Connections post, but this didn't sadden us, Columbia. You see, the fewer Missed Connections, the more connected you must be, and we celebrate your happiness in love. But we continue to fight for those still seeking romance, so with that in mind, the following are the responses we did receive. If you think any apply to you, let us know (bwog@columbia.edu), and we'll forward along the email of your would-be paramour. you wear cute glasses. i wish i could work up the nerve to actually talk to you in class. A couple of months ago on the 1 train you sat down next to me. After a few minutes I looked up from my reading and you asked me if it was Nietzsche, but it was Nora. We chatted for a little while, and from 116th I walked you to the Barnard gate and after a still moment during which anything could have happened, said good bye. I was reading Plato on Low steps. You swooped in from the sky and disemboweled a pigeon no more than two meters before my feet. I knew at once that it was love, but I haven't caught so much as a glimpse of you since. In all my dreams, before my helpless sight, you plunge at that pigeon with all the swiftness and grace of your noble rank. Please come back to me. I miss you. 
 Since the weather is going to be mediocre this weekend, and you are probably still recovering from the three days of partying last week in honor of the Flag Day-Father's Day-Bloomsday holiday trifecta, Bwog enlisted newbie critic Brandon Hammer to brainstorm some classic and not-so-classic films that would fall into the general category of appropriate summer rentals. Nostalgic for Camp: Heavy Weights (1995) For those whose greatest memories of summer are when they could escape from their parents, school, and everything else at camp, Heavy Weights will bring you back to these more innocent times. Co-written by Judd Apatow, Heavy Weights is the story of a group of overweight boys, whose historically fun Camp Hope is taken over by a weight-loss maniac (played by Ben Stiller). What follows is the oppression, and subsequent rebellion, of the campers. The film is hilarious with great acting by Stiller and Tom Hodges, whose character (Lars) is a hysterically funny uber-European exercise fanatic. The Traveler: L’Auberge Espagnole (2002) Though the majority of this film does not actually take place in the summer, L’Auberge Espagnole will resonate with anyone who sees the season as the time to travel and explore. A Franco-Spanish production, it's the story of French student, Xavier (Roman Duris), who journeys to Barcelona in order to learn more about Spain and other European countries. After getting an apartment with a bunch of other Europeans from all over the continent, Xavier has the opportunity to explore their various cultural traditions and philosophies. Cameos include some stereotypical British folk and Amelie star Audrey Tautou. The Entire Class of 2008: The Graduate (1967) One word: Plastics. For those who are feeling unfulfilled and lost -- "ennui" is the term you post-grads throw around -- or just enjoy a good Simon and Garfunkel track, The Graduate is the story of Benjamin Braddock (Dustin Hoffman), who returns home from college at the top of his class, but incredibly unsatisfied. He perversely finds fulfillment by sleeping with the wife of his father’s partner, Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft) until, that is, he falls for her daughter. Fraught with exceptional direction by Mike Nichols as well as an unforgettable cast, The Graduate taps into that post-adolescent sense of uncertainty and rebelliousness. The Romantic: Dirty Dancing&nbsp; (1987) For those who dream of summers of love with hot, unclean dancing and plenty of the necessary drama, Dirty Dancing is the perfect film. Due to a quirk of fate, Baby (Jennifer Grey), who has minimal dance experience, ends up offering to substitute in a performance with Johnny (Patrick Swayze). Through her elaborate training, Baby falls for Johnny, against the wishes of her strict but loving father. With great music and a passionate love story, Dirty Dancing is the perfect film for those who see summer as the season to fall in love. 
 During the onslaught of the academic year, many students forgo newly released books for required reading or problem sets, making summer the perfect time to catch up on leisure reading. In a menial attempt to recapture the spirit of the literary salons during the 17th and 18th century, Bwog is introducing a book club for the summer. Though the internet pales in comparison with actual conversation, we are hoping to create an open space to foster thought and discussion. All Bwog readers are welcome to participate. There will be a post in advance announcing the next selection. Generally, the works will be either contemporary fiction or nonfiction. The actual Book Club will take form as a dialogue between our two reviewers, Lucy Tang and Pierce Stanley, and the comments thread will allow readers to contribute to with questions or criticism or even a book suggestion. Because the book club is still in its nascence, nothing is concrete, and the more feedback, the better. We have chosen The Mayor's Tongue to inaugurate this summer. The Mayor's Tongue is the debut from Nathaniel Rich, an editor at The Paris Review. There's been a lot of hubbub surrounding The Mayor's Tongue, because Rich hails from a literary lineage--his father is Frank Rich, the New York Times columnist, and brother Simon Rich is a well-established humor writer--and The Mayor's Tongue will determine if the legacy lives on. The book offers two narratives, related but never intertwined. The first sees Eugene Brentani, a young man obsessed with renowned author Constance Eakins, running off to Italy for the daughter of Eakins' biographer. The second narrative features Mr. Schmitz, a much older man, who loses his wife and struggles to maintain normalcy with his best friend Rutherford. Take some time this weekend to open up The Mayor's Tongue and join us in a few days for our discussion. It's a fast read, we promise. 
 The New York Times is reporting that the J-School received a 5 million-dollar gift today from one Mr. Leonard Tow, a Columbia grad whom the Times identifies as "a former chief executive of Citizens Communications, and Century Communications" as well as a philanthropist -- and how! Tow is hoping that his $5 million will aid J-Schoolers in figuring out how to save the dying newspaper business by attaining Internet-savvy. (Hint: stop printing newspapers on paper.) Tow also explains that he was annoyed at Harvard and its fancy "Internet institute" because it was much better than Columbia at teaching grad students how to publish things online. Tow also donated $3 million to the CUNY J-School to create the Tow Center for Journalistic Innovation, which will focus on research and development. Funds at Columbia will be centered around training J-Schoolers in "digital media." What exactly can 5 million buy these days? Accoring to J-School dean Nicholas B. Lemann: "two professors in new media" and "a curriculum that may include data-driven reporting and software design for news organizations." According to Editor &amp; Publisher, CUNY will have to match the donation through fund raising in order to receive it.&nbsp; Columbia will have to do the same, but it will have to double Tow's donation and fund raise $10 million. &nbsp; 
 Conn Corrigan, a J-School grad writing for the New York Sun, is reporting that Madonna Constantine, she of noose-hanging incident and now-confirmed plagiarism fame, is being suspended indefinitely from Teachers College after an investigation concluded that despite her claims to the contrary, she did, in fact, plagiarize the works of two former doctoral candidates and a former colleague. Letter sent to TC faculty and obtained by the Sun after the jump. 
 Gather round Columbia, it's time to re-welcome IvyGate into our browsers and into our hearts. Naturally, it has returned dressed to the nines, with a new WordPress redesign and fresh-faced summer editors. Bwogger Justin Vlasits favors the mouse over chalk-underlines in the new masthead (see above), while a Yalie friend of Bwog noticed that clicking on the chalky names re-directs readers to posts about that school. Now let's meet the man and woman behind the summer incarnation of IvyGate 2.0. Why look, it's hometown favorite Nina Shield (BC '07), and some rising sophomore from Harvard.&nbsp; After introducing herself, Shield puts together a nice little wrap-up of all Vag-related happenings. She is the first Columbian to helm the good ship IvyGate since the legendary days of Chris Beam and Nick Summers. (Oh, and Andrew Nusca, a former summer editor, was a J-Schooler.) Go Lions.&nbsp; 
 The Associated Press is reporting that Robert Williams, the ex-convict charged with torturing and raping a Journalism School student last year was found guilty of 44 of 46 counts. For further details -- though Bwog warns that it's extremely disturbing -- the New York Times has a detailed summation of the events of the 19-hour torture session. 
 Hey jobless alumni, why so glum? With your Columbia degree, the world is at your fingertips: first phone sex operating ("executive stress relief"), and now digital entrepreneurship. Bwog caught up with Kareem Shaya, former Fed editor-in-chief and inventor of famous website Send Barack Your Baby, which lately has gotten all sorts of attention from the rest of the internet, namely Gawker and CNN. The website provides an opportunity for parents to ship their children in boxes to Illinois so that they might be kissed by a certain other Columbia grad. Except it doesn't actually, which is why the slideshow of Obama-supporting babies features no baby-in-box pictures, to remind us it's only a joke and that babies can't even vote.&nbsp; One newsanchor in the CNN video also cautions us not to send an actual infant but "if you do, be sure to use bubble wrap." At which point she suffocates a doll with bubble wrap and sticks it in a carboard box. Mazel Tov Kareem! 
 Other than the economy and the presidential candidates and of course, IvyGate's triumphant return, the big news story of the week was the Supreme Court, which handed down a number of controversial decisions, from issues concerning the death penalty to the Second Amendment. For those of you want more of a judiciary fix, here are some weekend rentals from Film Rental Correspondent Brandon Hammer to satisfy your palate. &nbsp; The History Buffs: Inherit the Wind (1960)&nbsp; Based on the play of the same title, Inherit the Wind is the dramatized story of the infamous Scopes Monkey Trial, in which John Thomas Scopes was put on trial for teaching the theory of evolution. The case created such hype that it drew two of the most famous lawyers of the time, three-time presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan for the prosecution and Clarence Darrow for the defense. Though all of the names are changed (Bryan becomes Matthew Harrison Brady while Darrow is changed to Drummond), the story is nonetheless an interesting examination of the conflict between those who have very different views of the governing principles of the United States. Moreover, despite the film’s age, its subject matter -- from what it is acceptable to teach in school, to how two friends can maintain their relationship amid social and political competition, to the battle between urban and rural -- is still quite relevant. The Sorkophiles: A Few Good Men (1992)&nbsp; For those who prefer their law with a combination of witty dialogue (delivered while walking at a fast pace), intriguing romance, and just enough politics to interest without overwhelming, this Aaron Sorkin script doesn't disappoint. Directed by Rob Reiner and starring an awesome trifecta of Demi Moore, Jack Nicholson, and Tom Cruise, A Few Good Men is the story two marines at Guantànomo Bay who are accused of murdering a fellow marine. While their lawyer, Lt. Daniel Kaffee (Cruise), wants to end the case with an easy plea deal, Lt. Cdr. Galloway (Moore) pushes him to take keep investigating, a move which&nbsp; leads him to the top of the ranking order. Featuring cameos by Noah Wyle, Cuba Gooding, Jr., and Joshua Malina as well as one of the most famous lines in movie history, A Few Good Men is a great story of law, morality, and corruption.&nbsp; The Cynics: The Rainmaker (1997)&nbsp; The Rainmaker is for those who appreciate lawyer jokes perhaps a little too much. Directed by Francis Ford Coppola and starring Matt Damon and Danny DeVito, the films tells the story of Rudy Baylor (Damon), whose recent graduation from law school has landed him a world of sleazy, low-class lawyers. As he takes the case of a health-insurance company whose denied coverage led to an early death, Rudy moves from the world of low-class sleazy lawyers, to upper-class lawyers who are different from their ambulance-chasing counterparts only in style. Throughout all of this, though, Rudy keeps his head high as he tries to remain honest in order to bring about justice. Based on a John Grisham novel, The Rainmaker is an inspiring film about the power of the resilient to bring about justice in an honest fashion.&nbsp;
 Bwog tipster Sara Vogel informs us that Robert Thurman, professor of Buddhist studies and relative of all sorts of famous people, is this week's New York Times Magazine "Questions For..." interviewee. In the interview, Thurman talks about why the Dalai Lama never comes over to hang out anymore, totally disses Slavoj Zizek, and also at one point says, "I meditate on how Dick Cheney was my mother in a previous life and nursed me at his breast." (Impromptu Photoshop contest: if you send us an image of Thurman suckling at the teat of our Vice President, we will include it in this post.) For more of the Robert Thurman interview experience, check out the Blue and White's October Conversation. UPDATE 12:06 AM: A treasure arrives in our inbox, from Photoshop hero Jon Hill: (Hello, Daily Intelligencer!) 
 An anonymous Bwog tipster has forwarded us the following farewell email, which details the departure of Dr. Ajay Nair (right), Associate Dean of Student Affairs/Office of Multicultural Affairs. Dr. Nair will be returning to UPenn (where he was Director of the Pan-Asian American Community House) to serve as Associate Vice Provost for Student Affairs.&nbsp; So say hello to new (but interim) Associate Dean of Student Affairs for the Office of Multicultural Affairs, Melinda Aquino. (That's her on the left.) You might remember Aquino from her position as Senior Assistant Dean of Multicultural Affairs. According to the OMA website, Aquino has previously worked at the University of Florida, the University of Miami, and Washington Sq.-based archenemy NYU. Also, "her current work examines cultural hybrity and 'techo-Orientalism' in cyborg science fiction literature and films." Email after the jump. Dear Student, I am writing to inform you that Dr. Ajay Nair, Associate Dean of Student Affairs/Office of Multicultural Affairs will be returning to the University of Pennsylvania to assume the role of Associate Vice Provost for Student Affairs later in July. In his two years here, Dr. Nair has been a dynamic and contributing member of the student affairs team for Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. &nbsp;Under his leadership, the Office of Multicultural Affairs (OMA) has developed stronger opportunities for engagement between alumni and students through mentorship programs and events, enhanced our diversity education programs, and greatly increased the visibility of the Intercultural Resource Center and the Intercultural House. &nbsp;OMA's commitment to diversity education programs continues to benefit our community immeasurably. &nbsp;In the coming academic year, we will conclude an independent assessment of the services provided by the Office of Multicultural Affairs. This assessment and the resulting recommendations will influence the continued development of the office and its programs. Melinda Aquino has accepted the role of Interim Associate Dean of Student Affairs for the Office of Multicultural Affairs. &nbsp; In her role, Dean Aquino will be responsible for the leadership of the Office of Multicultural Affairs. &nbsp;As a member of the OMA staff for the past three years, I am confident in the leadership and vision she will provide for the office. While Dr. Nair will be greatly missed, I know that he is excited to return to his home and serve in this valuable position for the University of Pennsylvania. &nbsp;In his new role, Dr. Nair will provide leadership for all aspects of student affairs and activities while also serving as a Faculty Fellow in the College Houses and Academic Services at the University of Pennsylvania. Please join me in wishing Dr Nair and his family all the best as they pursue this exciting opportunity for his career. Sincerely, Chris Colombo Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science 
 Smoke, heroism and disappointment cloud EC and its environs! Eyewitness report from Bwogger John Klopfer: "Minutes ago, outside of the Center for Career Education on Morningside Drive, a loud whoomph was heard and the smell of gas filled the Columbia University Tutoring and Translating Agency. Alarmed students poured out of its offices as flames shot six feet into the air through the hood of a taxicab parked just outside. The driver valiantly fought the flames with a small extinguisher, which availed him little. Within minutes, no fewer than three fire engines arrived on the scene. As bored firemen bandied about their axes and neighborhood children looked on in awe, the first engine's hose was brought to finish the job. Now, the driver is standing by his car making phone calls, looking disappointed as the fire crews roll out." Photo by Sam Reisman 
