Stephanie Quan sets your agenda with the best of New York City.&nbsp; This is Monday stuff, the rest of the week will come sometime today.&nbsp; NOW UPDATED! Monday, July 2nd * Paper Moon- free movie at Bryant Park. part of the HBO movie fest. this 1973 classic involves acting father daughter pair Ryan and Tatum O'neal. There's a sucker born every minute. Bryant park, 8pm * Sheldon Forrest - another Bryant Park event that's free. Listen the the sounds of this pianist on your lunch break. Fountain terrace, Bryant Park, 1:45pm. * Sex writing has gotten smarter - nerve.com sponsors this event with four of its most provacative writers. Mcnally Robinson Booksellers, 6:30pm Monday night jam session- grab your instruments and head over to Smoke at 106th and Broadway. 9pm $5 Tuesday, July 3rd * Summer on the Hudson: Pilates on the Hudson- relax after work with this free workshop. South waterfront, west side 6:30pm * Quilting Class- learn traditional quilting. Bartow-Pell Mansion 10am. Pre-register by calling (914) 738-2525. * Boston Brass performing Piazzolla, Bernstein, Liszt, Cole Porter, Duke Ellington, and more--we've heard about this one from a few sites online, but we can't seem to find the venue, so good luck.7:30pm Wednesday, July 4th Places to watch fireworks: FDR expressway, South St. Seaport, Gantry Plaza Queens, Rooftop of Mudd Stars and Stripes - New York philharmonic gets patriotic. See http://nyphil.org . 3pm Thursday, July 5th * Wave Hill Garden Walk- free tour. Obscure-ish park where you can write in your moleskine. Wave hill (675 W 252nd St.) 2pm * Barefoot Dancing--dance like those crazy hippie folk on glass-free grass. Van Cortlandt House Museum lawn, 7pm Moscow on the Hudson - New York philharmonic presents its summertime classics series. See http://www.nyphil.org . 7:30pm Friday, July 6th * Norah Jones- this concert will be packed as all hell, at sunrise sunrise. Bryant Park, 7am * Fall Out Boy--go downtown in a lureelura to watch them perform on Today. A not -so-healthy alternative to Norah. NBC Studios, 7am * Ronald K. Brown / Evidence, Full Circle Soul Productions- -yet another concert alternative. African dance "in all its complex and varied glory". Central Park Summerstage, 8pm Madame Alessandra--New York City Department of Parks and recreation hosts an astrology event. A bit overpriced. Merchant's House Museum, 1pm. $20 Saturday, July 7th * Fort Greene Park Greenmarket- because you are sick of only being able to buy apples from the farmers market outside of Lerner. Fort Greene Park, all day * Shakespeare in the Park: Romeo and Juliet- last call. Tickets are on sale at 1pm at the Delacorte Theater in Central park. Performance at 8pm. Get there super early in order to get tickets. * Kayaking on the Hudson--the website instructs:&nbsp; Please wear a bathing suit or shorts and a t-shirt, and know how to swim. 72nd St. and Hudson River, 10am-5pm Sunday, July 8th * Tour of the Historic Flatiron District- Hosted by the Flatiron/23rd St. Partnership. Very 1920s, named after the Flatiron/Fuller Building. 23rd St. and Broadway. 11am www.flatironbid.org * Governors Island--promenade, take a tour, take a picture. Ferries leave from the Battery Maritime Building, Slip 7, every hour from 10am to 3pm&nbsp; La Vie--The first ever theatro-batic show for Spiegeltent. We're equally confused. Spiegelworld (Fulton Fish Market) $25 9:30pm 212-279-4200 
 A sharp-eyed tipster wrote in to let us know that the Columbia home page just gained a button, right below the events calendar: "Giving to Columbia." It's a snazzy site--Provost Brinkley, whose homepage doesn't seem to have been updated much in 11 years, would be jealous. It may even be better than those of Brown and Dartmouth, which are the only other Ivies to have found it necessary to, er, wear their need on their sleeves. They're also the at the bottom of the Ivy League endowment barrel, with $2.3 and $3.5 billion each. Strangely, Dartmouth boasts the second highest alumni giving rate of the great eight, coming in behind Princeton at 50%. According to US News and World Report, Columbia and Cornell come in dead last on that one (35%).&nbsp; So...Barack must have learned it somewhere else? - LBD 
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Beautiful and deadly, the great bald eagle guarded the entrance to the twisted carnival I wished to attend. &nbsp;My mission? &nbsp;To find the storied treasure of America: one of those little wavy flags. &nbsp;Reacting to my presence, the eagle shot thick black lasers from each nipple. &nbsp;This was a sign of gratitude. &nbsp;The eagle accepted me and my quest. &nbsp;I entered his realm. Upon entering, I encountered a grotesque being, some horrible genetic hybrid of coconut tree and informational sign. &nbsp;I examined it. &nbsp;"Pony rides," "music," "fun," "car," yes, yes, these were all important, but what of my goal!? &nbsp;Unable to read one of the signs due to perspective, I hoped it said "flags." &nbsp;I cracked open a coconut, drank its sweet milk to replenish my health, and continued doggedly forward. Suddenly before me was a simple kiosk with flags set out for the taking! &nbsp;Could my journey be this easy? &nbsp;I hastened toward the kiosk, but then a then terrifying demon-king of patriotic bluegrass appeared from behind the desk!&nbsp; He used his mind phasons to vaporize three holes in my strange red shield, leaving me defenseless! &nbsp;I turned and fled...in terror! &nbsp; &nbsp;The demon-king did not pursue, but my fleet foot had landed me in the middle of some bizarre processional, where an even more frightening king and a monstrous salmon prepared for battle. &nbsp;My shield had melted into a crumpled red-and-white mess, so I was no match. A clock reminded me that time was of the essence, so I sprinted off! &nbsp; I ran headlong into a vendor of exotic Old Glorywear. &nbsp;He poked me with his cane and demanded that I buy something for the orphan boy examining his novelty hats. &nbsp;His bowler hat and sunglasses jumped off of and back onto his face as he spoke. &nbsp;He was obviously some sort of shapeshifter.&nbsp; I told him I wanted nothing flaglike if it wasn't small and wavy, and I backed away slowly. I almost backed over a strange beast, who obviously held some clue but whose enchanted nature perplexed me. &nbsp;If only there were some kind of sign, something to tell me what this beast was, and whether or not it was breeding fine! &nbsp;I sighed in dejection. &nbsp;As if in response, the creature raised its maw to my ear, and whispered cryptic directions. &nbsp; Following the complicated instructions led me - at last - to the fabled Queen McCormick, keeper of the flags! &nbsp;Could this at last be the end? &nbsp;Or would the sinister Titan of Clash intervene? &nbsp;I reached out and took a flag from m'lady. &nbsp;The Titan walked on by. &nbsp;I breathed a sigh of relief. &nbsp;My quest was finished. Photos by A. Corke. Narration by R. Trump. 
We're patriotic folks here at Bwog. So much so that we thought we'd write about our experiences trying to commune with the motherland. Because there's not a red America and a blue America... it's a rainbow! Forthwith, our dispatches. UPDATE, 12:04 PM EST: We woefully skipped the Midwest on our first go-round. Bwog reader Cyrus Moussavi wrote in to remedy the situation. His dispatch is appended. Valencia, CA After spending most of my days with a Hungarian girl, a woman from England, and a boy from Scotland feeding apes from Southeast Asia at the Gibbon Conservation Center in Valencia, CA, I found myself really looking forward to a truly American holiday. To reconnect with my American roots, I decided to than hang out with a golden retriever and some old people on a bridge to see just how good sparkly, colorful lights in the sky could look when designed by Americans. &nbsp; The bridge is the central gathering point of my neighborhood for fireworks-watching. Every year, people from all around the Santa Clarita Valley gather here to have a decent view of not one, not even two, but THREE fireworks shows throughout the city.&nbsp; First, Stevenson Ranch set off their show. It was lame. Luckily, the action on the bridge centered around my golden retriever friend barking at a kid on a scooter and some closer, illegal fireworks before the next show started. &nbsp; The second show began at the mall, my place of employment, where I really get to see the diversity of my middle class suburban Disney town at least four days a week. So this show would naturally most make me feel a connection to my community and, ultimately, America. Unfortunately, the majority of the mall's fireworks looked the same as the others, just a little closer. &nbsp; The next show started at Six Flags Magic Mountain during the mall show. A fireworks connoisseur at this point, I determined that the shapes and colors of these fireworks were a little more strategically designed than the other two shows, telling a great story of America's triumph. Other people must not have agreed as they started packing up their lawn chairs and going back into their houses. But I stuck it out, because I was still determined to love America as much as possible. &nbsp; It's too bad those people left because the finale at the mall was the highlight of the entire evening. The best firework of the night occurred during this last clump of mall fireworks—a happy face. Because nothing says "I am an independent American" like an emoticon expressed in colored sparks. - S. Alex Kudroff &nbsp;Boston, MA The fireworks wouldn't start for hours, but the Charles River Esplanade was already full of devoted Bostonians sprawled out on towels and folding chairs. The Boston Pops had set up on stage in preparation for the evening's concert with the reliably American John Mellencamp. And then…Craig Ferguson's Scottish accent blasted through the speakers, wishing everyone a happy Fourth. Mild enthusiasm ensued. I was a little worried. For months, my Boston friends had told me about this incredible celebration. I was determined to have my first real American Fourth, with sun and barbecue and un-ironic patriotism—not polite applause for a Scotsman.&nbsp; In search of true patriotism, I left the Esplanade for the Freedom Trail and the graves of founding fathers, hoping to find some contagious enthusiasm for our nation's birthday. I was excited to find costumed revolutionaries, only to remember that they're a city fixture. Most people barely acknowledged my “Happy Fourth!” My conviction was fading, but I still hoped that Boston's legendary Fourth of July was more than just another fireworks show.&nbsp; &nbsp; In the North End, Boston's Italian District and home to Paul Revere, I found what I'd been looking for. Shopkeepers wished me a happy Fourth before I could even say hello and American flags flew outside most windows. The neighborhood paper devoted a full page to the Declaration of Independence, and the rest of the week's issue to the role of Bostonians in liberating America. The sidewalks and rooftops were filled with Fourth of July revelers.&nbsp; As the sun went down, the gathered clouds started pouring rain, and all but the most devoted fireworks watchers fled indoors, missing their live glory. The explosives, at least, lived up to the Bostonians' bravado. - Alec Turnbull Washington, DC 10:30 AM is generally far too early to even be awake, but it wasn't too early for Independence Day tailgating, outside the most American of all activities: a baseball game. Outside the game, we ran into some hippies, but these were the friendly Grateful Dead style hippies, not the hateful PETA-style ones, so they gave us some kabobs off their grill. Thanks, USA-loving hippies. The Washington Nationals have fireworks at every game, but they had more than usual this time, most notably set off after a man so American his nickname is "Da Meat Hook" smashed a grand slam to punish the cowardly Chicago Cubs for intentionally walking Ryan Zimmerman, who had apparently traumatized them with his solo shot in the first inning. Cubs, you may have won the series, but you can't beat the Nationals on a National Holiday. Afterwards, there was backyard grilling, nerf- and water- fighting, and fireworks. Here's a hint from Heloise: if you don't have a proper launching tube for mortar fireworks, you can use an empty water cooler turned upside-down. See below for fireworks pictures from people who weren't too lazy to make the trip to the mall. --- David Iscoe &nbsp; &nbsp; - Anna Couturier, via cell phone, from Lincoln's lap The Bay Area, CA I had visions of grandeur for my Fourth of July in California. It has always seemed so ultra-American to me: the glittering Golden State, sunny and friendly with a lemon tree on every corner, dream of the pioneers. I imagined a day full of sailboats and hotdogs, pinwheels and popsicles, bikinis and beer, culminating in the most fantastic display of fireworks I had ever seen.&nbsp; Things didn’t go exactly as planned. Some friends and I ended up, at the recommendation of a drunken surfer dude who might have walked off the set of Beach Blanket Bingo 2007, at a beach called Red Rocks in Marin. As its name suggests, Red Rocks is heavy on the rocks. What it does not suggest, and what our surfer friend failed to mention, is that Red Rocks is light on clothing—in fact, it is clothing-optional, which became abundantly clear when we walked directly into a game of paddle ball in which the balls soaring around were not all made of rubber. Land of the free, indeed.&nbsp; After a couple hours of European sunbathing, we headed back to the East Bay for barbecue and fireworks. The food was a success; the fireworks, not so much. Somehow we found ourselves on the shore of a man-made lake next to a highway. We could hear explosions from every direction but, sadly, see nothing. And then, as we prepared to pack it in, a little girl on the blanket next to us shrieked with delight. You had to squint, but in the distance a respectable display had begun. I may not have been on a U.N. tower rooftop overlooking the East River (a la last summer), but I was safe and warm, full of wine and hamburger, and as I watched the colors implode in a backdrop to the SUVs and trailer-tractors whizzing down the highway, I felt pretty damn American. - Hannah Goldfield Hawaii, HI When I realized there wouldn’t be any fireworks where I was staying on the big Island of Hawaii, I felt a little disappointed – I grew up with sparklers and potato salad as staples of the 4th of July celebration. But with a volcano on one side of the beach and a brilliant sunset on the other… ultimately, I had no complaints. Most of the people living in my little neighborhood of Hale Kahakai, near Kona, celebrated the fourth by donning snorkels and ogling out the array of sea turtles and manta rays that frequent Hawaiian shores in July.&nbsp; I’ve got only clichés to describe the setting: an ocean dotted with white boats and palms on the shores bending gracefully in the wind...lounging on the sand with Dialectic of Enlightenment, I soon found myself flipping through a neighbor’s large-print edition of Angels and Demons. Intellectual development—and patriotism—don’t work so well in tropical paradise. In place of fireworks, sparklers and a picnic, I sat on the lanai listening to Hawaiian drums, averting my eyes from fat old retirees in Speedos and string bikinis, and watching the sun set over the pacific ocean. The only patriotic thing I saw all day was an American flag flying from a palm tree. I was lucky enough to be in Hawaii yesterday- but for those of you wishing to escape from New York now that you’ve seen those spectacular fireworks: &nbsp;&nbsp; 1. Remove shoes. &nbsp;&nbsp; 2. Marinate some Swordfish in lemon, oregano, cilantro and olive oil, for a couple of hours. &nbsp;&nbsp; 3. Pour the fish and marinade into shallowly folded tinfoil and roast it on the grill for about 6 minutes per side. &nbsp;&nbsp; 4. Chop up some cilantro, red onions, mangos, and salt to taste, and load this salsa on top of your tasty fish. &nbsp;&nbsp; 5. Close your eyes and pretend that someone is serenading you on a ukulele and you can actually wear flip-flops without your feet turning black. Also, a pina colada helps with the imagination part. - Emily Rose Jordan Manassas and Middleburg, VA This was supposed to be an account of Independence Day in the city they do Independence Day best: Washington, DC. Instead, I chickened out, finding the prospect of hundreds of thousands of red-blooded Americans oozing patriotic fervor too much to bear on a day off from work. I mean, one military brass band is pretty much the same as the next, right? The alternate destination: rural Virginia, storied land of Civil War battles and the graves of our forefathers. The names in my history books were always mythical abstractions, having grown up 3,000 miles away from most of the action. So I thought it fitting to visit the battleground of Manassas, where the Civil War teed off 150 years ago. And with all due respect to Professor Foner, the guided tour had me more awake than any class in an IAB auditorium. Our volunteer tour guide had the small gaggle in shorts and sandals riveted, struggling to keep up as he talked us through that day on the 21st of JUly, 1861 when Confederate soldiers routed the Army of Northeastern Virginia. He started talking in the present tense at one point—“Now General McDowell’s getting frustrated, so he decides to attach the Confederates’ left flank, that’s the popular maneuver now, flanking”—and I understood why people spend days doing those Civil War reenactments. It’s exciting. From there, we traveled deeper into the verdant countryside, ending up in Middleburg, where everything has something to do with foxhunting. Notable establishments include the Red Fox Inn, the Red Horse Tavern, and a Humane Society thrift shop were you can buy discount dressage saddles for $500. There was one outpost of Old Europe—a shop with frilly nightgowns and smelly candles, where, according to the icily coiffed owner, everything was from Frayunce. Most of it from Provence. The Mall would have been less outlandish, anyway. - Lydia DePillis Madison, WI I get it.&nbsp; New Yorkers, pseudo New Yorkers, and people who read the New Yorker are all less patriotic than the flag waving bozos living in the rest of the country.&nbsp; Drinking American beer means roughing it, “work” comes in the form of 2 month unpaid internships, and the Fourth of July is a celebration of the same “irony-as-deft-social-commentary” outlook that made it acceptable for a generation of youths to wear “vintage” Malcolm X t-shirts. &nbsp; Well fuck you. Thanks for pointing out that looking at weird explosions in the sky is not a life-changing symbol of unadulterated independence, and that most people spend their time getting drunk.&nbsp; Sorry, but everyone knows that. That’s why they get drunk.&nbsp; Thankfully here in Madison, Wisconsin, home to the largest and earthiest undergraduate population in the country, irony was not on the menu. Most of the frat boys still in town were too drunk to even play the game where you throw the beanbags in the holes, let alone ponder the social implications of a god-damned day off. So I found myself with the hippies.&nbsp; When you are a well-funded middleclass neo-hippie in the 21st century, even acknowledging the existence of irony is too much.&nbsp; For a man who loves patchouli and watching hair grow on female armpits, an ironic outlook on anything would require a complete life-style change and probably a mental breakdown.&nbsp; So, ironically enough (you fucking twat), the best way to spend the independence of the greatest imperialist power of the last 100 years, free of urbane irony, is to chill with hippies and listen to Fela Kuti on vinyl.&nbsp; &nbsp; All along the college section of town, young folks barbecued in front of the beatdown communal houses that Columbia kids dream of when they think of “college.” We missed the fireworks over the lake because a stoned hippie set half the yard on fire. He was building a bonfire to protest the environmentally unfriendly propane grill, and ended up incinerating a few bushes and a bird’s nest in the process. Nobody felt the need to comment on the irony of the situation, and another stoned hippie dropped by later to tell us the fireworks were “pretty freaky.” - Cyrus Moussavi 
Bwog freelancer Steven Thomas introduces us to a departure from the campus culinary norm. Located just off of LaSalle on Broadway, two-month-old China de Puebla serves up an intruiguing array of Chinese-Mexican fusion, or as they put it: “Mexican food with a Chinese accent.”&nbsp; I'm pretty sure that the young restaurant's business will pick up once it lands a liquor license, but when I went on Friday night, I saw only two other couples in the entire restaurant.&nbsp; The trendy décor contributed to the feeling that this restaurant would be more at home farther downtown--but it's not, and it'll be a welcome infusion of imagination into the Morningside restaurant scene (and takeout options!).&nbsp; The owner also plans to hold regular happy hours and also mentioned converting the restaurant to a more bar-like atmosphere in the evenings (maybe after the competition started closing up shop). The food, though pricey, was inventive and ambitious. Tortilla and shrimp crisps substituted for the run-of-the mill chip basket (for those who are unfamiliar, shrimp chips are an Asian snack food with a texture similar to Styrofoam) with a fresh pico de gallo.&nbsp; For an appetizer, I had the Hoisin Braised Duck Carnitas Empanada, a wonderful combination of Asian style duck in a fluffy shell with a chipotle aioli sauce.&nbsp; For the main course, I had two tempura shrimp tacos with black beans and a wasabi crème sauce.&nbsp; I couldn't taste much of the shrimp--wasabi doesn't give itself to subtle flavors--but it was prepared excellently. The menu changes regularly, as the one listed on the restaurant website is quite different from the one they were serving this past week.&nbsp; The service was excellent and very attentive, although being one of six patrons probably helped.&nbsp; Worth a visit, at least to give them credit for a not-your-typical-student-fare concept. Appetizers $9, Entrée $17, Dessert $7. Picture yanked from www.mouthfulsfood.com. 
 Summer is slipping by much too fast. Stephanie Quan continues to give you a list of things to make your time pass even faster. UPDATED 3:55 PM EST Monday, July 9 *MC Hammer, Doug E. Fresh, Slick Rick, MC Lyte-&nbsp;So close, you can touch him. Do dododo da dum da dum. Wingate Field, 7:30pm&nbsp;&nbsp; *Wait Until Dark- One of Audrey's lesser known films. She plays a "blind heroine-in-distress terrorized by thugs in her Greenwich Village apartment". Bryant Park, 8pm *Dancing Under the Stars- Free dance lessons, if you're willing to travel to Queens after work.&nbsp;Wallenberg Square, 6pm&nbsp; Tuesday, July 10 *Manhattan School of Music Presents Classic Kids- Watch young virtuosi outdo you in every instrument you thought you were good at. Bryant Park, 12:30pm *Word for Word Poetry- The Academy of American Poets presents up and coming poets and their work. Bryant Park, 6:30pm *Concerts in the Parks- The&nbsp;NY Philharmonic begins its New York series in Brooklyn this night. Pieces include Berlioz: Le Corsaire Overture&nbsp;Mendelssohn: Violin Concerto&nbsp;Tchaikovsky: Symphony No. 6, "PathÃ©tique." Prospect Park, 8pm. Wednesday, July 11 &nbsp;*Music Is a Weapon- Film and music fused together in a totally interesting way- a.k.a&nbsp;NOT&nbsp;Dark Side of the Moon + The Wizard of Oz.&nbsp;Central Park Summerstage, 7pm *RiverFlicks: Rocky Balboa- Oh we could all get buff if we drank three eggs a day, laced with androstenedione. Free popcorn! Pier 54, 8pm *Peter Kuper and Kevin Pyle- Forbidden Planet hosts these two graphic novelists as they discuss their books Stop Forgetting to Remember and Blindspot. The Strand, 7pm *Let's Spend the Night Together: Backstage Secrets of Rock Muses and Supergroupies- Behind every great man there's a Penny Lane. Bryant Park, 12:30pm *Concerts in the Park- The series continues in Central Park. Same pieces. Great Lawn, 8pm.&nbsp; *Spoon-&nbsp;A bit far. Okay, not really that far. But for free can you argue that much? Governer Nelson A. Rockefeller Park, 7pm Thursday, July 12 * The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee | Mamma Mia! | Beauty and the Beast | In The Heights- Broadway on Broadway returns with this all-star line up. Bryant Park, 12:30pm *Spoon-&nbsp;A bit far. Okay really far. But for free can you argue that much? Rockefeller Park, 7pm *Blind Boys of Alabama- Gospel by the Alabama Institute for the Negro Blind. Pier 54, 7pm&nbsp; *The Birth of Graffiti- Jon Naar and&nbsp;Sacha Jenkins, graffiti historians, give a talk and slideshow on the history of graffiti. The Strand, 7pm Friday, July 13 *Charlotte's Web- Wilbur!!! This is part of Riverflicks for Kids but we can all remember the first time we cried while reading a book. Pier 46, 7:30pm *ZoÃ© / The Pinker Tones / Chetes- To tell you the truth, I don't know that much about these bands, but I've heard that they are rather good. Prospect Park, 7:30pm *KT Tunstall- Because you secretly rock out to "Suddenly I See". Part of Today. Rockefeller Plaza, 7am *Fantasia- The best American idol ever. Really. GMA Concert Series. Bryant Park, 7am Saturday, July 14&nbsp; *Tap and Song- Tony Waag and friends, The Duke (229 w 42nd st.), 7pm and 9:30pm, $40 *Dutch Cooking in Early America- Lecture, demonstration and tasting with Colonial Williamsburg's food consultant. Insert Hutspot joke here. RSVP at 212-923-8008, Morris-Jumel Mansion Museum (65 Jumel Terrace at 160th Street), 1pm, $10 *Flirting with Fans: How to Speak Volumes Without Uttering a Word- The 19th century woman's version of smoke signals. I fancy you (open open close), s.o.s. (open close open), you're uglier than my bonnet (close close close). Merchant's House Museum ( 29 East 4th Street), 3pm, museum entrance fee. *Beekeeping Workshop- We couldn't resist putting this one up. "Learn proper management techniques for a colony during their most active and productive time. Beginning and experienced beekeepers welcome. Registration required, call 718-549-3200 x305. Meet at Perkins Visitor Center, 10am "&nbsp;Wave Hill&nbsp;( 675 West 252nd Street ), 10am, $25 Sunday, July 15 *Pool Party- Oh my god remember Tiffany's pool party back in like 8th grade when she invited everyone in the class except you? Well, this pool party is like 10 times&nbsp;better and it has a slip and slide. Plus there'll be 3 DJs so you can totally ask Bobby to dance. McCarren Pool, 3:30pm. rsvp here *The Hudson Warehouse: As You Like It &amp; Macbeth- The other free Shakespeare in the Park. North Patio of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (89th St), Riverside Park , 6:30 p.m. *Summer on the Hudson: Acoustic Sundays - Imani Uzuri Rock Quartet- Rock has four characters, as does a quartet. Riverside Park South - Pier I at 70th Street, 7pm And... Tip of the week: Bike rentals starting at $40 a day. And for those who would rather not brave the streets click here. &nbsp; 
 Looking for a platform? QuickSpecking? Hate mail? Your picture in the paper...every week? Apply to be a Spec opinion columnist! Word is they're making all current talking heads reapply, leaving 10 spots (dubiously) wide open.&nbsp; "You may propose any beat, including serials and illustrated columns, and while we are not specifically looking for a sex columnist, anyone interested in covering that beat should discuss the importance of a sex column to a college campus in addition to the full column application," says Opinion Editor Oriana Magnera, whom you should e-mail at oam2106@columbia.edu for an application. 
Need a summer job to support your unpaid internship? Bwog newbie Sara Jane Panfil tells us why stumping for trees/starving children/cute bunnies may not be the way to go. I remember being excited to spend the summer in New York, but then summer arrived. Two months in I found myself struggling to stay afloat in my now-shallow pool of friends, and after my third Thursday night Law and Order marathon in a row, I decided that it was time to make some changes in my social life. I decided to pursue this "more friends" thing by getting a new job, a job that would have a lot of young college people around with things potentially in common with me.&nbsp; So I was clicking through the Craigslist nonprofit sector and answered an ad for the Human Rights Campaign.&nbsp; I was wary to begin with, since campaigns and charities are among the worst labor violators in terms of promising to pay their workers and then... not doing it. But whatever, I decided to check it out.&nbsp; I get there, and there's a whole bunch of other people there, too.&nbsp; The director, Jesse, pops up and talks to all of us and asks each our name and why we're here ("I'm here because I really believe in the rights of humans!") with so much enthusiasm that I actually think that I got a little sick to my stomach.&nbsp; He puts on a video that shows us what we can expect in our new, glamorous lives as campaign canvassers: grabbing the undivided attention of passerbys on the street, alerting them to the problems that the world faces, and then graciously accepting their donation (which, of course, they offer up enthusiastically), smiles on everyones' faces.&nbsp; I felt like I was in some sort of cult re-education program, since the video was clearly removed from any sort of reality. After the video, it was time for the one-on-one portion of the interview. It's my turn and he asks me, do you have any questions so far? I'm like, yea, I have a few. Are we paid even if we don't fundraise a dollar? Are we paid for training?&nbsp; What if we've done campaign work before? What's your turnover? Why do people leave? His answers: Yes, you are guaranteed paid $300 a week--comes down to about $7.50 an hour--even if you don't fundraise a dollar.&nbsp; But if you don't pull in at LEAST $125 bucks PER DAY after a few weeks out of training, then we have to let you go. ($125 bucks per day!?&nbsp; Sounds a little unreasonable to me.) No, you are not paid to train.&nbsp; Yes, training is required.&nbsp; (Smells like slave labor!) His answer to my last string of questions was pretty entertaining.&nbsp; I think he literally squirmed: “Er, um, well, about 1 in 6 people stay on after the training.” That's not a lot of people, I'm thinking. “Generally, people only work for us for about a month.” Hmm... two weeks of training plus two weeks on your own...sounds like people are getting fired for not pulling in their outlandish minimums and only getting paid for two weeks of their time.&nbsp; “But people only WANT to work here for a month, you know how college students are, work for a month and then go to Europe...” Yea, because I could go to Europe on 600 bucks. Needless to say, I didn't get the job.&nbsp; Mostly because when he asked me if I was still interested in the position, I said no.&nbsp; I also asked him to give me back my application, since I wasn't comfortable with him having my contact information. Oh, and it also turns out that I was applying to the "Public Interest Fund," and not to the Human Rights Campaign directly.&nbsp; The Public Interest Fund apparently works "for" the HRC and gives them money.&nbsp; The whole thing smelled funny to me. Oh well, maybe I'll try Craigslist. Picture yanked from www.grist.org, which has an excellent piece on the same subject here. 
A few weeks ago, Dan and Lucy mooned over Dave Eggers and fell in love again. Now, JJs withdrawal has finally caught up with them. As the spicy chicken grease and artificial smoothie flavoring oozes out of their pores, they seek solace in Denny's and Haruki Murakami's After Dark. Lucy: When I first picked up After Dark, its lightness struck me as unusual. Typically, Murakami's books are better described as tomes, clocking in at an average of 400 pages. Despite its brevity, After Dark remains true to Murakami's often-lauded surrealist style and themes: lonely characters with unresolved issues, strange coincidences, and seedy characters. During the scenes with Eri sleeping, Murakami delves further into the fantastic than he has in previous novels. His descriptions of the reader's eyes panning over Eri's room gave readers a world that went beyond his usual bizarre settings. As much as I enjoyed After Dark, I could never be fully absorbed into this one of Murakami's worlds. To me, it felt like Murakami-abridged. It seemed like After Dark was just an experimentation with style, so he never fully developed the plot. Dan, what's your call? Dan: Not all of Murakami's books are epic-length, Lucy - perhaps my favorite Murakami is the slight, elegant Norwegian Wood. That novel tossed aside most of the surrealist techniques that After Dark indulges. This isn't to say that After Dark fails in its attempt to portray the Tokyo nightscape. My favorite scenes, at least in terms of writing style, were the ones in which Murakami portrays the sleeping Eri from the point of view of a video camera, describing shot angles with the same spare but astute eye that informs the human interaction in his novels. This is Murakami at his best. He's sort of like a pointillist painter - working with fine, very defined moments. Sometimes, like watching Eri sleep, these moments are striking; sometimes they are less so, or even tedious (the meditation on levels of reality Eri's isolation prompts seems a question for a different, and bigger, book). They don't all add up to a clear painting, but they are always compelling. At the very least, this novel made me want to hit up a Denny's. What were your favorite moments, Lucy? Lucy: Coincidentally, I actually hit up my first ever Denny's last weekend. The mozzarella sticks are great! There's something magical and comforting to eating greasy food late in the night (gosh I really miss JJs and that spicy chicken). It's no surprise Murakami chose Denny's as his setting, diners are the perfect place for loners, everyone's too ashamed to look up from their Philly cheese steak to judge. But I digress. Despite fear of sounding too sentimental, I have to admit that my favorite moment of After Dark is when the musician explains to Mari that despite her lack of obvious beauty, he is still intrigued, yet Mari is still confused and, at times, almost repulsed by his attraction. In Murakami's hands, this scene is not the beginning of a love story (it would be too clichÃ© to qualify as a Murakami love story), instead Mari's insecurity offers a glimpse into her loneliness. As much as Mari faults Eri for her own loneliness, she fails to recognize that she is isolating herself. So often have people blamed loneliness on being ostracized, but Murakami shows us that loneliness is more commonly a self-inflicted condition. However, as much as I did enjoy the book, I really didn't like the ending. Two sisters spooning each other in bed, heartbeats synchronized, each hopeful for a better tomorrow. Is this Murakami or Laura Ingalls Wilder? I have such admiration (borderline adoration) for Murakami that I expected more, but maybe I'm just greedy. Dan: I actually liked the ending, though I'll agree that it was hardly up to Murakami's standard of excellence (Kafka on the Shore has the best final few pages I've ever read). The ending made the book whole, bringing back together the sisters of wakefulness and sleep as the world wakes up. I wish that the love story scene you mentioned had been drawn out more. While we seem to agree that Murakami's great strength (or one of them) is his ability to create striking scenes, they sometimes seem a bit too devoid of context. The declaration of Mari's beauty would seem more rooted in reality if we were able to get to know her better, rather than whisked off to the next perfectly muted, self-contained scene. Despite this somewhat programmatic nature, I still think Murakami (or his translator) is an elegant writer, and I look forward to a novel a bit more substantive - and to rereading this one, and savoring the nightlife and the finely tuned moments of Mari's life. And Lucy? We all miss JJ's. I've been craving ginger ale and Pepperidge Farm every night at three AM since school got out. Be strong. 
 Well, it seems like Columbia's made at least one concession to the "Not for Sale" crowd--in a press release dated yesterday, the University said it will not ask the Empire State Development Corporation to use its power of eminent domain to evict anybody living in the new campus' footprint. As with all Office of Public Affairs emissions, we're skeptical. Robert Kasdin (whom Bwog can only think of as having the face of Karl Rove) notes at the bottom that they may still use ED against the few business holding out for who knows what. These are the people who sued the ESDC to release secret documents related to Columbia's expansion, and won. Besides, with this kind of backing, did Columbia ever need eminent domain anyway? And now that residents don't have eminent domain to rally around, what will they yell about? About the image: We're pretty sure that's Anne Whitman, owner of Hudson Moving and Storage, who's quoted in pretty much every news article on the subject. Expect her to not be happy. Press release reprinted (almost) in full after the jump. &nbsp; - LBD New York, July 11, 2007 Columbia University has announced that it would not ask the Empire State Development Corp. to use its condemnation authority as a way of evicting residential tenants now living in the 132 apartment units in residential buildings on the 17 acres of the proposed expansion area. "Columbia University will not ask the state to invoke eminent domain to evict tenants living in these 132 residential units in the proposed expansion zone in Manhattanville," said Senior Executive Vice President Robert Kasdin, reaffirming comments made on Monday before the City Planning Commission. "We are absolutely committed to ensuring that these community members will have equal or better affordable housing in the area, and we are working to achieve this result." Kasdin also made it clear that this includes a commitment to work with New York City's Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD) to provide cooperative units to those occupants eligible to purchase units through the city's Tenant Interim Lease (TIL) Program. As a result, the TIL participants would not lose any of their rights under the program because of relocation. On Monday, July 9, Columbia University presented its rezoning proposal for the old manufacturing area of Manhattanville in West Harlem in a special meeting of the New York City Planning Commission. Kasdin explained to commissioners that the University's continued goal is to acquire all commercial and residential property through the kind of win-win negotiated agreements it has already reached with the great majority of private owners, including a number of business owners who originally said they would not sell to Columbia. "The residents of West Harlem have been extremely concerned about the impact of Columbia University's plans to expand its campus in the West Harlem area over the next 25 years," said City Councilmember Robert Jackson. "I have facilitated discussion between the University and the community in order to address concerns ranging from secondary displacement, to traffic patterns and the bulk of buildings, to the environmental impact of proposed scientific research facilities, among others. No potential problem has been more threatening for the residents of West Harlem than the use of eminent domain. I am pleased today that Columbia University is exhibiting a level of respect and awareness by choosing not to seek the application of eminent domain against the 132 residents living the area of the proposed expansion. I look forward to continuing to work with the University and the community to address the myriad of other challenges associated with Columbia's proposed expansion." Kasdin did not remove the possibility of requesting that the state invoke eminent domain to assemble the few commercial properties that remain in the proposed 17-acre expansion area. Columbia's ownership of these acres would not only allow for the creation of publicly accessible open spaces, but also for the construction of new buildings that will be serviced by a large contiguous underground space that houses such essential services as parking, loading and energy facilities. This approach allows a proposed urban design for the area that is environmentally friendly, that meets the University's academic programming needs with a building scale lower than existing neighboring buildings, and that is focused on creating vibrant urban street life instead of driveways, loading docks and other functions that inhibit openness and civic interaction on sidewalks. This will also allow the University to construct the kind of academic research buildings with the floor space needed for the type of research and study that confronts some of the most critical health issues facing the community and world such as strokes, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. 
 For anyone who's spent any time at Columbia beyond Days on Campus or a guided tour, this article&nbsp;says nothing new.&nbsp;The Arkansas kid who claims that Adderall users are "nonstinky," however, has clearly not been in an environment (read: Butler) where a thousand souls are pulling their second all-nighters with the aid of their favorite speed-like substance. As we know, those kids get funky. But wait! Columbia kids also use happy little pills for another noble purpose: to combat the&nbsp;unpleasant warning-sign side-effects of&nbsp;drinking! Here&nbsp;we find&nbsp;OTC methods to deal with "the Asian sensation, Asian explosion, Asian flush and Asian blush." And a posh snap-shot of Calvin Sun. 
 An odd article popped up on our Google alerts today: the news that the Columbia University Chinese Students and Scholars Association posted "a statement on its Web site on Wednesday that calls for the 'execution' of 'anyone who offends China'" (which it appears actually happens). It's from the Epoch Times, which is known to be a mouthpiece for followers of Falun Gong, which may or may not qualify as a cult. Bwog couldn't find that statement on CUCSSA's website. But we did find a report alleging that Columbia University Falun Dafa's president had barged in on CUCSSA's president while he was doing research in Mudd, attempting to interview him for a Falun Gong-affiliated TV station. We're not sure where the facts stop and the spin begins on this one. UPDATE, 7/16, 9:15 PM EST: According to SGB Chair Jonathan Siegel: "Both CUCSSA and Falun Dafa have been SGB groups for many, many years, although Falun Dafa has not been funded for several years - they don't meet SGB's requirements (10 undergraduates, and an undergraduate president and treasurer) for funding.&nbsp; They both are almost exclusively graduate student groups, although until this year CUCSSA has usually had an undergraduate president and treasurer. As far as I know, the first major incident between the two groups was in the last few months of the spring semester when CUCSSA aggressively protested an event Falun Dafa had about organ harvesting in China.&nbsp; Falun Dafa filed a complaint with the SGB and the University at that time.&nbsp; Since then Falun Dafa has sent us several other complaints (we aren't officially investigating any of this until the fall semester, since many of our board members are out of town), including CUCSSA's web posting.&nbsp; The posting is in Chinese, and once we begin our investigation we'll be having it translated to see what CUCSSA actually said." SGB is looking into the incident, and may take disciplinary action when the year starts. &nbsp; 
You've probably forgotten about it, but Manhattanville planning is rolling along in our absence. Here's Bwog freelancer Emma Jacobs--who has a comparative analysis of university expansions here--with a lightning recap of the recent history. June 4:&nbsp; ULURP is coming! But not yet.&nbsp; The start of Uniform Land Use Review Process of the rezoning that will allow Columbia to begin building its campus expansion is delayed two weeks.&nbsp; So, as the Observer points out, the community board’s 60-day deadline to submit their review of the plan will come not in the beginning of August, but in late August.&nbsp; "Don't expect me to be thankful or gracious," says CB9 chairman Jordi Reyes-Montblanc. June 15: Columbia announces that its expansion has been accepted into the federal LEED for Neighborhood Development (“LEED-ND”) Pilot Program, which applies smart growth and green design in an effort to encourage good urban development.&nbsp; That could sweeten the deal for campus activists, at least. June 18: One month after students go home, the Department of City Planning releases Columbia’s draft Environmental Impact Statement, which spells out how campus expansion will be on the surrounding area (in considerable detail...the table of contents is 39 pages). Its release kicks off the 60-day community review period (the first stage of the overall review, called ULURP).&nbsp;&nbsp; President Bollinger applauds the Opportunity for Progress and Public Engagement in Proposed Expansion.&nbsp; Community Board 9 points out the difficulties of conducting an effective review while the board is on summer hiatus, moving its offices, and people are off on vacation.&nbsp; June 30: A judge concludes that concerns about objectivity of a company working for both the company and the state might be legitimate:&nbsp; the Empire State Development Corporation (ESDC, the state development agency) has employed the consulting firm AKRF to conduct the blight study of West Harlem that would clear the way for the use of eminent domain to acquire the rest of the properties in the expansion footprint. Columbia is footing the $300,000 bill for the study--but AKRF is already working for Columbia to prepare the expansion Environmental Impact Statement.&nbsp; Judge Shirley Kornreich ruled in favor of the West Harlem businesses’ Freedom of Information Act request for 117 "secret" ESDC documents.&nbsp; .&nbsp; July 9:&nbsp; Surprisingly enough, Community Board 9’s ULURP Committee votes for the Community Board’s own 197a plan (designed over 10 years with help from the Pratt Institute) over Columbia's alternative 197c plan. Both are being considered in tandem by the City planning commission.&nbsp; &nbsp; July 12:&nbsp; Columbia announces the University will not ask for eminent domain to be used against residential tenants.&nbsp; Spectator points out that everyone has known about this for 2 years. Much more to come! Stay tuned! 
Heading to River to River on Friday, July 20th at South Street Seaport? Bwog staffer Lucy Tang gets the back story on headliner Bishop Allen. Bishop Allen may just epitomize indie pop at its shiniest. Upbeat songs with jangling guitars and fervent hooks shape them to be a fitting summer soundtrack. Fortunately, their sophomore album, The Broken String sees its release during the dog days of summer. This local favorite with an Ivy League pedigree will kick off their nationwide tour as part of the summer-long River to River concert series. In 2006, Bishop Allen set upon the difficult goal of releasing an EP a month, leaving them to churn out about four albums of material in a year. For loyal fans, the upcoming The Broken String will sound familiar, with many songs from various EPs reworked. When reminiscing about the EP project,Christian Rudder remembers the band rushing to finish the December EP; it was only a mere two hours before he left for a long vacation that Bishop Allen was finally able to put the EP project to rest. He admits the process “was definitely really stressful, but it’s a good feeling to be getting a lot of work done. Tough but good.” However, with half a year spanning the completion, Rudder laughs ruefully says, “I miss it now.” After self-releasing their debut, Charm School, and the subsequent twelve EPs, Bishop Allen is finally working with a label, Dead Oceans, on The Broken String. For Rudder, the transition from self-reliance to a label has been strange, but “better, for sure, different only in a good way. We’re their main priority right now. They’re working just for us. During the four years since Charm School, Bishop Allen has certainly grown a lot. Though they maintain their signature catchy melodies and lyrics, The Broken String showcases a much fuller and polished sound. Rudder recognizes this change, “Definitely first and foremost, we use a lot more instruments,” as evidenced by the xylophones, horns, and strings that pepper the album. In addition, the band members are now “stronger players, I’m a better guitar player.” Now with a label, the band can also afford some perks, even splurging for real drums, Rudder proudly declares that “drumming is vastly improved. In Charm School, we used sequenced drums for almost every single song.” Despite Bishop Allen’s usual performances in intimate venues, such as the monthly EP release shows at Joe’s Pub, he is confident in their South Street Seaport debut, “Our drummer and bass player, they’re a lot different. I can see them filling up more space with the way they play.” The band is ready to adapt their whimsical sounds for a larger stages (and audiences) as Rudder promises that even the tender “Butterfly Nets” will be “a little bit more rocking." 
Bwog scheduler Stephanie Quan is back with your agenda for the week. As usual, * denotes free. Monday, July 16th The Decemberists, Grizzly Bear, Land of Talk - Green screen challenge anyone? This Central Park Summerstage concert is not free. However, it is free to sit outside the concert area and listen while picnicking. Central Park Summerstage, 6:30pm, $35 Ben Jelen- His version of wicked little town is wicked good. Bowery Ballroom, 7pm, $15 *Makoto Nakura - touring the world with his Marimba. Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts at Pace University, 7:30pm *Lap Swimming - to promote adult swim, the city department of parks and recreation is opening up pools for free. Bonus: if you swim 25+ miles by the end of the summer, you get a t-shirt. Locations, M-F 7-8:30am 7-8:30pm Tuesday, July 17th *NY Philharmonic Concert in the Parks: Central Park- This time they're bringing fireworks! Be sure to get there early. Great Lawn, 8pm. *Marc Ribot: Musical Portraits- the three sides of this guitar virtuoso. World Financial Center Plaza, 7pm *Breakdancing- free classes with Harlem One Stop. Highbridge Recreation Center, 6pm *Beatrix Ost and Robert Thurman discussion- "Beatrix Ost will discuss her first book, My Father's House: A Childhood in Wartime Bavaria with her friend Robert Thurman, President of Tibet House, Professor at Columbia University" <!-- D( ); //--> The Strand, 7pm Wednesday, July 18th Ani Difranco - Some good finger-picking guitar. Part of Celebrate Brooklyn! This folk artist returns to New York for her annual summer benefit concert. Prospect Park Bandshell, 7:30pm, $37 *Toumani Diabate's Symmetric Orchestra - this guy will rock the kora like you have never seen before. Rockefeller Park, 7pm &nbsp; They Might Be Giants- This is sold out, but you may be able to craiglist it. They are also performing next Wednesday. That show is not sold out yet. Bowery Ballroom, 8pm , $25 Thursday, July 19th Happy Moon Landing Day! Moon Landing Party- celebrate our first steps on the moon 38 years ago. BBQ, swimming pools, bocce, wiffleball, music. costume optional. Revson Plaza (that plaza over Amsterdam), 9pm *MoMA@Nite- A concert in the sculpture garden by Las Rubias Del Norte. The website describes them as "a reinvention, a nostalgic throwback to a mostly imagined time and place where Peruvian waltzes, Andean huaynos, and Cuban Guajiras mix with French opera, Cowboy tunes, and Bollywood classics". We'll leave the rest up to your imagination. <!-- D( ); //--> MoMA Sculpture Garden, 5:30pm *Avenue Q | The Drowsy Chaperone | The Phantom of the Opera | Rent- actors perform songs from probably the four most popular musicals right now, presented by New York's 106.7 fm. Bryant Park, 12:30pm–1:30pm *Billy Ocean, Air Supply - the ones that you love. Asser Levy Park, 7:30pm *Ruben Studdard- seriously. Part of 98.7 KISS-FM Summer Soul Nights. South Street Seaport, 7pm *Vanessa Carlton - this must be like pop music night. Bowery Ballroom, 7:30pm, $20 Friday July 20th HP midnight release parties- see here ß link to other article. *Hairspray the movie - You've see the posters of Amanda Bynes all over New York, watch the cast perform on today. Rockefeller Plaza, 7am *John Mayer - more free concerts for morning shows, presented by Good Morning America. <!-- D( ); //--> Bryant Park, 7am Neko Case, Eric Bachmann –Another benefit concert. Another picnicking opportunity. Central Park Summerstage, 7pm *Toolbox Ballet, Dancing for Mr. B - two ballet movies. Ottendorfer Branch (135 Second Avenue). (212) 674-0947, 3pm Saturday, July 21st HP comes out! The book goes on sale all over the city. Run! *Birding - rise and shine to listen to the birds around New York. Gerritsen Creek, 8am *Casym Steel Orchestra (Calypso)- fantastic performers put a new spin to your favorite songs. Dana Discovery Center, 4pm *30th Annual Asian American International Film Festival- a few Columbians' work on body image will be presented. Asia Society (70 <!-- D( ); //--> th St. and Park Ave), 12pm *Sidewalk Surprises- tour Lincoln Square and learn why it is the gateway to the Upper West Side. Inside Columbus Circle (59th St.), 11am *Drawing in the Park- drop by, pick up some free supplies, sketch away the late morning. Battery Park (South Cove), 10:30 to noon Sunday, July 22nd *Summergarden - MoMA presents their Julliard Concert II- Music for String Quartets. A nice relaxing way to end a weekend. MoMA Sculpture Garden, 8pm *Moondance - well it's a marvelous night, with the stars up above in your eyes. NU GUAJIRO performs salsa music. Pier 54, dance lessons at 6:30pm, bands begin at 7pm *Brazilian Girls, Cat Empire, HIMALAYAS conducted by Kenny Wollesen &amp; Jonathon Haffner – two bands and an avante-garde marching band. Central Park Summerstage, 3pm *Ice Skating - a great way to cool off, although you do have to pay for skate rentals. Chelsea Piers <!-- D( ); D(); //--> Sky Rink, *Bringing Up Baby - classic 1938 Hepburn movie about paleontology. Riverside Park (Promenade at 103rd St.), 9pm Tip of the week- you can learn trapeze right here in New York. See www.trapezeschool.com or visit them between Pier 26 and 34. 
A couple Teacup Yorkie puppies have wandered over to Bwog to help get you through the workday! Bwog has named them all! This is Dot!&nbsp; &nbsp; Meet Eloise (above) and Harold. 
 The bowels of New York exploded in a seismic geyser-like spew! Turn on your TV to local NY news to watch incredible footage of a steam pipe gushing gas and mud into the air! It's not terrorism. UPDATE 7:20 PM - Our resident steam correspondent ZvS can see the steam all the way from Brooklyn, and has called our attention to the above pretty awesome photo on Flickr. ALSO - We'd like to take a moment, purely&nbsp;for history's sake,&nbsp;to appreciate the crazy shit&nbsp;that happened last&nbsp;summer in New&nbsp;York: Power-saw slicing.&nbsp;Suicide bombing. Prolonged blackouts.&nbsp;Let us appreciate what hot weather will do. &nbsp; 
 Just kidding. We didn't even peek.&nbsp; Anyway, Harry Potter 7 comes out at 12:01 am Saturday morning. But you knew that already. If not from little siblings or nerdy friends, it's probably from the fact you, yourself, are&nbsp;a HP freak and have joined Facebook's Admit It, You Wish You Went to Hogwarts!, or I Trust Snape, or Equus= Harry Potter Naked. Check out the pictures. It's like Anne Geddes meets NAMBLA. If you haven't pre-ordered HP and the DH from Amazon yet, don't fret. Bwog party planner Stephanie Quan has a few suggestions on where to find this book on July 21st. COSTCO/ BJ'S/ SAM'S CLUB- We kid you not. Every bookstore in Morningside Heights will stock up on these books. But where else other than at a wholesale clubhouse will they definitely NOT RUN OUT? Note: You do need a membership to these clubs in order to buy the books.&nbsp; $18.19/?/? B&amp;N / Borders - Along the same lines as the big boxes- they buy in bulk.&nbsp;Be warned, however,&nbsp;that this will be most people's first choice, so either go early or be prepared to be turned away. Note: Borders has teamed up with Amazon, so you can order this book online for a great price without leaving your room. $20.99 ($18.99 members)/$17.99 Target- Not ready to trek out to the madness downtown? Take the 1 to the first stop in the Bronx. You won't be able to miss the store. They sell the paraphernalia all year, why not the real books? $17.99 The Strand- This colossus has the older books from SS to HBP for dirt cheap prices. Beware of hipsters, cramped spaces, and long lines. $21.95 Bank Street Bookstore- They specialize in children's literature, so they will definitely have it the 21st, along with dozens of screaming children. Bonus, they are not that far away. $27.99 Columbia Bookstore-A subsidiary of Barnes and Noble, they will not only have HP7 but&nbsp;also a&nbsp;party at midnight. Plus, it's not well known for having a large fiction section, so chances are you'll run into less competition… and you can pay with Flex. Probably $20.99 And for those of you who are particularly festive, or especially impatient (oh you know who are you are,&nbsp;Mister&nbsp;I-read-the-last-book-in-one-huge-sprint-all-night-then spoiled-the-ending-for-everyone-in-class-the-next-morning), here are some places where you can party it up with all the other freaks the night before. JULY 20TH MIDNIGHT HP PARTIES Barnes and Noble- They really go nuts for this stuff. They'll have games and contests and really long lines. You can even make your own wand! This year, they got Jim Dale, the narrator for the audiobooks, to come to the Union Square store. He'll read excerpts from past novels and lead the countdown the midnight. See here. Keep in mind, a long list of pre-ordered books will also have to be dealt with before you can get yours, so you might as well go pre-order now. Borders- Their store in Atlanta is supposedly to host the largest "Grand Hallows Ball" of them all, complete with a 15 foot snake-shaped cake and life-sized checkers game. You can locate the nearest party to you on their HP website, and watch their panel debates about Snape's loyalties (on "HP TV" –oh haha…no). As with B&amp;N, there will probably be long lines. The Strand- Not ready to handle all the families at the big chains? Try the Strand, they'll sell you this book the day after (just to be different), and throw a hip little party and throw it into a hip little bag so you can pretend you just bought Faulkner. Plus their party is the day after (on Saturday), so you don't have to sacrifice going out the night before. Columbia Bookstore- The last party, according to some professors, was pretty good and very kid friendly. And it's super close so you won't have ride the subway wearing Quidditch gear. Also look for: Local bookstores- Mostly geared for neighborhood families, the locals will be great for low key release parties. Once again, you won't have to travel far and you will be support the small shops. The Village (in general) - This place is going to go apeshit. The stores will decorate. The cupcakes will flow. The costumed will parade. Diagon Alley in New York. McNally and Robinson party- The "grownups party"- Like the other parties there will be magicians, astrologers, DJs, face-painting, costume competitions, but where else will there be a party bus and "magic punch" ?&nbsp; More info here. &nbsp;WARNING: Spoilers in comments below (in case you didn't expect that already) &nbsp; 
In the first Freshmen Profile, Tania Harsono was giving a chance at redemption. This time around, Bwog staffer Lucy Tang pokes and prods at Dan Cho's insecurities. RA RA SHISBOOM BAH Here's Dan Cho Friend or Foe?&nbsp; Hometown: The twilight city that’s gonna set my soul on fire. (For non-Elvis or Dead Kennedy fans, that’s Las Vegas, NV) Prospective Major: I’m not a big fan of the whole “making money” thing, so probably English or Film Studies. You never know though. Where are you looking to begin the first of the best four years of your life? On an isolated tropical beach, surrounded by beautiful women, and enjoying the soft symphony of gently rolling waves. I’ll be spending my freshman year of college at Carman though. How long do you think it'll take you to lose your… Dignity? I lost it during my first tour in Nam. Moral compass? I lost it during my second tour in Nam. Sanity? Third tour. Virginity? I can’t really think of a facetious answer to this, so I’ll leave it as “no comment.” While 2010 went nuts with the myspace, 2011 is the first official class to actually meet each other over the internet. Do you think you're missing out on part of the college experience? I guess this will expose me as the naïve incoming freshman with only a cursory awareness of the long-standing and rich traditions of the fine institution he has been allowed to attend that I am, but exactly what “college experience” is the Internet precluding? We’re still going to have to actually interact with each other face-to-face when the time comes. The only thing Facebook is allowing me is the chance to avoid having to embarrassingly ask someone their name after hanging out with them for two weeks. I welcome this brave new world of technology if it prevents the major faux-pas (I’ve never taken French, so I have no idea what the plural of faux pas really is) that hamstrung many of my potential relationships in the past. What are you doing with your last pre-college summer? Working a menial job for a few bucks over minimum wage, interspersed with the occasional “chilling out with my homies.” No exciting globetrotting adventures in philanthropy or mind-expanding intellectual pursuits here. Columbia students are often typecast as cynical, elitist, and bitter (haven't you read half the comments on Bwog?). What is the most cynical/elitist/bitter thought you've ever had? An easier question would be what is the least cynical/elitist/bitter thought I’ve ever had. The answer to that question would’ve been an observation on a funny comment my friend made about the Seahawks-Broncos game back in 2005. Also, I am responsible for a quarter of the crappy comments on Bwog. I lived in Carman last year, I've seen used tampons, sparkly tube tops, condoms, beer cans, and drunk kids left in the elevator. Still excited for the so-called "party" dorm? I live in Las Vegas. While those things aren’t really parts of my daily routine, they’re not completely foreign sights for me either. I'll get over it. What did you lie about on your application? Seriously for once, I didn’t really think I’d get in so there was little to no self-aggrandizement in my application. I just wrote as honestly as I could about myself, my accomplishments, and my ambitions, and something about that appealed to the admission office. I guess there was a shortage of middle-class second generation Asian-Americans with decent grades, test scores, and extracurricular activities at Columbia or something. Is this irony a defense mechanism against any potential hateful comments? Wow, you don’t pull any punches. Alright, you caught me. This macho, sarcastic tough guy bullcrap is just an act I put on to hide my deep-set fear that someone I don’t know might type something mean about me on the Internet. God, I feel sick just thinking about it. One last question, willing to fess up to any "crappy comments on Bwog"? In all likelihood, I'm probably the first comment for this interview. Even if it's an ad hominem attack on myself. 
Last week, a posse of Columbia Dems converged on Washington D.C. (or, more likely, got the day off from their congressional internships) to talk with legislators about New Orleans. Unfortunately, Bwog was unable to send a correpondent, so we abandoned our standards of independent journalism and asked Dems media guy Jonathan Backer to send an account of the trip, which turned out--surprise!--very rosy. "On the briefing day, Julia Moline CC/SEAS '08 briefed us for much of the day on the details surrounding the issue of health care in the Gulf Coast region. She, in her role as a Katrina recovery policy expert for Speaker Pelosi's office prepared the included materials for the trip. Congressman Melancon's (LA-3) chief of staff, Casey O'Shea, spoke to the group for about an hour. Because of Rep. Jefferson's legal troubles, Rep. Melancon is de facto representing the congressional district of which Orleans parish is a part. He discussed the challenges of legislating effectively when Melancon's constituents' needs are so different from the rest of the country. One issue he discussed was how recover block grants are structured so that small slices of the grant individually fund 90% of several projects. The state must come up with the 10% of funding in order to begin a project. Because the state of Louisiana has been loathe to commit resources to recovery, very few rebuilding projects have gotten off the ground. Melancon's CoS argued that that block grants to the region should be distributed as a lump sum so that the federal dollars will be put to use. Lobbying went very well the next day. The three lobbying groups had a total of 15 meetings, 2 with members of Congress, and 13 with legislative assistants who focus on health policy. The meetings with Senators Feingold and Brown were especially exciting for us. Senator Feingold was keenly interested in the topic and asked numerous questions throughout our discussion. During our meeting, he instructed his LA to contact Rep. Melancon's office. He expressed a&nbsp; desire to look into ways to improve the funding mechanisms to the region and to possibly ask the GAO to conduct an investigation on the topic." 
Now that you've (hopefully) emerged from the Deathly Hallows, here are our picks of the week to keep you entertained, courtesy of Bwog scheduler Stephanie Quan. IT IS RESTAURANT WEEK!!!! Monday, July 23rd * Boyz II Men - does anybody remember On Bended Knee? and I'll Make Love to You?&nbsp; Wingate Field, 7:30pm * Lawn Party - the less pretentious version of Princeton's famous spring flings. Rockefeller Center, 11am * Ghostface Killah - free, seriously. Highline Ballroom, 10pm Tuesday July 24th * Odette Magritte - something to brighten your day. Clinton Cove at 55th Street, 6pm True Stories Tuesdays with Master Lee - safe space to perform and tell stories, for 8 minutes. Mug Lounge, 8pm, $3 The Nightshade Family/Alice in War/Blueprint/Minor Gods - Wonderland never looked so good. For decent prices, come watch plays that range in topic from student/teacher relationships to secret worlds on the other side of the basement wall, part of SPF 2007, these shows will run all week. See here for locations, times, and prices. The One-Hour Armchair Walking Tour - James Kaplan talks about the high points of his four hour ramble through historic Lower Manhattan (aka. The All-Night Walking Tour on July 4th), Fraunces Tavern Museum , 12:30, free with museum admission Also - the Plain White T's visit TODAY studios, if you want, you could be one of those fans pressed up against the glass for free, Rockefeller Plaza 7am Wednesday July 25th * Yoga in the Hudson River Park - mats are provided, but you must RSVP and bring a photo ID. Email youngfriends@fohrp.org for more info. Location to be announced, 7:30am * Day at the Opera - Tao Qi and The Opera Collective perform for MTA's Music Under New York. Zuccotti Park, noon * Tim Gunn Book Signing - oh my god this man is a genius, have you seen Project Runway? Bryant Park, 12:30pm…update: this event has been cancelled. Thursday July 26th * Rumble on the Hudson - boxing…outdoors…in the park…? Pier 84, 7pm * Being John Malkovich- being shown in Brooklyn, typical. part of Movies with a View. Brooklyn Bridge Park (Empire Fulton Ferry lawn), sunset.Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company- daring dancing that weaves a narrative between natural disaster and personal reminiscence. Prospect Park Bandshell, 8pm &gt; Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company- daring dancing that weaves a narrative between natural disaster and personal reminiscence. Prospect Park Bandshell, 8pm Friday July 27th Macbeth without Words - maybe they'll tap it out on morse code or use sign language… The Brick Theater, 9pm, $10 * Guitar Guys - Delfin Tardio and Heth and Jed. also part of Music Under Manhattan. Zuccotti Park, noon Sean T Pancake Breakfast Fundraiser - enjoy some late night pancakes and poetry, Bowery Poetry Club, 11:59pm, $5 Saturday July 28th * Ribbon of Highway/Endless Skyway: A tribute in the spirit of Woody Guthrie- includes performers from Terri Hendrix and Jimmy Lafave to Lloyd Maines. Part of Folks on the Island (a folk music festival), Governor's Island , 1:30pm&nbsp; Sonic Youth - they'll be playing daydream Nation, McCarren Park Pool, $34 The White Party - the perfect color to be wearing when someone inevitability spills a drink on you. (mention Don Carlo) Kama, 10pm, free for girls, $10 for boys Sunday July 29th High Rock Concert Hike - 3 miles, 3 dollars, bring lunch, water and appropriate footwear. Reward? Free outdoor concert by the Staten Island Chamber Music Society. High Rock Park, 10:30am, $3 * D.D. Jackson Trio- performing Serenity Song. MoMA Sculpture Garden, 7pm&nbsp; * Wild Style 25th Anniversary Reunion - grand celebrate the beginnings of hip-hop. Central Park Summerstage, 7pm * Surveillance Camera Outdoor Walking Tour - a tour of all the surveillance cameras in Chelsea , meet at northeast corner of 14th St. and 8th Ave, 2pm Story Sunday Special: Pirates! - Okay I couldn't resist putting this down. It is for kids, but it looks fun. South Street Seaport (on the Peking ship!), 1pm, free with museum fee.&nbsp; Tip of the week: did you know there's a floating pool in nyc? And it's free! See here for beach-y fun. 
This month, Bwog staffer Armin Rosen finds himself in Bangalore, which is not as unlike Manhattan as you might think. Up until this weekend, my lone experience with south Asia's IT boomtown was crossing the street between its central bus and train stations. Simple enough in theory—but, owing to the city's notorious Friday-night traffic and fenced median strips, terrifying in practice. After hopping a couple of barriers and reaching the other side of the median, I found myself stranded with a small group of prospective street-crossers. And although my only words of Kannada are illa (no), and bedda (fuck off), I didn’t need the lingo: their faces communicated "what the fuck?" as well as speech. Bangalore is one "what the fuck?" after another. Most of them have to do with the fact that, like India itself, Bangalore is both thriving and struggling horribly. The doctor in charge of the NGO where I’m interning lamented that the city's pollution and uncontrollable growth rate have turned his once-pleasant hometown into a gridlocked basket case—but he added that it has everything you'd expect to find in the nicest parts of most western cities. The great Bangalorean paradox of simultaneous prosperity and ruin is on display on Commercial Street, one of the city's major shopping arteries. On the prosperity front, the street's upscale Indian-style clothing stores attract tourists, expats and upwardly-mobile middle-class Indians. On the ruin front, Commercial Street feels like a place subverted by its own incredible success, and subsequently has almost no character of its own. Bangalore boasts none of India’s architectural wonders (with the possible exception of the spectacular Karnataka state assembly building--although it does have IT, out-of-control growth, consumer decadence, and general aesthetic blight. Jam-packed Commercial Street has elements of all four, although, I did find a pretty delicious "New York Style" chicken dog. While not exactly a dead ringer for Grey's, the presence of spicy, Indian-style ketchup atop classic American street food gave me heart. But Bangalore's problem isn't that it can't integrate its Indian and western elements. The Bangalore location of Crossword, a national chain of Borders-style bookstores, is a case in point. At a place obviously inspired by American retail, Indian books and music reigned supreme—it was easier to locate the Karnatic classical music section than it was to find a western CD more recent than a couple years old. This seems like an obvious point (Indian music in India? Holy shit!), but it's important to understand just how little purchase western popular culture has in most of India. Since the country lacks the deep-seated cultural insecurities of most other places on earth (America, for instance), the death of Rajkumar can spark riots while the arrival of the latest Harry Potter book in a widely English-literate country is a veritable non-event. But those riots were themselves evidence of a place sucking itself dry:&nbsp;I have a hunch that&nbsp;cars set afire upon Rajkumar’s death were really burned out of longing&nbsp;for what had passed forever--the greener, Kannadiga Bangalore of old&nbsp;that Rajkumar represented--and frustration over the smoggy and&nbsp;decadent abyss ahead.&nbsp; So western influences haven't ruined Bangalore. But demography, poor infrastructure, pollution, horrible traffic&nbsp;and the fact that in a city this blighted&nbsp;these influences often operate as escapist, occidental porn for expats and Indians newly rich off of the IT boom, have. Because for every Crossword and traditional dress shop on Commercial Street, there's a place like Noir, a nightclub that could have been in the West Village if it weren't for the flat-screen&nbsp;TVs tuned to highlights&nbsp;from India and England's ongoing series of&nbsp;3-day cricket tests.&nbsp;&nbsp;That’s where I&nbsp;dropped more money than many Bangalorean families make in a month on a drink called the Liit, a glorified rum-and-coke whose menu description read simply, "get smashed."&nbsp;Though decidedly mediocre, the drink was delicious as metaphor: how typical of Bangalore to teasingly&nbsp;evoke the occidental joys of getting&nbsp; sloshed,&nbsp;promise&nbsp;a drunken escape, and&nbsp;leave you irritable, exhausted, and quite a bit closer to broke. &nbsp; And how typical of Bangalore to make you want to escape in the first place. 
 In the spirit of symbolic welcome, NSOP is throwing a party for the class of 2011 on the site where many others before them waited in lines and were herded through stations: Ellis Island. Like the whole thing. An NSOP insider has informed us that the children will be transported via chartered ferry to the patriotic tourist attraction, where they've rented out the immigration center and surrounding lawns. Welcome to America?&nbsp; In other news of the weird and/or nifty: New York's public transit patrons must not mind gaggles of drunk Columbians. Ivygate has the scoop on Chinese feuds. And a very dear Bwog grandmother is now blogging for them! - LBD 
 If you're like us, you've spent many a seminar playing "guess the biggest secret of the person sitting next to you." We've concocted a twisted past habit&nbsp;or two, but we didn't think of naked urban spelunking until this article in the Times today&nbsp;provided us with ample imagery.&nbsp;The piece&nbsp;has weird&nbsp;Pupin lore, overt fetishization, hip&nbsp;post-industrial aesthetics, "human vulnerability," and all the rest of what you love. Thanks Nick Kelly for&nbsp;pointing it out.&nbsp; 
 If you're Sunil Gulati, of course. And he is, today, marking the first time anyone has been wished happy birthday for two consecutive years by Bwog, which hopes it will be as dashingly handsome as the U.S. Soccer Federation prez when it gets that old. The silver hair and sarcastic cracks get us every time. Picture stolen from this charming profile. 
Bwog's Jessica Cohen guest hosts this week's almost all-free guide. Monday, July 30, 2007 Bryant Park Monday Movie 5:00pm (FREE) All The King's Men (1949) is on tonight.&nbsp; Don't confuse it with this one, please. Whole Foods Market - Salami Tasting, Gourmand Conversation 7:00pm ($15) You’re secretly or not-obsessed with salami and want moral support.&nbsp; For real - the people at this Whole Foods know what they're talking about.&nbsp; Also, an alternative dating locale? Tuesday, July 31, 2007 Reading and Discussion at The Strand Bookstore 7:00-8:30pm (FREE) Wrap your head around the Dover, PA trial on teaching intelligent design in schools with Gordy Slack, Matthew Chapman and Laurie Goodstein.&nbsp; It's another Summer for the Gods. Wednesday, August 1, 2007 Performance by the cast of Broadway show "High Fidelity" Barnes and Noble Lincoln Center 6:00PM (FREE) It's based on the book of the same name and the fun’s just down the block. Screening of "Pi" AISH Office at 89th Street 6:30pm, (FREE w/ RSVP) Watch this Jew-vie at the Aish headquarters and have your popcorn too. Thursday, August 02, 2007 Summerstage Readings (Amiri Baraka and Sonia Sanchez) From 7:30 PM to 10:00 PM (FREE) Central Park 69th &amp; 5th Entrance Feel the power: writers Baraka (formerly known as LeRoi Jones) and Sanchez were shedding light on how to pursue a purpose-driven life way before Rick Warren could hold a pencil. Shakespeare in the Other Park 6:30pm (FREE) 89th &amp; Riverside Watch "Macbeth" as you like it. Friday, August 3, 2007 A Photographer's Sketchbook 10th Avenue &amp; 24th Street (Silverstein Gallery) 10am-6pm (FREE) This awesome display of contemporary photography ends today. Go see it. Saturday, August 4, 2007 Antibalas Afrobeat Orchestra Governor's Island - take the 1 to South Ferry... 1pm (FREE) They got their start playing with Soulive and have now made it big, as they should. Kassav' / Bonga Concert Prospect Park Stage 7:30pm (FREE) If you must miss the music in the afternoon go see these guys, whom NY Times say make sound like "a glorious carnival." Sunday, August 5, 2007 The POOL Party McCarren Park Pool in Brooklyn 2pm (FREE) Time's running out to get to one of these things.&nbsp; It's just as it sounds - wear a bathing suit and show up. Bands featured this week include Blonde Redhead and I'm From Barcelona. Oh, and if you're interested in the Beastie Boys concert (August 8th) buy your tickets today.&nbsp; Who knows for how much longer you'll be able to fight for your right to party with Horovitz, Schwartz, Diamond and Yauch.&nbsp; The concert benefits ECOFUND. 
In which Bwog freelancer Rob Trump, who brought you a Chabon review and enlightened July 4 commentary, learns to love America. Forgive me if this seems insensitive, but for the last few years I have been thoroughly sick of hearing, talking, and thinking about 9/11.&nbsp; I was tired of pop-sociology articles and works of art still cropping up that explained just how we were changed forever.&nbsp; I was done with post-9/11 America and declared to many people that I was ready for the post-post-9/11 era. (As an aside, I would like to take this moment, on a blog, to coin this era the “double post.”) Many sympathized with my viewpoint on this, and even more would probably support an expanded-scope restatement by a character in Don DeLillo’s new book Falling Man: “We’re all sick of America and Americans.&nbsp; The subject nauseates us.” There has been, in the last few years, a massive artistic output—fictional and not—that has some grounding in the September 11 terrorist attacks.&nbsp; Of all these, the only moderately successful one I’ve consumed is Jonathan Safran Foer’s Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close, about a nine-year-old boy’s adventures around New York City after losing his father in the attacks.&nbsp; Foer’s take, however, didn’t really engage the attacks on more than a personally tragic level, even going somewhat out of its way to avoid them.&nbsp; DeLillo pulls no such punches.&nbsp; Falling Man is a novel about 9/11 and what it did to people. Knowing this fully, and having never read any DeLillo before, I approached Falling Man cautiously.&nbsp; The very first pages concern Keith, a lawyer, walking out of the wreckage of the towers and home to his separated wife Lianne.&nbsp; DeLillo sketches out his characters slowly, and to be honest, nothing about any of them really grabbed me right from the start.&nbsp; It took me almost a week to get through the first 50 or 60 pages, but past that point the previously subdued quirks of the characters come to the fore, and the latter 200 pages went by in a couple days.&nbsp; Keith is a risk-taker, but in a painfully calculated way; Lianne is chronically passive-aggressive; their young son is paranoid and spends his days searching the skies for more planes.&nbsp; Other peripheral characters show up, and in every single character there is an interesting battle between several forces: how they were before the attacks, the changing effect that the attacks have had on them, and -- perhaps most intruiguingly -- how they want to believe the attacks have changed them and their lives. DeLillo writes absorbing, realistic dialogue, and I struggle to think of any other writer who can pen philosophical or political conversations without making it at all clear where he or she stands.&nbsp; Martin, the same character “nauseate” by America, says that the towers might as well have proclaimed, “Here it is, bring it down.”&nbsp; A strong statement, it is treated in the book as not without merit, but not containing all truth either.&nbsp; This confusion and conflict, with no simple or clear answer, is certainly part of the message of Falling Man.&nbsp; The eponymous character, a performance artist who suspends himself from public structures in a reenactment of those who fell to their deaths, embodies this.&nbsp; He is calm and structured in all of his performances, but any sane reader will question whether or not he even knows why he is doing it. In a time of confusing truths, all the characters try to find simple explanations for their own actions and for others.&nbsp; This narrative is mirrored in one chapter at the end of each of three sections, which discusses Hammad, an Islamic extremist and 9/11 hijacker, and his life leading up to the attacks.&nbsp; The ways in which he, a rational human being, forces himself into a narrow, self-denying viewpoint invites comparison to the characters dealing with their post-9/11 lives. If it’s not obvious by now, I will declare freely that Falling Man made me, for the first time in several years, want to discuss and contemplate 9/11: how it changed us, how it didn’t change us, how we like to think it changed us. Foer’s novel didn’t do this. Later in Falling Man, Keith’s narrative becomes more and more focused on poker, and I ended up thinking more about the psychology of another subject that I had previously found uninteresting and overexposed. Maybe this just means that DeLillo is a brilliant writer, and could get me thinking seriously about the implications of something really banal if he really wanted to.&nbsp; Even if so, this time he chose the September 11 attacks, and in this time of emotion-soaked overexposure, it may be just what we all need.&nbsp; Falling Man may be one of the best novels written this decade.&nbsp; With time, it may also be considered “important,” helping to define this era of American sociology -- and it will have done so by engaging complicated psychology, not just by reflecting that in a desire for escapism. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I only have a hundred pages left in Harry Potter. 
 Far be it from us to shill for the Columbia Dems, but they did have some big news this weekend--the national College Democrats of America named them Chapter of the Year, beating out George Washington (which has its eyes on the prize for next year). To land the accolade, they put together a slick little report touting their accomplishments and presented before the CDA board as well as officials from the Democratic National Committee (quick background: CDA is the official arm of the DNC, which is run by erstwhile presidential candidate Howard Dean). And now they almost have a slick little website to go with it. In the cheerful press release that now accompanies anything the Dems do or say, president Josh Lipsky preened: "This award belongs to every college democrat and young progressive in this country who firmly believes it is their time to lead." Really guys? You going to turn over that plaque? The Dems also officially approved their first candidate group for the '08 presidential campaign: Students for Obama. It's the first of a flotilla of umbrella groups that the Dems intend to start for every issue out there, from civil liberties to health care. Our guess is that Students for Gravel won't be one of them... - LBD UPDATE 11:55 AM EST: Full press releases included, as requested, after the jump. UPDATE 10:07 PM EST: We have been informed that the College Dems of New York--the president of which just graduated from Columbia, and is now leading the New York arm of Living Liberally--were named third place for State Federation.&nbsp; In other news, the College Republicans had one too... CU College Democrats Approve Students for Obama Umbrella Group Dems Offshoot to be First of Many ’08 Candidate Groups&nbsp; For Immediate Release&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Contact: Jonathan Backer 27 July, 2007&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 414.840.9199&nbsp; Today, the Columbia University College Democrats approved the group Students for Barack Obama as an umbrella group of the organization. In the coming weeks and months, the CU College Democrats anticipate the creation of several umbrella groups supporting 2008 candidates for the Democratic Presidential nomination.&nbsp; CU College Democrats President Josh Lipksy, applauds Students for Barack Obama founder Seth Berliner for kicking off the College Democrats’ involvement in the 2008 Presidential contest. “This umbrella group, already 127 members strong, has the ability to engage scores of Columbia students in grassroots politics. Groups like this contribute so much to the Columbia University College Democrats’ ongoing efforts to transform this campus into a pulse of liberal activism,” Lipsky said.&nbsp; Lipsky added, “Our party has a phenomenal slate of candidates from which to choose. Any one of these individuals will make a formidable nominee. I hope the Columbia University College Democrats can reach out to each of the Democratic Presidential campaigns over the course of the year, and we look forward to endorsing the nominee and the next President of the United States next summer.” CU College Democrats Tapped for CDA Chapter of the Year Award Dems Execs Eager to Build on Previous Year’s Successes&nbsp; For Immediate Release&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Contact: Jonathan Backer 31 July, 2007&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 414.840.9199&nbsp; At this year’s College Democrats of America annual convention, the Columbia University College Democrats were honored to receive the organization’s chapter of the year award. “The winners of these competitions represent the best organizations in the most effective grassroots student organization in the country,” stated CDA President Lauren Wolfe. The CU College Democrats’ victory this year follows a close second place finish in 2006.&nbsp; CU College Democrats President Josh Lipsky noted, “Over the past two years, we have been building a culture of activism on campus. It gives me great honor to know that the effort of Columbia students is being recognized nationwide.” Lipsky cited the Dems’ outspoken stances and unique activist efforts on the Iraq War, environmental sustainability, and marriage equality as qualities which set Columbia’s chapter apart from other school’s College Democrats chapters. &nbsp; “At Columbia, we’ve built an organization where anyone interested in grassroots politics can come in and make a difference. We have a think tank that provides the policy backbone for our organization, an Activist Council which transforms our policy into tangible action, and umbrella groups which allow the organization to branch out and become involved with dozens of issues,” added Lipsky.&nbsp; "Columbia has truly amazed us this year with their passion for creative activism, and we expect even greater things from them in the years to come," said CDA Political Affairs Director Sam Hodge. The Chapter of the Year Award consists of a written application as well as an oral presentation to the executive board of both CDA and members of the Democratic National Committee. &nbsp; In accepting the award during the closing ceremonies Lipsky stated, "This award belongs to every college democrat and young progressive in this country who firmly believes it is their time to lead." &nbsp; &nbsp; The CU College Democrats view the award as a starting point for the year, and seek to continue their mission to transform Columbia University into a pulse of liberal activism.&nbsp; Over 1,000 delegates and 150 College Democrats chapters were represented at the convention held from July 26-28 at the University of South Carolina in Columbia, South Carolina. Delegates gather annually to plan for upcoming elections and hear party leaders discuss their visions for youth activism. This year’s speakers included Senator Hillary Clinton, Senator Barack Obama, and former Senator John Edwards. 
 Vanity Fair has released its 68th Annual International Best-Dressed List; the top ten best-dressed women include the very Vogue Bee Shaffer CC'09 (Anna Wintour's daughter, but you knew that). Her company at the top includes Renée Zellweger, Michelle Obama, and, for some reason, Fran Lebowitz. Congratulations, Bee; we're sure your summer is far more glamorous than ours. 
 Student Services Vice President Lisa Hogarty just let you know in an e-mail that we'll all be getting nifty new ID cards come fall (that Rita Hollander is one impressive woman). Two bits that matter.&nbsp; One: the cards will NOT use our social security numbers. Bwog hopes this means that neighborhood flex points a la NYU are coming down the pike--SSN security has always been the holdup. And two: the cards will allow for "more convenient building access while maintaining safe environments." Could that mean that...Barnard has opened its doors, at long last? WAIT AND SEE! &nbsp; 
 Congratulations, CC grads: you forked over $11.8 million for the Columbia College Fund this year. That's more than any year yet, according to an e-mail sent to '07ers yesterday. It didn't take tipsters long to point out the Fund's fumble. The thank you e-mail sent to donors included this photo from Commencement 2007. Oops. Full text of the lovely message to "all 11,501" J-school (er... CC) donors after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Thank you, proud Columbia College donors - all 11,501 of you! Your generosity and dedication to advancing Columbia College has resulted in raising $11.8 million, the most successful year in the history of the College Fund. Our success is a direct result of our collaboration and partnership with alumni and parent volunteers. Your gifts benefit every aspect of a student's experience at Columbia, including the professors and activities in the Core, the opportunities for internships, student activities on campus and the financial aid that makes a Columbia education possible. On behalf of Columbia College and its students, we offer you our sincere gratitude.
 We probably should have mentioned something about this earlier, but we&nbsp;plead subconsciously willful ignorance.&nbsp;Let's make it quick, then:&nbsp;the recent Shattered Glass-lite semi-scandal over at The New Republic&nbsp;heavily involves one&nbsp;Cpl. Matt "Rod Majors" Sanchez, who&nbsp;was used as a source for accusations&nbsp;of fictionalization. Surprised?&nbsp; You probably know the story already, but here it is again:&nbsp;Allegations from&nbsp;The Weekly Standard&nbsp;came out that&nbsp;"Scott Thomas" (now outed as Scott Thomas Beauchamp),&nbsp;a soldier who was doing an Iraq diary for TNR, was fabricating&nbsp;unpleasant details&nbsp;and that he was hand-picked to write because he was married to a TNR reporter. Currently, TNR editors&nbsp;(and the military!) are still investigating, they say, and re-checking every piece of information.&nbsp;Sanchez, it turns out, was the guy telling TWS&nbsp;reporters that&nbsp;Thomas had&nbsp;cooked his facts. Of course, not everyone is buying Sanchez's story.&nbsp;A tipster&nbsp;passed along this Time Magazine blog entry today, which speaks for itself. (Yeah, we know that's&nbsp;Hayden Christensen. So?)&nbsp; - KER 
 Just thought we'd bring to your attention two of the latest places Columbia has made the news:&nbsp; A new film waxing indignant about censorship and anti-semitism, conveniently collapsing all of Columbia into the MEALAC department... And former Sen. Mike Gravel's excellent adventure, via cab, to his former stomping grounts. Thank you, Google alerts. 
Done with your internship yet? Bwog scheduler Stephanie Quan is back with ways to spend all your time, every day. Monday, August 6 * The Gold Standard - a play by Ed Schmidt (The Last Supper) and Jed Distler. Featuring steel guitar players (the Resonators)! Also Tuesday and Wednesday, Cornelia Street Caf&eacute;, 8:30pm, $15 plus one drink. * Lauryn Hill - Everything is everything is at this concert. Wingate Field, 7:30pm * Petanque lessons - a.k.a. Boule. Bryant Park, 11:30am * Bus Stop - A cowboy tries to take Marilyn Monroe home. Bryant Park, Sunset. &nbsp; Tuesday, August 7th * Benzo Record Releasing Party - A reason to party on a Tuesday. 205 Bar, 9pm * The Fountainhead - oh the futility of the visionary. One of Ayn Rand's most famous works, in film. Befittingly at The Elevated Acre, 8pm Life on the Lower East Side - Meet Peter Dans and check out the photography exhibit "There once was a neighborhood". South Street Seaport Museum, 6pm, $5 * The Myspace Social Guide - How to use Myspace to promote your small business. Oh dear lord. Bluestocking Bookstore, 7pm * Life with the Simpsons - Steven Keslowitz waxes Simpsons philosophic. Barnes and Noble in Greenwich Village, 7:30pm &nbsp; Wednesday, August 8th A.C. + MOVIE + WINE + A FRENCH WOMAN presents: City of Lost Children- I just love the name of this movie festival. Cornelia Street CafÃ©, 6pm, $10 (includes one house drink) * A Midsummer Night's Dream - Shakespeare in the Park returns! Delacorte Theater, Tickets given out at 1pm, show starts at 8pm * Winard Harper - One fantastic drummer part of a vibrant sextet. Grant's Tomb, 7pm * The Wood Brothers - Bluegrass music, for a change. Madison Square Park, 7pm * Kal Ha Noo Ho - Bollywood-tastic. Socrates Sculpture Park, 7pm * Volleyball After Work - Smack some balls around after work. Esplanade Plaza, 6pm * Figures al Fresco - Drawing classes, free. You don't even have to bring a pencil. South Cove, Battery Park, 2:30-4:30pm &nbsp; Thursday, August 9th&nbsp; * Depeche Mode Night- Violator meets techno. Hiro Ballroom, 10pm, free with rsvp. * B-52s, Patty Smyth and Scandal- Delicious 80s fun with the world's greatest party band. Asser Levy Park, 7:30pm DAFT PUNK - Is sold out, but if you can steal, borrow or accio tickets for this, go for it. Keyspan Park, 7pm * All About Eve - The Mean Girls of 1950. Free valet bike parking, lawn of the Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park section of Brooklyn Bridge Park. 6pm Twelfth Night - Because there hasn't been quite enough Shakespeare this summer.&nbsp; Thursdays and Saturdays 8pm, Sundays at 2pm. South Street Seaport. Thursdays and Saturdays 8pm, Sundays at 2pm. $18 &nbsp; Friday, August 10th Snapshots - A series of one act plays by the worth street theater company. South Street Seaport. Fridays and Sundays at 7pm, Saturdays at 3pm. $18&nbsp; Star Wars Party - Think more like glow stick party more than a Star Wars convention party. Tonic, 10pm, free for girls, $10 for boys before midnight * Complexions Contemporary Ballet and TAKE Dance Co.- Fierce experimental dance, Central Park Summerstage, 8pm Beastie Boys - If you got tickets for this show last week or went to the Summerstage concert earlier this week, now is the time to gloat. Hammerstein ballroom, $51 Cooper-Hewitt Summer Session - You can actually dance at this museum party. Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 6pm, $12 Saturday, August 11th * Free Wine Tasting- Guess where it's at? The Wine Room, 1pm * Rock and Roll Dueling Piano Show- All-request sing-a-long a la drunken dorm room party style. "Just a small town girl, livin' in a LONELYYYYY WORLD" &nbsp;Ha! Comedy Club, 10pm (there is also a 3am show), * Antigone - To get you ready for some more of the core. Abrons Arts Center Amphitheater, 7pm&nbsp; * Buckle My Shoe or Terror Firma - Mark Twain characters meet global warming? Tompkins Square Park, 8pm *BWAC 25th Annual Sculpture Show- Stroll the Brooklyn waterfront and check out sculptures centered around the theme "Still Flying". Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy &nbsp; Sunday, August 12th Water Taxi Beach- No swimming at this beach, but one heck of a view. Map, 1pm on, $3-5. * Zap Mama and Angelique Kidjo - Last summerstage concert for a while. Central Park Summerstage, 3pm&nbsp; * X &amp; Y - Artworks that use the grid as their primary structural element, Westside Art Gallery, 9-7pm Shape of Space - Speaking of fun grid-like thingsâ€¦the Guggenheim, 10-5:45pm, $15 * Moses Mountain Night Hike - View Staten Island at night from the only natural 360 degree viewpoint. High Rock Park, 7pm &nbsp; Tip of the week - OMG EVEN MORE SHAKESPEARE. Romeo and Juliet, Macbeth, Much Ado About Nothing, and The Tempest are also playing for FREE around New York this week. One of them is even called "Shakespeare in the Parking Lot". 
 To those who have e-mailed and commented in panic over the apparent disappearance of CULPA: please calm down. The relevant authorities have been rousted from their sleepy summer reveries, and are checking into the problem.&nbsp; Besides, it really is still the first week of August. UPDATE, 8/7, 12:15 AM EST: We've been notified that the site is back up and running. &nbsp; 
 Last week a vigilant commenter tipped us off to a possible They Might Be Giants concert happening on October 14th on campus. Well, first, said commenter was lucky that a Bwog editor&nbsp;caught that&nbsp;tidbit&nbsp;(send in things to the alias, come on now!). Second, we emailed TMBG's bookers High Road Touring&nbsp;and they confirmed the date-&nbsp;and added that it's going to be a "kids show." So you can geek out&nbsp;and regress into early childhood to your heart's content. 
 Passengers are still stranded, sweaty, and discontented&nbsp;along&nbsp;nearly every&nbsp;subway line, as the city&nbsp;recovers from this morning's as-of-yet&nbsp;unconfirmed tornado.&nbsp;People are still waiting in droves for buses and taxis or&nbsp;walking across the city's&nbsp;bridges&nbsp;and Mayor Bloomberg has canceled his entire morning to no doubt&nbsp;assess damage to homes and&nbsp;trees&nbsp;in Brooklyn. Send Bwog the story of your wacky commute! We want to hear it! UPDATE 12:59 EST - Wacky commute stories after the jump. UPDATE 10:58 PM EST - Act of God correspondent Zach van Schouwen has photographic evidence of the Brooklyn Tornado here. Samit Sarkar, E'08,&nbsp;reports he never made it to his 9 to 5 summer job at SIPA, even after taking hellish, wet detours through the backwoods of&nbsp;Queens. "My dad figured he'd take Union Tpke to Queens Boulevard and drop me off at the Queens Plaza subway. Unfortunately, we soon found out that there was no E train service and no 1, 2, or 3 train service (at the time). Union Tpke was slow going; by 9:45 AM, we hadn't even gone a hundred blocks, so I just called in to work and said that at the rate we were going, it'd probably be 1 PM or something by the time I got there (and the traffic was getting to my dad). They understood, so we stopped for breakfast at a Dunkin Donuts on 169th and Union Tpke (near St. John's University) and then headed home." One&nbsp;Bwogger said she arrived at Times Square from Columbia an hour late and $41 dollars poorer. A&nbsp;former Columbia student-wingtip perversely finds the day's silver lining... "I got stuck on an overloaded PATH between hoboken and pavonia newport for bout 30 minutes (apparently two tunnels simultaneously got blocked). I used the time to chat up a nice goldman girl who had her chest rather inconveniently squished against me and get her phone number." ...while&nbsp;one Bwogger finds more of New York's opportunists... "I was on either the 2/3 going downtown and we were stuck in a tunnel for a good 20 minutes. The car is mostly silent and all of a sudden, a girl near me shrieks really loudly, "Can you stop touching my ass?" The whole car goes nuts, overheard responses include: "I ain't feeling up on that girl," "We're all squished together," "Bitch," and my personal favorite from the gay man in the tunic, "She's really flattering herself if she really thinks someone wants to touch... that." I wonder how many other perverts copped a free feel during this whole subway debacle." And continuing the theme of commutes and pervs, Josh Hirschland, C' 08, finds himself in&nbsp;Pittsburgh. "Yesterday I got off my last day of work at about 10:30, packed until three in the morning, and at four left for LaGuardia. Got there in plenty of time for the flight which was then delayed for 90 minutes due to the storm--just long enough to make me miss my connecting flight. As I write this, I'm sitting in an airport a half hour's bus ride outside of Pittsburgh in hour 8 of my layover. There is an upside, though; I got to get out of the airport and into the city. (When I got breakfast, I was promptly warned that I had better not take it to go because the city is filled with pedophiles.... Seems perfectly nice to me.)" 
 We got distracted in all the weather-related excitement, but if you did read the Times this morning, you may have noticed a full page ad headed by none other than Lee Bollinger--he became the poster child for academic freedom after protesting a British teachers union boycott of Israeli universities a few months ago, and now the American Jewish Committee is gathering signatures in support of his statement. The ad ran with 286 schools, including some heavy hitters: almost all the City Universities of New York, most major state universities, Princeton, Cornell, Georgetown, the University of Pennsylvania, and dozens of other schools nestled comfortably in U.S. News' top 100.&nbsp; The interesting part, then, is who didn't make the list. Harvard, Yale, the University of Chicago, Amherst, Williams, Duke, Stanford, and Brown were nowhere to be found. Eighteen other schools--including NYU, Temple University, George Washington, and Johns Hopkins--signed on since the ad ran today, so presumably the silent ones have had a chance to reconsider. And in any case, the story broke at the end of May, which means that the AJC has been scuttling around since then gathering signatures. What gives? - LBD 
 Take that. 
Bwog likes to report&nbsp;the occasional&nbsp;celestial phenomenon, so Stephanie Quan sends along this tip: "Perseid Meteor Shower TONIGHT Go outside tonight after midnight. If there isn't too much air pollution or cloud cover, there will be a spectacular meteor shower in the Northeast (strongest in the pre-dawn hours). If you're out in open, dark country, you&nbsp;might see up to 60 shooting stars an hour. The Perseid meteoroids are debris from the Swift-Tuttle Comet, which takes 130 years to circle the sun. Swift-Tuttle is part of a comet kin from the Oort Cloud. Most comets from this cloud don't make it close to earth, but a few have been pulled into a trajectory closer to the earth, creating beautiful meteor showers several times a year." It's currently rainy and miserable at this Bwogger's house. Anyone in luck with nice weather? 
Bwog scheduler Stephanie Quan is back with your weekly dose of fun. Monday, August 13 * Casablanca - here's looking at you ki-BLAHHH. Bryant Park, Sunset. * Breath - illuminating exhibit at Lincoln Center, 8:30pm Junior Senior - D-d-don't don't stop the beat. Highline Ballroom, 7pm, $18. Tokyo Police Club - because you missed them at South Street Seaport a few weeks ago. Bowery Ballroom, 7:30, $15 Women's Wrestling/Grappling - Join Team Artemis as they teach you how to safely wrestle and grapple. Fight House, 6:30pm, $15 womyn, $20 asshole men. &nbsp; Tuesday, August 14th * Pilates Mat Class - the most massively useful thing you can bring to this is a thick large towel…and a mat. &nbsp;Boardwalk of the Brooklyn Bridge Park, 6:30pm. Rain Location-Tobacco Warehouse. * Breakfast at Tiffany's - And I said, "What about this movie?" and you said "Go to Hell". Elevated Acre, 8pm&nbsp; * Jay Leohart and Wycliffe Gordon - some awesome after-work jazz, Lincoln Center, 6-9pm * Free Cinnabon!- pass by a Cinnabon between 6:30-9:30am and be one of the lucky customers to receive a free latte! &nbsp; Wednesday, August 15th * Days in Heaven - the tagline for this movie was "your eyes, your ears, your senses will be overwhelmed". We'll see. Pier 1 (70th St. and Riverside Park), 8:30pm Projekt Revolution - see they turned the c into a k like Korn, that way they can seem more xcore. Jones Beach Theater, 7pm, $40+, Tickets here * David Mendell- Meet the author of "Obama: From Promise to Power". Bryant Park, 12:30. Last Naumberg Summer Concert - trying to escape the Mostly Mozart Festival? Try some Britten. Naumberg Bandshell, 7:30pm &nbsp; Thursday, August 16th * The Natural - magical sports fantasy starring Rob Redford. Get there early and you can rock out to some DJs playing baseball and swing tunes. Brooklyn Bridge Park, 6pm- Music, Sunset- movie. * Favela Rising - free samba lessons and a Tribeca film festival favorite. Hamilton Lawn, 7pm dancing, 9pm film. * Sydney White - this shit looks hilariously bad. But since it is geared towards teens, you with your college ID can get into the advanced movie screening before the grown-ups. AMC, 7pm, free with this pass * Dancing on the Plaza: Salsa- if you haven't been to a dancing event yet, this one is the one to go to this week. Central Park (110th and Lenox-ish), 6-8:30pm&nbsp; ~*One Day I Will Control The Sun- 11 artists interpret man v. nature. Arsenal Gallery, 9-5 M-F &nbsp; Friday, August 17th * Maroon 5 - Maybe at Today they will be loved. Rockefeller Plaza, 7am Mozart Dances: Mark Morris Dance Company- part of this week's Mostly Mozart Festival, featuring concertos 11 and 27 as well as sonata in D major. New York State Theater, 8pm, $30+&nbsp; Sleepytime Gorilla Museum - SOAD but with homemade instruments such as a "Viking Rowboat" and "Glockenspiel"? To tell you the truth they scare me a little. Highline Ballroom, 7pm, $15 * Happy Feet- Because you kinda do want to see it. Pier 46, Sunset. * Lula Washington Dance Theater- afro-caribbean, modern, street, its bound to be amazing Lincoln Center, 7:30pm * The National - more free music! They supposedly sound like Dylan, Cash and Cohen rolled into one. &nbsp;South Street Seaport, 7pm&nbsp; ~Gerard Depardieu Festival - Watch Cyrano de Begerac, and other movies to your nose's content. Lincoln Center, all this week, schedule here, $7 each (on Fri.- Cyrano 3:45pm, Mon Oncle D'Amerique 8:45pm) &nbsp; Saturday, August 18th&nbsp; Bishop Allen - Bwog had a post about them a few weeks ago. Here's your chance to see this indie pop sensation. Bowery Ballroom, 8pm, $15 * 7 Stories High - in a burnt old building, 7 people try to reconstruct what happened. New School, 5pm other show times listed here. * Don Witter Jr. - classical guitar extraordinaire. NYPL Columbus, 2pm&nbsp; Badass Burlesque - no explanation needed. Bowery Poetry Club, 11:59pm, $15 ~Fringe Festival - with over 200 companies, this festival presents dozens of free plays every day this week. Schedule and descriptions here. &nbsp; Sunday, August 19th * 8th Annual Blues BBQ - Food from places like Brother Jimmy's, Dallas, and Dino. Music from places like Mississippi and Chicago. Pier 54, 2-9pm. * 24th Annual Roots of American Music Festival - it's a free country concert with Sid Selvidge, Rosemary Woods, Tom Paxton, etc. Whoot. Lincoln Center, starts 1pm. * Helios and JellyNYC Pool Parties- loved Blond Redhead last week? Ghostland Observatory this week. This is the LAST ONE this season. McCarren Pool, all day. RSVP here * Julliard Concert IV- continuing the large classical music theme this week- music for ensembles. MoMA, 7pm * = FREE ~ = ALL WEEK Tip of the Week - catch the remnants of the Perseid Meteor Shower between midnight and dawn this week. Just look out to the northeast on a cloudless night. Also- interested in climbing? For $15 you can climb at City Climbers Club M-F 4:30-8:30, Sat 12-5. To be put on the Columbia climbing club's list, email majordomo@columbia.edu with the message "subscribe climbing". 
 We noticed this article yesterday, but in case you didn't, here's the bit that might have to do with why it's hard getting your study abroad program approved: "At many campuses, study abroad programs are run by multiple companies and nonprofit institutes that offer colleges generous perks to sign up students: free and subsidized travel overseas for officials, back-office services to defray operating expenses, stipends to market the programs to students, unpaid membership on advisory councils and boards, and even cash bonuses and commissions on student-paid fees. This money generally goes directly to colleges, not always to the students who take the trips. Kathleen McDermott, director of global programs for liberal arts undergraduates at Columbia, said trips subsidized by outside providers posed no conflict because â€œour business is to evaluate programs... Since 1998, Dr. McDermott said she had taken six such trips: one to Argentina and Chile, another to Uganda and Tanzania, and visits to Cuba, western China, Jordan and Morocco. The trips were sponsored, she said, by various providers. The Butler institute sponsored one of Dr. McDermott's trips; Columbia, along with about 120 other institutions, is a member of the its national advisory council." We're not saying Columbia bureaucracy could ever be corrupt or anything, but we can't help wondering whether it's harder than necessary to study where you want. If you've got stories, you know the address: bwog@columbia.edu.&nbsp; 
But there's something to be said for promulgating embargoed press releases, even if "Princeton, Harvard, and Yale Lead U.S.News &amp; World Report's Annual Ranking of Best National Universities" could almost be an Onion headline. &nbsp; 
But the ULURP committee of Community Board 9 rejected Columbia's expansion plan for Manhattanville last night, and it looked like a party. Bwog wishes it could have been there, with popcorn. Good thing Atlantic Yards Report was blogging, and Spec was scribing. 
In which Bwog staffers reminisce--namelessly, by and large--about how they occupied themselves for the last few months. If you've got something better, send it (bwgossip@columbia.edu) in and we'll share! So my boss just sent me out on an errand, with nothing more than an address and his credit card. I assumed the location was a store, I assumed wrong. I ended up at a vet's office, picking up his cat's medicine. I returned to the office, pissed off, and told him, "I hope your cat doesn't die." Ten minutes later, he walks over sheepishly, hands me a bottle of shitty wine and apologizes. Cellar No. 8. California Merlot. 2005, aged to perfection. - Lucy Tang &nbsp;Small(ish)-town newspaper writing is inexorably absurd. My summer experiences include: riding a creaky fire-boat around Lake Erie with drunk seamen, driving 2 hours in the rain because the police in Pennsylvania cracked a case about a pizza delivery man who robbed a bank just before his head literally exploded, interviewing historical re-enactors in one of their encampments (including a man named Ghost in the Head who actually lived the life of a 19th-century Native American trapper), having another reporter violently cuss out a cop who didn't want to tell me the name of another cop's baby who drowned in a pool, trying to get a bunch of media-hatin' rednecks at a freakin' tractor pull to talk to me... Not to mention the obituaries! ...Like sand through an hourglass, such were the days of my life. - Katie Reedy I mow greens, rake bunkers, and pick up acorns at a local country club.&nbsp; I like my job, but it's a good thing that I don't have to interact with the club members, because it's hard not to have open disdain for people who pay thousands of dollars a year to smoke expensive cigars while they suck at golf. Declaration: if it is not ridiculous to casually smoke while doing something, it is not a sport. (It is important to note that the logical converse of this is not true. That would make filling your gas tank up a sport.&nbsp; For something to qualify as a sport, it must be: 1.A competition that people can win and lose 2.Ludicrous to perform while smoking.) One of the weirdest things I ever saw is one of those guys with a personal oxygen apparatus strapped to his back, out gettin' some wind playing golf.&nbsp; My reaction to this was first thinking it was kind of funny and then feeling kind of bad for thinking it was kind of funny.&nbsp; Then the guy hit a bad shot and threw his club.&nbsp; I stopped feeling bad at all. - Rob Trump My editor had a crush on the 20-year-old male intern in the office... it was really awkward...she'd ask me to facebook him so she could see his profile and at first I thought she just didn't realize how young he was, so I said, "Oh, I already friended him and turns out he's a junior and a journalism major." she looked thoroughly unfazed at this remark, and the fact that he's at least four years&nbsp;younger,&nbsp;and said, "I knew that. I already googled him." she would also make backhanded disparaging remarks whenever I'd spend time with him, like when all the interns went out to lunch, she'd say in her mock-friendly voice, "Oooh, you're already going out to lunch with him?" Awkward.... - Anonymous I worked at Central Casting, and basically all I did was look at the terrible resumes wannabe actors sent us, actors who had been in plays like "Twelve Angry Jurors" and "Joey: A Mechanical Boy." There were so many ridiculous things people listed under the heading of "Special Skills" that I began writing them down. My favorites include "certified tandem skydiver," "proficient in most ball sports," "changing water into wine (bartending)," "bourbon enthusiast," "treasurer - $4 billion Fortune 1000 company," "butter sculpture," "co-writer of '79 disco hit 'Keep On Dancin' and member of NYPD," "can dance like someone who doesn't knw how to dance," and "reader at lighthouse for the blind." Why would the blind need a lighthouse? - Hillary Busis I think the weirdest thing that's happened to me is having my editor, Rochester '98, friend me on Facebook. - Anonymous&nbsp; &nbsp; I probably cost a local news channel several hundred dollars. We needed to find a woman to follow to the subway for a piece we're doing on average New Yorkers' environmental impacts. I booked the sister of a co-worker from another job because he said she took the subway to work and then I showed up at her doorstep five flights up with two unionized camera guys and the super-polished reporter, ready to do business. The woman, who turned out to be much younger than expected, was still sleeping when we arrived, and her mom came to the door (and wouldn't even open it) to tell us the gal wasn't getting up until noon and we should scram. After some desperate pleading from me, she got the girl in the shower. At that point, the reporter told us to cut our losses and the camera guys scoffed, still panting. I felt bad that they were all on the clock and the station was losing money, but then I realized, as an unpaid intern, I'm not even on a clock. - Anonymous 
In the grand tradition of Columbia media outlets, CTV News has released a guide to everything you need to know to go here, an 11-minute broadcast that's been split into six bite-sized videos for your viewing convenience. Bwog brings you the CliffNotes to the highlights. Most Useful: Year in Review Judging by the class of 2011 Facebook community, there’s a chance that most incoming freshmen have been eagerly tracking any and all Columbia-related news for the past year. For anyone who hasn’t, this video summarizes what CTV has deemed to be “the biggest events that” transpired between fall 2006 and spring 2007 (read: “One scandal after another”). Watch this if you’ve somehow forgotten about the&nbsp; Minutemen, if you want to see a dramatic cut from a Columbia staff webpage that includes a picture of disgraced former Associate Dean of Financial Aid David Charlow to a webpage that’s Charlow-less, or if you like gratuitous firedancing clips. Most Awkward Ending: Student Government “And the votes are in: student government wins as one of the best ways to get involved in leadership on campus. So what are you waiting for? The polls are waiting!” Most Heartwarming: Senior Advice Faces from the past! Awww. Least Useful: Tie between Eating in Morningside Heights and Extracurricular Activities The main problem with Extracurricular Activities is that it’s too vague; after noting that there are “more than 200 student clubs on campus,” CTV reporter Allison Yang proceeds to quickly list a few as the camera lingers over their websites. In "Eating," Jason Alarcon rev eals that our neighborhood is home to several restaurants “and even supermarkets!” He then randomly spotlights a few restaurants in the Columbia area, including Strokos, Artopolis (which apparently serves ‘savory desserts,’ a phrase any Top Chef aficionado will recognize as an oxymoron), and Massawa. This video’s greatest crime is perpetuating the myth that there's anything redeeming about Koronet slices other than being sickeningly huge. Longest Clip of Austin Quigley Speaking: Administrators to Know Umm… yeah. 
 Today's Sunday Times is chock-full of Columbia nuts. First, the lead story in the Magazine, by Mark Lilla, is regurgitated CC, and any good humanities student worth&nbsp;his or her weight in Enlightenment&nbsp;and secular/liberal theory should be able to follow his argument and add a dash of insight to boot. Then, the Lives essay is by a J-school prof who meets up with a former story subject and has a ball. Over in Arts, there's a long article about "mumblecore," a micro-genre of indie film in which Barnard grad Greta Gerwig (and the WBAR station) are key elements. And, finally, there's a pretty long&nbsp;piece about the guys behind Indoctrinate U, which we know you all love. 
Bwog received a similar e-mail in its inbox this afternoon. A kind reminder that doors are closing every day now! Dear Bwog, On behalf of the The Firm Columbia Recruiting Team, this is a kind reminder that the application deadline to be considered for the early interviews is Friday, August 24th. &nbsp;Please make sure to apply online through The Firm's website. Additionally, please send an email indicating you have applied and include a brief description of your situation to myself, ------, at -------@thefirm.com. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, The Firm &nbsp; 
In which Learned Foote, one of those delightfully over-eager first years (and a legit film reviewer), muses on Nicole Kidman's latest risky venture. No sarcasm intended whatsoever&#65533;Invasion of the Body Snatchers, in which weird alien intelligence hits Earth and stealthily creates duplicates of the people we know and love,&nbsp; should definitely be remade every twenty to thirty years. Humans know something&#65533;s off, but we can never figure out exactly what&#65533;s wrong until&#65533;gasp&#65533;we&#65533;re walking emotionlessly through the crowd, trying to hide our humanity from the alien majority.&nbsp; I had high hopes for The Invasion. The first two (1956 and 1978) are classics, and the 70s version is one of my personal favorites. Oliver Hirschbiegel. who recently helmed the Hitler biopic Downfall, signed on to direct the 2007 version, although he was fired during production. The movie stars A-listers Nicole Kidman and Daniel Craig. What really whet my enthusiasm, however, was the trailer, which nailed the poetic tension these B-movies need. Using a lulling and mournful Sigur R&#243;s song, the film actually seems to be about The Loss of Humanity, not just gross sticky aliens.&nbsp; But no, The Invasion messes up right from the beginning, when Nicole Kidman freaks out under fluorescent lighting. Actually, that part&#65533;s rather cool, because you can instantly tell which scene from the original movies is being re-imagined, which is half the fun with the Body Snatchers series. Then, however, the story flashes back to the chronological beginning, and this is how the invasion takes place in 2007: a spaceship falls from the sky, leaving a trail of contagious debris from Texas to Washington DC (so much for the eerily quiet takeover). People scratch themselves with a sharp item from said debris, expose their blood flow to the air, and wake up in the middle of the night with a goo mask. That&#65533;s right, original Body Snatcher fans, The Invasion features nothing growing to life in the closet next to your bed. There&#65533;s just a virus or bacteria or whatever, as if this were some goddam zombie movie, rather than the highly-appropriate-for-wanton-subtextualizing process of the olden days: seedpods.&nbsp; The seedpod concept is totally archetypal, instantly worming its way into the psyche. It inspires a horror that adapts to any time or culture (ensuring that these films never feel dated). The version from the 1950s is totally paranoid about the Commies; the version from the 1970s frets over a pop psychology that reduces our profoundest emotions to Point A and Point B. Needless to say, post-9/11 America has plenty of issues to develop into sci-fi goodness. And The Invasion certainly reaches for modern context: divorce, over-medication, e-Bay. Yet the movie devotes a good 80% of its subtext to another political message&#65533;&nbsp; Now, the tagline to the 1978 version read, &#65533;be born again into a world without fear or hate.&#65533; Not much of a bone-chiller, is it. As the aliens begin to take hold in 2007, in turn, the newspapers blare: America pulls out of Iraq, President Bush and Hugo Ch&#225;vez make sweet love. It&#65533;s an interesting moral territory that these body snatchers navigate, with their message of peace and cooperation. As a human audience, we don&#65533;t like to see certain implications made about our humanity. The Invasion of the Body Snatchers has always played this theme wonderfully, and The Invasion experiments more than any before it (and as a specifically American movie, it eagerly draws parallels to current US policy). All is good and well, aside from some ham-fisted musings on Darfur and Katrina, until we begin to hear dead characters delivering voice-over monologues, the dialogue wrapped in a thick twinkling aura of goodness. Um, only Gandalf can do that.&nbsp; Despite this PG-13 fairyland&#65533;where Nicole Kidman won&#65533;t even brutally murder a cute little alien boy, instead choosing to push him into a door or something equally ineffectual&#65533;The Invasion has its moments. The visuals are striking and sterile; the editor insists on flashing forward five minutes and then back again, which is occasionally cool. Aside from a tendency to lock herself into dark rooms before turning on the light, Nicole Kidman is awesome, obviously going batshit insane beneath her ice-cold exterior (she should always have roles where she pretends to be emotionless). Veronica Cartwright, one of the leads from the 70s version, has a small but meaty part, reminding us of the days when weird-looking actresses owned Hollywood. And for all its unwillingness to admit its heritage, The Invasion still manages to include the same monologue featured in every Body Snatchers film&#65533;&#65533;They&#65533;re here already! You&#65533;re next!&#65533; &nbsp; I&#65533;d prefer to view this series as an incredibly important and evolving document of American history, but it&#65533;s not as sterling as I like to think. Nobody watches Body Snatchers, the 1993 remake, and this 2007 version seems doomed to the same fate. Marketing people: you&#65533;ve got to have the whole cheesy title. The Invasion sounds like a boring Kiefer Sutherland picture, but who could go wrong with INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS!? I await the next entry, fully named, with undimmed enthusiasm. Click here for movie showings in New York. &nbsp; 
Ready or not, 2011 arrives on campus THIS MONDAY. An anonymous photobwogger chronicles the fits and starts of Columbia before the Deluge.&nbsp; COOP and CUE take off Thursday morning, and were recently spotted doing COOP and CUE things on the lawns, which involve shouting "ROAR!" in an ephemeral expression of spirit. 
The grounds will be looking a little spiffier upon your return, as an anonymous photobwogger documents below.&nbsp; College Walk, swathed in black plastic for most of the summer, updates its look with new asphalt paving, new granite curbs, a storm drainage system and new lighting. &nbsp; More photos after the jump! Lerner decides to hide behind trees... &nbsp;...while the Journalism School undergoes facial reconstruction surgery.&nbsp; Wien courtyard went for the eclectic look, pairing brick for the entryway with impressed asphalt to simulate quaint cobblestones. Earlier in the summer, Pike, PsiU, and the IRC were all wrapped in chemical peel wraps. Butler opted for deep cleaning. &nbsp; Construction on the NW Science buildings currently resembles a massive blackhead on the corner of 120th and Broadway.&nbsp; &nbsp; Proper skincare wasn't enough for McIntosh, which has committed to full-body tightening and toning. And in a completely non-hygiene-related analogy, they're adding a ninth level to the Law School (not pictured). As if law school wasn't hellish enough. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Bwog was a little disturbed, upon walking up the 5th floor ramp to the Student Government Office (only to discover that NSOP has been granted the exclusive use of the space, forcing The Blue and White's layout operation to move downramp) to be confronted with several blown up portraits of student leaders from the class of 2007. Below are (from left) former ESC Senior Class President Jarod Were, former CCSC Senior Class President David Chait (both recipients of the Leadership Legend Indelible Mark award), former ABC president Keith Hernandez (a Leadership Legend Bridge Builder winner) and former ESC President Dan Okin (another Indelible Marker). Stop by if you have a chance, it's quite a show. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
We know this is a cry for attention, so we're just going to get it over with.&nbsp; &nbsp; Other hip banner slogans include: "It's bigger than a bread box" "Of all the college papers in America, we're one of them." "Not part of the journalism school since 1877" "Independent since 1962. Cynical since way before that." "The savviest umbrella on campus." "The nation's second oldest newspaper. We think." "Daily. Independent. Tpyo free." "Where talking to strangers is strongly encouraged." 
 Free Culture at Columbia--the group that showed you how to hide from CUIT--is now handing out another 250 of its high-price-defying flash drives loaded with public domain versions of all the Lit Hum and CC texts.&nbsp; You're not going to miss this this one, 2011--thousands of dollars saved and a movement joined (although it's up to you whether or not to risk your teacher's ire for getting different translations). Get them Tuesday at 2:30 PM in Butler 203. Meanwhile, anyone been studying up for Lit Hum final? &nbsp; 
 The songs that play on a loop during move-in always seem to set the tone for the rest of the semester. So far, we've heard this sequence: "Caught Up" - Usher, which transitioned to "Rehab"- Amy Winehouse, which was abruptly and awkwardly stopped during the "class...shot glass" line and changed to something by Frank Sinatra. (Which is SO much better.) &nbsp; 
Better pack it in, kids. The fun ends next Tuesday. Monday, August 27th * On the Waterfront - Free Marlon Brando, free popcorn, free water. The Elevated Acre, 8pm (This was supposed to be last week, but they've moved it to this day. Get there early.) * The Rise and Flowering of Coney Island - Or, how the Terhune Brothers forever changed a little place we know as Coney Island. Meet the author. NYPL Mid-Manhattan, 6:30pm * Harlem Renaissance Orchestra - You won't have to go far for this performance. Morningside Park, 6pm * La India - The princess of salsa brings on the "salsaton," Damrosch Park Bandshell, 8pm Tuesday, August 28th&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * The Apartment -&nbsp;A man lends his apartment to his bosses so that the execs can meet their mistresses. Once again- free popcorn and free water with this free film. The Elevated Acre, 8pm (Get there early.) * Fame Junkies - "...the hidden truth behind America's favorite addiction". Meet the author. NYPL Mid-Manhattan, 6:30pm * Crazy Sexy Cancer Tips - How to look and feel better when you have a tumor. Barnes &amp; Noble at 82nd, 7pm Wednesday, August 29th * Crossing the Bridge (directed by Fatih Akin!); This is Bossa Nova (dir. Paulo Thiago)- These are rescheduled from July. And Akin comes highly recommended. Socrates Sculpture Park, sunset * 14th Annual Charlie Parker Festival Block Party - Hungry Marching Band, street fair, and fun all day hosted by the tribes. East 3rd St, between Ave C and D, 11am-9pm * States and Resemblances - This sounds pretty cool- shadow play, text, and dance in a field of dots. The Elevated Acre, 12:30pm Thursday, August 30th * Princess Bride - "My name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to hear me repeat this a billion times." Rescheduled from July. Lawn of the Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park section of Brooklyn Bridge Park. 6pm * TriHarLenium - "A Sound Portrait of Harlem from 1976-2006". Museum of City of New York, 7pm * Dan Levinson w/ Vince Giordano's Nighthawks – Free jazz with your lunch Saint Peter's Church, 12:30pm &nbsp; Friday, August 31st&nbsp; * Columbia Street Fair- Your&nbsp;yearly (monthly? semesterly?) dose of mozzarepas, $20 dresses and Led Zeppelin posters. Broadway, all day.&nbsp; * Richard Serra - If you haven't seen the exhibit yet, catch up with the films. MoMA, 5pm * Rock Star Karaoke - Karaoke with a live band- anything from AC/DC to Pixies to Neil Young. Ars Nova, 9pm, (free with ID) &nbsp; Saturday, September 1st * NYC Addiction 2007 - Froshies take note. Columbians love their bhangra. Get acquainted at this event. Avery Fisher Hall, 6:30pm (Get tickets at the website linked) * Stranger than Fiction- Will Ferrell's life is a novel in progress by Emma Thompson. Seriously trippy and fun location, btw. Sony Wonder Technology Lab, 2pm&nbsp; ~ * NY Korean Film Festival- 28 films all this week, including a free short film fest on Thursday. Click on the link for more info. (Caveat: other films are $10-11) * Rock and Roll Dueling Piano Show - If you missed it a few weeks ago, here it is again- more Karaoke to live music &nbsp;Ha! Comedy Club, 10pm (there is also a 3am show) Sunday, September 2nd * Outdoor Art Exhibit - Get some original art for your room. Washington Square Park, noon-6pm. (also on the 1st and 3rd) * 23rd Annual Brazilian Day Festival - The most delicious barbeque. 6th Ave between 42nd and 56th St, all day * Vintage DJ - Strange performers, offbeat music to dance to. South Street Seaport, 5pm ~ * Midsummer Night's Dream - The reviews are in. If you loved Romeo and Juliet, you'll love this. Delacorte Theater, 8pm. (Tickets go on sale at 1pm, so start waiting in line at 9am at the latest) As usual: *=free ~=all week Tip of the week - As the summer movie festivals wrap up, be sure to check out the NYC Noir Film Festival. It's $10.50 a movie. But for all that moral ambiguity and trenchcoats-- who can resist? 
 For all your hipster-spray-on-pants-events needs&nbsp; It's like an NSOP schedule book! But in Spec! And without the ClipArt! It's like an NSOP schedule book! But not mandatory! And even less fun! Staff pretends to be sheepish about giving advice, then gives advice, natch Actually, Bwog's kind of curious about "Tread Softly for You Tread on My Deams: The Baby Steps of Pre-Frosh" The opinion page editor decides the first years are terrible writers. Which is ironic. BONUS: A new blog! Now christened O-Splog. 
They've done it all before, so first-years listen up: Bwog brings you the testimony of seniors you may annoy soon. First up is Chas Carey, Editor in Chief of the Fed, College Rock co-director at WBAR, and Banqueteer in Honor of the King of Spain. What is the best way these freshman can annoy you (the upperclassmen)? Join a club just to improve your resume. You've got a lot of opportunities here to do things you actually want to do in your free time. Don't be miserable while kissing up because you want to say you "have experience with InDesign" or "participated in a local radio station" or whatever. Do&nbsp; something you enjoy - that'll actually reflect better on your overachieving ass in the long run, anyway. What was your best freshman moment? Doing KCST's outdoor "Hamlet," in which my bit part involved getting dirt&nbsp; flung at me. In the freezing rain. All three nights. I'd do it again in a heartbeat. Worst? Passing out on the subway only to "wake up" finishing a conversation I couldn't remember starting on a 1 train in the Bronx at 5 AM. What is something every freshman should do while at Columbia? Explore. Get out to all five boroughs (even... shudder... Staten Island). Keep trying to find new places you like. Do it early - you get jaded as you get settled and your radius of "places you're willing to head out to" will shrink right down to "whichever dive bar closest to Carman doesn't care about my crappy fake" if you don't build it up from the start. What three songs help to better understand Columbia? Fela Kuti - "Teacher Don't Teach Me Nonsense" Laurie Anderson - "Smoke Rings" Ian Dury &amp; The Blockheads - "Hit Me With Your Rhythm Stick" What is the best thing to eat at John Jay? trays mmmmmmmmmmmmmm. &nbsp; 
 Because Bwog knows you’re not really going to Tom’s with your OL group. (You know you don’t have to, right?) Here, several upperclassmen recall what they did on their first night of college. My best friend from high school arrived at NYU the day before and he had already made friends with Haley Joel Osment. I called my friend and met up with him, Haley, and Haley's entourage at a club in meatpacking where the 7 of us were given three bottles of vodka and an assortment of juices- all free. This was just after his DUI. --BC '10 I didn't have a computer that first night, so I was writing a letter by hand to a friend to tell her how college was going so far, when I looked out the window of my room in Wallach to see a bunch of freshmen from John Jay 5 staring back at me, motioning for me to come outside with them for a party on the lawn. I grabbed my suitemate and walked to the steps with our new friends. We were still wearing our pajamas. I thought "This is college -- wearing your pajamas outside." -- CC'09 I was bored, so I tried to go to Williamsburg, got lost and ended up at a Puerto Rican pizza joint on Southside where, assuming New York was incredibly foreign, I did all my ordering in high school Spanish and was mocked, although it was in a cheerful, friendly way. They thought I meant I was moving to Colombia. Either way it's hard to get home on the J train. -- CC'09 I showed up in New York with my family at around 8 AM, mind and body reeling from a red-eye spent frenetically trying to assimilate every last word of the Iliad into my soul (I got to book 10 or somewhere around there.) I spent the day in a zombie-like haze attending to a million little tasks needed to transplant my life from Seattle to Carman, bumming meals off of my parents, and clamoring for sheets in the bedlam of Bed, Bath &amp; Beyond. When it was all over, I had no greater desire than to collapse in bed and escape from reality, but then my roommate - an earring-wearing Asian dude - arrived all the way from Brooklyn and declared his irresistable desire to cohabit Carman 913A with a certain someone else, whom I discovered a few minutes later to be an obese Russian resembling the lovechild of Ignatius J. Reilly and Boris Yeltsin, reeking not of vodka but BO.&nbsp; Their demands were relentless.&nbsp; What could I do?&nbsp; These two were clearly meant to be together.&nbsp; So I made them haul my sheets, my clothes, my toiletries, the shower caddy that I'd just set up - all of my personal belongings were moved once again to Carman 1115B, where, exhausted from 40+ hours of stress, I dissolved into oblivion and awoke half a day later to the sweet sight of a lovely new roommate.&nbsp; It was the best night's sleep I'd have for weeks. -- CC'10 
 Bwog's resident concert expert Justin Goncalves answers all your questions about the best venues, where to go when you've had it up to here with indie rock, and that elusive Brooklynite Todd P. Do you like music? I like music. Do you know what the best thing about living in New York while someone else pays the rent? Spending all that extra cheese on concerts.&nbsp; Before I hook all you freshies up with the best places to go for concert listings and reviews, let me tell you all a little story. Just two years ago, I was in your shoes (red Converse high-tops, anyone?). Sure, I might’ve spent my first week at Columbia in a serious delirium, but, once playing beer-pong at Pike gets old (one time is enough, believe you me), you’ve gotta branch out. People really throw around this phrase too much, but, in all honesty, New York is the mecca for all things music. Whether you want to catch JT share the bill with Good Charlotte (which I did, and it was doooope), sing along to some great Hank Williams and Johnny Cash tunes with Alex Battles, or see Clipse melt your face off with their rhymes of fury, you can do it all. First semester, I spent all money and at least one night a week seeing a concert. One weekend, and I’m still not so sure why I thought this would be a good idea, I saw four consecutive nights of live music. And, to be honest, I can only remember seeing Animal Collective on Thursday and Ted Leo on Sunday. So, the most important advice I can give you is to pace yourself.&nbsp; Now I’ll answer your questions: “Where can I find the coolest, hippest concerts around?”&nbsp; Well, if you belong to this Facebook group (I think we all have to thank Lucy for that find), than you’ve probably got a pretty firm grasp on ohmyrockness’ listing system. While they specialize in straight-up indie rock, they take care of some of your hip-hop/metal/experimental concerns. Be careful, their band profiles/general taste in music blows. You’ve been warned.&nbsp; “What’s the best venue to see my favorite band play?”&nbsp; Assuming your favorite band isn’t the Rolling Stones, the Bowery Ballroom is always a good experience (except when they don’t let you in to see Sufjan Stevens because you’re one month shy of your eighteenth birthday and the show is 18+). I also really like the Knitting Factory. Both of these venues run on the smaller side (Bowery’s capacity is 600; the Knitting Factory is like seeing a show in your basement). The bigger venues are fine for what they are. &nbsp; “Who’s Todd P? I hear he’s this awesome indie God or something…”&nbsp; Todd P, aka Todd Patrick, is the supreme overlord for all things DIY in Brooklyn. His shows are cheap and all-ages. Every time I’ve gone, it’s like I’ve landed in some movie where everyone to wear horn-rims, v-necks, and ball-choking jeans, which is kinda cool, I guess.&nbsp; “But I don’t like indie rock, I listen to sophisticated Jazz.”&nbsp; All the better! I, personally, can’t afford to get into a lot of the jazz venues in Manhattan, but there are some good ones, depending on your taste. If you’re into more straight ahead jazz (bebop, hard bop, etc.), than the Village Vanguard is where you want to go. Their scheduling can be a bit eclectic, so make sure you either a) go with an open mind or b) check out the group pre-departure. If you’re not up for the trek, you might want to stop by Smoke. Last time I heard, they’re pretty strict with the 21+ policy (welcome to New York!). Catching two-hour sets at the Vanguard or Smoke will usually cost you around $30. And, last but not least, with Tonic’s recent closing, the Stone has become the unequivocal home for the avant-garde. With certified genius John Zorn serving as artistic director and $5 student admission, this long trek to the Lower East Side is certainly worth it. “What’s good with the on-campus music scene?”&nbsp; Funny you should ask. Miller Theatre is the place for new and early music – think Frank Zappa and Gregorian chants. WKCR&nbsp; and WBAR, the official Columbia and Barnard radio stations, respectively, do some things here and there. Word on the street is WBAR has got a pretty great line-up of shows for the fall semester. Like Miller Theatre, WKCR’s influence goes well beyond the campus. There’s also an NSOP concert in the fall and a Bachannal concert in the spring, both curated by Columbia Concerts. (Full disclosure: I work for both WKCR and Columbia Concerts.)&nbsp; That’s all I’ve got, kiddos. Another good place to look is Time Out New York. They’ve got the best listing of events (music and otherwise) in the city. I can answer your questions in the comments section too. 
 Bwog just got wind of a terrible bit of news: Our local Labyrinth branch will soon be called Book Culture due to a business dispute with its other incarnation in New Haven. A call to the store revealed that they plan to&nbsp;make the switch at the end of the week. Far be it from us to criticize branding methods, but Book Culture? Come on. 
 After the umpteenth hour of lawn manicuring and tent set-up, 2:30 today saw the culmination of parent-related move-in events, Convocation. There were flags, smiles, "Pomp and Circumstance"-lite music piped-in over the loudspeaker, and quasi-poignant speeches from admins all around. Flubs: Colombo called assembled matriculants "students and daughters," Quigley was interrupted by a crash from the third tent, Navratil sounded unrealistically eager when he mentioned Gateway, and PrezBo&nbsp;killed&nbsp;the mood when&nbsp;he&nbsp;mentioned the challenges of environmental destruction and cultural conflict. But no matter! The banners are unfurled, the skies are blue, and OL sessions are beginning. Huzzah, huzzah 
 It seems that the Department of Student Affairs in conjunction with NSOP is holding UNDER1Roof sessions throughout the week. The purpose of these sessions is to: " the important process of translating into action." Oh? "This session will provide the framework on how intergroup understanding and community building are achieved through continual engagement and education about the different social identities we all bring to campus." Community building? Is that like, satellite-campus-building? "One session is REQUIRED of all students." Et tu, NSOP? (Thanks to Zack Hoopes for the tip.) 
 In hopes of catching you before you make that final trip to Bed, Bath and Beyond (or before you trash the packaging and receipts), Bwog asks upperclassmen which items were the most useless? The most underused? That Dust-Buster you're going to use during downtime? The ironing board that totally fits between your bed and your desk? Perhaps they belong on this list, and not&nbsp;on Carman 6? Bed Risers Shower caddy (rusty and grotesque after a year's tour of duty in Carman) Drug paraphernalia John Updike novels Ethernet cord Columbia sweatshirt One of those hanging shelf sets for the closet (it broke under the weight of 15 sweaters I never wore) Under the bed drawers Lap desk Pleasure reading Digital camcorder with all the cables, tapes and programs necessary to edit video All of the books I brought for reading A crate of paper which was like, 5 500-sheet stacks A suit and tie Windex Raincoat Bathrobe Slippers Duster Volumes 1-5 of Frederick Copleston's History of Philosophy My CD collection A TV Pencils Pajamas Plastic knives George Foreman mini-grill A printer A lamp that clips onto the frame of my bed Colored pencils Borges' short story collection, Labyrinths A coffee mug Binder A trash can&nbsp; Flash drive (thank god for gmail) Those stain stick things that you're supposed to carry around and rub on your shirt. 
 After Barnard's Convocation, the OLs and RAs of BC led the 11s in a sing-a-long tribute to the musical stylings of Rihanna: "When the sun shines we'll shine together We will love Barnard forever Columbia will always be our friend Our partnership will go on till the end 2011 is better than ever All the classes will stand together You can stand under our umbrella You can stand under our umbrella" &nbsp; ...ella, ella, ella, eh, eh! 
 In which Bwogger Armin Rosen shows first-years how to break out of Morningside without breaking the bank. New York’s expensive, but the cheap bastards among you are in luck. Yes, New York’s notorious cigarette taxes mean that smokers will have to do a little pinching—or, better still, quit smoking altogether. And although $6.50 might seem a little steep for a sandwich, the tenth punch of a Ham Del Gold Card and its attendant free hero drops the price to a slightly more reasonable $5.90 something. Even then, it’s possible to subsist off of club pizza, the Wednesday night vegetarian potluck, various Hillel events, and post-conference wine and cheese receptions (IAB 15 is a goldmine, by the way…). But what if subsistence just isn’t enough for you? As freshmen will soon discover, a night away from campus does wonders for your mental health. And luckily, New York is one city where parsimony needn’t keep you in. What follows are a few suggestions for how to have a good time even if you're not dropping Franklins. Take in some culture: Whether you have a favorite Rossini tenor or are just grubbing for cultural capital, there’s little classier than a night at the opera. With new Metropolitan Opera general manager Peter Gelb ongoing campaign to broaden his company’s appeal, there’s also little in New York that’s cheaper: the lower-level standing room is an affordable $20, while the stratospheric Family Circle is only $15 on weeknights. And speaking of Rossini, this blogger highly recommends checking out the Met’s revival of last year’s brilliant new production of Barber of Seville. High5tix.org doesn’t offer a huge variety of $5 theatre tickets, but it can surprise from time to time (it once got me into the Blue Man Group for free). If you’re of open mind and shallow pocket, you should also check out some Off-off Broadway—PS 122 and The Brick are excellent, sub-$20-a-show venues, although anything off-off is bound to at least be, umm, interesting. And as the back page of just about every Playbill in town will probably remind you, acoustically-perfect Carnegie Hall has $10 student rush tickets. Go to a concert: While even the beloved Knitting Factory can ask an exorbitant $15-20 for a main-space show, a glut of cheap and mind-expanding venues has sprung up in its place. For $5, John Zorn’s experimental jazz club The Stone will school you in music the likes of which you probably didn’t know existed. For less than that, Luna Lounge, Union Hall, Arlene’s Grocery, Glasslands and literally dozens of other places will clue you into New York’s vast independent rock scene. But by far the best cheap venue is Harlem’s St. Nick’s Pub. Quality downtown jazz rooms like Smalls have turned into swingers’ clubs for the yuppified West Village set, but&nbsp;the small and usually-packed St. Nick’s gives a damn about the music—and has a ludicrously low (and seldom-enforced) $3 cover charge. The Saturday night Afro-jazz jam, which usually concludes at around 3 or 4 in the morning, is highly recommended. Ride the Staten Island ferry: When this blogger graduates sometime in the middle of the next decade, he fears that this turd-shaped isle, which was gerrymandered into New York City for reasons unknown, will be the only affordable place left in the city. Yet aside from offering a horrifying glimpse of the future, the cheapest date in New York promises impressive views of the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island and the lower Manhattan skyline, as well as access to Staten’s myriad attractions. The Yankees! Fresh Kills! The Ship graveyard! Why Staten Island is an undiscovered gem—although this blogger won’t blame you if you take your boy/girlfriend/bottle of Georgi and drag yourself back to Manhattan. 
&nbsp; The men on ladders in front of Pinkberry are working hard to bring us our frozen treats! Hurrah! UPDATE, 3:15 PM EST: And so is the new Nachos, in the form of a smoothie shop! (Taken from the window of the erstwhile watering hole) 
 In which ex-freshman Parker Fishel imparts his first-year dorm wisdom. Carman &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There is a magnetism about Carman that tends to polarize its residents. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There are some that are fiercely loyal to the residence hall, almost to the point of confrontational. They will hear nothing of the overflowing trash bins and it’s resulting stench, nor the overpowering debauched bacchanalia of the place. To them, this is just the ambiance and you couldn’t get a better I’m in New York City! Freshman Year! No Parents! Let’s Party! vibe anywhere else in the city (well, okay, probably at NYU, but those damn hipsters would never admit it). &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The other sect of Carman’s residents begin to reveal themselves progressively throughout the year, though never to fellow Carman-ites who would take the slightest hint of negativity as high treason. These are the kids who find the whole scene kind of, well, grotesque. You’ll find them nesting in Butler, Lerner, anywhere that isn’t Carman and when you ask them where they live they say “Carman” with reluctance.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But hey, to each their own. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would, however, like to leave you with my favorite Carman anecdote. One Tuesday night, I was going up to a friend’s on the 6th floor to borrow an air mattress. In the elevator was a girl who looked a little weirded out; I soon found out why. On the floor of the elevator was a piece of toilet paper with smeared excrement on it (to put it nicely). I can’t say whether this in particular was a common occurrence, but I can say that it was gross. Needless to say, I took the stairs back down.&nbsp;&nbsp; Furnald &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Furnald is a bit of a mystery. The first years who live there are typically really nice, but they rarely talk about life in their dorm, leaving its true inner-workings to the imagination. Perhaps it is Furnald where the prodigious X-rated sex romps and nude parties oft cited by everyone’s favorite Conservative pundit Ann Coulter take place. I don’t know; I’ve only been in Furnald twice. However, this certainly wouldn’t be the first time Coulter has known something I haven’t. &nbsp; &nbsp; John Jay &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Oh John Jay! Home of the most beautiful dining hall in the Ivy League, Health Services (which must have a Halliburton-esque relationship with the prophylactic and lollipop industries) and many floors of happy first-years. It was also home to what was the Freshman Oval Office, site of the Class of 2010’s biggest scandal, a convoluted tale of racism, with some death threats thrown in for good measure. It was a sordid affair, but fortunately, the case was a rarity at Columbia. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;John Jay has arguably the best dynamic of the first year dorms. There is a time for work and a time for play, with everyone showing respect for each other in terms of balancing the two. Other than the aforementioned incident, John Jay was relatively tame. Sure, there were stories of people getting drunk and pissing on their RA’s doors, fans being set up in the hallway to disseminate the smell of smoke and people breaking elevators, but it’s all good college fun in the spirit of class camaraderie. “Floories,” a phenomenon living embodiment of that bond, are most prevalent in the Jay. Floories are a close-knit group who adhere to the we-should-be-friends-because-we-live-on-the-same-hall aesthetic. This arrangement is most common in the beginning of the year, but begins to splinter once people come to the epiphany that just because I like movies and you like movies doesn’t mean we have to be best friends.&nbsp; &nbsp; The LLC&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If your idea of excitement is a fire drill and your idea of gossip is that you saw two people in the shower together, you’ve come to the right place. The Living Learning Center, composed of Hartley and Wallach, is a timid, peaceful place. With less distraction and more seclusion, focusing on academics and extracurricular becomes easier. Yet, this fragmentation from the rest of first years can prove troublesome in terms of initially meeting people. Despite aims of fostering ties between students of all years, most LLC-ers are a quiet bunch that tends to stay to themselves, though this certainly is not the rule. The strict no drug/alcohol policy tends to put a damper on weekend activities, but can also serve as a source of relief to some. While not the most stimulating place, having lived there myself I can say it is a great, if not enjoyable, place to live, though when you tell people where you live, get used to a snide reply of, “How do you like it?” &nbsp; 
 A multi-part presentation of the laws of finding and receiving free food. Given by God himself to Bwogger Christopher Morris-Lent. Today, commandments 1-3. 1. THOU SHALT WANDER CAMPUS AIMLESSLY&nbsp; In those first few awkward weeks at college after you've severed the umbilicus connecting yourself to your parents but you have yet to carve a niche out for yourself in your new milieu, you might find yourself taking strolls around campus in the early evening, wondering what the point of it all is.&nbsp; At least this is what I did, because I was socially inept and slow to make new friends.&nbsp; These Kerouacesque mimi-odysseys of self-discovery ended up being good things, though, because in addition to finding existential solace, I also stumbled upon some free food.&nbsp; Free food is a prominent fixture of the Columbia experience.&nbsp; It is as ubiquitous as it is transitory.&nbsp; And if you find it, it is yours for the taking.&nbsp; Munching on some cornbread on the way back from the Amsterdam bridge one fair September afternoon, I said to myself: "Things are not so bad here.&nbsp; They will get better.&nbsp; Fortuna is spinning my wheel upwards."&nbsp; And surely enough, she was.&nbsp; 2. THOU SHALT STALK YOUR PEERS&nbsp; Many of your fellow freshman will be wandering campus in the same lackadaisical and directionless way as you.&nbsp; Ignore them: they are either lost in their own existential quandaries or completely brain-dead.&nbsp; Only when you spot one of your "friends" from orientation walking with a sense of purpose should you follow them, as they may have discovered a free food treasure trove.&nbsp; Bonus points if your stalkee is an orientation hookup; extra bonus points if bases were rounded within the friendly confines of a frat house; still more bonus points if he or she discovers you, slaps you across the face, and runs away, and you still succeed in following them to the promised land and scoring a bagel with cream cheese or two, if not milk and honey.&nbsp; 3. THOUGH SHALT MASQUERADE AS A MEMBER OF &nbsp; Invariably some of the free food events will be nominally closed to certain groups.&nbsp; Such blatant examples of this gastronomical discrimination include but are not limited to "Sophomore BBQ on the Amsterdam Bridge," "Engineers' Meet and Greet on the Terrace," etc.&nbsp; The keyword here (all the way back in the first sentence) is nominally.&nbsp; Showing up and asking for food has had in my experience a roughly 90% success rate.&nbsp; In the rare event that you are hassled and asked to prove your identity by some stingy scalawag, questioning his motives and/or playing the race card (it's because I'm a GENTILE, isn't it!!!) will inevitably break down his resistance and leave you waddling back to your dorm a few minutes later and a few Dinosaur BBQ briskets heavier. 
 Westside Market! Your adorable Powerpoint presentation that's playing on loop above the salad station has left Bwog smitten. You don't need to convince us of your charms, that fresh fruit bar is enough. Kisses Forever, Bwog&nbsp; 
Bwog overheard some OLs on the uptown 1 headed back from the Met excursion and decided to inquire about NSOP's first big event. Bwog: Were you guys just at the Met? Girl OL: Yeah! We left early. Boy: I'm not even an OL! Or a freshman! Girl: He's just my friend! Bwog: So was it fun? Were there a lot of people there? Girl: There were a lot of people there. The whole first floor of the Met was crowded. Bwog: Did anything exciting happen? Girl: We got Gummi Bears. Boy: And these water bottles. I wasn't supposed to get one. But I did. 
Also, why are there police surrounding International Wine and Liquors? If first-years can't buy alcohol safely, they might just actually end up at NSOP events... Touche for now, NSOP. &nbsp; 
 The co-founder of Labyrinth Books (and proprietor of Book Culture!) just issued this statement: To all members of our community, Having negotiated our independence and dissolved the partnership that founded Labyrinth Books on 112th St, we have changed our name to Book Culture. The outward indications of this change will appear one by one in an effort to make a gradual transition. I and all the staff here are extremely proud and happy to be 100% local and 100% independent. Our commitment to being a great academic bookstore is still paramount to our mission. We’re going to try even harder to be the most interesting, complete and valuable bookstore possible, while trying to be more of a neighborhood store as well, carrying more magazines, mass market titles, and travel guides; generally becoming a more attractive and comfortable place to browse and visit. If you haven’t been by in a while, do come in for a visit. And please feel free to spread the word about our newfound identity and independence. Your memberships will still be honored and that program will continue to be in effect. All gift cards and credits will also remain valid. Our staff, phone numbers, address, management and owner remain the same. We do, however, have a new website, <!-- D( ); //--> www.bookculture.com, as well as new email addresses. With our own website we’ll be able to apply your purchases to membership rewards. Most importantly, the customer service and everything associated with the website will be provided by us, here at this location. So much has changed in the 22 years I’ve been selling books in this neighborhood, in bookselling, in America, in all of us as we change as people and as a community. One change that’s relevant to us is the disappearance of local and small businesses, particularly bookstores. More than ever, stores like ours and the relationship that we have with each of you deserve support. Independent bookselling is essential for a healthy, developing, progressive community and of course Independent bookstores are essential to literature, writing and scholarship, which make you essential to us. I am open to any feedback, questions or suggestions and can be reached directly at 212-865-1581 or emailed at chris@bookculture.com. -Some historical notes and more on why we have to make this change. My partner and I began working together in the early 80’s at BookForum which was in the space next to Ollie’s on Broadway. We became junior partners there and eventually left to found our own company in the mid 90’s. That company, Great Jones Books, was founded to buy and sell academic remainders with a vision of opening our own store back in the Columbia Neighborhood. Jonathan Cole, Columbia’s Provost at that time, shared our interest in having a great bookstore at Columbia and with the written and vocal support of many, including in particular Edward Said who lived around the corner from the shop my partner and I ran, a space was finally offered to us in 1996. The post office was being moved from its space on Amsterdam for the new building and the new location seemed to have enough space upstairs to offer a great bookstore. Ten years later, and we are still here. <!-- D( ); //--> The partnership had run its course long ago however. For my part I had tried to find a path to independence for many years. After a time of disagreements we were able finally to agree on one more thing, that it was time to split up. Giving up the name was part of the cost. My former partners continue to operate a store in New Haven called Labyrinth Books and a catalog and the website that also use that name. This store, Book Culture, is in no way related to any of those businesses any longer. I and all the staff here at Book Culture are at your service. Please don’t hesitate to contact us with your input. Chris Doeblin. 
 People who know about these things most likely already know this, but for those who don't follow obscure music blogs: Saturday's Concert (2:00 PM, Low plaza) will be headlined by none other than Clipse, just back from a European tour and off the next day to the west coast. Not Kanye--or even Ghostface--but really, who is?&nbsp; P.S. (update 11:05 AM): Opening for Clipse will be Columbia grads Vampire Weekend, those up-and-comers who've been getting press all over the place (even though we got to 'em first). 
 Bwog's very own Frank Bruni, Michael Snyder, dishes (see what I did there?) about Morningside Height's buffet (and here?) of restaurants and markets. Tom's The famous Seinfeld spot is "the quintessential diner," replete with "mediocre food" unfriendly service, and plastic-upholstered banquettes. &nbsp;Steer clear of the "questionable breakfast foods" and go straight for the milkshakes. &nbsp;Hint: Tom's is home to "every Columbia student's favorite secret menu item." Don't worry. It never stays secret long. Deluxe The "go-to place" for a "great brunch" and the "best burgers on Broadway" also makes "a mean steak sandwich" and "the best cobb salad around" in a bowl the size of your kitchen sink. &nbsp;For comfort food, try mac and cheese that "puts John Jay to shame." Milano "A Columbia student's best friend," this gourmet food market is "a second home" for "Columbians without meal plans" and anyone sick of fried grease at Campus eateries. &nbsp;The "salads with endless toppings for only $8" are the best healthy steal around, and the made-to-order sandwiches are "anything and everything you've ever wanted in a sandwich." Le Monde Another "good brunch" choice with "great open-air seating," Le Monde is about as close as you can get to real French food in Morningside. Too bad dinner is "over-priced and underwhelming." &nbsp;"Addictive fries, delicious omelets, and decent pastries" make Le Monde a good mid-morning or "post-dinner" stop, especially if you want a more "refined setting" than you'll find at most Morningside joints. Roti Roll A "perfect 24-hour" spot for the drunken walk back from 1020. &nbsp;The brief menu of dosas ensures that whatever you mumble in your "drunken stupor" won't be met with any big surprises. (Don't try this at Taqueria) Mill Korean It's "the only place for Korean in Morningside" so expect passable bibim bab and other favorites. &nbsp;You might not be "blown away" but if it's a "kim chi fix" you're after, this may be "your only shot within walking distance." Nussbaum &amp; Wu The "black awning with the funny name" marks the spot for &nbsp;"the best bagels in Morningside," or "the only bagels in Morningside" outside the cafeterias and the "equally greasy Pinnacle." Come here for your "lox spread on a pumpernickel bagel" or any other "pseudo-gourmet bagel combination." &nbsp;Though Nussbaum also sells "salads, sandwiches, quiche, etc," for anything other than bagels you'd better "stick to Milano across the street." Ollie's "Columbia Cottage isn't that far away." Swish For "acceptable pan-Asian fare" come to Swish. &nbsp;"Less greasy than your average Chinese place" Swish was, until recently, "the only place for Pad Thai between 110th and 125th streets." &nbsp;Chances are "you'll end up here more often than you might like." The food might be "pretty innocuous," but you could do a whole lot worse than "the $8 lunch-box special." Starbucks "No surprises here. &nbsp;Just your typical Starbucks." &nbsp;For espresso drinks, the Morningside outpost of the "ubiquitous coffee house" between 114th and 115th streets is a fine choice. &nbsp;For coffee beans, teas, and more, "just go to Oren's." Oren's "A lack of comfortable seating" hampers this branch of "the local coffee chain," but Oren's still "roasts the best coffee around." You'll find a "broad variety of roasts and loose teas," some of which are vertically integrated "from the plantation to your coffee maker." Whether you're a "do-gooder, organic, fair trade type," or just an "average cup o' Joe drinker," Oren's is the place for you. Barnard Cafeteria You'll probably agree that Barnard's cafeteria is "so much better than John Jay" for a time. &nbsp;Then you'll realize that's it's really only "less bad." &nbsp;For a slice of "decent pizza" or some "legitimate vegetarian options," this is the place (at least if you're on a meal plan.) &nbsp;By mid-year, you'll be "sick of the food, the walk, and the mean staff," and Milano will seem more attractive every day. JJs "Try to resist." &nbsp;You won't be able to, but it's worth a shot. &nbsp;If you regularly crave "fried bar-foods, Pepperidge Farm, and cereal," JJ's Place will be your "second home" on weeknights. &nbsp;But beware: "this is where they invented the term 'Freshman 15.' " John Jay For anything other than "the satisfying daily brunch," John Jay is best avoided. &nbsp;Dinner here, though "inevitable," consists primarily of "all your requisite food groups" miraculously imbued with "everyone's favorite flavor: grease!" &nbsp;For a mid-morning breakfast craving, though, "John Jay has the best waffles and omelets your meal-plan can buy." Ferris Booth Like every other campus place, Ferris Booth will seem "a whole lot better than John Jay" for a while. &nbsp;Then one night you'll be eating "your fifth bowl of fried rice in a week" and you'll realize it is—like everything else at Ferris Booth—"cold, salty, and boring." But then again, "salt's better than grease. &nbsp;Isn't it?" Max SoHa Considered by many to be "the best restaurant in Morningside," Max SoHa is a charming neighborhood Italian. &nbsp;The "cute, candlelit room" is the perfect setting for "fantastic &nbsp;homestyle Italian" at "reasonable prices—especially the pastas." &nbsp;The handful of tiny tables fill up fast, and the no reservations policy can make it "difficult to snag a seat." Kitchenette "Better than Deluxe and John Jay," Kithcnette is home to "the most decadent brunch around." &nbsp;Country style "eggs, waffles, pancakes, and anything else you could ask for" are made on the "cutesy, tea-party-ish" premises. &nbsp;Prepare for a wait, though, because, true to it's name, Kitchenette's dainty proportions make one of the much-coveted weekend brunch seats a hot commodity. Max Café The cutest coffee shop that "no one goes to," this small spinoff of Max SoHa up the block serves "decent coffee, drinks, and dessert" in a "romantically lit room with low sofas and tables." &nbsp;In other words, this is "exactly the place you'd want for a relaxed cup of mid-week evening coffee." &nbsp;If only you had time for a mid-week evening coffee on 122nd Street. &nbsp;Oh, well. &nbsp;Maybe next year. Sezz Medi "That other Italian place" on Amsterdam is "the only real competition for Max SoHa." &nbsp;Larger than it's up-the-street neighbor, Sezz Medi specializes in "great brick-oven pizzas" and over-priced—though delicious—salads. &nbsp;For many Morningside restaurant rovers, "this is the place to go." (If you can't get into Max SoHa, that is.) Massawa "The Ethiopian place that isn't Awash" also isn't as good. If it's injera you're after, take the walk to 107th Street. Awash Perhaps "the most exotic food in the neighborhood," Awash is also your best bet for the kind of Ethiopian food your grandmother used to cook back in Scarsdale. &nbsp;Rolls of "marvelously spongy injera" and "carefully spiced meats and vegetables" more than compensate for the "strange, cheesy décor." &nbsp;Though "prices seem a bit high" at first glance, keep in mind that "one entrée is enough for two people." &nbsp;Only "go with your cleanest friends" because you'll be eating exclusively with your hands. Hungarian Pastry Shop The best place for "reading and endless coffee," the Hungarian is a mecca for "earnest intellectuals of all stripes." &nbsp;Thankfully, the "coffee refills are free," the ambience is "cozy" and you will never be asked to leave. &nbsp;So sit back, relax, and "enjoy your Kant and coffee." Columbia Cottage Good-bad Chinese food anyone? &nbsp;This is the place for your "everyday, gooey, sloppy Chinese food." &nbsp;Stick to the most basic menu items—"think sesame chicken and lo mein"—and you won't be disappointed. &nbsp;And did I mention the "free half-carafe of terrible boxed wine with every entrée"? &nbsp;Come hungry. &nbsp;Leave drunk. &nbsp;The makings of a perfect night. Koronet's 14-inch slices of pizza are a dream for "anyone who's ever had the drunk munchies." &nbsp;The pizza may be "greasy," but "the price can't be beat." &nbsp;A staple of "many a drunken 1020 walk," Koronet's is open 24/7 to suit "your every inebriated need." Tasti-D The first thing to know about Tasti-D is that "it's not really ice cream." &nbsp;"Don't expect Ben &amp; Jerry's" from the low-cal, no-fat frozen treat; do expect "convenience and economy." &nbsp;The Lerner locale couldn't be more central and they accept dining dollars. &nbsp;"You'll learn to love the chemicals" with every swipe of your ID. M2M "Your South Korean roommate will always have an M2M bag" full of fun and occasionally "frightening" snacks from this pan-Asian market. &nbsp;No worries—for the less adventurous palate, M2M is "your best bet for a quick burger." Artopolis It's a Greek bakery! &nbsp;It's a creperie! &nbsp;It's a gelateria! &nbsp;No, it's Artopolis! &nbsp;"All your prayers are answered" at this fresh-faced Amsterdam café. &nbsp;"Crepes, gelato, and baklava in one place—it's a dream come true" for anyone craving that elusive taste "Mediterranean relaxation" here in Morningside. Lion's Head "Wings. &nbsp;Beers. &nbsp;It's that kind of place." &nbsp;But what it does, it does well. &nbsp;"Take a break from the crowds at 1020 and the Heights" for a drink and some bar bites. &nbsp;When you wake up the next morning with neither a headache nor a dull ringing in your ears, you'll be glad you did. Taqueria "Open your mouth and shut your eyes and you'll be in for a big surprise" at Taqueria y Fonda la Mexicana, where "three dollars and a sense of adventure" will get you a long way. &nbsp;Tacos in "exotic flavors" (think tongue, ear, tripe) are surprisingly delicious and "well worth the risk." &nbsp;After all, "three bucks isn't much to pay for bragging rights to having eaten ear." The Heights At this "Broadway mainstay" happy hour is the best time, when "$4 can buy you a margarita or a pint of beer." &nbsp;Weekday afternoons are "reasonably quiet" compared to the "crazy weekend nights." &nbsp;The bar food is "little more than passable" no matter what anyone tells you, but the nachos are pretty decent and "after three margaritas at 5 o'clock, who really cares anyway?" Pinnacle Yes, it is 24-hour. &nbsp;Otherwise, "why bother?" &nbsp;Other than the "okay white pizza," Pinnacles "does nothing that other places don't do better." Morton Williams Once the only 24-hour grocery in close proximity, Morton Williams is still "cramped with a terrible selection." &nbsp;Good for "a late night beer run and a stick of deodorant." &nbsp;For anything else, go to 110th street. WestSide Market "Heaven on earth" for any Morningside cook, West Side Market is "everything Morton Williams is not and so much more!" &nbsp;Everything you could want in a grocery store, and "it sure beats the walk to Fairway."
 A couple days ago, Miss Teen South Carolina was asked why she thought 1/5 of Americans couldn't locate the United States on a map. Her answer? Um... So this afternoon, Bwog hit (newly-renovated!) College Walk and asked a sampling of Columbia students the same question. Bwog: So why do you think 1/5 of all Americans can't find the US on a map? Adebisi: Is that true? Public education is crap. The government wants it to remain that way. Bwog: So why do you think 1/5 of all Americans can't find the US on a map? Nelson: Let me think. I don't want to sound like that stupid South Carolina whatever. More illuminating interviews after the jump... Bwog: So why do you think 1/5 of all Americans can't find the US on a map? Lee (left): (laughs) Oh the South Carolina question. (Adopts high-pitched voice) Oh, um, like South Africa they don't have maps, (pause). More maps! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Bwog: So why do you think 1/5 of all Americans can't find the US on a map? Cliff: I would say because geography is not a requirement in schools anymore. Jeff: I honestly don't know. Cliff: Global warming? El Nino? Amanda: Because the US is all the think about. The US is all that matters, not its relation to anything else. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Bwog: So why do you think 1/5 of Americans can't locate the US on a map? Aleeza: I don't know, I'm Canadian. Kristin: That's shocking. Not taught properly, I guess. Aleeza: We Canadians all know how to find the States. I guess it's a neighbor thing. &nbsp; Bwog: So why do you think 1/5 of all Americans can't locate the US on a map? Thai (left): Most Americans are used to seeing Mercator maps which distort the poles. 
 From an email sent to members of the sophomore class from one Cynthia Jennings: "Hello -- this is a reminder that for tonight's Ellis Island event that you must wear your NSOP badge and bring your CUID. If you do not have these, you will be turned away at the security checkpoint before getting onto the ferries. &nbsp;If you need to have your badge replace please go to the NSOP office (505 Lerner) before 5 pm today. Replacement badges are $5.00. Hope to see all of you tonight!" Will it count if Bwog digs up its NSOP badge from last year? We want to get wasted at the spot our ancestors entered America. Thanks for the heads-up, Cynth! &nbsp; 
This afternoon, an enterprising Bwog reporter attempted to observe a session of Under1Roof, the program designed to teach freshmen how to “create an inclusive community” at Columbia.&nbsp; &nbsp; Upon asking the program director (an assistant dean from the Office of Multicultural Affairs) if it was alright to sit in on a session, our correspondent was told that the program was already over-filled with participants, and that having a non-participating reporter in the room would violate the students’ “safe space.”&nbsp; Bwog was told that a make-up session of Under1Roof will be held in late September, and that we are welcome to come then. 
 As Rush Hour 3 and Stardust and the like trudge turgidly out of theaters, autumn brings a breath of fresh air. Fresh, Oscar-baity air. Bwog cineastes Daniel D'Addario, Jamie Johns, and Christian Kamongi are here to help you say yes to Coens, Cronenberg, and Clayton, and no to Alvin and the Chipmunks. September The Brave One (September 14): When I first heard about The Brave One, I assumed it was a sequel to The Accused, Jodie Foster’s first film about a rape victim out for revenge. If Jodie Foster and Neil Jordan want to actually redeem their careers after the duds that were Flightplan and pretty much everything Neil Jordan has directed since The Crying Game, it’s going to have to be a lot more than that. I’m hoping that it actually is a provocative look at one woman’s struggle to overcome the shock of sexual assault through violence, as the trailers have been telling me it will be. -Jamie Johns Eastern Promises (September 14): David Cronenberg has been described as North America's foremost narrative filmmaker and if his newest feature is even half as explosive and revelatory as his previous masterpiece, A History of Violence, then it’s a must-see. The sense of uncontrollable doom and macabre textures that characterized A History of Violence (and Cronenberg’s whole ingenious oeuvre) seem to be at play in this thriller starring Naomi Watts as a nurse who may be unknowingly digging her own grave as she dares to unravel the mystery of a young woman’s murder. Oh, and did I mention that Armin Mueller-Stahl, Vincent Cassel, and Viggo Mortensen play members of the Russian mob, casting decisions that may be enough to ensure expectations of pure terror. -Christian Kamongi Across the Universe (September 14): First, let me state, this does NOT actually look like a good movie.&nbsp; But as someone who spent 11 dollars and two hours of my time watching (and loving) the car crash (har har har) that was I Know Who Killed Me, I want to know what its competition is for worst film of the year. This one is definitely a contender because instead of amputee strippers and stigmatic twins it features Beatles sing alongs set to those crazy messed up late 60’s and Evan Rachel Wood in a lead role…not having sex with Marilyn Manson, which, let’s face it, is the only interesting thing she has been doing lately. Also, it’s been the center of a huge battle between director Julie Taymor, who has been trying to remove her name from the film, and the studio. I just hope the Magic Johnson theater shows this one. -J.J. Lust, Caution (September 28): Ang Lee is arguably the finest commercial filmmaker, and his newest picture jets him off to wartime Shanghai in a spellbinding cat-and-mouse thriller staring Joan Chen, newcomer Wei Tang, and in my personal opinion the foremost male actor on the planet, Tony Leung. The recent controversy surrounding its supposed NC-17 rating (and the even more controversial fact that Focus Features refused to fight the rating) seems to have already negated film critic Keith Uhlich’s absurd remark that Lee is the “pan-cultural Ron Howard without an honest bone in his body." Expect a steamy one. -C.K. The Kingdom (September 28): Jarhead redux, with Sydney Bristow and Michael Bluth along for the ride. This looks less heavy-handed than Paul "Subtlety's for Suckers" Haggis's In the Valley of Elah and less all-over-the-place than Rendition, so maybe it's worth a shot. If Ang Lee's latest isn't at Lincoln Plaza, maybe I'll walk across the street to AMC Lincoln Square and see Iraq through Jason Bateman's point of view. -Daniel D'Addario October Michael Clayton (October 5): One of the few bright spots at the multiplex in the month of October (I'm not thrilled about Elizabeth becoming a franchise... and Saw is back for round four), this film seems to feature the best of both sides of Clooney. He's using his considerable movie-star charisma in a serious, intelligent (for Hollywood) project, with an impeccable cast. I'm also excited to see if Sydney Pollack, as Clooney's boss at a major New York law firm, can summon the quiet evil he embodied in Eyes Wide Shut. -D.D. Margot at the Wedding (October 19): At this point, it seems more or less official that Nicole Kidman has ceded "the next Meryl Streep" title to Cate Blanchett. But with this project and The Golden Compass coming this fall and Baz Luhrmann's Australia next year, David Thomson's favorite actress is putting up a good fight. I can't wait to see what Noah Baumbach gets out of Kidman, who usually steers clear of character-driven independent films. Perhaps her performance as a quiet, depressed woman living in the shadow of her sister will reach the same heights as Laura Linney in The Squid and the Whale or, dare we hope, Kidman's own Grace in Dogville. -D.D. November American Gangster (November 2): Probably the best film trailer I've seen since that for The Departed. This film's Denzel Washington-Russell Crowe pairing seems to have an acting matchup as great as the DiCaprio-Damon faceoff in Scorsese's film, and it'll be nice to take Russell Crowe seriously again. But the most exciting part of the trailer was the 1970s aesthetic - it looked like Harlem thirty years ago, from the suits to the cars to the club where Denzel flaunts his wealth. May the new age of mob neo-noir never end. -D.D. Lions for Lambs (November 9): I was more excited for this movie when it seemed to be a tight political drama about the media and the rush to war starring Robert Redford, Meryl Streep and Tom Cruise. Now that it’s turned into a story about two smart college kids signing up for the army and going to war, I’m less interested. However, Tom Cruise playing a grade-A douchebag in any movie is always entertaining and makes me forget about you know, all of that other douchey stuff that he does in real life. Also, check out that shot of Columbia’s campus in the trailer! -J.J. No Country for Old Men (November 9): The Coen brothers return with a special treat: one of the crime dramas that helped build their name. This one is a Western, casting into relief the way that the Coens have played with genre conventions from Blood Simple to The Man Who Wasn't There. This film's graphic violence (based on the great Cormac McCarthy novel) promise to bring it a bit closer to the former. Are audiences ready for the most dastardly villain the Coens - or any directors - have brought to the screen this decade? -D.D. Southland Tales (November 9): A musical written and directed by Richard E. Kelly, the man who brought dorm rooms their Donnie Darko posters. This one stars Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson as an action star with amnesia, Sarah Michelle Gellar as a reformed porn star, Justin Timberlake as a singing and dancing handicapped Iraq veteran and Seann William Scott pulling a Lindsay Lohan by playing twins. I think this movie is about metaphysics and nuclear war? Little is known about this movie and its quality since Kelly did major cuts after the film was universally panned at Cannes. It could either be in the worst film of the year running with Across the Universe and I Know Who Killed Me, or it could actually be, perish the thought, good. -J.J. I'm Not There (November 21): Todd Haynes models his much-anticipated biographical study of Bob Dylan somewhat structurally as a poetic multi-protagonist narrative with six actors representing Dylan at different eras in his career. The Dylan incarnations consist of Cate Blanchett, Christian Bale, Richard Gere, Heath Ledger, Ben Whitshaw, and newcomer Marcus Carl Franklin. The to-die for cast doesn’t quite stop there with performances from Charlotte Gainsbourg, Julianne Moore, Michelle Williams, David Cross (as Alan Ginsberg!), and Bruce Greenwood. The film also re-teams Haynes with Edward Lachman as cinematographer, which means that the film will be in no short supply of Haynes’s characteristic visual eloquence. -C.K. Berlin Alexanderplatz (DVD, November): For any of you who missed out on MoMA's glorious run of Rainer Werner Fassbinder’s 15 1/2 hour masterwork, this is the Criterion Collection offering you a chance to delight yourself in exuberant chromatics and one of the finest repertory company of actors ever afforded to a director. Various legends of the Fassbinder cult are here from baby-face Hanna Schugylla to Barbara Sukowa to an incredibly fragile, brutal, yet empathetic Gunter Lamprecht. Whatever the controversy between Juliane Lorenz and Ingrid Caven at the Fassbinder Foundation may be, it isn’t reflected in this stunning restoration. Claims that the new print is not true to Fassbinder’s intentions fail to recognize that the film's cinematographer (and close Fassbinder compatriot) Xavier Schwarzenberger personally overlooked the restoration. -C.K. Kill Bill: The Whole Bloody Affair (DVD, November 6): Were any of you rather disappointed with the supplementary materials offered on the two DVDs of Quentin Tarantino’s epic? Well, luckily for us, this uncompromising practice in the aesthetics of violence will be properly provided with a four-DVD box set that will consist of both volumes as they were originally intended (a.k.a as one sweeping edition). The fact that the new rating is NC-17 leads me to believe that the Showdown at the House of Blue Leaves will be presented in its original gloriously bloody palette. -C.K. December Atonement (December 7): The smart-money early pick for the Best Picture Oscar, Atonement reunites Keira Knightley with her Pride &amp; Prejudice director Joe Wright. While Keira Knightley never transcended pleasant bemusement or cutesy rage in the Austen film, perhaps an Ian McEwan novel will pull greatness out of her. Or perhaps we should be watching Romola Garai, a young Brit on the brink of stardom, in the pivotal role. Could be middlebrow "prestige" schlock a la Vanity Fair, but I hope it'll be something more. -D.D. The Walker (December 7): Paul Schrader’s films of outsiders stand somewhere in between the Hollywood sensibility of his good friend Martin Scorsese and the grimly unrefined quest for grace and absolution that characterize Abel Ferrara. His newest work has been described as a sequel to his classic American Gigolo, yet if anything the film may be a departure from what has been expected of this most cranky of the Hollywood brats of the 70s. In this “sequel," Woody Harrelson takes over Gere’s post, except as a walker for the ladies who happens to be a homosexual intellectual as well. Maybe those medium-brow jerkoff shrills at the Academy may take a notice this time around to Schrader who has yet to receive an Oscar or even nomination for that matter. Yes, you read me correctly; the screenwriter of Taxi Driver and Raging Bull, and director of such masterpieces as Mishima and Affliction has yet to receive a nomination. -C.K. There Will Be Blood (December 26): A film directed by the only 90s auteur who hasn’t disappointed us (P.T. Anderson) based on an Upton Sinclair novel about the corruption in oil industry in the early 20th century starring Daniel Day-Lewis. Do we really have to give you a reason to see this one? Come on! And everyone’s favorite Paul Dano plays a preacher, swoon. -J.J. Rumors and Hopes (Distribution Uncertain) Daratt: Chadian filmmaker Mahamat-Saleh Haroun’s tale of revenge after the announcement that war criminals shall be amnestied. Ne touchez pas la hache: Legendary French New Wave filmmaker Jacques Rivette adapts Balzac. Nightwatching: British auteur Peter Greenaway presents a conspiratorial look at Rembrandt’s classic painting Nightwatching. Boarding Gate: If Olivier Assaya’s thriller about assassins plays before the close of the year it will likely cement Asia Argento’s status as one of the foremost actresses of her time. -C.K. &nbsp; 
If orientation is just a little too lame for you, check out these cultural events happening around the city. How would you like to remember your first week of Columbia? Pie eating or museums and films? Bwog staffer Lucy Tang shows you how.&nbsp; Saturday, September 1 3 pm – P.S. 1 Warm Up &nbsp; Twisted Ones hosts a Brooklyn/Pittsburgh Underground Rock Celebration with:&nbsp; Oneida&nbsp; Sightings&nbsp; Ex-Models&nbsp; Dirty Faces&nbsp; DJ Knox Overstreet&nbsp; DJ Weirds&nbsp; DJs Fitz and Brad Truax&nbsp; Mighty Robot AV Squad Word of advice to the skinny-jean inclined: Columbia hates hipsters, find kindred spirits here.&nbsp; August 21 through Sunday, September 2 New York Korean Film Festival Despite the racial makeup of SEAS, Asians are more than engineers, they also major in film studies!&nbsp; Wednesday, September 5 8:00pm – 92nd Street Y: Michael Palin of Monty Python with Lorne Michaels Go hear two founders discuss their respective overrated projects&nbsp; Friday, September 7 Midnight - UCB Theater – Aziz Ansari, Paul Scheer and a guest panel discuss chapters 13-22 of R. Kelly’s Trapped in the Closet. Antonioni and Bergman may have passed on, but R. Kelly seems poised to continue the tradition.&nbsp; Sunday, September 9 8:00pm- 92nd Street Y A Discussion on Seinfeld and Curb Your Enthusiasm Reminisce the Jewish hey-day of television with other Jews.&nbsp; &nbsp; US Open ends Girls in short skirts? Andy Roddick? Anyone? Anyone? Monday, September 10 MoMA: Richard Serra Metal has never looked so good.&nbsp; Saturday, September 16 The Whitney: Summer of Love This exhibit is a little overdone, unless you’re stoned.&nbsp; &nbsp; 7 pm - KGB Bar - Joshua Furst and Dalia Sofer Everyone’s mom loved The Kite Runner, but Sofer’s The Septembers of Shiraz is the real literary gem.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
OK, not really. We don’t feel like rehashing Spec’s summary of recent brouhahas, which is a rehash of last year’s article on the subject (plus the Minuteman thing, which prompted this must-read). But they missed the older ones, which are sort of important to understanding everything that comes after. Ancient History (1968) This is where Columbia got its name—since debunked by decades of relative apathy—for radical campus activism. Spurred by Columbia’s ties to the defense establishment and its proposal to build a gym over Morningside Park (which would have had Jim Crow-style separate entrances for University affiliates and for the community), the Student Afro Society and Students for a Democratic Society (led by Mark Rudd, whom Bwog caught up with last spring after an SDS chapter dubiously restarted on campus) decided in April 1968 to occupy several campus buildings including Hamilton Hall and the President’s own office. Pictures from a Newsweek cover story of scruffy young men (this is pre-female-integration) kicking back in President Grayson Kirk’s chair, feet on the table and cigars in hand, shocked the nation. Wikipedia, as usual, has the details. Fast forward a few decades…the Ethnic Studies fight Aside from a few more Hamilton barricades over South African apartheid in the 1970s and 80s, the next big dust-up occurred in 1996, when 100 students barricaded Hamilton (it must be easy to take over), 23 were arrested attempting to blockade Low, and three went on a 15-day hunger strike to demand the creation of an Ethnic Studies department. They failed. Their modern protégés are still trying. - LBD 
Zach van Schouwen tips off Bwog on a Facebook revelation: Top Movies in the Columbia Network 1. Fight Club 2. Love Actually 3. Zoolander 4. The Big Lebowski 5. Shawshank Redemption &nbsp;All pretty standard, except for number 2. What, was Four Weddings and a Funeral too edgy? &nbsp; 
 Meet Calvin Sun, president of Asian American Alliance (which we believe to be the genesis of this little venture), vice president of the class of 2008, breakdancer, bartender, biochem major, and now MTV star. You'll probably see him wandering around Lerner shirtless one of these days. Do not be alarmed, he's quite harmless. What is the best way these freshman can annoy you (the upperclassmen)? Think that they're better than us. Because they're not. Bitches! What was your best freshman moment? When I became licensed to drive in the great state of Iowa. Worst? Doing a back of the envelope calculation. What is something every freshman should do while at Columbia? Frontiers of Science. What 3 songs should the newbies load up their iPods with now (to better understand Columbia)? When your stupid drunk and you want to end the party right: Backstreet Boys - I Want It That Way To better understand Columbia: Afroman - Because I Got High For yourself: Telepopmusik - Just Breathe <!-- D( ); D( ); //--> What is the best thing to eat at John Jay? I'm going to go ahead and assume you mean the best thing to eat in the entire dorm: Chicken Fingers in JJ's basement supermarket grill place thing. Otherwise, go to HamDel. 
 NSOP did away with the cannabis reference as they resurrected the BlaZe -- last year's experimental cross-campus relay event --&nbsp; for the 2011 set. Bwoggers Sara Vogel and Ellen Kessel were embedded with the troops on the new, PC-polished "Take One: Ultimate Team Challenge" and filed this report: Surrounded by Orientation Leaders baiting their charges with a rainbow of free t-shirts, we couldn't&nbsp; help think back to sleep-away camp, and the rite of passage that was Color War. Bunks were severed , meals were silent, friendships were tearfully won and lost to the tune of team fight songs. We expected less drama and commitment from this jaded group for the evening's "diversity event." UTC reeked of good, clean, fun - the BlaZe's soda-pong, whipped cream, and powdered donuts were nixed in favor of a bean-bag toss, a three-legged race, and CU trivia. "There were too many innuendos last year," one NSOP committee member told us. "We wanted to keep it clean this year." But despite it being a thinly-veiled ice-breaker, from where we stood the first-years seemed genuinely into it. &nbsp; "This is SO INTENSE" one said. "It is exhilarating," panted another on his way to the "find someone who..." activity. "There's no running allowed," the NSOP committee member told us. "But look, they clearly almost want to run." Shocked by how few of the first-years were playing the game with detached irony -- or drunk -- we watched them learn each other's names during the bean-bag toss, hold hands to float a hula-hoop around a circle, and collaboratively complete a game of Sudoku. Cries of Yellow 2! Green 18! echoed in the humid air. One orientation leader said 2011ers took the game so seriously, some pushed each other out of the way as they vaulted across Broadway for activities at Barnard. "They are viciously competitive," he added, comparing them to the more "laid back" class of 2010. Sadness swept over the groups that arrived back at Low Plaza in time to watch this team take all the glory -- and the Starbucks gift cards: This guy must have enjoyed himself. We spotted him again about an hour later resting his arms on the very same two ladies -- they only looked slightly miffed. 
 Look who came by again! Why, it's BwogDog Harold! Hi! Here's a video of me going down a slide! I'm pretty curious sometimes! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I have to run to Equinox! Bye guys! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Sometimes, for the broke college student, whoring yourself out to paid psychology experiments just doesn’t cut it. To offer some assistance in your job search, we bring you dispatches from five students who tell all about their various engagements in the world of campus employment, work-study and beyond. Compiled by Maryam Parhizkar. The Library Assistant &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Perhaps you've heard about hipster librarians, i.e. the charming types with quiet smiles and no hips who listen to The Hold Steady. These people do not work in Columbia's libraries.&nbsp;Most of them work in Butler's basement—the mothership of the libraries—where they rarely see the light of day and physically and mentally reflect the lack of Vitamin D.&nbsp; My boss, though quite kind, could rarely breathe normal air, wore wrist braces, and spelled words with LittlE oR No ReGarD for CaSe. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Quirks aside—or perhaps, quirks included—it's not a bad job, especially if you prefer books to people.&nbsp; Unless you wo/man one of the circulation desks, you could spend your days shelving books, barcoding books, or doing countless other activities with books. The merits: you can listen to music, though for long stretches, audiobooks and podcasts are key; there is little oversight; you don't have to interact with people (have I emphasized that enough?). Downfalls: old books are about as clean and nice-smelling as old people, and there are lots of them; books will occasionally fall on your head and bruise you; the lights turn off every 15 minutes.&nbsp; This isn't just an inconvenience to those of us who believe murderers wait for the end of those 15 minutes.&nbsp; Words of wisdom: do not work in the math library.&nbsp; The Note-Taker &nbsp; About once every year or so, if you’re lucky, you’ll find in your inbox and email from Columbia’s Office of Disability Services advertising the need for a note-taker in one of your classes for an anonymous student whose disability prevents him or her from taking notes. Or maybe your professor will make an announcement to the same effect. The first student who shows up to the ODS with a sample of thorough, organized class notes will get the job, which pays a total of $350 a semester to undergraduates and $400 to graduate students. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This is one of a few ways to make money at Columbia that doesn’t require work-study status, or any extra time beyond what it takes to email ODS your notes every week. Typically students pounce on these opportunities like feral cats, so as soon as you receive the email announcement, reply to ODS with message saying you’re interested and high-tail it over to the eighth floor of Lerner with a copy of your most responsible class notes (preferably notes you’ve already taken for the class, if the semester is already underway). ODS may take a few days to consider which applicant’s notes best suit the needs of the anonymous student, whose name is never released – not even to the note-taker. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I’ve taken advantage of this opportunity twice, once in a science lecture and once in a literature lecture. Knowing I was responsible to someone else for what I wrote forced me to take thorough notes for every class meeting, and which made writing papers a lot easier than it would have been had I filled my notebook with the usual illegible scribble. And the best part was getting paid a few hundred dollars for something I should have been doing for free.&nbsp; The Editorial Assistant &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maybe you're not too keen on shelving books at the library all day or awkwardly swiping your classmates into their buildings. Rather, you're looking for something that will be a relatively worthwhile work-study job and you happen to be a responsible person with decent writing/editing skills. If you're lucky, you’ll land yourself a spot with Columbia College Today (you know, the magazine you and your parents get in your respective mailboxes, but don’t really read). Housed in Alumni Affairs headquarters in a building hidden on Riverside, the CCT offices are tiny but collectively a treasure trove of over 100 recorded years of Columbia College history. Your job as part of the CCT team includes the typical editorial assistant’s chores: covering phone calls, cataloging back issues, scanning photos, labeling mail and copy-editing. Usually, you even get to write a piece or two for an upcoming issue, which means the chance to escape the office and conduct an interview with a respectable graduate at a local lunch spot.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Occasionally there are days when you’ll be tired of writing the same formulated alumni success stories, hearing that same crazy alum's long-winded 4 A.M. complaints about Jeffrey Sachs in the office voicemail, and typing up depressing obituary notices ("the poor guys from '40's are dropping like flies!" your boss exclaims one day from her office, after a stream of sobbing phone calls from the deceased’s wives and children). Then again, it's really not so bad. After all, there are the free books, the occasional office wine-and-cheese party, and your own cubicle space. To some degree it makes up for interning at a small-time publishing company or magazine somewhere in the city; at least this gig pays. &nbsp; The Ask Alice! Information Specialist &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What could be more fun than a job where you get to read about peoples' dirty, stinky, little secrets? What about dirty, stinky little vaginas? Or dirty, stinky little skin growths? Go Ask Alice!, Columbia's famed Health Promotion website, touts the promise that the staff reviews every question that gets asked. The job – about 2,000 questions a week – gets divvyed up between all of the staff members, including the lowly researchers like myself, who spend the majority of time researching the answers to the questions that make it through our collective filter. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aside from my nerdy enjoyment of finding out about fat cells and hyponatremia (read: over-hydration), the never-ending free food and coffee, and the videos that everyone watches during our suspiciously long breaks, reviewing questions is definitely an enjoyable part of my work study job. People write in jokes, tell extremely long stories, and&nbsp;generally show sides of themselves that they're not willing to reveal without the promise of anonymity.&nbsp;Their emotions seep through the internet and&nbsp;have caused me to cry out of pity for someone lonely and sad, then laugh at absurd conundrums involving purple toes and impending weddings. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Though&nbsp;I can't share my favorites with&nbsp;you since they're not mine to publish, I can tell you that you are not alone in your difficulties with sex, your apprehensions about STDs, pregnancy, and drug use,&nbsp;your&nbsp;loneliness and fear, and your constant curiosity about your own body. Sitting in the office, I'm often glad that I'm not in some of the predicaments our questions present – but every once in a while, I too&nbsp;duck surreptitiously behind my cubicle wall and write a little note to Alice.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; The Slacker &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A couple of weeks after I first learned, via e-mail, of my shocking admission to Columbia University in the City of New York, my corporeal mailbox too was assailed with a folder, the exterior of which depicted a Corinthian column that served as a backdrop to blue-and-white lettering which read (in all-caps) “Paying For College,” and the interior of which contained a document detailing a number of figures that would determine my family’s financial future for the next four years.&nbsp; Hidden amongst the generous grant and leeching loans, my father’s divining rod-cum-Sharpie discovered the following words that struck terror into my indolent and parasitic bored-white-kid heart: “Work Study Grant: $2300.”&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;An old axiom of mine holds that there are better ways to get rich than becoming an I-banker and sacrificing yourself to The Man for a wage of fifty bucks an hour. If this is true, then there are certainly better ways to make $2300 than swiping cards or handing out towels or filing papers as a serf in some godforsaken departmental office, the scents of cat dander and stale bureaucracy assaulting my nostrils.&nbsp; Bearing this in mind, while my floormates filled out their federal forms, I sat in front of the television, playing Super Smash Bros. Melee and concocting a scheme to bring myself income.&nbsp;Writing for Columbia College Today was clearly out of the question; my integrity could not be sacrificed for mere dolladollabillz.&nbsp; For awhile I dabbled as a guinea pig in Business School studies, but the hours were irregular and the pay scanty.&nbsp; Spring semester I doled out $150 to enroll in Columbia’s bar-tending program, but my visions of steady salary and tips and lucrative connections siphoned from drunken hedge-fund managers at their Gatsby parties were not to come to fruition, as my application for employment was brutally rebuffed.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This left me no choice but to come home for the summer, where my distaste for work was indulged by room and board provided gratis by my parents.&nbsp; Imagine our collective chagrin when we saw that my grant had been reduced substantially, and my personal anguish when I saw the words “Work-Study” still remained on that faux-yellowed document.&nbsp;&nbsp;Now as my bank account dwindles, I am proud to say that the only goal of mine I’ve fulfilled all summer involves watching every South Park episode ever, and that when I return to the East, all bronzed and bulked and culturally literate, I still fully intend to shirk my bitch-work responsibilities in favor of Spicy Specials, video games, and maybe some phantom source of income.&nbsp; &nbsp;
Harold noticed something wonderful outside the 92nd st. Equinox today: &nbsp; 
As you first-years will soon discover, your social life at Columbia will depend mostly on the kindness of bouncers at various bars between 107th (Ding Dong) and 123rd (Max SoHa). These tireless soldiers who guard the gates to $4 beers understand that you are not 21. (The centimeter and a half-long patches of facial hair non-withstanding). The key to this boozy detente is the Fake ID. Here, upperclassmen regale Bwog with tales horrible pictures, incorrect passports, and the lucky international students' away-game advantage.&nbsp; My fake ID comes from a friend whose friend worked at the DMV in Texas. He actually stole a license-making machine. My fake ID came from one of those souvenir shops on 42nd street with signs that say "IDs MADE HERE." The entire experience was almost disappointingly unsketchy--you walk in, pay your $50, choose your state, choose your birthday, and walk out matured.&nbsp;&nbsp; Upon seeing my made-up hometown of Mays Landing in deep south New Jersey, a bouncer in DC commented that he was in fact from a town nearby my own. Fortunately, my dad is a guru when it comes to transportation, and I was able to chat with the bouncer about the area's seasonal traffic patterns and the shortest routes to Philadelphia sans tollbooths. After entering the club, I promptly changed my shorts as I had just shat them. My fake ID is actually real and free. It's been expired since last year and it looks nothing like me except for our similar long brown hair, but with my penchant for four-inch heels and low-cut tank tops, it has never given me a problem. Having an older friend who doesn't mind passing on her old real ID is the best--having a stranger with said friend's ID pass it on is even better. I still don't the girl who's changed my life so dramatically. To her I owe thanks for countless regrettable hook-ups and of course my lost youth. A girl I know had an ID that put her as a native of East Haven, CT (she is actually from L.A.). Unfortunately, for her, she was once at a bar at which the bouncer knew East Haven intimately. Suspecting that her's was a fake, he said, "So, do you know Morris Cove?", Morris Cove being one of the most high-profile neighborhoods in East Haven. She couldn't really hear him so he asked her again, and this time she replied, "No, I don't know Morse code!" Needless to say: Rejection City. When I went to bodegas to get beer and was asked if I was 21, I pretty much just stroked my baby-smooth chin and said "yes" in my big-boy voice. This worked from age 18 on up. Sometimes at liquor stores. Also 1020, although there an intense stare was required. My first fake ID had nothing to do with alcohol, but was a joke ID based on the new ID cards our school had implemented, which had to be worn around the neck. I scanned one in, changed the number around, and changed the picture to a ridiculous redneck named "Billy-Bob F Jones." I printed them out on stickers the same size as the IDs, and handed out sheets of them, and soon there were lots of rednecks running around, and our school security guard was shouting "I'm gonna get you, Billy-Bob Jones!" through his megaphone. Eventually, one of the kids wearing the sticker over his ID got caught, and ratted me out, and the teacher turned me in to the office. The principal brought me in and had a chat about how he thought the IDs were turning the school into a prison system and if I felt the same way I should write an article about it for the school paper. Also, he said that even though he thought the IDs were "funny as hell" he couldn't allow them. I also made a George W. Bush ID, but that one wasn't as popular. I remember going to Casbah Rouge, which before it was a Chipotle, was a hookah bar with a liquor license and a cabaret license. The police always dogged it because, as a hookah bar, it was allowed to admit eighteen-year-olds. For a while, it did.&nbsp; The first time I went to Casbah, I kept my fake (purportedly from California) in my wallet: why risk losing it to an overzealous doorman? Without looking up, the bouncer inside announced that the (real) ID I had just handed him was a fake, and showed me the door without hearing an appeal. On the other hand, the only person who ever even suspected that my fake ID might be a fake ID was a supermarket checkout boy in Utah, and that's because I had told him that I was from Maryland. It sucks to be from Maryland. 
James DeWille's guide to nightlife was so awesome that it broke Bwog yesterday. Regardless, we're going to repost it - happy clubbing. So you`ve arrived to Columbia fresh from Michigan, Delaware, or wherever your shiny new fake I.D. tells you, and you`re ready to take on the town.&nbsp; Here´s a week`s worth of the best (and the not-so-best-that-you-should- still-probably-make-an-appearance-at) parties.&nbsp; Basically, just be sure to skip Meatpacking´s over-hyped, over-priced, and well, over scene and get to know your dear friend, the 2nd Ave F, your two-dollar ticket to the Lower East Side.&nbsp; Who´s got time for Homer when you need to claw, gnaw, drink and dance your way downtown, past the rope, and in the club?&nbsp; Before you know it, you´ll be splattered across the internet, cheek kissing entire roomfuls of pretty Brooklynites, and sucking down free drank.&nbsp; Good God.&nbsp; Good luck. Monday M @ Darkroom: Finally! You can get wasted on a Monday and the utter darkness will prevent anyone from judging. Come 11-12 for free PBR and climb around the outdoor wall and staircase before dancing the night away in the dark. 2/3 of the Ruff Kids keep the beats heavy. Take: the strong. Only the nastiest go out on Monday's. Leave: responsibility, again, you are going out on a Monday... Tuesday 66Sick @ Happy Ending: This party has made Tuesdays one of the best nights of the week. It's like Cheers, where everybody knows your name. The night gets blurry and the dancing gets wild on the lower level. Swarms of party photographers immortalize your every drunken misstep. It’s debauchery at its most distilled. If you’re lucky, Feng Feng (one of the three, cutely coordinating Asian girls hosting the shindig) will feed you champagne from the bottle. Eh, www.thenightlight.net may clear a few things up. Take: pretty girls, pretty boys. Leave: dignity.&nbsp; Wednesday High Voltage @ Sutra: So Sutra may be a dingy little place, but our hostess, Jason, is such a sweetheart you can’t help but show up and shake it sometimes. Hey, it’s better than Beauty Bar, alright? Take: Semi-legit ID. Recent visits from the po po may make your p.o.s. ID a no no. Leave: Don’t hold back. Hump day.&nbsp; Thursday Hmm, if you find something worthwhile, let me know. Thursdays are pretty dry. You can try sneaking into Hiro through the hotel if you’re not on the RSVP list (actually, don’t. It’s not that fun unless there’s a concert or a friend with a booth and bottle service). You could always try Lit, some friends and I once saw Nick Zinner at this dirty little East Village basement and there’s usually some free PBR, 12-12:30.&nbsp; If you keep hitting dead ends, head to a bar like cozy &amp; subterranean Home Sweet Home or speakeasy-esque Royal Oak (you´ll have to trek to Billyburg for that one) and curl up with your bitter self. Take: hope, always. Leave: soon. Friday Ruff Club @ Annex: The main floor is home to bands, DJs and the lovely Sophia Lamar. The upstairs keeps booths and bottles filled (you’ll need the additional “VIP” stamp to get up there, kid). And the infamous basement remains a writhing, smoky mess of kiddies, despite the exodus of the Ruff Kids. A recent invasion of popped collars and girls catching the PATH a few hours later is alarming, but the hugging hordes outside prove that some good people still make it out (or make out?), and Friday nights in the LES are not a total sham. Take: Cigarettes. American Apparel. Leave: with new friends.&nbsp; Seventeen @ Revolver: Remember those boys who made dick and fart jokes in elementary school? The ones who gave girls wedgies and made fun or their training bras? The ones you swore they'd still be playing video games in their parents' basement at twenty-five? Well, they're DJs now. The Ruff Kids have their very own Friday party now at brand-new Revolver. And they drive vespas, cool. You’ll probably stumble here from Ruff Club or vice versa. Take: cute girl to feed Ruff boys. Leave: without her. Gotta pay the toll.&nbsp; Trash @ Rififi: Ugh. The people move in the back room, but the air usually doesn’t. This and the fact that most people there think Rififi (on 11th) is “uptown” makes the whole thing a bit frustrating. Take: Just make to show up appropriately Trashed, if you must. Leave: Clothing?&nbsp; Saturday Misshapes @ Don Hill’s: If it’s not gone by the time you read this Misshames is defiantly wasting away faster than a the anorexic 15-year old girl/boy who’s been feverishly checking the website to see if they’ve made the wall. The party stays mainly outside, so people can eat ice cream and bitch about how lame it is. Sound fun, right? Okay, cue the sound of camera shutters and utter confusion about multiple levels of irony. Take: coke-head death stares. Leave: cred. Carman party invites.&nbsp; Sunday Morissey night @ Sway: Not exactly danceable, but the Lord’s Day at this Morrocan-themed place is pretty damn chill. It´s nice to get out of the LES a bit, even if you´re doing so with a lot of the same people.&nbsp; In any case, Smiths and the stench of weed allow you to recover discreetly and still be out and about. Ready for next week? Bring: Bud. Your Sunday….best? Leave: Lit Hum reading. Desire to cleanse sins.&nbsp; 
A Bwog Contest! The student able to create the best Lolprof, Lolbollinger, Lolhavel, or Lolmatthewcfox (or any other variation) will win $20 to Chipoltle! (For those of you unfamiliar with Lolcats, this Slate tutorial is a must-read.) Send submissions to bwgossip@columbia.edu before September 4th at midnight. 
This time last year, Bwog elder statesmen Marc Tracy and Avi Zenilman invited underformers to reconsider their college decisions. The verdict: in retrospect, most other places are just as weird as Columbia, but in different ways. (Except Yale, which is weird in ways all its own.) This year, Dan D'Addario opens the debate once more. New York University N.Y.who? NYU has a far greater social scene than Columbia's manic-depressive party-study cycle; they also have the dubious benefit of being way downtown. The notable alumni indicate that this school actually cares about, like, the arts and stuff (unlike Columbia), but also leaves you largely to your own devices, with no main campus and little student-teacher interaction (much like Columbia, but more shameless about it). What they have that we don't: Haley Joel Osment; Washington Square Park; Tisch School for the Arts; joie de vivre. What we have that they don't: Matthew Fox; Manhattanville ; GS; ennui. Hookup factor: Boys like boys. Girls hold out hope. It's all easier on Ecstasy. University of Chicago U.Chicago is to Columbia as Columbia is to Yale. It also indulges some of Columbia's most admirable and most irritating qualities - the passion for theory that so easily becomes aggressive pretension. If you have ever thought at three A.M. during exam week, "This works," perhaps you were meant to spend four years pounding your brain with theory on the shores of Lake Michigan. What they have that we don't: Oprah; deep dish pizza; pride in their academic work; endearingly widespread enthusiasm for the Core. What we have that they don't: Tiffany Patterson; edible pizza; pride in getting on Cobrasnake; relatively widespread sanity. Hookup factor: Better than you'd think: imagine the Butler stacks if no one ever left (except the weak ones, to cry). University of Iowa The Jekyll and Hyde of midwestern schools, containing both a massive state school (and all that entails) with a small, intensely focused writing program credited as best in the nation. A classic Big Ten experience (football games, cornfields, frat houses, Charlotte Simmons-esque but with less shame about the whole thing), but with better writing professors than Columbia, and a far more interesting milieu for future Tom Wolfes to write about. Also, corn! What they have that we don't: Republicans; a writing program that actually teaches people how to write well and does so in an organized fashion; athletics worth cheering for; heartland values. What we have that they don't: "Political views: Other"; countless emails from the writing program - but also top-flight departments in the OTHER humanities; the ability to deconstruct why sports movies are emotionally manipulative at best, citing Eisenstein and Sontag; calling our parents once a month. Hookup factor: Missionary position, but plenty of it. Bard College at Simon's Rock Home to approximately 400 high school dropouts (most Bard students matriculate at age sixteen). Students muse on the school's blog whether "people are ethically obligated to give pigs handjobs all the time." The perfect place to read Foucault and Nietzsche at a tenth-grade level, and an oasis for those who love the Oberlin Birks-and-granola scene but want to be a couple years of the curve. What they have that we don't: Impromptu acoustic guitar sessions; veganism as ethical rather than aesthetic decision; the tender blush of youth; morals. What we have that they don't: High school diplomas; hard-won wisdom/bitter cynicism; less social drama (maybe?); a healthy fear of dying alone. Hookup factor: Chubby, sexually adventurous girls, meet effeminate, off-putting boys. You'll go to second after an Amnesty International meeting. That'll prove those assholes at your high school wrong.
One of our favorites from Orientation 2006. It's your first day at Columbia. Mom and Dad just drove back to New Jersey, and you are ready to celebrate your newfound freedom. But wait. Shit! You've heard that Columbia is an awful party school. They say the only fun thing to do here is cocaine, but you don't want to put anything in your nose. You're planning on being pre-med; noses are for sneezing. You want to drink. Well never fear: did you know you can overcome homesickness by drinking? Bwog contributor Will Snider channels this spirit to conjure a typical first night out during Orientation Week. So sit back, relax, and forget everything you learned from alcohol.edu. Remember, you're pre-med. You know that shit. 10:30pm -- Your Floor Meeting just ended. After learning from your RA "what it means to be part of a vibrant campus community," you're ready to kill some brain cells. Rob, that sort of sketchy guy on your floor who wears way too much Axe deodorant and brags about being from Buffalo, pulls out a handle of Nikolai vodka and punches you in the stomach saying, "It was made in Kentucky, so you know it's good." Someone brings out four shot glasses, and you chase the drinks with the Gatorade your mother bought at Sam's Club for you. Everyone on your floor comes out to this makeshift party. Suddenly, you begin to think Columbia might not be so socially awkward after all. 10:45pm — Your floormates are now all passed out in the common room. By your seventh call to CAVA the dispatcher knows your name, and you begin to wonder why you didn't just go to Michigan. So what if it's a state school? You decide to venture beyond Carman Hall. 11:20pm — After your cousin's old fake ID is rejected by 1020, Nacho's, the Heights, and even the Abbey (despite seeing what appear to be 12-year-old girls being admitted), you give up and begin to walk back to Carman. Out of nowhere a guy in a polo shirt who reeks of cigarettes and jungle juice assaults you. He slaps you on the ass and tells you to rush Pike—even if you're a girl. Suddenly you find yourself in a dark room with a sticky floor, surrounded by sweaty men and girls in short skirts, and you realize you're in a frat house. You didn't even know Columbia had fraternities. How did all these people get into Columbia? (Hint: they were once just like you. Almost.) At the frat party you squint your eyes to find the keg in the dark. 11:34pm — While in line for the bathroom you see two guys doing lines off a coffee table. You tell them you've never seen cocaine before, and they tell you it's Adderall. Suddenly one of them begins to read Dubliners. You now know what hell feels like. 12:13am — After a few drinks you've lost your sense of smell and suddenly the party gets much better. You're sitting on a couch and someone passes you a joint. You feel like a college kid and reach out to hug the stoner next to you. 1:13am — Holy shit! You've been sitting on the same couch for an hour. This is so much fun! An brunette approaches and takes a seat on the couch. She says she goes to Barnard. You are intrigued. 1:26am — Wow. You really enjoyed that party and were actually upset when it was shut down by a noise complaint. You thought this was the city that never sleeps, but you were wrong. A crowd wanders over to Koronets, and you join them. You must. After devouring two slices of pizza, you realize that you have super-human eating powers past 1am—even if you're a girl. There is still a girl with you, but you're not sure if she's the one from the party. 2:14am — Without knowing how you got there, you find yourself across Broadway in some random Barnard dorm. You're alone with one of the girls you met earlier and you're telling her you love her and want to settle in New Jersey and make (or adopt) little Columbia babies. You are so drunk. She says she's from Florida, or maybe she says Maine. She talks about her cat and her parents and her dreams for the future and then, inexplicably, she starts crying and you're in a really awkward situation because you can't remember her name. Luckily she passes out, and you leave. You decide to feel proud of yourself for not doing anything. 3:32am — On the Steps you bum a cigarette off a random upperclassmen. You smoke? You don't smoke. Wait, smoking while drunk is cool. You're cool. You smoke. 3:46am — You pee in the bushes surrounding Low Library. You wonder if Eisenhower ever walked where you are peeing. You yell this, along with the years of his presidency and his electoral opponent (Stevenson, Stevenson), to prove that you are still on your shit. 4:11am — Somehow you find your way back to your dorm. Your roommate hasn't moved for hours, and seems perfectly content playing World of Warcraft, watching an episode of Sex and the City, and eating peanuts. You are slightly jealous. Oh well, time for sleep. Tomorrow is your first meal at John Jay. You can taste the flimsy pancakes and processed maple syrup now. Orientation week is the best. 
If you hurry you can catch Battles playing at the South Street Seaport. First-years: might be a nice alternative to open mic night in Lerner. &nbsp; 
The twin actresses who played Pebbles in the Flintstones movie go to Columbia! And now Bwog has that stupid song in its head.&nbsp; &nbsp; UPDATE: They're in SEAS. And they're girls. And they're in SEAS. 
Meet Michelle Diamond, CC'08. She's the publisher of the Columbia Political Review and an East Campus RA, but you can call her Madam President of the Columbia College Student Council.&nbsp; What is the best way freshmen can annoy you (the upperclassmen)? By traveling in very large groups of people (think an entire Carman floor) around which it's impossible to navigate. What was your best freshman moment? <!-- D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); //--> Wow, there is no way I can choose just one.&nbsp; The entire year was an absolute blast.&nbsp; Some of my best times were definitely spent with my floor (go Carman 9!). Worst? Freshman year I fell down the steps of Low Library.&nbsp; I don't know if it really counts as my worst moment (falling down the McBain steps sophomore year was worse), but it certainly wasn't something I need to ever do again. What is something every freshman should do while at Columbia? Protest something...in a peaceful and respectful manner. What 3 songs should the newbies load up their ipods with now (to better understand Columbia)? On Broadway (bc it's a classic) (I've Had) The Time of My Life (bc you will) Wonderful World - James Morrison (bc it's awesome, despite having nothing to do with understanding Columbia). What is the best thing to eat at John Jay? Waffles 
 It's happening right now in front of Low. Clipse and Vampire Weekend! Go, go, go! UPDATE, Sunday, 9:35 AM: See great photos of the concert here! 
212, Ferris, and your other favorite Lerner eats are open. They might have opened a day or two ago, but Bwog is still excited about the unlimited-topping salads in 212.&nbsp;
 New Yorker contributer, neurologist and bearded man Oliver Sacks has been appointed "Columbia artist", the first position of its kind. You can read about it here.
What's larger than a breadbox, brightly colored, and totally delicious (some might warn mysteriously so?) 
Your parents might still be willing to pay your bills and do your paperwork, but the sooner you take it on yourself, the better. Longtime tipster and Lehmaneer Tao Tan kindly wrote up these simple guidelines to avoid financial ruin. Scroll down, there's a lot. Part I: Set Up Your Banking. When you come to Columbia, you’ll probably get inundated with Citi’s offers and advertisements. Citi is a great bank for a lot of reasons. They’re large. They have a branch on campus. They’re free (supposedly), and so on and so forth. But get this. If you take money out of a non-Citi ATM, you’ll get charged anywhere from $0.99 to $2 for the privilege of withdrawing your money. It’s really not a big deal, because we have a branch on campus and there really is no shortage of Citi ATMs in New York, but then again, it can get annoying and it can add up. So, instead, check out First Republic Bank. They give you free checking and unlimited ATM refunds anywhere. You can walk into Pinnacle or Morton-Williams and use their ATM and you’ll get your $2 or your $1.75 or whatever refunded to you at the end of the month. (I have heard, but have not seen, ATMs in certain… uhh… less-than-respectable establishments charge $10-$15 transaction fees – anyway, don’t push your luck.) If you travel overseas, you get both the ATM fee and the foreign exchange fee waived. It doesn’t matter. You get unlimited refunds. There’s a $2,500 minimum balance, but you set up a direct deposit, it’s waived. They only have five branches in Manhattan; the closest one is in Columbus Circle. BUT, 1) you get a personal banker. If you need to make a deposit, your personal banker gives you pre-stamped envelopes that you can just mail in, and 2) if you visit in the morning, you get cookies and coffee, and 3) if you visit on a rainy day they give you an umbrella. No kidding. Now, onto savings accounts. The definition of a savings account these days is getting more and more blurred. In some cases, you can even avoid taxes by having a savings account denominated in municipal bonds and money market funds (for example, through Fidelity Investments). A good rule of thumb is to have three months of living expenses stashed away in cash in a savings account. It’s good to have a cash cushion in college for the holidays, spring break, or slow periods during the summer. A good way to approach savings is to just consider a monthly deposit to your savings account as your first monthly bill. Essentially, you “pay yourself” before anyone else by depositing a percentage of your pay into your savings account. Another thing to consider: get a savings account at another bank than your checking account. Why? Think about it. Let’s say you get an urge to splurge. Suddenly, that chunk of money sitting in your savings account looks awfully tempting – especially if you can arrange an instant transfer into your checking account. But if it takes two or three days to transfer that money from a different bank, you just might think twice. Part II: Credit and Credit Cards In our modern society, you cannot get by without credit. Period. You cannot buy a car without credit. You cannot get a mortgage without credit. You cannot even rent an apartment if you don’t have good credit. But on the other hand, if you go overboard, you can damage your creditworthiness for years, if not permanently. Employers have been known to rescind job offers based on a negative credit report. The average college student graduates with around $2,300 in credit card debt. By making minimum payments on a 19% annual interest rate, it could take up to 20 years to pay off, and you could end up paying more than double the original $2,300. Think about it. You’re a cash cow. A 19% year-on-year return is something hedge fund managers dream about. Be careful and be sensible with your credit card debts. If you can, always pay your bill in full every month. Then you have no financing charges. At the same time, you need a good credit history. Credit histories are measured by credit scores, a number calculated by three credit agencies. They are usually out of 800-850. Anything above a 650 is good, and anything about 700 is very good. The formulas used to calculate the scores are a closely-held secret, but there are a few things which noticeably affect it. The average life of your credit accounts. Do you hold a card with an issuer for years? Or do you open and close them every month? The longer the average life of your accounts, the better. So, lesson 1: keep your accounts open. The percent usage of your total credit line. If you have a credit line of $1,000, and you are using $900, that’s 90% usage, which hurts your score compared to if, say, you only used $250 of your available credit. Put your card away in a binder and forget it exists if necessary. Lesson 2: just because you have credit doesn’t mean you have to use it. Your history of payments. Do you pay your bills every month? Or have you missed payments? Missing payments even by a few days can stay on your history for years on end, and can be a huge negative when applying for credit. Set up Outlook/GMail reminders. Write yourself notes. Lesson 3: pay off your bills every month, at best in full, but do it even if it’s just the minimum payment. Is anyone screwing you over? Identity theft is a fact of life. You are allowed one free credit report from each of the three credit agencies per year (https://www.annualcreditreport.com/cra/index.jsp).&nbsp; Lesson 4: check up on your credit report every now and then to make sure everything safe. (Note: this is the only official site where you can receive free credit reports, but there’s a bevy of less-than-honest places out there that’ll try to get you to pay for “credit monitoring” services and other crap. You should never have to pay for a copy of your credit report if you request one per year.) Also, watch out for “charge cards”, where you pay in full each month, and cannot carry a balance. The vast majority of them, such as the American Express Green, do build credit. But there are a few cards, nominally billed as charge cards, that are actually “deferred debit cards” that don’t build credit. Just scan the fine print. So what kind of card should you get? First of all, if you’re on your parents’ credit card, get your own immediately. Even if the card has your name on it, if the bills go to your parents, you are building their credit, not your own. Don’t cancel. Just put it away and don’t use it. Make it actually for “emergencies”. For yourself, get one VISA/MasterCard and one American Express – and you should be covered wherever you go in the world. You probably don’t have much of a credit history at this point, so don’t aim for the big leagues just yet – the Amex Centurion can wait. Personally, I like traveling. But I hate those cards that let you earn miles on airlines because you have to pay an annual fee plus it’s getting more and more difficult to redeem miles (I’ve heard stories of people trying to book reward travel 9 months early and still getting turned down). Take a look at the American Express Blue Sky. It’s pretty simple. There’s no annual fee, and if you spend $7,500, and you get a $100 refund for everything travel-related you bill on the card. That works out to 1.33¢ for every dollar you spend, which compares favorably to regular frequent flyer miles, which are worth anywhere from 0.5¢ to 1¢ each. On the VISA/MasterCard front, try the Capital One No Hassle Miles Rewards. Same concept as the American Express Blue Sky. Instead of earning miles which are getting harder and harder to use, you get a direct refund for your travel spending. If you aren’t eligible for the No Hassle Miles, get another Capital One card. Capital One is unique among credit card issuers in that they waive all foreign exchange fees if you’re every in another country. Most issuers gouge you by 2-3% for foreign currency transactions. Part III: Investments and Taxes Yes, it’s true. Now that you are 18, you are legally allowed title to your own investments. To be brief, I’m not going to teach you how to invest. I have no idea how to even do it myself. If you know what you’re doing, go for it, and best of luck. That all being said, here are a few points on what to think about. First, find a good broker. I like Fidelity Investments because they can easily link with my bank account, have something neat called “Full View” which can log into your other accounts and display all your financial information on one page, and have a pretty good family of funds. Second, good investment strategy stresses diversification. Yes, you could have made a killing if you plunked 100% of your money into Google a few years ago. But when Google came out, people were bewailing how it was a “failed IPO”. And for every Google, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of Webvans and Kozmos. Never heard of them? That’s kind of the point. Third, watch out for hidden fees. If you go for mutual funds, which are professionally managed funds tailored for individual schmuckos like you and me, watch out for two things, the expense ratio and the load fee. An expense ratio is what the fund charges for managing your money. If you have a fund that returned 16% this year, and has a 2% expense ratio, that means it really returned 18%; the fund managers just took 2% in fees. In practice, expense ratios are getting lower every year. Try 1.25-1.5% for an upper limit. The load fee is how much it costs to sell the fund. These things sneak up on you because they only kick in when you try to convert your fund into cash. Your best bet? Find a no-load fund. Fidelity Investments and T. Rowe Price do well in this regard. Don't forget to watch out for taxes. The 2001 tax cuts (which were largely engineered by Columbia Professor and Dean Glenn Hubbard, by the way) will start to be phased out in 2008 and will expire entirely by 2010. For some reason, I don’t think what will probably be a Democratic Congress by then will be terribly inclined to keep them on the books. But the long and short of it is, if you make money on investments before 2010, you’ll be taxed at 15%; after 2010 (when y’all are seniors), it’ll be 20%. Lastly, open up an IRA, or an individual retirement account. You can do it through Fidelity (or really, any broker) for free. There’s types of IRAs: a traditional IRA and Roth IRA. At this point, it is almost always to your advantage to open a Roth IRA. It’s better than a traditional IRA in that it’s taxed in a different way (advantageously for you), and there’s a lot of flexibility. If you need to withdraw money before you hit 59 and a half, you can do that without too much grief. You can contribute up to $5,000 a year. Do it. The US government is rarely this generous in giving you your money back instead of spending it on stuff like Medicaid and Iraq. 
We rushed to get the Orientation Issue of The Blue and White to you this week, only to have the print release held up by red tape. But we'll still be dangling bits of it in front of you for the next few days while we get the issue online. Today: navigating the cutthroat world of Shakespeare in the Park (which runs until September 8th!), by Anna Phillips. In late June of this year, within several days of each other, The New York Times and the New Yorker both came out with rave reviews of Shakespeare in the Park’s production of Romeo and Juliet.&nbsp; The water!&nbsp; The moonlight!&nbsp; Lauren Ambrose!&nbsp; Critics squealed in delight, and everyone in the city with a literal interpretation of the printed word immediately made plans to attend. &nbsp; Shakespeare in the Park, as one Times reporter put it, “is one of those grand New York traditions that really works well, that everyone loves, like dog walkers or bagels and schmear.”&nbsp; But it’s a little different in that, unlike paid help or food, it’s free entertainment.&nbsp; Free being the key word there.&nbsp; The theater festival’s publicists made certain to emphasize that point this summer by splashing the city’s subway walls with hot pink advertisements that read “Free Love.” The slogan appealed to a sense of nostalgia for the 1960s, as Romeo and Juliet’s glorification of young lust over practicality melded nicely with the principles of the sexual revolution.&nbsp; But advertising aside, free theater in New York is too rare to give up.&nbsp; &nbsp; Accordingly, getting tickets to the shows tests the limits of patience and fortitude. There’s an array of ways to go about trying to get in, none of which is remotely quick or easy. Having waited in line for 12 hours and spent an entire day trying to avoid crack addicts and street musicians, allow me to lay out some guidelines to aid others in the process.&nbsp; Before you go, check the weather report.&nbsp; The Delacorte Theater is open air, and it’s not unusual for a summer shower or similar technical difficulties to put an end to an evening.&nbsp; During one of the first performances of the season, audience members had to vacate the theater just as Romeo found his 13-year-old bride lying still in the priest’s basement.&nbsp; &nbsp; Barring a tempest, enter the park at 81st Street and Central Park West, then follow the footpath to the Delacorte.&nbsp; Before you see the theater, you’ll see the line, which will already have formed no matter what time you arrive.&nbsp; While the Public Theater’s website does say that Central Park opens at 6 a.m., it doesn’t tell you that it’s the best time to show up—which, in a way, is good, because a 6 a.m. arrival is still too late. The first wave of people arrives at around 4 a.m., which is technically illegal.&nbsp; You’ll see them asleep in line, enveloped in blankets and absent friends or family, which can only be expected by people who wake that early.&nbsp; Most people with some experience in the process arrive around 5:30 a.m.&nbsp;These strivers will catch each other’s eyes as they enter the park, recognize a competitor, and suddenly break into a dignity-killing power walk.&nbsp; I went head to head with a group of middle school girls who saw I was small and female and, not realizing I was the Trojan horse of public theater, underestimated my speed.&nbsp; In order to ensure comfort while you wait, bring several large blankets, as well as a book or an iPod.&nbsp; You should also bring a friend or significant other to fetch coffee and refreshments, since by 10 a.m., the staff of the Public Theater will start to lay down the law.&nbsp; After 10 a.m., you must commit to the line with all of your being.&nbsp; You cannot leave the line: If you do, you will forfeit your ticket.&nbsp; You cannot leave the park: if you wish to purchase food, you must use a delivery service arranged by the theater.&nbsp; Your friends can visit you in line, but they cannot join you, and they must leave before 12:30 p.m.&nbsp; If you attempt to jump the line, you will be asked to leave. You are allowed to go to the bathroom.&nbsp; You’ve entered a system modeled after the gulag.&nbsp; At 1 p.m. the Public Theater’s staff—rife with failed actors and soaring egos—will line you up single file and march you toward the theater. Those at the front of the line receive tickets, a few in the middle receive vouchers for tickets, and the rest remain empty-handed.&nbsp; If you have a voucher, you must come back to the theater shortly before the show and check to see if there are people with tickets who have not claimed their seats. If there are, you can get in.&nbsp; People with vouchers almost always get in; rejoice if you are among them.&nbsp; Following the distribution of tickets, those who received nothing will immediately become frantic.&nbsp; Taking advantage of your confusion, the staff will form you into a “stand-by” line whose order is not based the time of your arrival. Those in the stand-by line must wait until the show begins at 8 p.m.—another seven hours, after you’ve already waited five—to see if there are empty seats.&nbsp; Don’t do it.&nbsp; Instead, leave the park and return around 5 p.m. to join the stand-by line.&nbsp; Because each person in line gets two tickets, many people who never stood in line—those whose friends got tickets for them—simply won’t show up.&nbsp; Even if you join the stand-by line quite late, you’ve got a pretty good chance of getting in. &nbsp; If you do decide to wait in the stand-by line, however, prepare to find yourself surrounded by the outer boroughs of humanity.&nbsp; When I stood by, the woman in front of me was engaged in an epic cell phone battle with her no-good boyfriend. (In the course of the call, she fittingly compared him to Othello’s Iago.)&nbsp; She pulled me into a seven-hour monologue and, I am sad to say, I learned that things would not work out between them before he did. Although the woman clearly dabbled in crack, she did not seem to have any on her.&nbsp; Then there was the Mexican family—the father sleeping on the woodchips, the mother adjusting her knee-high leather lace-up boots.&nbsp; Their fully-grown child, drunk from a paper bag, coaxed cell phone lady into harmonizing with him in several painful duets.&nbsp; The stand-by line convinces you that you are not crazy; you are just determined where others are weak.&nbsp; Oh, you are fortune’s fool.&nbsp; Shakespeare in the Park succeeds not only because it brings the value of Shakespearean theater to the masses, but also because it gives modern theater-goers a real sense of what it was—what it is—to be a groundling.&nbsp; Whether you wait five or 12 hours, you’ll likely end the day by reaching the conclusion that capitalism rocks, that you’d have preferred to spend $20 for a ticket, and that the imposition of democracy makes man ugly.&nbsp; But to go, or not to go?&nbsp; There is really no question.&nbsp; Midsummer Night’s Dream runs until September 8th. &nbsp; 
Advance intel says the site looks really good.&nbsp; Although it's not that hard to beat CollegePublisher. &nbsp; 
The second installment of a multi-part presentation of the laws of finding and receiving free food. Given by God himself to Bwogger Christopher Morris-Lent. Today: 4-7. 4. THOU SHALT PASS THY HOURS IN LERNER&nbsp; Some first-years and a surprising amount of upperclassmen commit the inexcusable error of writing papers, completing problem sets, and generally studying in Butler.&nbsp; These adrift souls fail to realize that the chances of scoring free food in the library is nil.&nbsp; In fact, there is no food allowed whatsoever, unless you smuggle it in by means of backpack or purchase it at the crowded, unpleasant, and unsanitary Blue Java.&nbsp; The thinking man's solution is to work somewhere else, and what better venue than Lerner Hall, the throbbing nerve center of campus life and the Columbian capital of free food.&nbsp; As your peers emerge from the library only halfway done with a paper and looking as exhausted and gaunt as Adrien Brody's character in "The Pianist," you will laugh in their faces as the more vital environment and easy access to brain food has enabled you to complete twice as much work while maintaining a ruddy complexion and voluptuous figure.&nbsp; 5. THOU SHALT PRESSURE THY FLOORMATES INTO REMEMBERING THEIR STUDY-BREAKS&nbsp; Remember all of the fun and exciting floor bonding activities - ranging from excursions to the cultural watershed of San Gennaro to pumpkin-carving in the Carman basement - that your optimistic and enthusiastic RA has planned for your best of all possible floors in the best of all possible universities?&nbsp; These are not going to happen.&nbsp; Or, if they do: maybe one person will show up.&nbsp; The sole thing my floor succeeded in organizing collectively after the initial ardor had worn off was study-breaks.&nbsp; Every Wednesday evening it was the responsibility of a single four-person suite to provide cheap yet delicious sustenance to our floormates.&nbsp; This was a dependable source of Diet Coke and chips with salsa until fifteen weeks later, when we ran out of suites and Carman 1101 declined to revive our floor's flagging nationalism.&nbsp; 6. THOU SHALT GET PRESS PASSES TO PREZBO'S SOIREES&nbsp; In F. Scott Fitzgerald's masterpiece "The Great Gatsby," the homosexual narrator Nick Carraway describes an extravagant party thrown by the title character for the amusement of his friends and neighbors.&nbsp; On page 40, Fitzgerald writes: "The bar is in full swing, and floating rounds of cocktails permeate the garden outside, until the air is alive with chatter and laughter, and casual innuendo and introductions forgotten on the spot, and enthusiastic meetings between women who never knew each other's names" (Fitzgerald 40).&nbsp; Similarly opulent soirees are also described in more recent literature, such as Brian Jacques' "Redwall" series.&nbsp; A few times a year, they can also be found at PrezBo's house.&nbsp; Unfortunately, the guest list is closed, making 60 Morningside Drive the most exclusive party spot in Manhattan since the tragic closing of Studio 54.&nbsp; The layman's best shot at gaining entry to this den of vice, then, is to come equipped with press credentials.&nbsp; If you do make it in, I suggest pulling a Hunter S. Thompson and going gonzo journalism on the event as an excuse to chug down as much high-quality liquor as possible while reveling in the hors d'oeuvres.&nbsp; 7. THOU SHALT CRASH PARTIES WITH OLDER PEOPLE&nbsp; By the time orientation is over frat parties have most likely lost their novelty and room events featuring thirty people crammed into a Carman double sweating like bitches in heat and imbibing jungle juice are on the way out as well.&nbsp; It is a fact that as you progress through college, your taste in parties becomes classier and classier, such that the venue ultimately shifts from the PIKE house to an East Campus townhouse and the party dynamic from hooking up with random drunk chicks to sharing a conversation with friends over cocktails and Sam Adams.&nbsp; (In other words: these parties can be thought of as the lovechildren of PrezBo's swanky soirees and PIKE's weekly roofie revelry.)&nbsp; Did I mention the food?&nbsp; No latter-day college party is complete without at least a bag of chips or at most crackers with cheese and pepperoni to satiate the drunken munchies in a nutritious and pretentious manner.&nbsp; And these can be yours too, free of charge - simply show up, pretend to know someone, and graze on the appetizers free of charge.&nbsp;
 As Labor Day marks the unofficial end of summer, we bring you a brief retrospective of the past three sun-drenched months. August New faces arrived on campus, in addition to a couple of changes in the neighborhood...and grounds...and ID cards. Study abroad took a Charlowian turn, while a "pretty little head"-ed singer had some harsh words for our honored leader. &nbsp; July Our colleagues embarked on numerous trips: to DC, to Bangalore, to Hogwarts. Con Edison was blamed for yet another urban nightmare. We summarized Manhattanville, CU nixed eminent domain (kind of). We ventured into the dark realm of canvassing and Good Charlotte. We mustered up some patriotism. June Barnard dissed USN&amp;WR.&nbsp; Matt Sanchez actually contributed a dispatch. We learned we may have botulism. PrezBo boycotted a boycott. Vampire Weekend began their meteoric ascent. Nacho's bit the dust; Westside came in its wake. We began our weekly to-do list. And Charlow caused more scandal. 
 A bouncer at one of the area bars that Bwog frequents tells us that all bars around campus are getting ID scanners within the next two weeks. Furthermore, according to the buzz: Columbia's footing the bill. They must really hate us... 
 Ex-freshmen Rob Stenson and Mike Molina have captured exactly how Bwog was feeling last night at 1:00 AM when, locust-like, a swarm of 2011ers descended upon Ruggles.&nbsp; It was terrifying.&nbsp; 
Barnard and Sex and the City alum Cynthia Nixon at Le Monde for brunch this morning. In unrelated news, Le Monde sucks. 
The print issue, which we worked hard to put out by Orientation, has been snarled in red tape and will arrive later in the week. But for now, a teaser: Henry Pedersen, as profiled by Hannah Goldfield. “It’s hard to explain,” says Henry Pedersen, CC’08, when I inquire as to the nature of his summer job. “Just come over whenever you can. My boss is away, so we’re having a barbecue. It’s gonna be awesome!” &nbsp; I showed up in Seattle’s Capitol Hill neighborhood around lunchtime, expecting the headquarters of an internet start-up or some obscure grassroots organization. Instead, I found an unmarked gate on a quiet residential street. Out bounded the 6 foot-plus Henry, the picture of oh-so-ironic indie rocker in a worn blue 90s-era tank top and paint-splattered pants, hair cropped short but for a single thick forelock flopped over one eye.&nbsp; But anyone who saw last year’s Varsity Show could surmise that if Henry, who composed it, were going to be in a band, it would be a tribute to Earth, Wind and Fire. He plays bass, French horn, and piano; I once found him struggling to get a baby-upright into his Ruggles dorm room (he failed). And it only takes a short conversation with him to figure out that he vehemently despises anything deemed “indie”—within five minutes of our interview, he referred to his own sister as “hipster scum.” &nbsp; So why the tag-sale look? Pure practicality, of course. He swung the gate open to reveal his office: the courtyard of an apartment complex. Far from the Merrill-ing crowds, Henry was employed as a landlord’s handyman.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Henry is not afraid to admit that he likes going against the grain for the sake of it, though he stipulates that he cares less about outcome than pathway. It’s how he explains his decision to take both Lit Hum and CC as a freshman, an experience he describes as “so fucking hard.” It’s why, on a trip to India two summers ago, the primary goal of which was to learn Sanskrit, he ended up wandering the desert for two weeks on a camel, then borrowing a canoe from a fisherman and accidentally traveling thirty kilometers upstream in a monsoon. “Coming back,” he reminisces, chuckling, “I was so sunburned that I couldn’t paddle—I had to float. It was awesome!” &nbsp; But it’s neither odd-jobbery nor ancient language that really gets his blood pumping; it’s bones. Henry started off as a religion major. And then, on a sophomore-year whim, he decided to enroll in—of all things—Forensic Osteology, and hasn’t looked back since. Before settling into his maintenance stint, he spent a few weeks in Taos, New Mexico, surveying a Pueblan Kiva, or underground house, excavated by Barnard anthropology professor Severin Fowles. For his senior thesis as an Evolutionary Biology of the Human Species major, he plans to run a faunal analysis of the decapitated skeletons of two dogs and an infant found at the site. Not exactly “Victorian Literature and the Concept of the Self.”&nbsp; What’s perhaps most surprising about Henry, however, is his dichotomous personality. It’s hard to tell whether he’s a lion dressed as a lamb or vice versa; he can be incredibly sweet one minute and stingingly sarcastic the next. He’s split his time at Columbia between bar-bouncing (you may have seen him, shoulders hunched, posted outside a certain popular Morningside watering hole) and a capella singing (he served for three semesters as the musical director of the Kingsmen), between advocating what he calls “considerate science” (in a nutshell, acknowledgement that there’s more than one way to define truth) and needling his peers (this semester he plans to sport a Hezbollah t-shirt a friend brought back from Lebanon). His academic path seems sure to lead to a professional life spent mostly in a dusty lab, yet he dreams of being on television. “If I’m not rich or famous by 25,” he declares, inexplicably, “I’m moving to New Zealand.” His ceaseless enthusiasm seems to be his only constancy.&nbsp; Henry promised barbecue, and he delivered. But as his coworkers gulfed down sausages and Kool-Aid, he seemed to have no appetite. “I feel kind of sick,” he said, breaking into his signature, gummy grin. “I ate an entire box of Trader Joe’s cereal this morning. It was awesome!”&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Bwog was passing by the Barnard gates when something caught our eye. A baby squirrel tumbled off of the top of the gate and onto the pavement. Two security guards rushed over and picked up the little guy. His nose was bleeding and he seemed to be in shock. Efforts were made to put him back on the side of the gate, so that he might be able to climb back up. At press time, the squirrel was still on the ground, the men were still trying to help it back to its home, and Bwog is terribly, terribly depressed. Sighs.
Reminder: Lolcolumbia submissions are due by midnight on the 4th. And we're for serious giving away $20. Bwog's gotten numerous entries so far, and one Loldavidjudd seems to be the frontrunner.&nbsp; 
 Bwog was partly saddened and partly relieved to see that the founding editors of Ivygate are handing the reins over to younger blood--nobody should really be running a college gossip rag when they're more than a year out of the game (and now they won't have to face defeat again). Besides, they're off doing much more exciting things: former Spec editor-in-chief Nick Summers has been assigned to cover the Hillary campaign for Newsweek, while B&amp;W alum, V112 writer, and senatorial sexpert Chris Beam continues to illuminate at Slate. We'll miss their collegiate musings, momentary disloyalties aside. Meanwhile, the new kids look promising--one of them ran the Daily Pennsylvanian's 34th Street magazine, which served as the inspiration for the one-year-old Eye (happy birthday!). And now they've got competition...but yeah, not really. Cheers, guys!&nbsp; - LBD&nbsp; 
 2011 Has Spirit, Yeah They Do, 2011 Has Spirit, How 'Bout You? This Article Is Funny When You Pretend to Yourself that 'Pinnacle' Refers to the Deli&nbsp; Brevity is the Soul of Wit&nbsp; Spec Has Powerpoint, Yeah They Do, Spec Has Powerpoint, How 'Bout You?&nbsp; ...No But it Is Very Much on the Tour?&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Complimentary coffee and tea by the Broadway entrance of Lerner.
Bwog's guide to the best dollar-store toy shopping in Harlem: a detailed narrative. By Alex Weinberg, with help from Hillary Busis.&nbsp; A walk through Harlem will most likely lead you by a few dollar stores. Go into them. You can stock up on red Solo cups, sure, but moreover, you can find the most flamboyantly packaged, lead tainted, and generally dangerous Chinese toys possible. Although the warnings on these toys will never be too alarming, be assured that these are the kinds of gifts you should buy your children if they were mistakes and you want them to die. Even the toys that aren't potentially lethal are just embarrassing. Here are some unexaggerated highlights of the things I've found:&nbsp; A faux Barbie doll with the title “Benign Girl.” A package of blank cylinders labeled “Perfume Liquid&amp;Stick Glue.” "SPNRT ZONE: PRACTISE BALLS” on a bag of nondescript plastic spheres. “Super Airplane” on a plastic bag that clearly contained a helicopter. A toy soldier set featuring six different battalions: two from Uruguay, and one each from Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, and Chile. What war were these five South American nations fighting? According to the package: the Gulf War. I'd love to find this toy company's interpretations of other historical skirmishes, like that famous battle in World War II when Hitler and his 300 Spartans braved the onslaught of Hannibal's elephants in a race to conquer the Moon. Sets of jokishly large pencil sharpeners. Large enough to sharpen a baby's whole fist. A jet fighter plane covered in military camouflage in a packaged labeled "WARLIKE TRUMP: TRUMP AIRPLANE." The cardboard backing also exclaimed "SUPERAIRPLANE" and "TRANSCENDENCE." A lot of toys that were labeled in an incredibly vague or confusing fashion. One flying disc read "Children Like Toys" while a bowling set was simply labeled "FUN." A ripoff Barbie doll was named "Amusing." The most cryptic, though, was a set of indiscernible plastic shapes entitled “MASTER COPY STAGE XDP-2.” An office supply kit labeled “STAPLE + REMVOE + STAPLES.” Note that there was no manual with this package, so I assume that the title doubles as the operating instructions. Lots and lots of World Trade Center notebooks, keychains, and other tchotchkes. If they only wrote "NEVER FORGET" on the top and then stenciled in a crying bald eagle, they could make a fortune selling them to people who need can never remember that birds have tear ducts and love skyscrapers. Many unlabeled and frighteningly realistic bladed weapons.&nbsp; All of these things have been reprinted as is, with no effort to correct for spelling or general failure to communicate. My theory is that the Chinese have secretly started World War III against the US. Although in that crafty way of theirs, they skipped the conventional weaponry and are instead trying to flay our children with "toy" shuriken and decapitate them with salad shooters. Prove me wrong.&nbsp; 
 There is a ZipCar for rent outside the 114th st. Starbucks. How fun! Big, green ZipCar flags that are flopping about Broadway proudly bear the ZipCar name.&nbsp; Bwog asked if the ZipCar was available to drive right now, but the request was denied.&nbsp;
GS's new (unnamed?) owl mascot is now hanging on the Lerner ramps. If he is, in fact, unnamed, Bwog likes Gulliver. Gulliver the lifelong-learning owl. &nbsp; 
 From earlier this afternoon: Julia Hirschberg: "Linguistics example sentences are invariably about murder or sex." It's the first day of classes, and Bwog wants to know some of the ridiculous things professors have said to commence the school year. Email bwgossip@columbia.edu if you hear anything good. &nbsp; 
 Stop it.&nbsp; Just. Stop it. &nbsp; 
 Located outside the piano lounge in Lerner, there are two delicious fruit plates and what appears to be a Caesar salad. People are tending to cautiously pick at the fruit, because it almost looks like it might be for something. But pick away, hungry masses, it's free, free, free.&nbsp;
 Though today free food seems to be ubiquitous, such is not always the case. When this situation inevitably arises, one might want to resort to Christopher Morris-Lent's final three commandments for finding and obtaining free food. 8. THOU SHALT STEAL SILVERWARE FROM JOHN JAY&nbsp; Free food usually comes with the utensils required to eat it, but these forks and spoons are but miserably flimsy plastic facsimiles of their steel counterparts.&nbsp; Plus: invariably you will take, say, a delicious salad back to your room and discover that you failed to pick up a spork with which to eat it.&nbsp; Running down to 212 to grab a disposable utensil is admitting defeat, and letting the salad sit uneaten is missing the point entirely.&nbsp; In cases like these, then, I contend that it is convenient to be able to bust open one of your drawers and pull out a fork that you conveniently forgot to place on the conveyor belt as you left John Jay, because said fork was in your pocket.&nbsp; Grab a spoon and a knife, too.&nbsp; You will use them.&nbsp; Washing is optional - whenever my fork got grotesquely encrusted with detritus from who knows what bygone meals, I'd simply flip it over and use the other end to stir my tea (brewed in a mug still redolent of last night's Monarch vodka).&nbsp; 9. THOU SHALT FILCH FROM 212&nbsp; A different kind of "free food" than what ABC might have in mind, stolen goods from Café 212 form the dietary staple of those poor freshman souls who have blown all their points on overpriced sandwiches by mid-October and have no desire to run the laxative-filled gauntlet of John Jay more than is humanly necessary.&nbsp; Simply pluck a salad or a Naked Juice from the shelf and walk away.&nbsp; Works best whenever the underpaid cashiers are inundated with orders from grumpy students (between the hours of 10 AM and 8 PM); comes with complimentary thrill of taking it to The Man and staving off a dinner of Hamburger à la Ex-Lax for just one more goddamn day all at once.&nbsp; I personally never did this.&nbsp; Heh heh. 10. THOU SHALT REFRESH BWOG EVERY FIVE MINUTES&nbsp; But seriously: even if you make a fetish out of following the first nine commandments, you will often find your hands and stomach empty and your wallet faced with the ignominious task of sacrificing its contents to food.&nbsp;&nbsp; This is because your success anent free food is based largely on luck, like baseball or hooking up with the opposite sex (or so I tell myself.)&nbsp; Free food appears around campus irregularly and unpredictably only to evanesce an hour or two later.&nbsp; Humbert Humbert might have put it thus: "Free food, sweetest and most capricious of commodities!" The sly scavenger has but one recourse, and that is to refresh Bwog religiously.&nbsp; Searching for free food without reading Bwog would be like fighting Nazi Germany without solving Enigma.&nbsp; A dedicated team of tipsters works around the clock to inform the editors of any potential free feeding frenzies, and the editors work around the clock to bring knowledge of these to the masses.&nbsp; With this advantage in information, you are assured a greater bounty of free food than even the luckiest and most persistent campus peripatetic.&nbsp; EPILOGUE&nbsp; Free food is sporadic and ephemeral.&nbsp; Most of the time your cravings will go as unsatisfied as John Daly's yen for a swallow of Gentleman Jack in the middle of the 10th fairway.&nbsp; But life is too short and John Jay too, um, shitty, to miss those rare and glorious occasions at Columbia when there is such thing as a free lunch.&nbsp; WORKS CITED&nbsp; Fitzgerald, F. Scott.&nbsp; The Great Gatsby.&nbsp; Scribner: New York, 1953. &nbsp; 
 Vice magazine? Please. Radar re-re-re-launched, remember? Bwog applauds the subtle Photoshopping I spy with my little eye... original observations! Can you find them? Can you?&nbsp; Even though this sounds like it was written by someone who has never even been to Columbia, Bwog likes the phrase "a pair of Betas" The library looks an awful lot like Low, doesn't it Spongebob? &nbsp; 
 Transformation to what, exactly? Only time will tell. But it's most assuredly something brown, something square, and something inexplicably partial to Century Gothic. 
But have those Columbia officials ever actually been to Cleveland? Barnard doesn't need rankings, needs rankings Lit Hum leaker takes responsibility for incident, doesn't take responsibility for incident Loosely related concepts and ideas considered, discussed at length A call for accountability We still miss Blue Angel 
 Columbia's paranoiacs probably got chills when they received a flyer asking them if they live within 300 miles of campus and were willing to accommodate students in "the event of an emergency." And if you're not a paranoiac and are honestly&nbsp; curious as to what kind of emergency could be catastrophic enough to both shut down campus and prevent people from traveling more than 300 miles, you should have a look at this.&nbsp; So does the University's active preparation for a flu pandemic bad enough to keep us within a 300-mile quarantine for months at a time mean that we're actually doomed, or that Columbia isn't taking any chances? Until we find out, Bwog will sleep a little better knowing the University has a "pandemic influenza response plan" ready--although the whole thing strikes us as just a&nbsp;little...Strangelovian? - ARR 
...kind of. In what could be a cynically necessary (or unprecedentedly desperate) attempt to motivate Columbia's legions of indifferent&nbsp;secular Jews, Aish is offering to shell out $250 to anyone willing to take their online course in general&nbsp;Judaism. While Bwog can't help but&nbsp;question Aish's methodology (even more in-your-face than a year and a half ago) its Columbia chapter head, freshly-ordained Rabbi Yehuda Zachter, is enthusiastic and&nbsp;quite approachable--the rookie organization has an office at Earl Hall, and Bwog is interested in seeing whether it is successful in&nbsp;carving out (buying itself?) a place in Columbia's Jewish scene. 
The print magazine is rushing here from New Jersey--until it arrives, here's another teaser from B&amp;W Culture Editor Paul Barndt. Art by Shaina Rubin. The French Evolution: Race, Politics, and the 2005 Riots, works by Alexis Peskine Museum of Contemporary African Diasporic Arts 80 Hanson Place, Brooklyn Directions: Take the downtown 2/3 to Atlantic Avenue When I arrived at MoCADA, the Bastille Day party was going strong— consummated with free crêpes in the museum's backyard. The seminal French holiday was an occasion to celebrate not just independence, but MoCADA's current exhibit, "The French Evolution." Founded in 1999 in by Laurie Cumbo, the Museum of Contemporary African Diasporic Arts currently occupies the ground floor of the James E. Davis Arts Building—a several-story space not far into Brooklyn and just down the block from the large Pacific-Atlantic Ave. subway stop— which the Brooklyn Academy of Music allots to various artists and arts organizations (the contemporary music collective "Bang on a Can", for example, has the seventh floor). One such artist, Alexis Peskine, the creator of "French Evolution" is the poster boy for MoCADA's mission— he has French, Russian Jewish, and Afro-Brazilian heritage. He splits his time between Paris, his childhood home, Salvador, Brazil, (where his mother's family lives), Washington, D.C., and New York; he was educated in the States. Peskine is at least 6'4'', and built like a linebacker; he first came to America for high school basketball camp, and went on to play football at Howard University. When I met him, he was wearing jeans and a yellow Astro Boy t-shirt. His soft, thoughtful voice had traces of France and Brooklyn. The focal point of his exhibition is the 2005 French riots, eruptions of civil unrest which occurred predominantly in Paris' banlieues, (outskirts, or suburbs), where large numbers of Arabs and Africans have emigrated in recent years. Peskine is an able, versatile guide on the roads of this thorny conflict. MoCADA has three rooms, and, roughly speaking, the first contains political cartoons with popular icons. In one several-feet-high painting, RoboCop, holding a baguette, looms over most of the frame. RoboCop looms over a background of hundreds of French national identification cards, which all French citizens are required to carry. On occasion, French policeman will ask people to produce these cards, (more frequently in certain neighborhoods than in others). Peskine explained that the baguette symbolized the attempt to "beat the Frenchness" into people from other cultures. "I thought about putting a beret on , but that may have been a little too much," he told me. <!-- D( ); //--> The second room contains a mix of the sociopolitical—one wall is covered with dozens of copies of a racist food advertisement—and the personal—Peskine had transformed his own elementary school class photo into a conceptual grid. The black paint and white canvas of the mapping allows the races and genders of the students to become ambiguous. The title of the work is Qui? In the third room there are many portraits, including one of Peskine's mother, done in a signature style involving hundreds and hundreds of nails. First, Peskine uses rasterization—the process of turning an image into a series of pixels or dots. Then, using that photograph as a guide, he outlines the painting with nails in place of those dots in an almost pointillist style. Each nail must be exactly the right size, and it takes much filing and even more hammering to complete each work. The result is an unusual mix of media and visual experience, both digital and eminently tactile. His work has plenty to teach an American audience, although he is perhaps even more excited at the prospect of taking "The French Evolution" to France. "If you are not white, if you are a minority in France," he said, "There is a victimization mindset. You are not supposed to complain. I hope people can see this, and I hope it excites them." The French Evolution ends on September 9, but it's the perfect first weekend of school adventure, both for adventurous first-years planning a Brooklyn excursion, and for upperclassmen looking for good art right off the 2/3. 
Or so we can assume from this ominous and somewhat&nbsp;vague &nbsp;sign. More mysterious than which plague-carriers the "other vermin" part of this sign could refer to is who the hell (other than Bwog)&nbsp;still uses the word "vermin." "Varmints" is the preferred nomenclature these days. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
While most Columbians know the Heyman Center as the ugly concrete slab abutting East Campus, it may soon be known for something else: really sexy speaking engagements. The Heyman schedule includes controversial Holocaust historian Peter Novick, "Israel Lobby" author John Mearshimer (both on 10/30), Counterpunch editor Alexander Cockburn (10/9 and 10/10), and Freakonomist Sudhir Vankatesh (9/13), as well as Adrienne Rich (10/1 and 10/2)&nbsp;and Joseph Stiglitz (10/8). Bwog is currently drooling all over its keyboard, and&nbsp;predicts that&nbsp;the Foner-Cockburn conversation (10/10)&nbsp;will be one of the more interesting and contentious lectures of the year.
 It's time to vote for the best Lolcolumbia entry.&nbsp; Choose carefully, for the winner will live on in meowchat history (and win $20). Lol-erskates! {{poll "10"}} 
To the left, to the left, The Blue and White September issue in the box to the left (and on newsstands tomorrow!). They blinded us with science Tutors are the new nannies So people actually use Lion Laundry? D.C. Interns have come a long way since Monica Lewinsky 1020 — a family joint &nbsp; 
 Here's an addition to the list of&nbsp;fun prophylactics that currently includes bar scanners, NSOP party shut-downs, stricter RA rules, and chastising frats (more on that later)-- Bwog hears the Lion's Head pub underwent a police raid and fake&nbsp;ID roundup late last night. Will it never end? &nbsp; &nbsp; 
“Delta Delta Delta, can I help ya, help ya, help ya?” No more kickbacks here Stop Columbia! Unless I get a good business deal out of it. But will there be swipe access? Chipotle vs. Taqueria- showdown of the century Fashion! Fashion! Fashion! 
Girl 1: But I do want to go. Girl 2: You don't have to put out, I swear. just go - Corner of 114th and Broadway &nbsp;Overheard by Jessica Cohen Girl: So my dad is a law professor here, so my house is on Riverside. It's really convenient. - CC Class Girl: No, daddy, come here and buy it for me! -"Book Culture" 
 Wien's undergone some changes other than landscaping. The single bathrooms on each floor have historically been used by both genders, but this year, complaints prompted the Housing gods to make them all either for women or men. When picking into housing, those with bad enough numbers to be stuck in Wien did know which floors had which gender bathrooms, but some had numbers so bad that they didn't have a choice--meaning a walk up a flight of stairs to go to take a pee. Last night on at least one floor, the issue came up during RA meetings, with proposals to make the bathrooms again open to all. Residents were informed that no floor would be allowed to switch, in order to avert problems of uneven overcrowding. Accusations of unfairness flew, while girls defended their right to toilet seats without pee on them. The battle continues. 
 Eminent domain? More like open domain.&nbsp; "Why’d you pick Columbia? It was actually very easy because I didn’t get into any of my other upper echelon schools." Shoes! Vogue! Fashion! Parties! Did you know it's fashion week? One sentence Lit Hum summaries are overdone. Vamp Vamp 
 So you thought the Facebook apps were bad. Now Facebook has this nifty little feature where non-members and search engines can access your Facebook too! In technical terms, your public search listing is indexed by external search engines (Google, Yahoo, MSN, etc.). Now alongside your high school cross-country race times, curious minds can also see that lovely profile picture and your list of friends. Then, a click will allow them to message you. It’s only weird when grandma starts messaging you on Facebook. Or you can just go to your privacy settings and turn the feature off. 
Yesterday, PrezBo dusted off the ol' blue and white robes and headed north for the inauguration of JTS's new chancellor. Bwogger Armin Rosen dressed less ridiculously for the occasion. During his inaugural address as the newly-minted seventh chancellor of the Jewish Theological Seminary, former Stanford professor Arnold Eisen recalled how, as a staffer for the Daily Pennsylvanian in the early 70s, he asked socially conscious Seminary professor Abraham Joshua Heschel why felt he could use Jewish tradition in order to deal with contemporary crises, and how he had the chutzpah to believe that it mattered to do so. “Because words count,” the venerable Heschel responded--implying, in Eisen view, that Judaism had given him a responsibility to participate in the political and cultural conflicts of his time, and had, inevitably, enabled his&nbsp;words and ideas to matter.&nbsp; &nbsp; In front of Presidents Bollinger and Shapiro, as well as the JTS faculty and representatives of numerous other academic and religious institutions, Eisen explained just how he would make his words and actions as Chancellor--and as de-facto head of conservative Judaism--count. Borrowing from his experience with Heschel, Eisen elaborated on the “fruitful tension” that exists between modernity and tradition within Jewish life. Maintaining a deft balance of&nbsp;cautious optimism and sobering realism, he explained that JTS exists in order to make sure that that tension remains fruitful; to keep American Jewry fixated on the religion’s glorious past, but mindful of how historical and cultural experience can be used to cope with the world’s uncertain and oftentimes frightening future. Eisen was optimistic as to what this kind of balance can do for conservative Judaism, rejecting the notion of American Judaism being in decline, and speaking of a new Jewish “renaissance." But he was also candid about the communal challenges he will face as Chancellor, mentioning that most conservative Jews&nbsp;“don’t know what their movement stands for,” and warning of increased American disconnectedness with Israeli Jews.&nbsp; &nbsp; As a lay scholar, Eisen can afford to be idealistic without being dogmatic--but as an observant Jew he values tradition as much as idealism. Eisen was heavy on idealism, and talked about how “real pluralism” could help change the popular perception of religion as a&nbsp;polarizing and ultimately destructive force in the world. But on the traditionalism side, “real pluralism” for Eisen includes a rejection of relativism, and a recommitment to Jewish values and ideals. This idealism-tinged traditionalism (traditional-tinged idealism?) would seem like a convenient, diplomatic middle-path for a movement whose traditional&nbsp;wing still feels slighted by the seminary's decision to ordain homosexuals. But Eisen made it clear that far from being oxymoronic, a forward-thinking religious conservatism could be a principled and intellectually legitimate means of viewing the modern world. In a sense, his tenure as chancellor will hinge on whether he can convince Conservative Jews (and prospective JTS students) that this is actually the case. At least PrezBo was convinced—in a short speech introducing Eisen, he said that the seminary's dual degree programs with Columbia and Barnard demonstrated how “institutions can intersect where we as human beings constantly try to intersect.” Eisen's job is to keep that intersection relevant without alienating anybody. As a younger and enthusiastic career intellectual with dazzling interpersonal skills and a keen understanding of the obstacles that lie ahead, seminarians don't have much to worry about, and should&nbsp;probably be pretty excited. But as PrezBo mentioned during his own introduction, inauguration day is&nbsp;not your best as a college president—but it's up there. &nbsp; 
 Bwog believes that you should absolutely judge a group by its flyers, and with recruitment posters blanketing campus, there are a lot of pre-judgments to make. But even if you're not considering joining any, you can at least appreciate what they say about the state of national politics, and how the clubs themselves are doing. The Columbia Dems, who recently won Chapter of the Year, appear to be in a triumphalist mood. And the Republicans...are being inclusive? &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - LBD&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Money Space Money Space Space Money Space Money&nbsp; Mexican soccer players...they're just like us!&nbsp; Oh how wonderful it is to be a Spec Arts writer Putting Collegeboxes on notice 
On the semester's first Friday the activities fair bestowed unto Bwog the following: One plastic Japanese fan (which was very useful in the foul heat) One pocketful of melted chocolate At least four varieties of baked goods Condoms-a-plenty the Holy Bible &nbsp;One bright yellow gym sack brandished with advertising from Columbia Community Outreach A nice little dry erase board embellished, in blue, with our beloved mascot An upcoming surplus of organizational spam Also, were you aware that there is such thing as a Figure Skating Club at Columbia? Or that there's an organization devoted to aeronautics? Neither were we -- but we were tempted to make a run with the Society of Automotive Engineers' race car parked in the middle of college walk. We know it's hot, but you have about 45 minutes to decide which of those esoteric organizations are going to take over your life for the rest of your college career. Get to it, kids!&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 A big Bwog welcome to the Blaaag (rhymes with gag, and not to be confused with Blaaaaahg), which we stumbled upon a few weeks ago before it officially launched on Tuesday. The Blaaag staff wants you to know that although it is specific to Asian American stuff, it is not the voice of the Asian American community, that it's not Calvin Sun's mouthpiece, and that it doesn't gossip. Ever.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Hurry! Until 8 PM, EC Plaza will have free BBQ followed by desserts from Kitchenette in the Wien Courtyard. Give your thanks to Residential Life (especially EC/Wien RAs).
In which Bwog freelancer Zack Hoopes infiltrates the world of I-banking infosessions. "THIS is where you need to be.&nbsp; This IS where you need to be. This is where YOU need to be." The JP Morgan interns on the TV screen said this phrase to me, over and over again, in every conceivable form of emphasis.&nbsp; The jock, the foreign kid, and even the token hot chick wanted me to don a tasteful pantsuit and come with them on a magical journey of investing, trading, and general money-finagling. And why not? "Whatever got you into Columbia, that's all the talent you'll need for a career here at JP Morgan," said the man at the podium. "JP Morgan and Columbia have had a long and valuable relationship." Which is probably what his second wife said to him before she took half of his shit and moved to LA. I have always wondered what being an i-banker (a term which I've been told is distasteful to those in the profession, but will be used here for convenience) would be like. There seem to be two general views on the subject: one, that i-banking is a golden opportunity to advance into the global economy of the future; and two, that it's a loathsome and degenerate profession that profits from the injustice of capitalism. At Columbia, I've seen many preach the latter but act the former. In my more philosophical moments, it seems like our simultaneous&nbsp;appreciation and repulsion of Wall Street captures the disillusionment of a generation, born into a world where the idea of freedom has been commercialized and commodified. But enough with the theory. I set out Wednesday night for the JP Morgan presentation/networking night at Faculty House, to find out first-hand what i-bankers are like. My initial dilemma was that the flyer for the event said "business casual at minimum." My maximum business casual, as it turned out, was far less than their minimum. My only pants that aren't jeans are a pair of cotton twills that I used for hiking in the boy scouts. I have a brown sport coat that hasn't been ironed since Jerry Orbach was among the living (we miss you, Briscoe). Furthermore, I bear a distinct resemblance to Jeffery "the Dude" Lebowski. Blending in would be difficult. There was a huge line outside faculty house to get in to the session. A guy walking out of EC stopped and approached me. "Hey, were you in my poli sci seminar this afternoon?" he asked. "Maybe. I was in State Failure," I replied. "Yeah, I thought I recognized you. What's all this for?" "Some kind of Merrill Lynch internship thing." "Oh. Have fun with that."&nbsp; He gave me that 'you're such a tool' sneer and turned away. The girl in front of me in the line turned. "Actually I think this is a JP Morgan session." "Really?&nbsp; Aren't they sort of the same thing, though?" She took out a black appointment book and thumbed through it. "Better be JP Morgan," she mumbled.&nbsp; I had the info written down, too – scrawled on a cocktail napkin, wadded up in the back pocket of my other pants.&nbsp; Everyone around me was carrying a leather-bound folder; because apparently when you're an i-banker, you need a folder that will see your resume unscathed through high-speed road rash. Upon entering, I was given a sticky name tag and several fill-in-yourself business cards, for use in 'networking' with the JP Morgan employees and reps circulating through the room.&nbsp; Since I didn't know anybody there, I decided to maintain my anonymity. Dubbing myself "Bill Johnston," I roamed the crowd. Networking at a bank session is eerily similar to picking up skanks at your local dive bar. The entire point is to schmooze with somebody to the point where you can exchange phone numbers in anticipation of some later benefit. While you're canoodling with your target, others awkwardly hang around and try to act engaged, awaiting their turn to take a stab at making an impression good enough to reap the reward (presumably a blue-chip internship, or—in the bar scenario—a blow job). The presentation itself consisted of a guy who spoke briefly from the front of the room, followed by a videos and slide shows on several LCD screens. After a while, I realized what seemed slightly off: no one ever really talked about what JP Morgan, as a company, actually does.&nbsp; Phrases like 'financial solutions' and 'comprehensive investment' were plastered all over the room, and statistics of dollar turnover flashed by on occasion. But there was no mention of a purpose to what was done, no time given to a role within the larger business world, no thought paid to how the employees actually approach their work. The topic was cunningly avoided, like a fart at the dinner table, or like how you say your brother is "away" when you really mean he's serving a nickel for pederasty. The entire slide show was filled with images of interns going out to dinner with one another, volunteering at a local school, running a 5k, saving the whales – doing everything but sitting in offices. Testimonials on the video praised the opportunities for advancement, the volume of money handled, and the great social atmosphere. "Your coworkers are not just your coworkers; they're your friends and family," a girl piped. I honestly still don't know what analysts at JP Morgan do. I suppose they analyze, in some capacity. All of the reps I talked to seemed turned off when I asked them about how they handled their everyday tasks, throwing out&nbsp;catchphrases about how "the company" functions. Maybe that's stuff that people applying to investment banks already know. In essence, JP Morgan told me that, in exchange for my labor, they would provide me with pre-packaged success.&nbsp;The job, the clothes, the social life – it was all there on the TV screen, beckoning for me to join in.&nbsp;But it must be exhausting.&nbsp;Living the i-banker life seemed to have sucked all the passion out of the employees, and replaced it with the bittersweet 'charisma' that the man at the podium said was the most important trait for success in business. No one seemed to identify their work with its significance; the appeal of the career came exclusively from the impressive figures the company provided and the social life surrounding it. As I walked out of Faculty House, I had to ask myself; if presented with the opportunity to be an i-banker would I take it? I-bankers will undoubtedly own nicer cars than me, live in fancier apartments, and bang hotter women.&nbsp;But if I learned anything from the JP Morgan session, it’s that there’s a trade off. To live the life of luxury, you have to be able to stomach the looming presence of the company itself, able to endure the strictures of the financier’s lifestyle and attitude. For all the power that is associated with Wall Street, I felt powerless in that room. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Bwog happened upon a man making an intricate chalk drawing of the Virgin Mary--we think--on the sidewalk outside Havana Central. A collection hat said he was using donations to put his kids through college. We dropped some change in, admired some more, and moved on. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ...And in profane news, we hear all the parties in EC (and the Dems' welcome back fiesta in Ruggles) were summarily broken up relatively early last evening. Boo hiss. 
Bwog announces the return of Thursday Room Hopping -- now on a new day! Jessica's room in Claremont is probably the best place on campus to sit pretzel-style on the ground with some milk and cookies for a read-aloud. The artistic senior spent the week of down-time before school began bringing the outdoors inside of her spacious single. Clouds float and birds soar on her light green walls. A tree, lovingly cut out of cardboard, sheds some of its leaves as if a squirrel had just disrupted some branches. "New York can feel like a harsh, overcivilized place," she said. "I wanted to make it feel like I could have a picnic in my room." The room has a beach-house feel to it -- Claremont's signature wood floors, the art on the walls, the beige throw-rug, the white canopy over her soft white bed. Books sit not on a shelf, but in a wicker basket on the floor, and a mug hangs delicately by its handle from a hook on the wall. She has adorned her walls with art -- even the light switch has something to say. -SEV Have a tricked-out dorm, or wish to volunteer a friend/foe's room? E-mail bwgossip@columbia.edu, and we'll send a correspondent to scrutinize your living space for next week's edition of room hopping!
Tipster Nishant Batsha Reports: "There's a bunch of tents set up in front of Hamilton to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the building. I asked some guy dressed up in colonial-era clothing and he said it was open to "students, alumni, and donors." Free pastries!" Sounds good.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Photos by a person with a Buffalo area code, sent via cell phone. Thanks, Buffalo Bill/Betsy! &nbsp; 
 This Bwogger stopped down to the annual Art Parade on West Broadway today and was delighted to see an incognito CUMB (their CU Arts Nalgenes gave them away)representing Alma Mater not only in the recesses of downtown but amid a churning sea of be-glittered flesh, papier mache effigies, and young women held aloft by balloons. (Due apologies for poor image quality.) &nbsp; 
 This is shaping up to be a bad year for fun and games, especially in EC--last night and tonight, a line stretched out the door and down the steps. According to one correspondent, yesterday security guards bounced non-residents entirely. Walking through the 116th gates, Bwog also overheard a radio communique directing the posted security guard to meet in the Ruggles lobby to break up two parties raging a few floors up. So, no parties in bars, no parties in dorms, no parties in frats. We're going to go cry now. &nbsp; 
 Bwog heard through the grapevine that some of the employees at 212 have asked familiar faces for a most unusual favor: to write Dining Services an e-mail requesting that the Chef's-Hat-Required policy be nixed.&nbsp; We think this a worthy cause, and if you do too, shoot the Dining mandarins an e-mail at eats@columbia.edu. It'll take just a second and will do wonders for your karma. 
 Remember when to gather signatures for a petition you had to stand around with a clipboard accosting strangers on the street? Web-based petitions have done away with all the discomfort, and now rallying support for a cause is as easy as setting up a letter on one of the several petition sites and watching the number grow. The latest one we're aware of (after these two) urges the City Council to deny the University's 197-C plan (the one with lots of big shiny buildings) for Manhattanville until it satisfactorily reflects the Community Board's 197-A plan (the one with affordable housing and light manufacturing). At last count, it's up to 188 signatures, although the whole "student petition" moniker may be slightly inaccurate. That's the problem with online activism--harder to keep the wackos out. Read our midsummer Manhattanville roundup here, and relatively jargon-free testimony on the 197-A plan here. - LBD &nbsp; 
In which Bwog Arts correspondent Daniel D'Addario watches MTV so you don't have to. Promise him you won't. This is the worst thing ever to happen to America. I am stuffing my face with Westside Market cheddar on crackers to smother my feelings; from next door, the smell of pot reminds me that hope is still possible. I'm moments into the Video Music Awards, precious time I could have spent writing a novel or teaching children to sing or crying softly into my pillow. The show begins with a close-up shot of Britney Spears's weave - not artfully done, Brit - and my fantasies that she'd go bald for the show seem to have evaporated. Moments later, I'll be fantasizing that Britney Spears were standing upright, walking in a straight line, and not using "slowly shuffling like Linus Van Pelt" to simulate "dancing." I've given more compelling performances while singing "Like a Prayer" in the shower. She lies down; her backup dancers try to lift her up; they struggle. I stop eating the cheese. Britney lipsynchs (need it be said?) terribly the line, "I still want more." Indeed. Reaction shots: 50 Cent, nonplussed. Rihanna, cracking up. Dan D'Addario, smiling wistfully at memories of "Umbrella," through unshed tears. Sarah Silverman bombs brilliantly, with a series of jokes about Ms. Spears: "Isn't she amazing? Only 25, and she's already accomplish everything she'll ever accomplish." &nbsp;Jennifer Garner looks enraged, which, chill, Sydney Bristow, no one said shit about Alias. Why are you here? Why is anyone here? Alicia Keys comes on and rants for a few minutes, thanking Sarah Silverman for not making fun of her. All the lesbian jokes have been made, Alicia. Some other stuff happens; the memories are fuzzy. The reason why is, instead of defined set pieces or even beginnings or ends of performances, whatever drug-addled monkey is directing this show cuts into and out of acts going on in random hotel rooms at the Palms. Awards-wise: Rihanna wins something, endears herself to America further. Beyonce takes her award either way too seriously or not seriously enough, with a near-nip slip on the way. Justin Timberlake, out of his mind on some substance, tells MTV to play more videos. Hopefully not "What Goes Around Comes Around." The Hills girls give Justin a second award, and remind me that not all television is bad weaves, cokey clenched jaws, and an audience who doesn't understand where they are. Sometimes it's The Hills - well-directed; energetic; coherent; Spencer Pratt aside, less painful than getting hit in the face by Britney's weave. I turn off MTV. The rest is still unwritten. Sports correspondent David Iscoe updates us on Sunday Night Football: Meanwhile Jason Witten has come through with a pretty good performance on Sunday Night Football. 5 catches for 78 yards including a touchdown. Ok, the terrible, terrible Giants just recovered a fumble on the kickoff. Football sucks. And it looks like they just stole the ball in the pile after the actual recovery. The NFL is illegitimate and nobody should watch it. &nbsp;FOOTBALL IS GREAT!!!! John Madden tries to explain how the Giants' kicker can get dehydrated despite only coming in a handful of times a game to kick a ball. "Sometimes they warm up so much and kick so many balls into the net that they just hyperventilate themselves." Somewhere in America, someone is watching the movie Little Giants. That person is the only person in the country watching the Giants beat the Cowboys, arguably because Tom Coughlin didn't have the balls to call the Annexation of Puerto Rico. The Hills airs Monday nights at 10. Never, ever watch anything else on MTV. Or sports. 
 The new Spectator website ain't working so hot right now. So hang tight, and we'll get you a QuickSpec as soon as the Spec site loads. Or at least soon after that.&nbsp; UPDATE: There's now a message on the website saying the site will be down for the day. It will return in the future. No, not the cool future where there' cars flying around, or the apocalyptic future where the whole world is covered in ash, or the eventual future when we find out if the universe really has what it takes to tear apart subatomic particles, or even the wheat futures where you can buy grain that doesn't yet exist. It will return in the boring "very near future." UPDATE #2: Word is that the site is down down, technical difficulties and all that. You might actually have to pick up a paper now, and think of funny headlines in your head. 
As the anniversary of the physical attack approaches, Bwog correspondent Alex Weinberg reels from the mental attack of 9-11 conspiracy theorists. September 11th is fast approaching, and, like swallows returning to Capistrano, 9/11 conspiracy theorists are emerging from their basements and taking to the streets to let you all know how dumb you really are. For those who've never enjoyed their presence, just head outside for a stroll: you'll see them marching everywhere from Church Street up to our very campus, happily forcing flyers and DVDs into the palms of unsuspecting tourists. Their predatory packs are hard to dodge and impossible to miss. Rather than promoting a political or social cause, conspiracy theorists are here to sell their story that September 11th was a lie. To them, airplane collisions could not have toppled the Twin Towers, and something else must have led to the unprecedented destruction. Let me just say that I take deep offense at this idea. Conservative commentators often deride 9/11 conspiracy theorists for their lack of patriotism or compassion or whatever, but I think this is a far too easy way of thinking. Instead, I hate them for the much more substantiative sin of being stupid and loud.&nbsp; To me--a structural engineering student and longtime supporter of skyscrapers and skyscraper-related causes--they might as well be protesting against evolutionary theory or the abstract notion of time. Here's how it breaks down: A few conspiracy theorists believe the comparatively benign notion that the Bush administration knew about the 9/11 attacks and did nothing to prevent them. Most, however, maintain that the government actively planned and executed the attacks. These conspiracy theorists believe that airplanes were flown into the Twin Towers, which were then demolished using previously planted explosives. Some go further, claiming that the planes were remote-controlled into the towers, or that spherical mystery pods and bombs were dropping from the bellies of the 767's, or that United 175 was actually a dolled-up Patriot missile, or even that tiny nuclear bombs were used to bring the towers down. I am not making any of this up--I wish I had that much creativity.&nbsp;&nbsp; The main culprits are obviously Bush and Cheney, who supposedly staged the attacks as an excuse to start their wars. The list of suspects then radiates wildly outward to include everyone from Rudy Giuliani to the Port Authority of New York, Pakistan, OPEC, the NFL, other less fervent conspiracy theorists, NASA, McGraw Hill Publishing, and of course the conniving Jewbankers.&nbsp; They get their work done through the Internet, mostly. Web firebrands like Alex Jones (UFO baron) and Dylan Avery (demonstrably ugly), have invested years of their lives into highly polished websites and videos to spread their belief that the September 11th attacks were a government plot. Their material is very convincing and very well made, and a lot of people fall for it. They employ neatly edited footage, quotes from actual firefighters, and analyses from (dubiously) credentialed scientists in a slick symphony of propaganda. In a society where your structural engineering experience doesn't matter as much as your Myspace page, people will believe what you convince them to believe. &nbsp; It's all bunk, of course. Their science is terrible, the first hand accounts that support their story are few out of tens of thousands, and the professional scientists that agree with the controlled demolition hypothesis rarely, if ever, have experience in the building trades. Even their self-appointed name, the "9/11 Truth Movement," is drenched in outright phoniness. First, by referring to themselves as a "Movement," conspiracy theorists try to apply the same level of legitimacy and import as the Civil Rights or Suffrage Movement to a bunch of scattered but highly dedicated Internet trolls. By their logic, angry Bwog commenters form a veritable Revolution.&nbsp; Moreover, they're equating the word "truth" with whatever reality they deem to be the optimal one, regardless of bogus physics, sketchy logic, and paranoid thinking. They're doing to the word "truth" what President Bush has done to the word "freedom." At this pace, there are going to be no words left for future generations to bastardize.&nbsp; But they're off of the Internet now and onto the streets. That's why, on September 8th, I went down to Ground Zero to meet the conspiracy theorists as they geared up for 4 days on nonstop screaming.&nbsp;&nbsp; Alex Weinberg will return with Part 2 in the fairly near future. 
 Former CC '08 president Isaac Silverman has a new project. After taking a year off to found the never-quite-functional www.campusboxoffice.com (which will be shutting down entirely this week) the now-junior has joined up with four Yalies to launch what he called a "really cool game." The venture is called GoCrossCampus, a kind of massive Ivy-wide virtual game of Risk scheduled to launch October 22--right in the middle of midterms.&nbsp; According to a front-page article in the Yale Herald, Silverman met the GXC team while working together on another failed project, which would have been a "Craigslist for college students." That one fell to the inexorable advance of Facebook. Bwog fears for this one as well, barring a truly massive show of interest by the D&amp;D set. Read this issue's piece on student businesses here, or find it on newsstands today. Also, it's back! Sort of. - LBD 
Bwog presents this Fall’s off-off-off-Broadway line-up. Look for their inevitable posters later this semester. October: Cowboys and Indians (CU Players) – 10/19-20 The Gist: A Will Snider (CC ’09) play about three guys, a campfire, and the American dream. The Gimmick: A student written show that’ll be performed sober. The Real Inspector Hound (Aporia Repertory Company/KCST) – 10/19-20 The Gist: Agatha Christie meets literary theory. The Gimmick: Post-show discussions with actors and crew, making it even more like you never left class. Auditions Mon, Tue, Wed at 8pm in Hamilton Hall King Lear (KCST) – 10/26-27 The Gist: Sometimes it’s not good to be king. The Gimmick: Actually set in medieval England as opposed to, say, Japan. Auditions Mon, Tue, Wed at 8pm in Hamilton Hall November: The Sublet Experience (CU Players) – 11/9-10, 16-17 The Gist: Romantic comedy The Gimmick: Performed in dorm rooms. Which may make it indistinguishable from a normal Saturday night. Pippin (CMTS) – 11/15-17 The Gist: A musical about Charlemagne’s hunchbacked son. Yes, really. The Gimmick: The whole score will be re-orchestrated for a rock band with the help of the original musical director of Pippin, Joe Klein. No Exit and Variations on the Death of Trotsky (ARC/CU Players) – 11/16-17 The Gist: Hell is other people. The Gimmick: Going up in an Off-Broadway venue, featuring the same cast and crew as “The Real Inspector Hound” Auditions Mon, Tue, Wed at 8pm in Hamilton Hall Agamemnon (CU Players) – 11/16-17 The Gist: The Core Office sponsors yet another cycle of vengeance. The Gimmick: Guaranteed audience of freshmen grudgingly looking for extra credit Auditions Wed, Thu at 8-11pm in Hamilton Hall December: Into the Woods (CMTS) – 11/30-12/1 The Gist: Little Red Riding Hood, Jack (of Beanstalk fame), Rapunzel, and Cinderella sing Sondheim, battle for their lives. The Gimmick: Crew from V113 After Icarus Fell (Black Theater Ensemble) - 12/7-9 The Gist: An African-American family struggling to come to terms with their ever-present and seemingly unshakable past. The Gimmick: With an off-campus director and a script from MFA student Harrison Rivers, it’s undergraduate theater without the undergrads. TBD: LateNite The Gist: Short student-written shows The Gimmick: Alcohol Accepting submissions later this semester NOMADS The Gist: Long student-written shows The Gimmick: Last semester’s was a sci-fi musical… Still accepting submissions until Wednesday, email nomads@barnard.edu -AWT 
 We're not sure whether this Butler Lounge vandal has left us a&nbsp;bold political statement or a tasteless joke. What we're sure of is that a&nbsp;small, mostly-desert country has&nbsp;nothin' on&nbsp;a delicious falafel pocket...
According to the University's Upcoming Events calendar, Columbia isn't formally organizing any 9/11 memorial services or moments of silence. There is, however, this commemoration at the New York Historical Society, as well as events being held all day today at the park adjacent to Ground Zero.
 Bwog's going back to bed.&nbsp; 
 Free TimesSelect is here with the wave of your Columbia/Barnard email address. And although you have to give your CU email to the Times, (and to all your professors and Michelle Diamond and Lee Bollinger and Austin Quigley), that doesn't mean you have to deal with CubMail, Columbia's the homage to 2002's latest technologies. After the jump is Mark Holden's guide to forwarding email to Gmail. It ran about a year ago and remains some of the most usable and earnest advice Bwog's ever given. Being a Columbia student means dealing with e-mail. Craploads of it. You have an account through the school, but you'd do yourself a favor by getting a colorful Gmail account from our friends at Google. Why? Infinite storage space, accessibility from any computer, rapid-fire messages that don't clutter your inbox, the best spam filter available, and a fun chat feature! Bwog staffer Mark Holden offers this guide to the best e-mail system out there. &nbsp; Step 1: Join the club&nbsp; First, you need to get a Gmail account. (If you already have one, skip to the next paragraph.) As we'll see shortly, your account name doesn't matter, so sign up for whatever's available. If you have a cell phone (you do have one, right? you are a college student, right?), you can sign up directly at www.gmail.com; if you don't, you need to find a friend to invite you; if that fails, try emailing hottchik6969@gmail.com for one (read on to find out); if all of the above fail, look here for more options. So get Gmail and come back when you're done. Bookmark this page if necessary. I'll wait... ...Done? Good! Next, we need to forward all your Columbia mail to Gmail. To do that, log in to Cubmail, go to options, then delivery settings, then "edit your delivery settings," then "edit your email delivery settings," then "Login to edit your UNI account," then about 2/3rds down click "Email forwarding." (Do you still wonder why you're switching? Good grief.) Enter your new Gmail address and click save. Phew! Take a good look at Cubmail, because this is the last ti me you'll be seeing it for a very long time (forever if all goes well). If you feel any sort of nostalgia, slap yourself in the face right now. Step 2: Set up your accounts So now all your Columbia email is forwarded to your Gmail account. But you may be wondering -- when I respond to a message someone sends me, will it show as my Columbia address or my Gmail address? This is especially important if you chose "hottchik6969" or something goofy like that for your Gmail name. Fortunately, you can spare the world your silliness. Log in to your shiny new Gmail account and click "Settings" in the top-right, then click the "Accounts" tab. See the option "Send mail as"? Surprise surprise, that does exactly what it sounds like -- allows you to send mail from your Gmail account and have it appear as if it's coming from another account. Click "Add another email address". Enter in your CU email. Click "Next step &gt;&gt;" then "Send verification". Now, here's the nifty part. Gmail sends a verification email to the account you've just specified to make sure you really own the account. But since your email is already forwarded, the e-mail goes straight to your Gmail account. So go to your inbox, grab the code, and verify your account. Then go back to the accounts tab in settings and make sure that you've told Gmail to reply from the same address the message was sent to for all your accounts (it's right below the account list). Voila! You can now receive and send email from your Columbia account in Gmail with no one on the outside world the wiser. Go take a break and celebrate with some champagne. Step 3: Make it pretty Inebriated? Good! Since our aim in switching is maximum efficiency and sanity, it will pay to take a few minutes now to configure Gmail for ease of use. Go to settings again, then go to the general tab. The important options are keyboard shortcuts, personal level indicators, and snippets, all of which should be enabled. Then click on the "Web Clips" tab and uncheck the box that says "Show my web clips above the Inbox." They'll only distract you when you need to work. Trust me. Personal level indicators and snippets make it easier and quicker to understand the context and contents of a message. Keyboard shortcuts allow you to use Gmail about ten times faster. Here's a list of Gmail's keyboard shortcuts. It looks daunting, but once you start applying them it becomes second-nature. Learn them. Use them. Love them. Step 4: Be an e-mail packrat Gmail gives you almost three gigabytes of storage (and growing). That's twelve times as much as Cubmail offers. It's enough so that you'll probably never have to delete a message. That, in fact, is Gmail's great strength, and it's where "archiving" comes in. Anything you want to be able to refer to later, highlight and press "Archive"--the message will leave your inbox, but be availible forever. To access archived messages, you can click "All Mail" on the left, or use Google's immensely powerful search technology to find exactly what you want. Enter your query in the text box right next to the Gmail logo and hit enter to find any e-mail containing that search term. Voila! Here's a further explanation of searching in Gmail. As with the keyboard shortcuts, it's well worth spending some time now to learn the ropes. It will prevent much greater headaches later. Step 5: Streamlining (or the "secondary inbox") You've probably used folders in the past to group your email (I'll bet you had one for your college applications). Labels are similar to folders. The nifty thing about them, though, is that one message can have multiple labels at the same time. So if you have an email from one of your professors (label "classes" or "LitHum") that's really important and needs action soon, you can also apply the label "!important" to it so that you'll remember to deal with it. Pretty cool so far. But the real power of Gmail comes when you combine labels with filters. Supposing, for example, you're a member of some campus group whose members are especially prolific with the email exchange (cough blueandwhite cough), you probably don't want all those messages cluttering up your inbox. However, you do want an easy way to read and manage them. Enter filters. Filters simply specify a certain set of actions Gmail should take when it receives an email that fits certain criteria. So for our imaginary student group's mailing list, you'd simply specify all messages sent to "mailinglistaddress@columbia.edu", as shown on the right. Simple, right? Here comes the magic. Go to the next step and tell Gmail to archive the message and apply a label for the group. Now, whenever you want to view the messages for that group, you can simply click the group's label on the left. The label will even tell you how many unread messages there are! What you have created is in effect a secondary inbox within your main Gmail account. Don't tell me that's not useful. Step 6: RTFM! Look up the acronym. What I've discussed here only scratches the surface of the sophisticated uses to which you can put Gmail's filters, labels, accounts, and forwarding if you're creative. If you want to learn more, the best place is Gmail itself, then searching the web. Read the help pages. Learn. It will pay off in saved time and headaches down the road. 
Look who else is getting a re-design! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Or rather, excuse me, a website. Not a re-design. Just an initial website. Because they never had one before (this didn't really count). Because it's 1999. Oh, no, no. That's not right either, is it? Hm. 
The second installment of Bwog correspondent Alex Weinberg's exploration of the mental attack of 9-11 conspiracy theorists. On September 8th, I went to Ground Zero and met with a number of 9/11 conspiracy theorists. They were generally young, white, educated males who lived far away from New York City. They were all very polite, if not a little overenthusiastic. Essentially, if it weren't for all the black camouflage and "9/11 WAS AN INSIDE JOB" signs, they could pass for normal people. It was a sweltering 87 degree day, and there were about three dozen of them gathered in front of the WTC Path station, wearing black shirts and varying styles of pant. The queen bee was a big tall guy in a bright yellow t-shirt that said "SECURITY" across the back. As the head honcho, he controlled a megaphone as conspiracy theorists took turns shouting into it. Clearly, the greatest scientific debates of our time have occurred at 140 decibels. Radiating outward from the fray, some conspiracy theorists were sent to hand out flyers and spread the word to passersby. I was one them, and I was ready to talk. I soon found that after introducing myself and getting their stories down, we would fall into a pattern. They would start off by issuing the same arguments touted by big conspiratorial websites like infowars.com and 911truth.org, sometimes right down to the sentence. These were loaded and inaccurate claims like "the towers collapsed at free fall speeds," "the towers fell into their own footprints," and "World Trade Center Tower 7 looked like a controlled demolition." This was all okay with me, as I had heard the arguments before and I was ready to challenge them, but apparently this was never part of the deal. Perhaps the conspiracy theorists were unable to shift gears from "yelling at strangers all day" to "having a conversation," but every time I pointed out a fallacy or flaw in their initial logic, they'd bowl right over it. They had taken the initiative to question the "official" account of the September 11th attacks, but it seemed like they had forgotten to question their own accounts too. Maybe if they ignored that and just overwhelmed me with words, something would stick. Whenever I dared to ask a technical question, their answers were usually the same: "I'm not a scientist, but...," which is pretty much the most damning way to start a sentence next to, "I'm not a racist, but..." If pressed for more information about their numbers or their math, they would hem and haw and refer me to a website or a video or some other non-speaking form of communication. "You can do the research yourself, online," one guy from Maryland told me as he gave me his web address. A tip: Whenever anyone questions your facts in a debate, quote a medium of communication currently not in use. If you're arguing online, assure your opponent that he can easily be proven wrong with a microfiche. If you're talking on an iPhone, just refer to a smoke signal. There's no need to prove yourself if your facts happen to be only available via hologram. The whole thing was getting very frustrating, and I felt like I was in an endlessly recursive circle of conspiratorial logic. It was like being trapped in Escher's Relativity, except all the staircases led to madness. As I made a final pass to leave, I came upon the highlight of my day: His name was Officer McGill, and he's a member of the NYPD's First Precinct. As we got to talking, he explained that he was in the North Tower as the South Tower collapsed, a line which is as great a conversation starter as I have ever heard. McGill won the New York Post Liberty Medal in 2002 for his bravery, and he's probably the best example of our species that I've ever met. He wouldn't say exactly what he did to earn his medal, but if I were there on September 11th, I could picture him hauling my crying body out of the wreckage and finding me a Diet Coke. I began to ask him about the conspiracy theorists, still audible behind us. The nicest word he had to describe them was "misinformed," but he didn't even sound angry about it. He was there. He knew. As I spoke to him, he was doing his job: Keeping the street clear so that the conspiracy theorists could protest and call him a liar. (On another note, Officer McGill informed me that the Burger King on 114 Liberty Street became a temporary morgue on September 12th and then became a Burger King again a year later. God Bless America.) At the end of the day, all I got was a sunburn and this list of things that I have learned from 9/11 conspiracy theorists: The government pulled off the most sophisticated attack ever on American soil, but they timed it so that Bush would be informed while reading "My Pet Goat" in a Florida classroom, making for the most famous "deer in headlights" moment in history. The Bush administration would frame a large scale terrorist attack on Osama bin Laden, a man that they embarrassingly cannot find. Tons upon tons of heavy explosives can be placed in 110 story office buildings without being noticed by thousands of employees, and can then be detonated without a trace of visual, audio, or seismic evidence. World Trade Center Tower 7 (a 47 story building just north of the Twin Towers) was also demolished by the government, and for no apparent reason. (Personally, if I were in charge of a massive government conspiracy to destroy an American landmark and kill thousands, I'd also pay special attention to blow a nearby nondescript and unremarkable office building with nobody inside, because that would really get people riled up.) The 140,000 members of the American Society of Civil Engineers? All part of the conspiracy. The 9/11 Commission is bogus because they didn't include the controlled demolition theory in their investigation. Similarly, the Warren Commission is rubbish for not examining the theory that JFK was killed by scorpions. The 9/11 Truth Movement will try to teach you all of these facts, and they'll be calling you a stupid ignorant sheep the whole time. Your political views don't matter to them, because you're either working to uncover the grand conspiracy, or you're a lockstep neoconservative imperialist and you're in on it too. You could be writing Michael Moore's name onto your Spanish language ballot with a soy pen, but if you deny their shattered version of reality, you are a sheep. But the real truth is that with their misguided groupthink, lack of self-criticism, and rejection of scientific consensus, the 9/11 conspiracy theorists are more sheep-like than any of us. They're just part of a smaller flock. 
Professor Sarah Phillips, in Politics of the American Environment, trying to prompt commentary on the painting at right, after cautious musings about "closing" and "movement": "Does pink have a gendered element to it?" . "This is kind of awkward, but I think we need to see this as a virginal landscape." Class squirms. Then she really does it. "I think we need to see an opening. A rosy opening." 
 Fruit Paunch, Columbia's oldest improv comedy group, is having auditions tonight in the Broadway SkyLounge at 8 pm. A few things: Fruit Paunch. Wouldn't it be fun it it were called Fruit Pun-ch? Meta! And yet, not so! Wouldn't it also be fun if an equally pun-loving (!) rival comedy troupe formed and called themselves The Original Kings of Comedy? Kings. Because this is Columbia, and there was that other consortium of comedians with the same name that included Bernie Mac. And also it would be ironic because they wouldn't be the "Original" kings of anything. Because Fruit Paunch would have beaten them to the punch. Or should we say paunch? 
 In front of Labyrinth: TA 1: The other TAs are unbelievable to me, because they all went to Harvard and, like... TA 1 and TA 2 (simultaneously): ...remembered everything they learned! Somewhere:&nbsp; Girl to her friend: "Yeah, Zeus is ALWAYS sluttin' it up. He's, like, the worst husband ever." Friend: "My mom's a psychiatrist. Family counseling, mostly." From Prof. Michael Como's "Japanese Religious Traditions": Student: What if it's sex not for procreation? Prof. Como: That can be wonderful! Thanks to Seth Berliner and James Williams for overhearing. 
Spectator's still having technical difficulties (hooray for low-maintenance web design) so QuickSpec's expanding its horizons.&nbsp; Harvard undergrads face phone, pillow shortages&nbsp; Yale Prez boycotts boycott of boycott (boycott boycott) Because it wouldn't be Berkeley without people sitting in trees&nbsp; Penn's definition of radical amuses us Princeton: it's still New Jersey Those lucky poor people! Cornell advances bathroom lib Plus: We think you're lovely too, Ivygate! 
RUN NOW and maybe you can catch the last slice of CCSC-sponsored free Domino's pizza in front of Alma. (They started distributing at 11 a.m.). UPDATE, 2:00 PM: The food's gone, but circa six hours from now you can get MORE food at the same location from the College Republicans, who are holding a mixer on Low Steps. 
Over the summer, an anonymous tipster noticed that the Columbia homepage had added a "Giving" button. Poking around further,&nbsp; the same source found the University's gift guide, in which everything has a price. The Arts Initiative is looking for between $225-670,000 for a "unified University Box Office" in Lerner with online ticketing. Finally? Putting on the annual orientation arts party will only cost you $50,000 Endowing a head coach: $2,000,000 Endowing M. Diane Murphy: $5,000,000 Endowing a professor (with matching funds from Trustee Gerry Lenfest): $1,500,000 Schermerhorn Hall was built with a $500,000 gift. Today $500,000 will only get you a room in Hamilton. For only $10,000 you can change the life of a starving college student today! Think of the hipsters, please. The student will send black and white pictures and letters hand written in crayon. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; New York is a city with lots of people and most of them walk on the street, and everybody needs food, so there are a lot of street carts selling food. Midtown has the award-winning German sausage cart named “Hallo Berlin”, Washington Square has the vegetarian-but-miraculously-still-tasty dosa cart, and East 116th has a great taco truck. What does Morningside Heights have? You could walk around and see for yourself, or you could read Bwog and never lift your ass off of your seat. You just have to keep refreshing your browser, because this is only part one in a series. Across 110th street from the Chipotle that opened to great fanfare in late July, a new cart also popped up over the summer. When over the summer? The owner fans out ten fingers and says “two months.” Ten weeks? Who knows. The cart’s main fare is chicken and gyro rice platters. This is also the specialty at the city’s most famous food stand, the chicken-and-rice spot on 53rd and 6th, which lived through the disgrace of having its wikipedia article deleted and still serves a damn good product with a “red sauce” at hiccup-level strength. (FACT: All strong hot sauces should make you hiccup – this is why many good hot sauces have skulls on the bottle, to help scare the hiccups out of you.) &nbsp; The chicken and rice here isn’t on that level, but it’s worth the five bucks a platter (four bucks gets you a pita, but with a big drop in quantity) for quick eats. Like lots of tasty street food, it has a combination of flavors guaranteed to taste good together, without any sort of perfectionist attempts at balance or flawlessness. The orange basmati rice (the kind of rice that doesn’t stick together) is magically delicious, with a hard to pin-down spiciness. The chicken is juicy and flavorful and a little greasy, and the bell peppers it’s grilled with are a nice addition. They also come in the correct proportion for vegetables in a meat dish – there’s much less of them. Yeah, you get a little cartilage in the chicken, but for every bite where you have to spend a second spitting out some cartilage, you get a dozen bites of juicy chicken, maybe even a baker’s dozen. The “green salad” is just iceberg lettuce with a few tomatoes, which is alright because both items are crunchy. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If you choose to get the gyro instead of the chicken, it’s also pretty good, in the strange way that meat shaved off a solid rotating block can be good. The gyro here comes in chunks that are bigger than the usual thin strips, which means you to taste the fatty, lightly spiced mixed meat more, whether you want to or not. There’s also a breakfast menu, in the form of an auxiliary mini-cart that serves bagels with cream cheese for a dollar, and a wide selection of pastries for as little as 65 cents. The breakfast cart is the only cart that the servers actually stand behind - for, the main cart, the grill side is open to the sidewalk, made possible by the utter lack of foot traffic on 110th.&nbsp; One last thing to note about this stand: its speed is phenomenal. The friendly bald guy who’s always working the grill&nbsp; is assisted by a woman and another man, and together they run a fast ship – one of those clipper ships or something. You’ll get your food in less than a minute, and if the guy’s in a good mood you can get a soda thrown in for free. When you’re departing Rite-Aid in shame because your fake ID got rejected at the only place with five-dollar six packs of Yuengling, at least you can get something for that Lincoln. - DHI 
We got a tip or two about disturbances at the 110th subway stop, but Spec has the full story about the super-violent (three stabbings, a caning) teen brawl that went down earlier tonight here.
Haven't gotten paid? Bwog delves into the world of lost work-study checks patiently awaiting their owners. The University is (hopefully) the only employer you'll have which will tell you to wait four to six weeks before they issue your first paycheck. And, as work-studiers can attest, this is hardly a given. You might get paid only after you call and draw their attention to the clerical error that has caused payroll to have all your paperwork listed as missing (as I well know). Misdirected paychecks, an administrator in SIPA recalls, "happen often," particularly at Butler, though the stories of abandoned paperwork, missing administrators and the like seem to cover most University departments. If you change your campus job, the central payroll office (for reasons that remain unfathomable) does not automatically send your paychecks to the University department to which you've switched. Human Resources in Butler will tell you your department needs to fill out a "change of address" form, but most departments will tell you to complete it yourself. This form must be submitted or your checks will continue going to whatever office you were last working at in the University system. Of course, this form cannot be processed at all, we were told, until your employment has been terminated at your old department, which the HR representative apparently does not know how to do... even when you're sitting in front of them. Instead, this requires yet another form that must be submitted by your old department. In the meantime, during the weeks while you are finding all of this out and navigating this maze of offices, your paychecks are being sent to your old department. There, many department administrators have their own drawers, which, in some cases, are filled with students' paychecks and deposit slips thrown in with papers and old receipts. The department administrator may have the acuity to notice that you no longer work in his/her department (often called to their attention when you call for the employee termination paperwork). In that case, paychecks are sent back up to the employment office at Butler, where they will be left to rot in another drawer (filed by last name this time) until you come looking. Human Resources has dozens of student paychecks. Department administrators are supposed to notify students where they are being sent, but frequently don't, and an administrator at HR said she would have to spend "all day" sending reminder emails to the checks' owners. So, if you've ever worked a campus job, stop by the fifth floor of Butler- you might just have some more wages languishing unclaimed. 
It seems that Spectator and The Eye are both currently down. The Eye is probably hungover from fashion week and parties; Spectator, what's your excuse? The New York Times finally discovers that people who attend Marc Jacobs' show are cool. Harlem was too preoccupied over Columbia expansion to note Scientologists creeping in, but the Village Voice wasn't. New York Magazine finds Jonathan Franzen egotistical. If you wrote The Corrections, you'd be a little full of yourself too. New York Press teaches you how to deal with crazy subway people. New York Observer perpetuates myth that models are shallow! Stay classy with the New York Post and the "scoring machine." 
 Esteemed School of the Arts professor James Schamus received the Venice Film Festival top award, the Golden Lion, for Lust, Caution. The duo saw previous accolades with Brokeback Mountain, which also won the Golden Lion. Directed by Ang Lee and produced and co-written by Schamus, Lust, Caution piggybacks on Brokeback Mountain's sexual frankness, garnering the film a NC-17 rating. It sees the U.S. release on September 28th, 2007, just two more weeks to go! 
 Love the fashion, hate the week. For people who are interested in Harry Potter's sex life. Keys open doors. How does Mark Lilla have no reviews on culpa? So is it organic or not?&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Like a phoenix, Spectator rises from the ashes. Subway violence does not stop yuppies from buying their brie. Bye bye Zeta Psi. Now you really have to go to New Jersey to get your car fixed...&nbsp; Mamadou Diouf speaks.&nbsp; But we still have Sean Lennon... 
 Leonard and Louise Riggo has given $5 million to the Department of Art History and Archaeology. $3 million will establish two professors in the department, one in African Art, and the other of the department's choice. The rest is divided evenly between undergrads and grads for internships, thesis research, traveling expenses, and etc. Leonard is no John Kluge--and $5 million is no $400--but at least he likes books.&nbsp; 
 The Eco-Reps, that cadre of kids who'll always cheerfully remind you to recycle, need help. Applications are due this Saturday, September 15th at midnight. Apply here, and check out their nifty new site while you're at it!&nbsp; 
 With kids back in school, autumn is a perfect time for street-hitting activism to bubble up through the cracks in society. In the next few weeks, anyone seeking an interesting day-trip, a way to act on latent strains of idealism, or an excuse to visit friends at school in DC should check out one of the following events: Declaration of Peace, Sept. 14-21&nbsp; March on Washington, Sept. 15 People's March on Congress, Sept. 17 Protest Bush at the UN, Sept. 25 Encampment (in front of Congress) and March, Sept. 22-29 National anti-war mobilizations, Oct. 27 No snark from us in this department. - KER &nbsp; 
It's a big city out there. This week, Bwog begins a new series of artsy picks to help you navigate the world below Morningside. &nbsp; Neither New nor Correct: Mark Bradford Mark Bradford, recipient of the Bucksbaum Award for truly exceptional work at the 2006 Biennial, now has his own exhibition at the Whitney involving paper collages made from the mountains of advertisements plastered around his neighborhood in Southern California. The end result looks something like a topographical street map on acid. (Editor's note: Sunday's also your last chance to check out that one and only Jimi Hendrix water color in the Summer of Love exhibition. BYOLSD.) Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Ave., (212) 570-3676, 1 p.m. - 9 p.m. $15 (free with student ID with current sticker. Pay as you wish from 6-9 p.m. on Fridays). One Step Beyond Party at American Museum of Natural History: DJs and Milky Ways Hosted by the Columbia Alumni Association and the American Museum of Natural History. Flavorpill presents this Friday night party that mixes outer space with techno and booze. A freaky combination with something for everyone. American Museum of Natural History, West 81st entrance, 9 p.m. $20 (includes future admission to museum). &nbsp; The Walkmen + The Subjects Freshmen favorites the Walkmen--featuring, notably, one Columbia College alum--bring their yowling indie-rock to the brand spankin' new Musical Hall of Williamsburg. Even if their recent records don't compare to Everyone Who Pretended to Like Me Is Gone or Bows + Arrows, their live show is still loud as shit. Music Hall of Williamsburg, 66 North Sixth Street, Brooklyn, $20. 8 p.m. Williamsburg Every Second: Art After Hours Less than a week after art paraded through Manhattan, you can head over to that other borough and enjoy some after-hours art viewing in more than 35 galleries. Sure, some will suck, but drink specials help. Begins at Spike Hill, 184 Bedford Ave., Brooklyn, (718) 218-9737. Visit www.williamsburggalleryassociation.com for a list/ map of other participating galleries. 7-11 p.m. Free.&nbsp; 
Shame on you, uke stealers.
 Oh those Krazy Karman Kids! A brigade of three fire engines and two support vehicles showed up at Carman tonight around 10:15 to squelch a firey blaze of nothing. According to a few of the dozens of students milling about outside, this is the third or fourth false alarm the building's had in the last two days (and EC's been having them left and right too). A harsh blinking light from a fifth-story window betrayed the source of the genius who pulled the alarm or otherwise caused it to go off. This has got to cost the University something...&nbsp;&nbsp; - SEV&nbsp; 
 Collegeboxes screws up deliveries, not that's it's anything new. U.S. News screws up Barnard's rankings. How much can Bill Clinton tell you about saving the world? Spec tells PrezBo and Shapiro to be careful on this one... This is just terrible! 
So Park Slope is far away, but intrepid Bwog correspondents Maryam Parhizkar and Emma Jacobs made the trip and rediscovered their childhood. Remember a time before CC? Well, maybe this well help... Before the semester really gets under way, you might want to stock up on some extra support. There’s still time left to get down to the Superhero Supply Company at 372 Fifth Avenue in Brooklyn’s Park Slope. There are not many&nbsp;places that would make us want to be 11 years old again. &nbsp;The Superhero Supply Co. is among the rare few. &nbsp;Stepping inside feels a lot like stepping into a well-crafted children's book, and no wonder. &nbsp;The whole place is the brainchild of author Dave Eggers, genuine fictionado and founder of McSweeney’s. Located at 5th and 5th in Park Slope of course, where all the writers live, the shelves of the superhero supply company are well stocked with lithium stun guns for that guy in your CC class, night vision binoculars for getting home from Butler and portable force fields—for just about anything, and sprayable intuition, for which the uses should be obvious. The staff chatting in the corner about the guy who had showed up to their last get-together as Mulligan the Magnificent let us in on the secret. &nbsp;If you ask nicely, they’ll pull back the curtain to reveal the secret door (yes, of course there’s a secret door) to the back room, where the writing sessions are held for 826 NYC, a writing program for kids ages 6-18. They do field trips. They work in schools. They publish student work and give workshops on writing everything from those college app essays to quality pop-up books. With the help of a World Time Utility Wristwatch ($18), you might just be able to squeeze in time this semester to come help out. At the very least, go pick up a motherboard. You’re going to need it. &nbsp; 
The residents of a Columbia dorm floor received these bizarre emails from their RA (specifics redacted) on Thursday morning. Here they are, very sic, copy-and-pasted. "Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:27 AM Subject: Incident Tonight Hi Everyone! As some of you might have heard, an incident occured around 1:40am this morning.&nbsp;&nbsp;There were screams, loud noises, Public Safety came, the GA/AD came, and NYPD came.&nbsp;&nbsp;There has been allegations of physical assalt, maybe even rape. Whether that is true or not, I just want to let all of you know that the issue is being dealt with right now on all levels of the Columbia adminstration. I know that to some of you, that might not sound so convincing/pleasing...but have faith in the system.&nbsp;&nbsp;They will get to the bottem of this. If any of you have any unresolved feelings or just want to talk about the incident please feel free to email me back to either talk with me or I can direct you to the GA/AD/others who can help and may have more answers. Thanks, " --- "Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:21 PM Subject: Please read! Clarification to the Incident Last Night Hi everyone! Aftering haven spoken to people, including the AD and the people involved, and gotten all the FACTS straight, I would like to clarify some of the information contained is last night's email about the incident that occured. Although the wording might have it seem otherwise, the SOLE INTENT of last night's email was to dispel any FASLE allegations and rumors. The incident last night was the result of a series of accidental events that unfolded in such a way to appear more than it really was. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am sorry if in my email I caused people UNNECESSARY and UNFOUNDED alarm and/or fear. The people involved in the incident want to apologize for all the inconvenience they may have caused. If anyone has any concerns or need further clarification, please don't hestiate to either email me back or knock on my room . Thanks, " 
John Zorn Improv Night—A Stone Benefit John Zorn (sax), Ikue Mori (electronics), Ned Rothenberg (sax), Shanir Blumenkranz (bass), Theo Bleckman (voice) and many special guests join forces to raise some funds to protect this home of the avant-garde. Don’t let the Stone become the next Tonic. The Stone, Avenue C at E 2nd street, Sets begin at 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. $20. Postcrypt Coffeehouse This fall’s Postcrypt Coffeehouse series kicks off tonight and continues through tomorrow. Tonight, you can check out Dorie Colangelo, Inger Hansen, and Jake Hill. Tomorrow night’s performances include David Austerweil, Lola Johnson, and the Jerome Ellis Quartet. Bwog probably wouldn’t pay to see any of these acts, but, hey, that’s why it’s free! Basement of St. Paul’s Chapel, 9 p.m. Free. Cut &amp; Paste Digital Design Tournament Eight graphic design experts compete to see who can best visually interpret a theme in a 15-minute round. The best part? Each computer screen is projected so the audience can follow the creation from start to finish. The event--presented by Cut &amp; Paste--will feature MC Ove and DJ sets from Kid Robot’s Chad Phillips. (Note: The after party is at Home Sweet Home, 131 Chrystie St.) Angel Orensanz Foundation, 172 Norfolk St., (212) 529-7194, 8-11 p.m., $15/$10 advance. Simian Mobile Disco + JDH &amp; Dave P + The Mood (DJ Sets) Catch your favorite British dance group that’s not the Klaxons DJ a late night set at Highline Ballroom. Sure, it’s not a real Simian Mobile Disco concert (that’s going on earlier in the evening) but real concerts cost money (this one’s free with rsvp). Highline Ballroom, 431 W. 16th St., 11 p.m. Free (rsvp here). 21+. 
 Jerone Hsu, CC '07, former Editor-in-Chief of Tablet, founder of Eclectica Esoterica (whose latest, beautifully designed issue includes essays about Times New Roman and psychedelic drug use), and B&amp;W graphics editor of yore is still gracing campus with his artistic talent. Now, though, it's for hire, albeit for a good cause: he's selling his mural-painting services to raise startup capital for a non-profit group that will help arts organizations in the area find funding. Yes, your McBain double could look like an updated Sistine Chapel--e-mail primeinteriormurals@gmail.com for a consultation.&nbsp; Meanwhile, other former editors-in-chief are doing cool shit too: Current founder Bari Weiss just finished a fellowship at the Wall Street Journal and is now off for another in Israel. Former Spectator head Megan Greenwell is nearing the end of a tour in Iraq for the Washington Post. Birch founder and last year's CPR editor Paul Sonne will begin his Marshall-funded stint at Oxford this fall, and B&amp;W editor emeritus Avi Zenilman is scribing for the Politico, a new-ish journalistic venture in D.C. See what a bustling campus publications scene launches! Or maybe it's just them. UPDATE, Saturday, 11:50 PM: Last year's editor-in-chief of the Columbia Review, Katarzyna Kozanecka (now Nikhamina), married her high school sweetheart in June and is now working for the Manhattan District Attorney's office. - LBD 
Overheard in the Shoe Tree, nee Global Ink: Customer: "Do you know what used to be here?" Owner: "My store. Global ink." Customer: "Oh. I was looking for a magazine." Owner: "We sell shoes now." Customer (leaving): "Good luck."
 Fooled you. Our boys actually went down 27-10 at their opening game against Fordham this evening, in a predictable start to what Bwog holds out hope will be a less predictable year. But it was a lovely night, and fun was had by all (who weren't on the field). Perhaps more of interest--Coach Norries Wilson had some air time this morning on WFAN, the sports network that primarily deals with the New York Mets, New York Giants, New Jersey Devils, and the New Jersey Nets. It was a coup for humble Columbia, and the hosts didn't let Norries forget it, treating the school more like a charming anachronism than a sporting entity. "I never think of Columbia winning games," one said, dredging up the 44-game losing streak, the 46-year Ivies dry spell, the fact that the team has broken .500 only a few times in the last few decades. Norries held up well under the ribbing. "It's harder than I anticipated it being, but we've done a great job putting the kids in a position to understand what they need to do to really have a chance to win," he said. "And the administration here has stepped up and started to give things to the program that I think we need to be successful." Things...like talent? - LBD 
There's a huge spread of food outside Roone Arledge that will probably go to waste if you don't help eat it.
 Get your figure drawing on. &nbsp; 
If you stopped out to pick up some apples at the farmer's market (which, by the way, have raised from $1.00 last year to $1.25 per pound this fall at the stand closer to the bookstore) you won't be able to avoid the sounds of fervent Christian music across the street, where a full-on revival is going down. Stop for the spiritual sustenance, or more earthly fuel: they're handing out free cupcakes and cookies to passersby. &nbsp; 
 Bwog loves the CPU, but it seems like The Columns has gotten desperate recently: having barely posted all month, they're now reprinting the somewhat disgraced Matt Sanchez' columns from www.rightwingnews.com. A choice tidbit from the latest post, about how liberals point out the hypocrisy of Larry Craig's bathroom habits and his rock-bottom record on gay rights: "Public sex is supposed to be "hot," and I have some knowledge of this having co-starred in the high-end fantasy film Tiajuana Toilet Tramps. In reality, for gays, a subset that defines itself by bodily function, it is no secret that the way to a homosexual's heart is somewhere beneath the stomach. These are people who can't separate who they 'are' from what they 'do.'" Because straight people don't obey the place beneath their stomachs. At all. - LBD &nbsp; 
In an attempt to recreate the magic of Coney Island's 92-year-old tradition, kosher frat Alpha Epsilon Pi hosted a hot dog eating contest that was a real sausage fest. In fact, that's what they called it: "Sausage Fest." Justin Vlasits filed some photos and an account of what went down.&nbsp; AEPi's hot dog eating contest began with a hail of smack-talking, much of it from AEPi junior Michael Drabkin. Freshman Kevin Elder, however, took it up a notch with a self-designed T-shirt proclaiming "Joey Chestnut Who?" referring to this year's Nathan's world champion who scarfed down 67 dogs on the way to a new world record. At the last minute, Sausage Fest mastermind Aaron Goldman (right) entered the fray, deciding a showdown with only three contestants would be worse than the stomachache he'd get from several quickly devoured hot dogs plus his recently consumed lunch -- a Spicy Special. &nbsp; The rules were simple: eat the most hot dogs and buns in 12 minutes. Kevin Elder pulled ahead of the pack in the first minute with two dogs using the Tokyo Style (where bun and dog are eaten separately) but soon slowed down from his breakneck pace, allowing Noah Mencow to catch up. Mencow employed a revolutionary bun-squeezing technique that I have never witnessed in competitive eating (prompting such intellectual commentary as "Are you eating the hot dog or jerking it off?"). Elder's early lead, however, was able to stave off Kobayashi-style regurgitation and Mencow could not finish his final, tying dog. The freshman was declared champion, winning the prize pool of 50 American dollars. Many hotdogs remained uneaten and the girls' scheduled watermelon eating competition was cancelled due to lack of interest. Final Hot Dog and Bun Standings Kevin Elder: 9 Noah Mencow: 8 Aaron Goldman: 5 Michael Drubkin: 4 
 A tipster sends the following anecdote:&nbsp; Today I got off the subway at Columbus Circle to see a crowd gathering beneath the globe in front of the Trump tower. A man was on top of the globe, wearing rollerblades. More and more police came, and an ambulance with paramedics and a stretcher. After about ten minutes, the man reached in his messenger bag and started throwing confetti. &nbsp;He then climbed down from the globe and the police took it from there... 
Tidbits from tonight's CCSC meeting: - First, the first Lerner Pub is this Thursday from 10-12 (as the rest of us try, and fail, to get into East Campus). - Excitingly, Flex off Campus, per junior class President George Krebs, is "well underway," with a timeline put together by the administration in place. Said timeline would result in Flex dollars accepted at off-campus eateries before 2008 graduation. - Not to mention, President Krebs' first e-mail, which is so wonderfully bizarre (the class of 2009 is WHAT?) that we reprinted it after the jump. - Tentatively, there's a sophomore semiformal in the works for the spring. Sophomores can hope (though their livers might disagree) that it's a replay of last year's Winter Wonderland. - Finally, five parties have expressed an interest in running in - wait for it - the Freshman Elections! Oh, pray that they're every as ludicrous as the ten-party 2010 freshman elections were. More coverage on all these stories as they develop. - And! A picture of manatees. &nbsp;-DPD Dearest the Ineffable Class of ï¿½09, As though we never left, weï¿½re back and ready to get the sweet nectars flowing in the veins of ï¿½09 once more. Welcome to the sphere of the junior--where we sit high atop the mighty totem pole. &nbsp;No longer steeped in the Western philosophy of CC as the sophomores, no longer the naÃ¯ve ones trying to find our places as the freshmen, and not yet the nervous ones, constantly preoccupied with trying to line up countless job interviews and grad school applications as the seniors. &nbsp;Weï¿½re living the dream, boys and girls. On behalf of myself, Mark (our VP), Ian, Heather, and Zahrah (our elected Representatives), I would like to thank you for electing us to another year running. &nbsp;There is no doubt in my mind that not only are we going to take advantage of our campus status, but that CCSC ï¿½09 will do whatever it takes to make this year incredible. &nbsp;So in the immortal words of the great Black Eyed Peas, ï¿½Letï¿½s get it started in huh.ï¿½ ---------------------- That should be it for now, you guys. &nbsp;We may be in different dorms, different academic departments for our major, or even root for different teams (GO Red Sox tonight vs. Yanks!), but I hope we can mesh at a couple of events throughout the semester and renew the solidity of the ï¿½09 class that weï¿½ve had going. Lovingly, George and your Class of ï¿½09 Elected Stalwarts, Mark, Heather, Ian and Zahrah. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Living in Carman can sometimes resemble wading through a disaster zone. Last night was one of those times. Freshman flood survivor Kurt Kanazawa reports:&nbsp; Last night, the explosion of a hot water pipe in the bathroom of suite 1103 set off a fire alarm and covered half the floor with about an inch of water. &nbsp;Only one person in the suite was in town - Nicholas.&nbsp; Residents immediately helped Nicholas evacuate his and his suitemate's room, pulling out bottom drawers, snack kits underneath the bed, light/laptop/cellphone chargers, carpet, refrigerator etc.. &nbsp;The flood also spread and invaded about 2 other suites on the floor, whose damage varied. While inactive authorities stood on the outside observing, students - some friends of the suitemates, others complete strangers - lifted their pants and got their shoes wet to get things out, stacking them all in the hall near the elevator. Many tourist-students attempted to exit the elevator to observe the damage and were shoved back into the elevator by campus security. 
 The Jester's new "orientation issue" isn't entirely new (it also includes some past highlights) nor did it come out during orientation. Still, here goes. All links go to the same PDF. Yet another attempt to justify the cost of our education. (Page 2) Morals, eh? (7) What classes was Jester taking if these are their ideas of professors? (12, 17)&nbsp; Jester tries to step to Saul Steinberg (18) If you want to see what sort of deranged people produce this magazine, Jester is holding a general meeting tonight at 9:30 in the Lerner SGO space. 
Since we posted about this earlier: if you want to be an EcoRep, but you didn't have time to fill out the application by the previous deadline (Saturday), it's not too late! The deadline has been extended to Thursday, and the application shortened. Now just answer any two questions and the last (three total) and e-mail it to go.green.columbia@gmail.com.
 Kibbitzer kvetches about Kosher nosh, finds some o f it to be quite geschmak Comparatively non-obscure Columbian to join lame-duck presidential administration Bwog apparently not a source of profound remorse. We're sorry? Intellectual snob decries intellectual snobbery "I love to see their excited faces as they hop aboard the apple" This is pretty fucked &nbsp; 
We here at Bwog were literally convulsing with excitement when we heard t hat a Columbia alum&nbsp;was nominated&nbsp;for&nbsp;Attorney General (Princeton you&nbsp; are soooo wiretapped...).&nbsp;If you're like us, you can pass your congratulations along to mmukas@law.columbia.edu&nbsp;--Mukasey&nbsp;was a lecturer in the Law School, and team-taught a seminar on Advanced Trial Practice in the Fall of 2006. Could his teaching tell what to expect during his upcoming&nbsp;18-or-so months as the nation's top law enforcement official? Law students? And yes, this is the least grainy picture we could find of him online. 
 Cafe 212 is now selling massive 8 oz. tubs of candy corn for $4.29... and people are buying them. 
Sophomores Mike Molina and Rob Stenson (the kids who brought you this hilarity), along with Jeff Schwartz, are launching a crusade for as-yet-largely-nonexistent independent film at Columbia. It's called Project Bluelight, modeled off the real-life Project Greenlight, which makes movies happen from storyboard to screening. Bwog interrogated them last night via e-mail. Do you have any money? What facilities are you using? We're applying for money from basically every campus resource there is. CUArts, CCSC, ABC, etc., and will even be looking for money from alumni who are involved in the film industry. We're looking to have a budget between $5,000 and $10,000 for the first project (which will be a short). We're still looking into what facilities Columbia has to offer, but we already own all of the editing software we would need. Is there anything like this at other schools? Not that we know of. Besides students making films for classes, a lot of other schools have programs that are designed to give undergraduates film production experience by working on professional or grad-student films. But the idea of going through this whole major process, start to finish, with all undergraduates is what seems to make this different. A lot of schools have clubs or organizations that make films themselves using the people in the club, rather than looking out to the entire undergraduate community for screenplays, directors, actors, etc. We basically want to get as many undergraduates involved as possible. This is not just about the script or the director or the actor. It's everything. From finding the right script to tinkering with foley in post-production, we hope to see a lot of people get behind this project. Do you guys make films yourself? If so, what sort of films? Mike: I was the eponymous role in the short film "The Messenger," which was a heavily publicized short film that didn't get to see its premier due to some unfortunate legal issues. Recently I have spent my time contemplating the process of getting a talent agent, which I may or may not follow through on. I am also currently working on a few screenplays- one is a romantic comedy and the other is an attempt to <!-- D( ); //- explore some of the ideas used in "romance &amp; cigarettes." Jeff: I produced and co-wrote The Walden Variation. It was a low-budget feature film that I did over the summer with friends I have been working with from the NYU Film Program. It's currently in post-production and will go out to festivals all over the country by next summer. I've also made a few shorts and written a few other screenplays. Rob: I filmed a burning cardboard house in fourth grade. Now I do graphic design. What do you think of the current state of independent film at Columbia? Does it exist? It definitely exists, but it really seems to focus around the grad school, The School of the Arts, and for good reason--it's one of the best film schools in the world. The only way we know of to get film production experience on campus right now is through the grad school program. But there is such a wealth of untapped talent, as well as interest, in filmmaking within the undergraduate community. So much more could be being done--and it could really produce incredible results each year. A huge part of film production is just going out there and doing it, learning from your mistakes, working with incredible people, and (hopefully) producing really cool results. What are your favorite movies? Mike: Here are some: Punch-Drunk Love, Heavyweights, and The Deer Hunter. Jeff: Surprisingly the hardest question. Off the top of my head for today: Annie Hall, La Dolce Vita, American Beauty, High Fidelity. Rob: Helvetica. 
 Minutemen, minutemen. What heady times those were. Stages were rushed, lives changed,&nbsp; definitions for "Kulawiking" determined. Indeed, it was only after many long and trying months of op-eds, town hall meetings and general soul-searching that we were&nbsp;finally able to go&nbsp;about the difficult business of trying to move on with our lives. Or did we? Via Spec, at least one person is nostalgic for Minuteman-mania, and who can blame him?&nbsp;I think we'd all agree that&nbsp;Minuteman didn't receive get enough attention around here. It's not like it wasn't discussed ad nauseum for months on end, or covered top-to-bottom in the&nbsp;campus and national media. Hell, it's about time we were reminded of the mayhem that went down last year. Maybe Bill O'Reilly could do a one-year anniversary special this October 4th? Pretty please? As for the invitee: he's kept himself busy the last six months trashing our dear president, appearing on Lou Dobbs, and taking on everything from Mexican trucking to his fellow Minutemen. Gilchrist might have been cast out of the Minutemen in disgrace, but Bwog suspects he's still got plenty of fans here at Columbia... - ARR 
 For those of you who haven't hit your 5th fruit or vegetable today, there are dozens of bananas in the Lerner lobby just waiting to be eaten. Not creepy anthropomorphic bananas, mind you, but bananas of the healthy, mushy-brown, delicious and edible kind. So go get one. 
The Night Cafe, like Mona, is closing. Bwog correspondent Kate Linthicum got there before the taps shut off forever. &nbsp;Last night, as the prickly first winds of autumn blew across Morningside Heights, the loveliest dive bar in the neighborhood sang its swan song. Dozens of devoted patrons pressed into the warmth of the Night Café to drink, reminisce, and take part in the bar’s weekly trivia competition. The mood was somber, because everyone knew that this night might be the last: The bar’s owners have announced that it will close sometime in the next two weeks. &nbsp; The Night Café has occupied a long, narrow storefront at 106th Street and Amsterdam since the early 1990s. Nestled next to a bustling laundromat, its red neon sign is nearly concealed behind a curtain of scaffolding. Inside, it’s usually warm and bustling. Lou Reed’s voice might be wavering out of a dilapidated jute box stacked with rock and roll, and a posse of pool sharks will surely be crowded around a game on the rundown table in the back. The nighttime bartender, a wild, wiry man who seems to like swigging drinks as much as making them, greets every person like a friend. He’s been known to perform pushups on the bar (and pour free cocktails for impressed strangers).&nbsp; The bar is closing because it’s fallen victim to what one chatty smoker called “rent-ificiation.” The landlady recently doubled the property’s rent, and the bar’s owners can’t afford to stay. One of the owners is Brian Flanagan, a former Columbia student who was once a member of the radical group the Weather Underground (some scenes from a 2003 documentary about the group were shot at Night Cafe). These days, Flanagan spends his time organizing trivia competitions, not revolutions. He is, by all accounts, obsessed with trivia. He’s won thousands of dollars appearing on “Jeopardy!” and he sometimes personally hosts Night Café’s Sunday night contest. A different, quite elderly man was running the show Sunday, and Flanagan seemed unimpressed. “Come on,” he bellowed from his seat at the bar. “Let’s pick up the tempo!”&nbsp; Night Café attracts a diverse crowd, and everyone seems to mingle happily. “It’s for working-class people in the neighborhood and Columbia students who think their school is elitist,” explained Mostafa Omar, a former bartender, in a soft Egyptian accent. Omar said the bar is also a gathering place for left-leaning intellectuals. “It’s a hub for liberals and socialists and anarchists,” he said. “For them, this place isn’t just a bar going out of business.” &nbsp; Outside, the building’s super took a break from lugging trash to talk about what he thinks will be next for the space Night Café now occupies. He said he thinks the bar will be replaced with a classy restaurant. When the patrons at Night Café were told this, they shook their heads and muttered quietly about gentrification. As the night wore on and some people began to slowly trickle out into the chilly night, one man voiced his frustration with it all. “This is the most depressing funeral I’ve ever been to,” he shouted, swinging his vodka cranberry in the air. The crowd laughed and relaxed a little. And as the second round of trivia began, they drank in the night.&nbsp; NOTE: The article that ran today in the Spectator (which does not appear to be online) does not accurately reflect the character of the Night Cafe, which the author called an "empty cavern." According to Linthicum, she was there at the same time as the Spec staffer, who left after asking the owner being denied an interview in the middle of a trivia game. UPDATE TO NOTE: The phrase "empty cavern" was actually referring to empty bar. The article is now online. We apologize. 
 Today we celebrate Constitution Day, a new fake holiday the venerable Senator Robert Byrd (right)&nbsp;created in 2004 when he&nbsp;slipped an extraneous rider onto an appropriations bill. Under Byrd's guidelines,&nbsp;all students&nbsp;and government employees are legally&nbsp;required to set aside some time to reflect on the power of "the foundation and the guardian of our liberties." Because, you know, they're not too busy cramming for standardized tests or keeping this&nbsp;old ship running or anything. At the Law School, however, professors took Byrd's&nbsp;stipulation at face value; they would discuss the Constitution, but&nbsp;primarily in light of the historical and modern disregard&nbsp;for its laws. And so,&nbsp;Jack Greenberg, who argued for Brown v. Board of Education back in the day(he's in his 80's and yet owns and flaunts&nbsp;a swanky PDA), discussed the legacy of racism in Supreme Court decisions. Sarah Cleveland neatly dismantled the Bush administration's legal basis&nbsp;for denying Guantanamo detainees habeas corpus. Suzanne Goldberg deplored the state of gay equality, and Katherine Franke,&nbsp;who urged&nbsp;the assembled students to become section 1983 lawyers with her,&nbsp;noted that while New York and national crime rates have fallen, the number of reported cases of police brutality has skyrocketed. As far as&nbsp;what changes in Washington and&nbsp;the Supreme Court could bring in the near future, Prof. Greenberg commented, quoting Humpty Dumpty and then shaking his head, "we'll just have to stay tuned." -KER &nbsp; 
 The Wikipedia article for The Hold Steady says that Daniel Radcliffe has proclaimed the quintet as his "favourite band."&nbsp; He's in good company; the formerly Twin Cities-based rockers (now the pride of Brooklyn) have reached the apotheosis of indie stardom.&nbsp; Following the release of their third-life crisis album, Boys and Girls in America, they toured high and low (including here, with thanks to CU Concerts), apparently building up a reputation as one of those bands that just needs to be seen live. They played for free at World Trade Center 7 earlier tonight to a half-suited, half-Williamsburg crowd.&nbsp; You've got to hand it to them for turning an almost completely sober bunch (except for the clearly ecstasied contingent in the very front) into absolutely elated head-boppers.&nbsp; Craig Finn, the madcap frontman, exuded pure joy.&nbsp; He bolted around the stage flailing his arm like a little kid, jumped up and down with his guitar over his body as if he wouldn't mind if it ended up on the ground, and made up hand motions to his lyrics that if done by anyone else would look ridiculous.&nbsp; Keyboardist Franz Nicolay, wearing a bizarre black ensemble and beret, soloed with one hand and chugged a bottle of red wine with the other. By the end of the set, Finn was wasted and making awkward references to 9/11, but no matter.&nbsp; Anyone who belts "You don't have to deal with the dealers/let your boyfriend deal with the dealers" with a Cheshire cat smile is instantly forgiven, and one of everyone's favourite performers again. Tomorrow:&nbsp; M. Ward headlines (supported by Victoria Williams and McCarthy Trenching).&nbsp; Again without charge.&nbsp; World Trade Center 7, 5:30pm.&nbsp; - Jessica Cohen&nbsp; 
 If you're just hearing about this now, it's too late to join. But all should be advised that this is sorority rush week, when the girlish greek quartet cheers their new class through a gauntlet of meet and greets (colorfully described by DG's website). So if, come Friday, you run into a throng of terrifyingly peppy young women, do not be alarmed. It's normal.&nbsp; This year, though, it's kind of different: the Panhellenic Council agreed in April that they will no longer allow freshmen to rush in the fall, making it a sophomore-only event (meaning the rejects and the late bloomers?). But it's apparently still enough to keep the new-ish SDA Greek Czar Victoria Lopez-Herrera and both the Intergreek Council and the Multicultural Greek Council presidents so busy that they couldn't take an interview with Bwog for the foreseeable future. You'll have to go flag them down yourself with questions. Meanwhile, this is Bwog's favorite quote from the Columbia greek site: Alcohol &amp; Recruitment The purpose of recruitment is to spend time getting to know each other. Therefore, all fraternity and sorority recruitment/intake/rush events and education processes at Columbia University are DRY. This means that no alcohol will be used or present during any recruitment function whether it is one-on-one or in a large group...If this happens, you should seriously consider whether or not you want to join a chapter with such low integrity. Happy rushing! - LBD 
 And raising the drawbridge. ...which obviates this post, in which College Republicans Director of Operations Lauren Steinberg admits: "Personally, I really hope he's not coming. I mean, it was a fun time last year, but I don't need it to happen again." Agreed!&nbsp; 
 Collegeboxes goes the way of USN&amp;WR rankings at BC The first article about McSweeney's ever published without using words "Eggers" or "twee" But what if Gilchrist were to come to CU in a Collegebox? Excuse me, waiter? My soup has a run-on sentence in it GSCS is "not about free pizza and water bottles." Oh yeah? Free pizza and water bottles so totally not about GCSC, either. 
 The National Review, which in Spec-speak is like the "Chris Shrugged" of right-wing rags, ("William F. Buckley Shrugged"?), has anointed Chris Kulawik as the paradigm of all that's right with the current state of discourse about the Middle East. The problem, natch, is Fulbright-winning, Ph.D. holding professor Juan Cole, who is just ruining everything with his big ideas and his big words.&nbsp; ...and speaking of trouble with the Middle East, Sammy's Halal has disappeared from the corner of 111th and Broadway! The Hungry Lion (who prefers to keep his identity a secret) is on the case. Which is good because he's a student, and not someone who's studied Sammy's Halal for decades or anything and has written books about it and teaches a class about it at an Ivy League university. - JNW shrugged 
It's their first major activist event of the year and Columbia Dems, in an effort to increase funding for children's healthcare, are taking advantage of the famous Price is Right gag now that Bob Barker has retired. Bwog had newbie reporter Justin Vlasits see the spectacle. This afternoon at the Sundial, the Dems brought out a crudely constructed Plinko Board and invited students crossing Low Steps to play a butchered version of the game and afterwards call congressmen King and Walsh (both R-NY) to vote for the conference version of the Children's Health Insurance Program. "Tell Congress to get its priorities straight!" "Tell Bush that the Price is Wrong!"&nbsp; "This issue is totally nonpartisan issue," said Jonathan Backer, Media Director for the CU Dems, reminding passers by that the original bill in 1997 was a collaboration between reactionary Utah Senator Orrin Hatch and super-liberal Ted "Chappaquiddick" Kennedy (whom Backer interned for this summer). However, the event failed to draw massive crowds, due to the Plinko board's shoddy construction and a lack of creative free food. Pegs were unevenly spaced, pucks got stuck in almost every game and the Dems were not even prepared with a Plinko stick to properly unlodge them. Worst of all, players couldn't even win, all of the slots at the bottom of the board were dedicated to alternative ways to spend the $7 billion that the club says is necessary to maintain the program for the next five years. To make a bad thing worse, the meager chips and salsa were obscured by throngs of club members manning the Plinko board. The Dems should learn from a more successful gimmick in the guise of progressive activism: CQA's delicious and plentiful Queer Sushi, which attracted an enormous line in Lerner 555 last Thursday. &nbsp; Backer said that this year the club's vision was to get students more engaged in activism so that they could bring about a tangible change in policy. Just no more game shows, please. 
 Bwog has just bought tickets for the New Yorker festival.&nbsp; Some highlights: Zadie Smith! BC alum Jhumpa Lahiri! Parent of Justin Theroux Paul Theroux! Spring Awakening-hater Jonathan Franzen! Padma Lakshmi-ex Salman Rushdie! Miranda July )) &lt;&gt; (( Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Martin Amis on the topic of monsters (Bonus: almost guaranteed appearance of Christopher Hitchens in audience!) Jonathan Safran Foer! You remember him, right? Frank Foer's younger brother? A dance party with Sasha Frere-Jones and Diplo! Misogynistic bald man Neil LaBute! CU All-Star Simon Schama and genuinely funny Anthony Lane! Adam Gopnik will probably do something precious and talk about Dalton! Samantha Power on Darfur! And Robert Hass has a few things to say about writing poetry! Bwog hopes to provide coverage of many of the events listed about. So don't worry if you can't make "Bagels with Robert Mankoff" or Calvin Trillin's walking tour of Chinatown. Bwog's got you covered. 
 Poorly-edited magazine Seventeen is coming to a MySpace near you! In the form of "15 freshman girls" (omg, misnomer!- Ed) who will be blogging all the "juicy details" from their first year at school! The girls will be writing about everything from like, classes or whatever, to like, how to break up with your high school boyfriend that you're so going to dump in like, 2 weeks. The interactive reality website is designed to "make the freshman year less daunting by letting girls in on daily college life and allowing them to interact directly with each of the 'Freshman 15.'&nbsp; As a result, Seventeen's readers and MySpace's users will be way ahead of the game," says Atoosa Rubenstein-replacement Ann Shoket. The group of girls is super diverse, ranging from Liz (UC Berkeley) who "is a liberal, bisexual feminist... and someday wants to be on Broadway!" And then there's Dev'n, whose name totally has an apostrophe in it! "I just flirted in high school. So I can't wait to date college guys!" the Texas Tech University first-year explains. I know, right?! Jessica is "hyper, confident, and ditzy!" And swears her life "could be a reality TV series!" Hey girlfriend? It seems dreams, sometimes, they do come true! 
 It's that time of the year again when New Jersey transit tickets are free with your school ID (and this coupon)! Now you really have no excuse not to go home for Yom Kippur. Train conductor hat tip to Tao Tan for pointing this out. 
In which Bwog correspondent Josh Mathew reports on last night's lecture about a book and all the hubbub it's caused. The Underground Lecture Series: What Archaeology Tells Us About Ancient Israel Alan Segal, PhD, Professor of Religion and Ingeborg Rennert Professor of Jewish Studies, Barnard College What does Biblical archaeology tell us about the First Temple Period? Professor Nadia Abu El-Haj is wrong. At least, that’s what I learned pretty quickly from Professor Alan Segal. The flyer for the event hadn’t mentured El-Haj, but Segal made it clear that, though not a “harangue or tirade,” his remarks served to question El-Haj’s scholarship. &nbsp; The event was sponsored by LionPac and the cheerfully-named Scholars for Peace in the Middle East, who, according to their website, are “trying to counterbalance the well-documented and increasing anti-Israel and anti-Semitic forces that have made their way to the college campuses today.” A survey of their position papers reveals a dearth of articles actually about peace or conflict resolution, but the name sounds nice. Segal’s lecture focused primarily on the debate between Biblical maximalists and minimalists—those who consider the Bible to be a reliable historical source regarding non-miraculous things, vs. those who don't—and finally moved on to El-Haj’s supposed reliance on the latter in her book Facts on the Ground: Archaeological Practice and Territorial Self-Fashioning in Israeli Society.&nbsp; He accuses her of inaccurately portraying maximalists as Biblical fundamentalists and evangelicals, and minimalists as rational thinkers.&nbsp; In a short history, Segal discussed the historical dominance of the maximalists and the challenges posed by the minimalists, whom he described as an academic minority with little supporting archaeological evidence. During the 1960s, archaeologists, now referred to as Biblical maximalists, “had proven a whole range of aspects of the Bible to be truth.”&nbsp; While the first 11 books of Genesis were understood to be “pure myth,” the rest of the Pentateuch was considered more reliable “legend,” in that it provided a credible social context in which the events of the Hebrew Testament could have occurred in the 2nd millennium BCE. &nbsp; Discussing the emergence of Biblical minimalists during the 1980s, Segal focused on the Israeli archaeologist Israel Finkelstein, who raised a critical debate over the ancient gates at Gezer, Megiddo, and Khatol.&nbsp; Although they were traditionally thought to be built by Solomon, Finkelstein dated the gates 150 years later to the Israelite kingdom of Omri, a position that Segal rejects. This seems like an esoteric debate, but as Segal emphasized, these gates are the only archaeological evidence of the Israelite United Kingdom, that ruled by King David and Solomon.&nbsp; Finkelstein then made “the argument from silence” that the United Kingdom therefore never existed and cautioned archaeologists against using the Bible during digs, as it might prompt incorrect interpretations of excavated sites. Critical of this interpretation, Segal suggested that Finkelstein, an assistant professor in Israel at the time, had proposed the theory simply to make a name for himself. In response, Segal went on to cite numerous archaeological examples to support the Israelite kingdom’s existence, including the Mesha Stele and the Merneptah inscriptions, as well as “ethnic identifiers” such as instruments for circumcision, certain types of pottery, and almost a complete lack of pig bones in specific areas. The question and answer period was markedly more political. When asked about the minimalists, Segal tersely responded that they were just scholars trained in a new type of hermeneutics looking for an intellectual exercise. Then, abruptly, he assured the audience that as an academic, he is not interested in which nation lived in the Middle East longer or earlier, and that the creation of Israel was based on the UN’s mandate. &nbsp; Later noting that some groups like the Jebusites are known only through the Bible, Segal criticized Yassir Arafat’s identification as an “Arab, Palestinian, and Jebusite.” &nbsp; “How do you know you’re a Jebusite?” he asked. “You have to believe the Bible.” Segal also denied the link proposed by an audience member (as well as El-Haj in her book) that early Israeli archaeologists who had migrated from Eastern Europe were influenced by that region’s archaeology, the discipline of which had grown alongside and in response to European nationalism.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; That same audience member seemed to question the value of the lecture as a whole when he commented that after reading El-Haj’s book, he thought that El-Haj did not in fact reject the existence of an Israelite kingdom. This Bwog reporter admits that he needs to do more investigation—expect a detailed book review of Facts on the Ground in the near future. 
 Located on the eighth floor of Schermerhorn, the Wallach Art Gallery is currently running Revolutions: A Century of Makonde Masquerade in Mozambique through December 8, 2007.&nbsp; With over 60 pieces of Madonke art, ranging from masks to tapestries to puppets, this extensive collection features an often-ignored African culture. Photos on the wall display the dancers in action and there is also a live recording of dancers performing in lavish costumes. Next time you're passing Schermerhorn, pop in for a quick browse. 
 Free the Lerner 6! I know, right? Is this hate or confusion? Renegade rose-pruners are great, but what is a gladfly? "Very creative, Norries!" &nbsp; The choices on Spec's poll are pretty absolute. &nbsp; 
 At 4 pm Sunday, JJ's place is the launch spot for a student group with a name that cuts to the heart of student charity - the "Feel Good" project, through which grilled cheese sandwiches are sold in order to raise money for world hunger. It is a known fact that eating grilled cheese sandwiches, the best kind of cheese sandwiches (get out of here with that "cabrese"), does make people feel good, and the fact that the profits go to charity has been known to make people feel better about problems of all sorts. World hunger? Partially alleviated! Your hunger? Partially satiated! You might be a few hundred billion dollars, and a soup, side dish, and thick drink short of ending both problems, but it's a step in the right direction. In case you'd rather have the sandwich free and refrain from the charity, you can seek out one of the "lost cheese" flyers the group has hidden across campus. The flyers are apparently in color, made to look like swiss cheese, and have the word "FOUND" at the top. Swiss cheese is a questionable choice for a grilled cheese sandwich, but perhaps they&nbsp; know something we don't. They have released these clues towards locating the fliers, after the jump: 1)&nbsp;&nbsp;You might find up to 5 'FOUND' flyers in Butler!&nbsp;&nbsp;The stacks especially might be a good place to look for. 2)&nbsp;&nbsp;A flyer could be hiding in one or two of the dorm laundry rooms 3)&nbsp;&nbsp;Keep your eye out in Lerner – there will probably up to 3 hiding in there 4)&nbsp;&nbsp;One might also be hiding in one of the dorm's underused sky lounges.&nbsp; - DHI&nbsp; 
 The New York Times ran a glowing article about Barnard's long and distinguished list of literary alumnae.&nbsp; And now it's free for all to read, since Times Select is no longer any more of a reality than the campus presence of the Barnard Bulletin. ...zing. - JNW 
As the Spec reported earlier , Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, controversial for his views on the United States, Israel, the holocaust, and nuclear weapons, among other things, will be speaking at Columbia on Monday, September 24th, as part of the World Leaders Forum. Apparently, half his time will be spent answering audience questions. UPDATE: Register here. UPDATE II: It's full. In anticipation of the controversy, Columbian President Lee Bollinger is also planning to answer audience questions, from a select group of students invited to meet with him at 1:30 pm tomorrow. These "representatives of the student body" will hear him explain his decision to include Ahmadinejad, with a special non-corporate use of Lerner 555 as a meeting place. The e-mail sent to the students by Bollinger's chief of staff, Susan Glancy, follows the jump - DHI Dear Student Leaders, <!-- D( ); //--> On Monday, September 24, the President of the Islamic Republic of&nbsp; Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is scheduled to appear as a speaker on campus.&nbsp; The event is sponsored by the School of International and Public&nbsp; Affairs, which has been in contact with the Iranian Mission to the U.N. The&nbsp; event will be part of the annual World Leaders Forum, the University-wide&nbsp; initiative intended to further Columbia's longstanding tradition of serving as a major forum for robust debate, especially on global issues. In order to have such a University-wide forum, we have insisted that a number of conditions be met, first and foremost that President Ahmadinejad agree to divide his time evenly between delivering remarks and responding to audience questions. &nbsp;President Bollinger also&nbsp; wanted to be sure that President Ahmedinijad and his staff understood that he himself will introduce the event with a series of sharp challenges to President Ahmadinejad on numerous issues. Today it was confirmed&nbsp; that President Ahmedinijad's staff agreed to these conditions. President Bollinger would now like to turn to you since undoubtedly many students will have concerns with the appearance of President Ahmedinijad on campus. In anticipation of these concerns, President Bollinger&nbsp; would like to meet with you as representatives of the student body to&nbsp; discuss the complexities of this event. &nbsp;Please join him in Lerner Hall, room 555 tomorrow afternoon, September 20, at 1:30 p.m. Please RSVP by responding to this e-mail. &nbsp;Should you not be able to attend and wish to send a representative of your student group,&nbsp; please contact me by 10:00 a.m. tomorrow morning with the name of the individual you would like to attend in your place. Sincerely, Susan 
 This is a big weekend for students selling food. The day before "Feel Good" debuts their grilled charity cheese, three freshmen are going public with their own culinary venture, in an event they call "C is for Crunk, B is for Breakfast." (Unfortunately for observant Jews, "YK is for Yom Kippur, F is for Fasting," but there'll be other days.) Much as "Feel Good" saves a suffering&nbsp; part of the world populace, "Breakfast At Ovo's" saves a dying part of American culture: the homemade breakfast. Breakfast is even under attack from our corporations:&nbsp; Dannon tries to hustle adults into trading their breakfast for a Frusion Smoothie, and Yoplait recruits on-the-go kids to squirt themselves a tube of Go-Gurt rather than sit down at a table with their families. Asovoene "Ovo" Rerri, Tom Amegadzie and Trevis Joyner are having none of it, and anybody with four dollars in hand can have all of the home-cooked breakfast they want, if they stop by Hartley 2C on Saturday between 11:00 am and 1:00 pm. Pancakes of all varieties, french toast, hominy grits, scrambled eggs, and fresh fruit are on the menu, and students can wash it down with O.J. or iced tea. Ovo says the chefs aim to break even rather than turn a profit. Why go to all the work? "It started as just a way to meet people," he said, "now it's a sort of non-profit business." If their enthusiasm doesn't fade as the suite turns into a madhouse, the chefs plan to continue serving breakfast on a biweekly basis, and to slowly expand the menu in the future. Profit or not, their business seems to be doing all right in terms of volume - 30 diners showed up last week, and the "Breakfast at Ovo's" facebook group, which opened this week, already has over 100 members. &nbsp;The obligatory response to enthusiastic freshmen is that Columbia will crush their dreams or worse. Maybe so. Perhaps the CPA will rush to shut down this "crunk party " advertised on facebook, or it could be the case that Columbia Catering is the exclusive catering service in Hartley as well as Lerner, or the group might apply for official recognition and get stuck in the molasses swamp of event approval. But why speculate - when babies are born, do we bet on how long they'll live? This ain't medieval England. This is America, an international beacon of pancakes. - DHI &nbsp;&nbsp; From left to right: Trevis Joyner, Ovo Rerri, &nbsp;Tom Amegadzie. &nbsp; 
Yesterday, Bwog staffer Lucy Tang sat in on the Future of Book Reviews panel and realized that all Columbia arguments center around elitism. Panelists: Steve Wasserman (former editor of the Los Angeles Book Review) Peter Osnos (founder and editor at large of PublicAffairs) Elizabeth Sifton (editor and senior vice president of Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux) Carlin Romano (books editor for The Philadelphia Inquirer) Mark Sarvas (literary blog The Elegant Variation). In the cover story of this month's Columbia Journalism Review, Steve Wasserman laments the disappearance of book reviews in today's newspapers. To further explore this conundrum, the panel featured him alongside four other renowned names in book and journalism circles. Evan Cornog played both moderator and pacifier for the night. Steve Wasserman opened the debate by blaming the United States for its aversion to books. He bemoaned the secondary nature of pieces relegated to book review sections, citing newspapers' continual emphasis on advertising, an area where book review sections often limp behind. Accusations of an "anti-intellectual ethos" were bandied about as he criticized the U.S.'s "general contempt for the bookish," asking the audience whether there was still room for "serious criticism in a mass society" (I could guess what he thought). Sitting amidst the panel, Mark Sarvas stood out as the youngest, though his bald spot suggested that he wasn't exactly the voice of Gen Y. Sarvas immediately recognized the age gap and quickly dispelled any ideas that he would be the "rabble-rouser." However, he staked out the "new media" territory in his praise of Salon and Slate, two popular online magazines that devote space to book reviews. Though books remain crucial and paper won't ever disappear, Sarvas placed the internet at the forefront of literary criticism: after all, we're used to it. It's only a natural progression. Expanding on Wasserman's sentiment about the plight of the intellectual, Elizabeth Sifton explained that the "very all-American" just don't care about books. Taking on Sarvas,&nbsp; she disparaged the internet as "narrow" compared to the possibilities of books. Hitting a more relatable topic for students and belittling academia at the same time, Sifton claimed most students do research online (obviously, she never suffered University Writing.) Carl Romano pointed out the elitist strain in Wasserman's article, citing its "enormous snobbery." He coined the term "New Washangeles" to describe the latent anti-Americanism in intellectual life. As a writer for a "general-interest newspaper" (The Philadelphia Inquirer), Romano condemned typical book reviews as "stilted" and "pompous." He explained that the average American reads a book occasionally, but book reviews are relegated for the elite intellectuals. The language in those reviews holds little interest for readers in small cities, and if book reviews are to remain relevant, they must find a public appeal.&nbsp; Peter Osnos jumped on Romano's egalitarian approach to book reviews. For Osnos, it was extremely important that book reviews create a community. He suggested a word of mouth feature, in which readers are encouraged to share their current reads. Despite The New York Times Book Review's credibility, its audience doesn't include vast America. Instead, Osnos saw a new literary community, a community where Oprah is the harbinger, she who has already catapulted William Faulkner, Elie Weisel, and Toni Morrison into book club conversations. He then likened book reviews to public radio, a mainstay of American culture, because it managed to revamp itself to stay current. He didn't know how book review could do the same--but he insisted that they must follow public radio's lead. In response to Romano and Osnos, Wasserman fervently denied their accusations of elitism. "Whenever I hear the word elitist, I want to reach for my revolver." Instead he turned the argument and insinuated those two are elitist for doubting ordinary readers' ability. Tensions rose as he specifically focused on Romano, aghast that as an editor, Romano saw the need to "dumb down newspapers" for people. The remainder of the panel deteriorated into an argument about the elitist nature of book reviews. Throughout, Sifton piped in about the publishing industry being marred by consumerism and capitalism and Sarvas continued to cast literary blogs as the heir to paper book reviews. An hour and half with little resolved — now back to the library. 
Bwog movie-goer Christian Kamongi scopes out the New York Film Festival and shares his picks. If you do one thing this semester, make sure you attend New York Film Festival (headed by Columbia's own Richard PeÃ±a). Much of its Cannes-heavy lineup has not yet secured distribution, so this may be the last chance to view these works for a considerable period of time. The Last Mistress French provocateur Catherine Breillat's adaptation of Jules-AmÃ©dÃ©e Barbey d'Aurevilly's Une Vieille Maitresse is rumored to be her most conventional work, but it's also a comeback from the serious misstep, Anatomy of Hell. The major draw is Asia Argento's performance, which New York Times film reviewer Manohla Dargis praises, "From the first moment she appears on screen... Ms. Argento has us in her grasp. She never lets go." Go Go Tales The fact that Abel Ferrara had to venture to Europe to secure funding for his latest feature proves Hollywood will only fund artistry as long as it maintains the artifice of the "prestige picture." Yet for a raw screwball comedy taking place in the last night of Willem Dafoe's strip joint, the seamy incandescence of the CinecittÃ&nbsp; seems appropriate. Mainstream press has generally characterized Go Go Tales as a comeback and the press' approval suggests that it might be a crowd-pleaser. Once again, Asia Argento provides the reason to watch as the "scariest, sexiest, most dangerous girl in the world." &nbsp; Silent Light &nbsp; Hopefully after the hoopla surrounding the phenomenal success of the Mexican trio of auteurs (Guillermo Del Toro, Alejandro GonzÃ¡lez IÃ±Ã¡rritu, and Alfonso CuarÃ³n) some attention will be imparted on the extraordinary Carlos Reygadas. Not to mention, Silent Light took home the Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival. Silent Light revolves around a story of adultery that takes place in a Mennonite community in Northern Mexico. Reygada's decision to film in the community's German dialect and cast only authentic Mennonites provides the film with a methodological sense of eeriness. This seemingly unusual decision is fitting considering the fact that the film is rumored to be a love poem to the dark Dane himself, Carl Theodor Dreyer. Flight of the Red Balloon &nbsp; People wait months, if not years, for features like this to come around. Hou Hsiao-Hsien has the most prestigious oeuvre in the past 30 years of any auteur. As a practitioner of a Neo-Transcendental style, this head of the Taiwanese New Wave serves us with sublime meditations on urban and domestic life. Funded by the MusÃ©e d'Orsay, his latest is based loosely on Albert Lamorisse's classic Le Ballon Rouge. It's rumored that Juliette Binoche gives her finest performance as a stressed out Parisian single mother puppeteer. If you must shell out $16 at the festival, this is the film to watch. 
In which Bwog freelancer Joseph Meyers journeys uptown for a free-for-all public hearing on Manhattanville. Next Wednesday, Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer will decide whether or not to rubber stamp Columbia's proposed expansion plan in Manhattanville. It's only an advisory decision—but that didn't stop hundreds of impassioned Manhattanville residents from descending on City College's Aaron Davis Hall last night to make sure he makes the right choice. For over four hours, Stringer sat on stage as community residents, local business owners, activists, and students waved "Bollinger dollars" in the air and railed against Columbia's proposed rezoning plan, the 197-C. Those who spoke in favor of the plan were, without exception, interrupted by booing, hissing, and bilingual shouts of "Harlem is not for sale!" A few business owners, construction and design firms contracted by Columbia for phase one of the expansion plan, and a smattering Manhattanville inhabitants broke the overwhelming anti-expansion consensus. But President Bollinger himself served as the University's chief defender, calmly opening an evening of heated debate with a succinct address. Throughout the night, Stringer tried to keep the boisterous and angry crowd calm. Often adopting the tone of a strict schoolteacher, Stringer’s cranky attitude and repeated threats to close down the hearing early made this reporter wonder when our Borough President’s bedtime is. At one point, community activist Tom DeMott broke form by grabbing the mic, facing the audience instead of Stringer, and leading a chant—now familiar to veterans of his protests—of "Harlem—not for sale!" "Columbia's sitting on a time bomb here," he said, urged on by cheers and clapping. "Whether they like it or not, we're gonna' make it a time bomb. When the time comes we're gonna' be out there in front of those bulldozers!" Columbia students spoke out as well. Bryan Mercer, CC '07, decried Columbia's use of political consultants rather than constructive negotiation to achieve their goals. &nbsp; "People are not only silenced by Tasers," Mercer said, referring to the recent incident at the University of Florida. "People are exploited by negotiations, golf course deals, and bargains made in mansions like the one on 116th and Riverside Drive." Towards the end of the meeting, this reporter was approached by a smooth-talking man dressed all in black named Jay Strell, who told me he had been working to make sure "some of the other voices in the community" were heard. He then proceeded to hand me documents, including one published by the Columbia University Office of Communications and Public Affairs, in strong support of the expansion project. When asked if he lived in Manhattanville, Strell said, rather evasively, "No…I live in New York." Though Strell spoke in support of the pro-expansion group Coalition for the Future of Manhattanville, he in fact works for Sunshine, Sachs and Associates, a public relations firm. PR gun for hire Ken Sunshine, the head of the firm, represents celebrities such as Ben Affleck, Jon Bon Jovi, and Leo DiCaprio, as well as various New York City unions. According to Wikipedia, Sunshine previously served as chief of staff to former mayor David Dinkins, who is now a SIPA professor and who tonight spoke strongly in favor of expansion. Victoria Benitez, press officer at the Columbia University Office of Communications &amp; Public Affairs, denied that Columbia had funded the pro-expansion group. For the record, Strell thinks we're doing a great job at the "Bee-Wog.” Even if Columbia's plan is approved by Stringer and the City Council, there is still hope for Manhattanville, said Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer who represents some Manhattanville small business owners in their challenge to the use of eminent domain. Siegel is also currently involved in a lawsuit to force the city to release documentation of business it has done with consulting firm AKRF, which has given consultation to the city on Manhattanville's status as "blighted." AKRF, Siegel says, also contracts heavily with Columbia, creating a significant conflict of interest. Read more about the case here. "Hopefully Stringer will vote the right way on Wednesday," Siegel said, "If not, we'll hold him accountable." City Councilmember Robert Jackson (D), who represents West Harlem, attended the meeting. Jackson sits on the Land Use Committee, a subcommittee of the Zoning and Franchise Committee. In the event that Stringer approves the plan, it will be passed on to these committees for discussion and then a vote before being sent to the entire City Council. Jackson said that in general members of those committee vote in line with the representative of the district in question, in this case, him. He added, however, that the issue would most likely be settled by the time it reached him. "If it's unsettled when it gets to us, someone's going to be happy, and someone's not going to be happy," Jackson said. Jackson has publicly stated his opposition to the use of eminent domain, but at tonight's hearing he said that he was just there to listen to what everyone had to say. The activists tried to make it a matter of cold, political reality for the politicians involved. "Politicians, I warn you, this is your litmus test—if you want to be in office you have to oppose this plan," said Nelly Bailey, of the Harlem Tenants Association. 
 It's a big city out there. Bwog continues its (fledgling) series of artsy picks to help you navigate the world below Morningside. Orhan Pamuk Pamuk--winner of the 2006 Nobel Prize for Literature--is taking time off from his part-time professorial duties to read from his latest, Other Colors: Essays and a Story, a collection of essays about his own life and, well, the world. Barnes &amp; Noble Union Square, 33 E. 17th St., (212) 253-0810, 7 p.m. Free. The Brooklynites Party Writer Anthony LaSala and photographer Seth Kushner have teamed up to present a documentary on the Brooklynite. Photographing people from Greenpoint, Coney Island, Flatbush, and beyond, the duo has sought to create a portrait of the borough in The Brooklynites. Works from the book will be on display; DJ J.Period and Maya Azucena will be performing. powerHouse Arena, 37 Main St., Brooklyn, (212) 604-9074, 6-9 p.m. Free with RSVP. Run, Fat Boy, Run Advanced Screening In Run, Fat Boy, Run (the official release date is October 26), we've got a teaming of true genius and absolute mediocrity. The script, written by Stella's Michael Ian Black, has to be hilarious. What worries Bwog is former-Friendster David Shwimmer's directing skillzz (or potential lack thereof). We will, however, give him the benefit of the doubt. After all, the movie's about a fat security guard that tries to win his ex-fiance back by running a marathon. Walter Reade Theater, 70 Lincoln Center Plaza, (212) 875-5600, 7:30 p.m. $40 (includes screening and after-party at the Frieda and Roy Furman Gallery). High Places + Celebration You don't have to spend any money or travel very far to enjoy the first WBAR show of the semester. Expect some good music and (hopefully) some great weather. For some pre-show listening, check out here and here. Lehman Lawn, 8 p.m. Free. 
 Of course Columbia students hate secrets. Spectator promotes body-image issues. Soon we'll vote via texting too. Newsflash: learning Mandarin is useful for jobs! What about Barnard's needs? P.S.: The Spec site is moving really slowly due to the high traffic generated by being linked to on every right wing blog in the country.&nbsp; ALSO! A statement from student leaders about M. Ahmadinejad's arrival, in which they complain about the short notice of the announcement, is pasted after the jump. UPDATE! John McCain has something to say too! STATEMENT FROM STUDENT LEADERS REGARDING THE INVITATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IRAN As is surely common knowledge to everyone by now, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, will be speaking on campus this Monday, September 24 th 2007. We believe that this presents an incredible opportunity for the student body to learn about world affairs and to challenge a major controversial figure. In a university setting, no view is too disreputable to be excluded - the goal of a university is to hear and present a wide array of opinions so that they may be challenged and debated in the spirit of free speech and the pursuit of knowledge. We are disturbed, however, by the extremely short notice given for this event. It should be obvious to anyone that this is an event that will generate a strong reaction from the student body. How can we adequately prepare ourselves in four days for the insightful and productive debate that this event should elicit on campus? How can students who wish to protest successfully organize and plan in four days when demonstrations on campus require a minimum of seven days advance notice for security review? How can students who actually care and want to learn and attend the event if registration is closed before the event is even officially announced? We understand the University's hesitation to announce earlier, since President Ahmadinejad had not accepted the invitation until Wednesday. But, in an event as controversial as this, the needs of the students should take precedence. The student body should have been informed as soon as the invitation had been extended. Even if the invitation had been declined, students would have begun the debate that the event was originally meant to inspire. To keep information like this from the students actively stifles debate. As President Bollinger said in his Statement yesterday, "Columbia, as a community dedicated to learning and scholarship, is committed to confronting ideas—to understand the world as it is and as it might be. To fulfill this mission we must respect and defend the rights of our schools, our deans, and our faculty to create programming for academic purposes. … We trust our community, including our students, to be fully capable of dealing with these occasions, through the powers of dialogue and reason." As student leaders we agree with this statement. For this ideal to be recognized, however, we need to allow real student participation. The entire campus community must have the opportunity to actively engage President Ahmadinejad in order to achieve true academic freedom and discussion. In recent years, criticism surrounding the administration's handling of major speakers has been prevalent both on and off campus. Let us use this event as an opportunity to improve the process and guarantee student involvement so that we can achieve the high level of academic discourse that this campus deserves. Paula Cheng, President of ABC Michelle Diamond, President of CCSC Chris Kulawk, President of The College Republicans + several others (the signature list was incomplete) &nbsp; 
 Spectator's site is down, per usual, must be all that high traffic. Grrl Power! (Mean Zine Fighting Machine p. 12) Did The Eye forget to print a page? (After the Lights Go Out p. 7) The Nanny Diaries was already published and made into a movie. (Babysitters' Club p. 5) Indie music blogs?! What an idea! (Blogs' Top Dogs p. 13) Maybe men are just funnier? (The Incredible Shrinking Violets p. 14)&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Tune in to Channel 2 later tonight, we suppose. Also spotted near Lerner, a camera crew from Fox News who actually had no idea why they were shooting b-roll of the campus. Bwoggers shoved a Spectator in front of their faces. "Oh. Ok," the camera guy said. 
 PrezBo spotted in 555 Lerner, discussing with student representatives his reasons for allowing Ahmadinejad to speak. Also, hot tipper Jon Berliner stumbled across an extra ticket on Craigslist. Look out for more scalping over the weekend. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Enough about Ahmadinejad, what about fashion? Labyrinth&nbsp;bags are like sooooo vintage now! 
We promise we'll lay off the Ahmadinejad soon, but these were too good to pass up. If you're a potentially nuclear Middle Eastern state, how do you&nbsp;get in touch with the University? In the case of Iran, you contact Professor Richard Bulliet, who served as the intermediary in arranging President Ahmadinejad's visit. "This year the Iranian ambassador to the United Nations asked me to convey a request for a renewal of the invitation," Bulliet wrote in an e-mail to Bwog. "There was ample time to make arrangements. Columbia responded positively."&nbsp; Also, regarding Prezbo's explanatory meeting this afternoon with student leaders: one of them graciously provided Bwog with some notes. They are as follows: "In attendance were representatives from the College Republicans, Hillel, LionPAC, Iranian Students Association, Sikh association, ISO, ACLU, USCC/SPEAK, CQA, SGB, CCSC/ESC, AAA, CPU, and Spectator. There was also the Law School Senator, and student representatives from SIPA, J-school, and the B-school. Also present were Deans Columbo, Schollenberger, Yatrakis, and various members of Bollinger's staff. President Bollinger explained that the issue of Ahmadinejad visiting first came up last year. Lisa Anderson had been in contact with the Iranian delegation, but by the time the Iranians agreed to our terms, it was less than 24 hours notice and really was a logistical problem. He emphasized that the logistics were the only reason for cancelling Ahmedinejad's visit last year. "I made it very clear at the time that I disagreed with ." Bollinger explained that academic departments, to the extent that they use university resources to invite a speaker, may do so as long as it is for an academic purpose. He said that the university's negotiations with the Iranians were about preserving that principle. " not interested in providing a platform interested in a scholarly experience." A SPEaK/USCC representative asked why Bollinger felt the need to speak publicly his disapproval of the content of Ahmedinejad's speech when he made no such statements about Gilchrist last year. Bollinger responded that he had to be careful what he said about the speakers that students invite because "When I say things, it can have a chilling effect on what students do on campus." "I put it in a spectrum. At one end, you have . Another end is honorary degrees. I would oppose giving an honorary degree to Ahmedinejad." He said that the event would be "a celebration of the university and its values." and that protests "in a powerful way" would be welcome "short of disrupting the event itself." On a question about the extent to which the event is an opportunity for Ahmedinejad to glorify himself given a stage here, Bollinger explained by way of comparison to Hugo Chavez: "He was insisting that there be a cable connection to South America" . On Ahmedinejad: "I'm satisfied that our reasons for having him here his motivations." On why he feels the need to deliver remarks critical of Ahmedinejad at the event itself: "I think his views are so outrageous and so beyond the pale, I put this a category where I as a leader of the institution should speak about this." At the end of the event, Bollinger asked to take a poll, whether among the people present, we supported the principle of academic freedom. Most (but not all) hands went up." 
 While walking over to the WBAR show this evening, Bwog ran into Columbia's Greek girls celebrating the rites of fall: jumping up and down and screaming at the top of their lungs in a semiannual phenomenon known as "Bid Night." That's when all the pledges, having been divvied up by the sororities the night before--details of the process are kept tightly under wraps--commence the first day of their new, sister-filled lives.&nbsp; The scene is baffling for the uninformed; Bwog tried to explain it to curious, wide-eyed passersby. About 50 girls gather around the sundial, in slightly varying attire for the four sororities. Delta Gamma girls wore sailor hats and shirts that read: "It's lonely at the top,&nbsp; but at least I have my sisters," which set them apart for most original slogan next to SDT ("The sweetest just got sweeter") and Theta ("The best just got better"). They shouted cheers and hugged each other like a war had just ended. Bwog would have gotten better pictures, but was informed by members of the Panhellenic Council that the sundial had been reserved for bid night, and that we would have to leave. Not one to pick a fight with such spirit, Bwog relinquished the photographic angle and joined the boys sitting on the grass chain fence to observe the spectacle. In other unfortunate events, Ferris Reel's first screening tonight left the hundreds of people in attendance feeling a little jilted--the sound cut out near the end of The Kingdom, a not-yet-released movie starring Jennifer Garner and Jamie Foxx. The climactic scene felt like one of those 1920s soundless films, leaving us to wonder WHAT THEY WERE SAYING when the 18 bazillionth person died a violent death. Well, at least it was free. - LBD 
A statement from the Columbia Coalition Against the War: Open Letter to Progressive Opponents of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad As Columbia only very recently announced, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will be speaking in Roone Arledge auditorium this Monday. A number of students and student organizations have already announced plans for a protest rally the same day. We are not among them. We do not endorse Ahmadinejad or his views, many of which are inexcusable. However, as opponents of a US military strike against Iran, we have serious concerns with the content of some of the hostility that has been expressed to his presence, and specifically with the planned protest. We fear the demonization of Ahmadinejad, because we think this demonization contributes to the likelihood of war. In the current climate, with many on the political right in the U.S. and Israel pushing for air strikes, a campaign against Ahmadinejad is dangerous, regardless of the intentions of most involved. A call to action, unless it prominently rules out war, implies military action. A rally where each speaker denounces Ahmadinejad's reactionary policies and just a few call explicitly for military action will still be perceived, on campus and around the U.S., as pro-war. The right-wing media, from Fox News to the New York tabloids, has already jumped on the event, and will spin it to favor their cause. Conservative organizations with no affiliation to Columbia's campus, such as the David Project, have already signed on to the rally on Facebook, and are likely to distribute hundreds of warmongering flyers and picket signs. The rally will seem to be a sea of pro-war demonstrators – and the more people who attend it and the more organizations that endorse it, the more powerful this disastrous message will be. <!-- D( ); D(); //--> A U.S. attack on Iran, which is not an inevitability but is a real possibility, would have consequences just as terrible as the invasion of Iraq. Thousands would die in initial air strikes, and more in the resulting backlash and regional conflagration. The work of Iranian campaigners for free speech, women's rights, and lesbian and gay liberation, and against racism and anti-semitism, would be set back immeasurably. As Iranian Nobel Laureate Shirin Ebadi has pointed out, "Human rights are not established by throwing cluster bombs on people. You cannot introduce democracy to a country by using tanks." There are other means for engagement with Iran than war, and other means for disagreement with Ahmadinejad than the planned protest. We call on those who do not support a war with Iran to be wary of the vilification of Ahmadinejad, to avoid Monday's rally, and to express vocally their opposition to military intervention. Columbia Coalition Against the War 
 More news on everyone's favorite Iranian president CU attempts to make some good in Manhattanville, sort of Columbia football: better luck this year? Spec editors on the "War on Fun" &nbsp;Professor makes professional notes on Al-Haj &nbsp; 
Tonight, from 8:00 PM to 10:00 PM, Postcrypt is opening its photo show with free food and music! A few teasers (more photos after the jump): &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 In other news, Wien residents awoke to a cordial email from Housing &amp; Dining today, apologizing for the shut-down of the building's food court. In its place, Health Services and friends are moving into the arena (perhaps adding to the onslaught of mental institution jokes about the building). As a gesture of reconciliation, Dining Services is offering Wien residents "$5 FREE DINING DOLLARS" to use on campus at their favorite venues. The email also states that the typical sandwich at Cafe 212 costs $5.95. At least there's the candy corn? See the cheery dining advisory after the jump. &nbsp; From: Columbia Housing and Dining Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:16 PM Subject: Free Dining Dollars Dear Wien Resident, As you know, the Wien Food Court has closed. Construction has begun in that space to accommodate the relocation of several Health Services Departments, Alice! Health Promotion Program, Administration, and Insurance. This move, scheduled for early next year, will result in service improvements for students: additional examination and consultation rooms will be added to the 3rd and 4th floors of John Jay, creating more same-day appointments, as well as confidentiality; the new configuration of the insurance department will also create more privacy. Additionally, the Office of Disability Services will become much more accessible by moving from the 8th floor of Lerner, which is not ADA-compliant, to the 7th. This will give Counseling and Psychological Services room to add more private exam space. At Dining Services, we understand your need for convenient daily sustenance, so we're giving you, Wien resident, $5 FREE DINING DOLLARS to try at your favorite campus dining location. If you want something nearby, look no further than Lenfest Cafe, right next door on the second floor of Greene Hall. It offers a great seating area, chef-prepared sushi, and daily specials, such as hamburgers and chicken sandwiches straight from the grill! Lenfest Cafe welcomes undergraduates and Dining Dollars. If you are really missing the Food Court, don't despair - the Mill Korean has been relocated to Mudd's Carleton Lounge. The hot lunch buffet is only 38 cents an ounce! And new this year at Cafe 212 - get your salad or sandwich made-to-order with an unlimited choice of toppings at a fixed price of $5.95 for sandwiches and $6.50 for salads. To get your $5 FREE DINING DOLLARS, simply visit the Customer Service Center in 118 Hartley Hall, Monday - Friday from 9:00am - 5:00pm. Offer expires Friday, October 5, 2007. Plus, if you purchase $100 or more Dining Dollars while you're there, you'll get an additional 10% in FREE Dining Dollars! Sincerely, Housing &amp; Dining 
 After e-mailing most every organization and calling every student leader they could get phone numbers for, Fox has its Columbia pundits set for the next few days. Here's the list, possibly incomplete and subject to change: TONIGHT at 8:00 PM on the O'Reilly Factor: Columbia College sophomore Alejandra Aponte, arguing in favor of Columbia's decision to host Ahmadinejad Business School student Reed Werner, arguing against Saturday at 2:48 PM with host Jamie Colby: Journalism School student Bess Kargman, arguing in favor&nbsp; CC senior and College Republicans president Chris Kulawik, arguing against Saturday at 5:30 PM with host Julie Banderas: CC senior and Spectator Editor-in-Chief John Davisson (after Bwog turned the job down), arguing in favor Monday, after the speech: CC senior and College Democrats president Josh Lipsky, arguing we're not sure what (although the Democrats endorsed the decision earlier this afternoon). 
After going down in flames with its first two attempts at opinion blogging, and with a tentative re-entry into the world of instantaneous news coverage with the Orientation blog, Spectator is taking a third swing. A little corner notice in the paper this week read:&nbsp; "The Opinion Section has launched a blog twice and was unsuccessful both times. Both versions lacked a cohesive voice and were half-hearted attempts at bringing the page online out of necessity to follow the journalistic trend towards the Internet. In its new form, the Opinion blog will feature a limited number of personal voices concerned with specific issues and ideas as well as daily photos and art. The hope is to utilize the Web asa medium for opinion rather than to merely extend the page to a new location. The blog will officially launch on Sunday, Sept. 23." We're all for introspection. Looking forward to it. Meanwhile, we've also heard that Spec will soon be launching a blog for Ahmadinejad coverage called...the AhmadineBlog. They'll be sitting around in their PJs growing out their beards soon enough... UPDATE, via a commenter: It's here! 
The air has been thick with statements over the last few days, as every group tries to decide what they think and student leaders rush to stake out their positions. In case you care, we've pasted or linked to most of them after the jump--but first, a little context. Wednesday night, student heads of things cobbled together this statement complaining about the lack of notice given by the University for the event. ESC President Liz Strauss, whose name found its way onto that statement without her consent, printed her own own the next day taking issue with the lack of consultation before it went into the day's Spec. Unrelatedly, at 2:00 AM Thursday morning, Bwog received a statement from Ariela Rosenberg of Hillel about the formation of the "Columbia Coalition," a loose group handling protest logistics to allow every group to have a 15-minute soapbox on Monday as well as live feeds of the event in Wien and John Jay. At that time, Dems president Josh Lipsky said his group would not be participating in the forum because "we want our members to actually engage in the event." At a more reasonable time in the morning yesterday, CCAW announced that they would also not participate, fearing the event would be hijacked by those in favor of a war on Iran (which is, you know, not the most unlikely thing in the world). In the afternoon, the College Democrats sent an e-mail to their members accusing CCAW of waging an "unfortunate campaign of misinformation," and announcing their decision to participate in the Columbia Coalition event after all. Meanwhile, Hillel president Josh Rosner and SGB chair Jonathan Siegel issued a by-now-redundant statement of their own condemning the way in which the University handled the announcement. Oh, and the Republicans said something too. Just after midnight this morning, Bwog received the official mission statement of the Columbia Coalition, which is spearheaded by Rosenberg and Aaron Krieger, among others. Also during the night, Bwog heard that CCAW and the Dems have reached a rapprochement of sorts, with the Dems admitting to have misunderstood CCAW's position. We expect a new statement from them soon. Finally, the White House couldn't care less, and Mitt Romney thinks we're stupid or something. - LBD Ariela Rosenberg, 2:00 AM, Sept. 21 I am one of the students who spearheaded the Columbia Coalition, a group of student leaders who have come together in an attempt to preserve what little opportunity remains to promote academic freedom and free exchange when Ahmadinejad arrives on our campus on Monday. &nbsp; What are we doing? The plan is fairly simple. Many students recognized that with such a controversial figure coming to campus and so many voices that need to be heard, chaos would inevitably ensue as we battled for the same protest permits, limited space, and cooperation from the University. So instead, we have come together to give every recognized University group the opportunity to express their view in a public forum on Monday. We are coordinating live feeds of the lecture so that the many students who got closed out can watch it in real time. We also plan to disseminate information to the student community about other related opportunities, such as discussion groups hosted by various student groups before and after the lecture. &nbsp; Although the plan seems fairly simple, I strongly believe this coalition is necessary, important, and demonstrates an incredible degree of intellectual integrity and maturity on behalf of Columbia students. But I do have one complaint. As much as I would like to promise that the absolute highest degree of academic freedom will be preserved on Monday, I am aware that this is impossible. Firstly, the lecture format was decided before students could even think about getting involved in the decision-making. Namely, the Q&amp;A is limited to prescreened questions that will be asked by moderators instead of students. However, my major complaint is that the Columbia Coalition is working its hardest in seriously strained circumstances because the University did not provide enough notice, time or resources to organize the campus as effectively, appropriately, and as safely as possible. I am not a tool of the University; I am a concerned student. In addition to believing strongly in the ideal of academic freedom and the importance of voicing all opinions, I too have strong opinions about President Ahmadinejad'ss presence on my campus. As a contributor to the Coalition I am not quite sure how much of my own opinion I will be able to express on Monday. Instead, I will be running around, barely able to stand after not sleeping or eating for three days, because I was filling a void the university should have filled in its own capacity, or at least it should have provided an environment for student response more compatible to ensuring that the delicate balance of academic freedom could be adequately upheld. &nbsp; So on Monday, many students and students groups are going to come together- not as a united group, but as a united campus committed to the ideal of academic freedom. From the positive response the Columbia Coalition has received, I am pretty certain about the position of Columbia students on the matter. My question is directed to the administration- what do you think about the importance of academic freedom on our campus? Apparently, not much. Josh Rosner and Jonathan Siegel, 2:00 AM, Sept 21 This Monday, September 24th, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, will be addressing students and faculty at Columbia University. As would be expected, this has revived debate on Academic Freedom and the boundaries of acceptable discourse. Lee C. Bollinger, the President of Columbia University, has defended the decision to invite President Ahmadinejad on the grounds that only through actually hearing and challenging President Ahmadinejad's ideas, can one fully comprehend the odious and ignorant nature of his views. &nbsp; As students, we agree with President Bollinger on this point and welcome the opportunity to engage and challenge any view on campus, especially ones with which we strongly disagree. Discourse and debate are essential components of the university ideal. &nbsp; The actions of the administration of Columbia University in planning and executing this event, however, undermine these very values. Although President Ahmadinejad is speaking this Monday, the Columbia University administration did not announce the event until late Wednesday afternoon. For effective discourse and debate to occur, adequate preparation time is necessary - thoughtful questions must be thoroughly researched, counter speakers must be arranged, protests and rallies must be organized. Four days is simply insufficient. At a meeting on Thursday, President Bollinger argued that he could not have released information about the event any earlier because President Ahmadinejab did not confirm until Wednesday. &nbsp; But why? If students had been told of the invitation as soon as it was offered, the students would have begun organizing, preparing, and debating earlier. Had President Ahmadinejad canceled, the only cost would have been time wasted on the intellectual discourse that the event was meant to provoke in the first place. At the event itself, students will be unable to address and challenge the views of President Ahmadinejad directly. All questions from the audience will be filtered through the Dean of Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs. How can students benefit fully from the dialogue if they are not allowed to participate in it completely? All of these conditions combined demonstrate a fundamental distrust of students on the part of the administration. This is certainly not new -&nbsp;at universities across the county and throughout time students have been reduced to wards of the university as opposed to full participants in the academic process. University officials and faculty have time and time again tried to define Academic Freedom, but any definition that excludes student input is inherently flawed. The lack of concern for students in the planning of President Ahmadinejad's speech turned what should have been a great opportunity for students into a betrayal of university ideals. Although this event Monday undermines the values of true Academic Freedom and symbolizes the suppression of adequate student participation, we urge students on every campus to actively engage in the ongoing process of defining Academic Freedom in universities nationwide. At Columbia University, the students are the ones teaching the University about Academic Freedom.&nbsp; We can only hope that the University decides to have an open mind and actually learn. College Democrats, 3:58 PM, Sept. 21 College Democrats, Over the past few days the news of President Ahmadinejad's appearance has sparked intense debate on our campus. As your President and Vice President we want to take a moment and outline some of the controversies happening right now and explain our organization's role in this process. It is our belief that the general body of students at this school has been shut out of these important decisions and we'd like to change that right now. Many of you first learned about the Ahmadinejad's appearance at our general body meeting this past Wednesday. By the time we announced the event, registration had closed, meaning few if any of us were able to register. This was the product of the administration only announcing the event to a select few campus leaders before opening the registration process. The leadership of the Democrats spoke with President Bollinger on this issue and he assured us it will not happen again. Over the past 24 hours we have worked hard to ensure that this event live up to it's billing - 'a free exchange of ideas.' It would be difficult to meet that standard if most of the students on this campus were not allowed to participate. We're proud to say that through the leadership of the democrats, the councils and various other campus groups, we have gotten the administration to agree to simulcast the speech in both John Jay and Wien Lounges. Additionally, students will be allowed to email in questions from now until the middle of the speech. Please send any questions to worldleaders@columbia.edu . These are relatively small concessions but they can help turn this event from a spectator show into an opportunity to challenge one of the most controversial figures of our time. The Democrats have also decided to organize a '10 Questions' campaign. The concept here is to craft, along with other student groups, a series of 10 questions that we feel President Ahmadinejad must address. A copy of these questions will be submitted to everyone entering Lerner on Monday in the hope that a few of these questions are asked. Everyone is encouraged to submit these questions through email before the event. If anyone would like to help in the process of putting together these questions please email Kate Redburn at krr2105@columbia.edu &nbsp;You may or may not also know that an adhoc coalition of students- the Columbia Coalition- has formed in response to the event. We'd like to take this opportunity to explain how the Dems board has been involved up to this point, and to solicit your input as to how we should go forward. Today, there has been an unfortunate campaign of misinformation by another coalition, the Columbia Coalition Against the War (CCAW). Although none of their representatives have attended any of the Columbia Coalition meetings, they have issued an open letter accusing the Columbia Coalition and any forum participants of advocating for a war with Iran. This could not be further from the truth. The Columbia Coalition itself is a non-partisan group which itself is expressing no views on the Iranian President or his visit to our campus. It is not advocating for any action toward Iran, belligerent or otherwise. It is providing a public forum on Low Plaza giving any and all interested student groups the opportunity to speak for around 15 minutes each. The forum will not be a pro-war rally, and it will include only Columbia affiliates, not outsiders. To suggest anything to the contrary is a ploy for attention, not an informed comment. The board feels that the forum is a positive and appropriate response to the event, and that it is in keeping with our dedication to free speech on campus. Our board has also voted to accept a slot during the Columbia Coalition's Forum. We welcome and encourage your input in helping prepare our remarks for the event. As Democrats, we seek to engage in dialogue with Iran, and we endorse the decision to invite him unto our campus. This is a unique opportunity to challenge and expose one of the most radical leaders in the world, and as Democrats we welcome this chance. We believe in preventing another war in the Middle East. And we believe that Iran's state sponsored terrorism represents a serious threat to the United States and her president's anti-antisemitism and Holocaust denials represent a serious threat to moral sensibilities across the globe. And that is precisely why we need to grill and engage Ahmadinejad in every forum possible - not avoid him. Hopefully everyone made it through the email - it's a long one. Everyone is invited to attend a debriefing of the day's events on Monday at 9:30PM in Hamilton 516 Thanks to all of you who have joined in this debate in the last few days and we hope more of you email us and get involved and continue to give us feedback. - Josh &amp; Chris College Republicans, 4:45 PM, Sept. 21 Dear Republicans, On Monday, September 24, following a visit to the United Nations, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will speak at Columbia University.&nbsp; The Columbia University College Republicans find his views and actions to be heinous and repugnant.&nbsp; Furthermore, Ahmadinejad is one of the greatest threats to global security today and an affront to American values.&nbsp; As Americans, we are blessed with the freedom to express our opinions in a way that the citizens of Iran are unable under Ahmadinejad's oppressive regime.&nbsp; The Columbia University College Republicans and all like-minded peers will be there, protesting his demonstrable hatred. Please get involved and come out to protest, as we join with the Columbia Coalition this coming Monday. Columbia Coalition, 12:30 AM, Sept. 22 The Columbia Coalition is a non-partisan, non-political organizing group committed to providing the entire Columbia community with the opportunity to participate in and react to the presence of Iranian Pres. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on our campus this coming Monday the 24th. The visit of this world leader has aroused an incredible array of emotions from individuals and organizations on this campus, and it is our intention to provide a safe and public forum for the expression of these feelings.&nbsp;&nbsp; Toward this end, we are in the process of organizing a rally - to take place on Low Plaza - that will give representatives from all interested student groups the opportunity to express their views publicly, as well as coordinating a way through which all students will be able to see and hear Ahmadinejad's speech and the following Q&amp;A via live broadcast.&nbsp;&nbsp; No opinion is too radical to be expressed through this group, nor is anything too mainstream. We welcome all kinds, and will strive to make the culminating event represent the viewpoints of every individual on this campus. Mitt Romney, sometime on Friday "It's really amazing when our academic institutions can't draw a line between those that are legitimate differences and perspectives, versus those who are completely out of touch with reality, delusional, who come for purposes of propaganda and outrage. Khatami was one of those, obviously Ahmadinejad's his predecessor ." "It's really unthinkable that the UN or an organization like Columbia would come out and say, we want to hear what you've got to say." 
 This just in: "The Columbia Mentoring Initiative was supposed to have a BBQ but it's clearly raining. We've set up temporary shop on the 5th floor of Lerner. Come get free BBQ food before it runs out." Smokin. 
 Far be it from us to confuse correlation with causation, but it does seem especially fortuitous that Kian Tajbakhsh, an alumnus of Columbia's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation working with the Open Society Institute, was released from an Iranian prison this Wednesday--the same day that plans for President Ahmadinejad's visit fell into place.&nbsp; Apparently, PrezBo had warned the Iranians that he'd grill Ahmedinejad on Tajbakhsh's continued imprisonment if was not released. He was being held at Evin prison, presumably kicking it with the Woodrow Wilson Center's Haleh Esfandiari, who was allowed to leave the facility last month. - LBD 
 A Fox producer told Bwog yesterday that Chris Kulawik would be going on with Jamie Colby to oppose Columbia's decision to host President Ahmadinejad. In typical face-off style, the anchor had him as a counterpoint to journalism school student Bess Kargman, who was supposed to argue in favor of the visit. In fact, they both did, and Fox was the one with egg on its face. Colby tried to compensate by alluding the points her guests refused to make.&nbsp; "I think it's interesting that Bess is Jewish, saying a man should come who wants to wipe Israel off the map," Colby observed. Also, "I have to wonder how much this has to do with publicity, since we've been talking about it for a few days." Find all of Fox's segments on Ahmadinemania here.&nbsp; Meanwhile, we really really want to ignore this guy, and we're not huge fans of Columbia administration either, but when you say that they're "like serial child abusers who are constantly molesting the student population with, this time, a publicity stunt," we kind of sit and twitch for a while.&nbsp; - LBD 
We're not sure what's more strange about the AAA poster: that they promote their event with a picture of Calvin Sun et al., or that they're touting Tokyo Pop as "Columbia's premier nightclub/lounge."&nbsp; Also, Phi Iota Alpha felt the need to promote their rager with a glistening, curvaceous babe. No party in the Lerner Party space is going to be that hot, guys.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's never waded through the bowels of CUIT web pages to check its printer quota, but apparently it should have. According to one of those cute tipsters that makes fake addresses to send us under-the-radar information, no matter where you print from on campus, the system won't register your activity--you could run off the collected works of Leo Tolstoy, and it'd go till the ink ran out, or until the rest of the people in line forced you at gunpoint to cancel the job. Rumor has it that CUIT is testing something new, and has left some loopholes. See for yourself. Thanks, anonymous tipster dude!&nbsp; 
The swirling storm of shit due to descend upon our fair university sometime tomorrow morning is predictably picking up steam. Current editor David Feith and Giuliani supporter Jordan Hirsch sure have a strong opinion on things, while conservative twit William Kristol has a rather novel idea for protesting the Iranian president. That guy who led that MEALAC thing a couple years ago has some harsh words of his own, while a columnist for Haaretz takes the somewhat counterintuitive stance that Ahmadinejad helps Israeli security. As for the afformentioned "neo-Haman nemesis"--he was left Iran in style and will arrive in New York later toady. &nbsp; The darker corners of the internet are also abuzz with Ahmadinejad-related hackery. A Facebook boycott of fair Alma seems to be picking up steam, although Bwog isn't sure why Eastern Michigan should have beef with us. Back on campus things are moving fast. Representatives of LionPAC attempted to get CCAW and other non-Coalition groups to join Monday's rally at a noontime meeting--an informer&nbsp; characterized negotiations as "tense," and tells us that Amnesty International definitely won't be joining the coalition. But while you wait, reflect on how the goons over at Somethingawful made a perfect video on the Ahmadineamess--three years ago. &nbsp; 
 So the Columbia Coalition Against the War (the War defined broadly at this point) is planning a picket of the main forum/speakout/thingy tomorrow. CCAW released another statement last night, reprinted after the jump, and is waiting on approval from the Dems for another consensus statement that's expected to announce they're all getting along again. Also, it seems that the Republicans would have liked to stage a protest of their own on Furnald lawn, but couldn't get cleared by security--meaning they had to submit to a 15 minute slot with the Columbia Coalition, just like everyone else. Chris Kulawik was spotted this morning on the Today Show as well, agreeing with SIPA Dean John Coatsworth, whom Fox, Youtube, and Drudge have made more famous than he's ever imagined. Low Library, which typically doesn't give Fox the time of day, must not be pleased. Meanwhile, these guys are bringing at least 434 students--out of at least 8,000 invited--and estimates range as high as 10,000 people flooding the streets. The facebook groups and events are multiplying rapidly. UPDATE: CCAW and the Dems have released their statement (added below) and all is right with the activisty world. - LBD Why You Should Oppose a U.S. Attack on Iran on Monday The Columbia Coalition Against the War issued Friday an "Open Letter to Progressive Opponents of Ahmadinejad" calling for groups and people opposed to war with Iran to avoid endorsing Monday's "Columbia Coalition"-sponsored rally. We hold to the belief that opponents of war who participate in Monday's rally will, despite their intentions, have their message co-opted by right-wing forces favoring an attack on Iran. However, we understand that many will disagree with our strategic position and will choose to speak. If they do, the circumstances demand that they be explicitly antiwar in their statements. There are many good reasons to denounce Ahmadinejad and his oppressive policies and intolerant views.&nbsp;&nbsp;However, in the current political climate, a rally expressing this position which is not explicitly antiwar risks lending weight to the drive to war, whatever the declared intent or format.&nbsp;&nbsp;We are in the midst of an Islamophobic campaign by everyone from the New York Post to John McCain to demonize Ahmadinejad, occurring in a broader context where the next target for the Bush administration is Iran.&nbsp; A rally with a clear message of hostility to Ahmadinejad but only a muddied message on the means by which we must oppose his reactionary policies will play into this campaign. The central duty for progressives in this country in the lead up to the Iraq War was to oppose further US intervention, the sum total of which has turned Iraq from a country with among the highest standards of living in the Middle East, to a country that, after years of US war and sanctions, is now amongst the most decimated and impoverished in the world.&nbsp; The campaign to demonize Saddam Hussein was never about any concern for the Iraqi people; after all, it was when he enjoyed US support that he carried out his most heinous crimes.&nbsp; Rather, the campaign against Hussein was used to justify the US invasion. It would have been a mistake for progressives to support an anti-Saddam Hussein rally in late 2002 which did not have a clear antiwar message, and it would be a mistake for progressives to support a similar rally regarding Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Monday. In these circumstances, we think it is imperative that, on Monday, there be a clear antiwar voice.&nbsp;&nbsp;We are calling for a contingent of students and others who oppose aggression against Iran to form a picket by the side of the Low Plaza rally, whether or not they choose to also participate in the main rally.&nbsp;&nbsp;A strong and visible picket will send an antiwar message that has the potential to resonate on a national scale. Regarding the Columbia Coalition Against the War's "Open Letter to Progressive Opponents of Ahmadinejad", the College Democrats and CCAW regret a series of misunderstandings and miscommunications.&nbsp; The College Democrats have retracted their statements that the Columbia Coalition Against the War is engaged in a "campaign of misinformation" and a "ploy for attention", and have apologized to CCAW for misreading its letter.&nbsp; The College Democrats continue to believe that the rally will provide the best opportunity for the campus to actively engage in the speech as well as provide a much needed forum for open discussion on Iran with representatives from all sides of the debate.&nbsp; CCAW acknowledges that it was not informed of all event particulars. CCAW continues to believe that, in the current U.S. political climate, opponents of war who participate in Monday's rally will, despite their intentions, have their message coopted by those favoring a military attack on Iran.&nbsp; CCAW believes that progressives should not allow this to happen.&nbsp; Both groups applaud efforts to simulcast the event with Ahmadinejad and increase participation and free speech and look forward to the open, academic discourse that the event should, in the best case, provide. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Because it's their day on the Plaza! Get out there and dance, and eat--delicious Middle Eastern food, cheap. &nbsp; 
 And so the madness begins. An anti-Ahmadinejad press conference that just went down in front of the Broadway gates included state assemblyman Dov Hikind, who called for New Yorkers to "show up by the thousands" and create an impenetrable human barrier around Lerner Hall. Also present was the principal of the Rambam Jewish day school in Long Island, who referred to the Iranian leader as "worse than Hitler." Former LionPac head Ari Gardner gave a short talk, as did New York City council member David Weprin. "This invitation is a slap in the face to all New Yorkers and especaill to those families who lost loved ones on 9/11," Weprin's release reads. Does using 9/11-fueled hysteria to demonize a middle eastern leader sound familiar? Well it did to the few counter-protesters who decided to crash this particular Iran-bashing party--one man who looked liked he hadn't bathed in days was busy covering the Columbia Coalition's stirring Iran execution posters that have been posted by people who are well known to be in the Columbia Coalition (whew...) with fliers for a protest against "Zionist thugs" on Low Plaza at noon tomorrow. Hillel president Josh Rosner demanded that security remove him for defacing student property; after much shouting the NYPD escorted him off the premises. "You're a Nazi!" one counter protestor shouted at a righteously irate Rosner. To which the Hillel president replied, "I'm a Jew!" This tennis match of invective was like catnip to the dozen or so media outlets (Bwog spotted everyone from 1010 WINS to Univision in attendance) gathered in front of the Broadway gates. With camera-people outnumbering protesters roughly two to one, every individual shouting match drew a swarm of journalists keen to jump on the next big escalation. No fistfights today, but some interesting tidbits have emerged from the press conference's sidelines: - The socialist group Revolution is planning on having some kind of a presence at tomorrow's rally. Like the CCAW, they don't characterize their action as a counter-protest, although they plan on unfurling a banner reading "Ahmadinejad is bad, Bush is worse." The upshot: there will definitely be a non-counterprotesting counter-protest tomorrow involving several outside socialist and far-left wing groups. - So remember the David Project? They had an operative on campus today, although none knew whether or not MEALAC-scandal villain Charles Jacobs will be in attendence tomorrow. - Hikind again: "My dream is that New Yorkers come here by the thousands and try to stop him...it's civil disobedience. I would love it." Umm...anybody with him? -&nbsp; ARR, photos by LBD 
 Brad himself spotted at Grant's Tomb, filming this movie. Thanks to Alex Klingenstein for forwarding the photo.&nbsp; 
 JJ's-devotees were certainly in a shock this fall. Sure from a cursory glance, JJ's looks great! So many frozen meals! So much ice cream! However, once you stepped up to that familiar counter, a perennial favorite was missing- the spicy chicken! The spicy strips of chicken breast were deep-fried to a tender and moist perfection. Great with any dipping sauce, or even on its own. Few items on the JJ's menu could compete with such a culinary delight. When asked, the JJ's employees could not provide any details on the disappearance of such a widely-demanded item. One employee admitted, "Yeah a lot of people have been asking for it," but denied any involvement with the sudden departure, " comes from the higher-ups." Alas! Do not lose all hope, one inside source suggested that a petition may revive this Columbia cornerstone. We can only hope. -LT 
 There are free t-shirts, courtesy of Hillel! Commemorative mugs and tote bags to come.&nbsp; ALSO: Tonight's 60 minutes, which started 6 minutes ago, is on Ahmadinejad. In case you want a preview.&nbsp;&nbsp; UPDATE, 7:45 PM: GERALDO RIVERA IS INTERVIEWING CHRIS KULAWIK AT THE BROADWAY GATES RIGHT NOW 
 Free Culture at Columbia has come out with some pretty cool&nbsp;stuff in its brief history: the Core on Flash drives, CULator, this gem of a protest video. Now, under the guidance of founder Brendan Ballou, they've transcended the Columbia plane and gone global. Allied with One Laptop Per Child (OLPC), Ballou and co. are set on helping to distribute free mini-computers to children&nbsp;in the developing world. And, you know,&nbsp;possibly&nbsp;influencing the course of human communications and&nbsp;history. OLPC, which was founded at MIT in 2005, has created small, cheap ($130 each), super-durable laptops&nbsp;(called "XOs"...see photo) that feature&nbsp;internet access, a camera, music and art software, word processing, a phone, and a host of other useful tools designed for the use of kids aged 6 to 12. The computers&nbsp;connect on&nbsp;a local&nbsp;network and&nbsp;have the capacity&nbsp;to link up&nbsp;globally, bringing kids world-over face-to-face through their screens. Columbia's Free Culture chapter, with the help of several grad students and J-Schoolers,&nbsp;contributed one of the&nbsp;more exciting&nbsp;software applications ot the project-- a built-in template for news articles&nbsp;that will allow&nbsp;kids to publish their reports to&nbsp;a blogging system on the network or even print their own homemade newspapers. Ballou&nbsp;said he&nbsp;envisions a world where young people are&nbsp;describing their own lives in place of,&nbsp;say, BBC reporters.&nbsp;To&nbsp;OLPC, he added,&nbsp;the micro-tech of the laptops is akin to&nbsp;developments in microfinance-- it gives increased agency to the&nbsp;disenfranchised. Ultimately,&nbsp;OLPC&nbsp;hopes to spread the computers across the&nbsp;globe; currently, the&nbsp;education ministers of&nbsp;Ecuador, Uruguay,&nbsp;Argentina, Brazil, Libya, Nigeria, and Rwanda are signed on to finance the project in their countries, with more (possibly even the U.S.) expected to join. -KER 
 Ahmadinejad spoke to 60 Minutes and the interview aired about an hour ago.&nbsp; His smirk, defying all odds, actually beat that of our own President. UPDATE, 11:35 PM: John Krauss took this post and just made it extremely trippy. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Let's check in with our batch of fresh-faced presidential hopefuls to see what they have to say about Ahmadinejad's Columbia visit: During a Fox News interview, New York&nbsp; Senator Hillary Clinton says she is, "Leaving that up to Columbia." Thanks, Hil! "But I was outraged that he wanted to go to Ground Zero and did speak out very forcefully, and thankfully he will not go to Ground Zero." Later in a follow-up to CNN, Hillary, apparently realizing that she didn't actually express any sort of opinion about the issue at hand, gave it a second try. "Well, if I were a president of the University, I would not have invited him. He's a supporter of terrorism. But I also respect the right in our country to make different decisions." We couldn't find anything from Obama, Kucinich, Dodd, or (most surprisingly) Gravel--but find Fred Thompson, Michael Bloomberg and more after the jump! Republican Arizona Senator John McCain took a more definitive stance: "A man who is directing the maiming and killing of Americans troops should not be given an invitation to speak at an American university." McCain continued, "Rather than rolling out the red carpet for the leader of a terrorist-sponsoring regime, Columbia should be welcoming the Reserve Officers' Training Corps back on campus to honor the men and women who put their lives on the line every day defending our freedom." Fred Thompson, who occupies the bottom third of the photograph to the right opposes Ahmadinejad's visit to not only Columbia and Ground Zero, but the United States. "If I were president of the United States none of this would have been an issue. I wouldn't have let him into the country in the first place," Thompson told USA Today. If you were President! Aw, cute! &nbsp; &nbsp; A finally, New York City mayor and #142 on Forbes list of the world's billionaires Michael Bloomberg also expressed relief that Ahmadinejad would not be visiting Ground Zero: "He's not going downtown. I think, hopefully, he understands why not, but I just think it would be totally inappropriate. But he's not going to go. Columbia - look, it's a university. They have the right to invite who they want. I personally am not going to get involved in criticizing them because I think that's a slippery slope. Universities operate unto themselves. I'm not on the board of Columbia; they've got to deal with that. I'm not the president. I'm not a student at Columbia. Personally, I wouldn't go to listen to him. I don't care about what he says. He's said enough that I find disgusting and despicable that I wouldn't give him the satisfaction of being in the audience." Tickets on Craigslist are only $100, MB. You could buy 55 million of them. - JNW 
Geraldo Rivera was in front of the Broadway Gates tonight. So was Armin Rosen.&nbsp; &nbsp; When I saw a Fox News producer scouring College Walk for students willing to stand behind Geraldo Rivera during a live episode of Geraldo at Large, my thoughts instantly turned to the mustache. Specifically, I wondered whether and how such an aerodynamic and totally inexplicable article of facial hair actually exist on this earth. After spending the past hour a mere few feet away from one of the titans of sensationalist pseudo-journalism, I can say that yes, the stories are true. Hard as this may be to believe, the Geraldo mustache is no urban legend. The Columbia journalism grad held court with a group of about 50 or 60 students and rubberneckers, shell shocked by the pairing of Geraldo frickin' Rivera with a murderous president of Iran. So the mood was light, even if the topic and the passions involved were not. "Nobody wave. You gotta swear to God nobody'll wave" the mustachioed anchor instructed the rotating gaggle of students. "Don't be dumb," he added. "This isn't NYU," one girl retorted, although the most insulting line was Geraldo's: "Don't be nervous," he instructed participants. "We're not on 145th St." Would that we were, Geraldo, so that we could postgame this over some hot jazz at St. Nick's, rather than having to go straight from here to the dreary confines of the Butler reading room. While Geraldo kept busy trading witticisms with audience members, onlookers hurriedly called friends and family. "I just called to say I'm 10 feet away from Geraldo Rivera" was one urgent report; meanwhile a man in a white SUV offered a booming holler of approval. "I love you Geraldo!" he shouted--although as the hour progressed, the venerable Mr. Rivera was showing signs of weakness. Just why was he wearing a pair of beat up New Balances? And what was with that odd, star-shaped tattoo on his hand? "What's with your tattoo?" asked one student. "Umm...yeah. So how 'bout that" he muttered, before deftly transitioning by declaring he will debate Glenn Beck on the Ahmadinejad invitation on tomorrow's Good Morning America. "Will you be debating O'Reilly again?" I shouted. From the man and his soaring hairdo I received no reply. And yet I can't be too hard on him--everyone else took advantage of the opportunity for their own purposes as well. Chris Kulawik offered a quick endorsement of tomorrow's event, while a gang of CU Dems unfurled a CU Dems banner. The guy with the Ten Commandments sign got on air. Ahmadinejad coming here is serious--Geraldo's appearance tonight was comic relief. 
 With all the hoopla surrounding you-know-who coming to town, we figured you could all use a little break. Missed the WBAR shows this weekend? No worries. Here's a recap (photos by Max Friedman). WBAR had the first of its monthly concerts Thurday night on Lehman Lawn. The weather was beautiful and so was the music. As much shit as WBAR gets for wearing tight jeans or being hip, they really know how to foster a friendly, comfortable atmosphere. Thursday's High Places and Celebration show was no exception. More photos and reviews after the jump! High Places Brooklyn-based duo High Places played what amounted to some pretty spacey, Oriental-sounding psych-folk. Stationed beneath a tree, the group was oddly organic while submerged a see of noise loops, drum machines, and reverb. Celebration Baltimore's Celebration, a bit more conventional than High Places, had some pretty solid grooves throughout its set. The singer, Katrina Ford, worked the crowd fantastically, even backing herself all up into me about halfway through her set. Sean Antanaitis, unequivocally the bands musical nucleus, was truly a spectacle. Antanaitis managed to play the Moog Pedal Bass with his feet while providing some atmospherics on the organ.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
The listservs have been hopping with tonight with breathless announcements and statements of varying degrees of pomposity. Here are some bullet points, with complete statements either linked or pasted after the jump (and a few more photos from today's mini-protest).&nbsp; The Muslim Student Association empathizes and keeps it brief Lucha drags up Minutemen and takes it long AAA "just doesn't care" PRO-Israel PROgressives hopes for peace, bunnies, and flowers, now and forever LionPAC fights for Western Values Columbia Queer Alliance says Western cultural idioms are bogus The Roosevelt Institution is getting kids published! Pike, which is reportedly holding an Americana-themed party all tomorrow and tomorrow night, wins the concision award (thanks Spec!) Professor Anne Prescott is our new favorite faculty member. Meanwhile, there will be debriefings up the wazoo tomorrow night. The Dems (who are saying this during their 15 minutes in the sun today) are holding one at 9:30 pm in Hamilton 306. The Republicans (who are asking their members to bring their American flags to the rally) will debrief upstairs at 9:00 pm in Hamilton 507. And CCSC wants you to talk about your feelings in the Broadway Sky Lounge from 10:00 to midnight. Mama Michelle is bringing chips and cookies. Aaaannnd Chas Carey and Josh Lipsky will be on Fox's Big Story at 5:00. &nbsp; - LBD MSA Having also experienced direct attacks upon our community and faith beliefs post 9/11, the MSA empathizes with the student groups who are offended and outraged by the presence of the President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, on Columbia's campus. As an organization, we will continue to strengthen our relationship with as many of Columbia's religious, cultural, and political organizations so that Islam can be fairly represented on this campus and so that the MSA can maintain its role as a vital organization for Columbia student life. LUCHA Lucha believes that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's presence at Columbia University is a chance to engage in conversation with one of the world's most important political leaders. As the occupation of Iraq continues to destroy lives, generals and politicians blame the escalating violence on Iranian interference. As in Iraq, we fear that the American people will be misled into an unjust war with Iran. We see Ahmadinejad's presence as a crucial opportunity to open dialogue, leading to diplomacy with Iran instead of invasion. Lucha is concerned with the hypocrisy much of the media and Columbia Administration has displayed in discussing Ahmadinejad's invitation to speak at Columbia. A self serving description of "freedom of speech" was used to condemn the non-violent protesters who unfurled banners onstage while Jim Gilchrist of the Minutemen Project was speaking on October 4th, 2006. The same ideologues who denounced Columbia when Minutemen supporters shut down their own event by attacking the student protesters, now criticize Columbia for opening a dialogue with one of the most important world leaders and for attempting to promote an exchange of ideas and diplomacy at a time when war with Iran seems ever more imminent. The Columbia Administration has shown incredible inconsistency. They have successfully created an environment in which Ahmadinejad's positions will be forcefully critiqued, while the University did nothing to acknowledge how deeply offensive and threatening Gilchrist's views and actions are to Latinos and people of color. We appreciate the University's efforts in bringing Ahmadinejad to Columbia amid considerable controversy and providing a forum for his views to be challenged, but feel it necessary to highlight their inconsistency. We believe that Jim Gilchrist and Ahmadinejad are incomparable. For the Minutemen Project, speaking at Columbia represented a chance to bring tactics and ideology pioneered by the Ku Klux Klan into mainstream American politics. The consequences of Ahmadinejad speaking on the other hand, are entirely different. We believe it necessary to prevent an invasion of Iran, and Ahmadinejad speaking can only lead to further understanding and dialogue. We stand with the people of Iran in their struggle against anti-Semitism, patriarchy, sexism, homophobia, but we fear that these issues have been exploited by those who wish to promote a Zionist and imperialist American invasion of Iran. PRO-Israel PROgressives Within our group, there are varying opinions on whether Columbia University should have extended an invitation to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Given he will be on campus tomorrow afternoon, we support the efforts of student groups who voice their opposition to Ahmadinejad's opinions.&nbsp; As well as being appalled by Ahmadinejad's statements concerning Israel, PRO-Israel PROgressives is also deeply opposed to Ahmadinejad's support of international terrorism, his denial of the Holocaust, his suppression of political dissidence, and his oppression of minority groups. Although we clearly disagree with the repugnant views of Ahmadinejad, we hope his presence will begin a constructive conversation on campus, one that is in stark contrast to his own views. We hope future discussions on the Middle East are respectful and inclusive, reflective of a progressive vision, and focused on peace. &nbsp; LionPAC, in an e-mail to its members Tomorrow has almost arrived. Whatever happens, it is history in the making.&nbsp; We can talk all we want about the horrific situation in Iran in our classes and in our dorms, but now we have the opportunity to do something and be seen and heard by the world.&nbsp; To not show up tomorrow would be much more than a missed opportunity and more than a conspicuous absence.&nbsp; This is a showdown between all the Western values we base our lives upon, and a man who actively works to dismantle those values. COLUMBIA QUEER ALLIANCE "These are the views of the Columbia Queer Alliance executive board and those members present at the meeting in which this matter was discussed. CQA is not the collective voice of the queer community; we do not claim to be expressing the views and opinions of all queer-identified individuals affiliated with Columbia University. However, as student leaders of a progressive activist organization, it is our responsibility to be a part of this discussion." "We condemn the human rights violations perpetrated by the Iranian government under the administration of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. We admonish the policies that make same-sex practices punishable by torture and death, as well as those that restrict the freedoms and self-determination of women." "We stand in solidarity with our peers in Iran, but we do not presume to speak for them. We cannot possibly claim to understand the multiple and diverse experiences of living with same-sex desires in Iran. Our cultural values and experiences are distinct, but the stakes are one and the same: the essential human right to express our desires freely." "Moreover, we would like to strongly caution media and campus organizations against the use of&nbsp; such words as "gay", "lesbian", or "homosexual" to describe people in Iran who engage in same-sex practices and feel same-sex desire. The construction of sexual orientation as a social and political identity and all of the vocabulary therein is a Western cultural idiom. As such, scholars of sexuality in the Middle East generally use the terms "same-sex practices" and "same-sex desire" in recognition of the inadequacy of Western terminology." ---------- Forwarded message ---------- From: anne prescott &lt;aprescot@barnard.edu&gt; Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:17 PM Subject: tomorrow To: anne prescott &lt;aprescot@barnard.edu &gt; Hi, class. I'm going to head to Columbia early, or as soon as I can get properly caffeinated. This is just to say do your best to come but also follow your conscience. Remember, I was here in 1968 and can go with the flow, although I'm not sure that flower power, as we then called it, would mean much to the president of Iran. So do whatever you think you would like to be able to look back on some years hence. I will go over Love's L's Lost. Anne Prescott. &nbsp; 
 HOLY SHIT!!! AHMADINEJAD IS COMING!!!!!@#@#!@!@!!@!#!@!11 Dueling historical equivalencies! &nbsp; Gilchrist asks an intelligent question, David Helfand not so much&nbsp; &nbsp;So...who's up for a 5-hour long protest?&nbsp; These guys are up for a 5-hour long protest!&nbsp; Wait a second...this story has nothing to do with Ahmadinejad. At all.&nbsp; And from the outside: Speaking invitation deemed more important than cancer, nanotechnology, financial aid Law dean not happy But this guy sure must be! Plus: The Sun says PrezBo may have run into trouble in Albany. Also on an important, non-QuickSpec related note: public safety informs Bwog that everybody must enter Roone through the Broadway entrance, including students.&nbsp; 
Bwog staffer Alec Turnbull, like the rest of the media, got up way too early this morning. The vans pulled up early, far before sunrise. By the time I’d made it out to Broadway at 6am, all the morning news stations had staked out a corner spot and were broadcasting. Their antennae interfered with doorway intercoms along Broadway, turning them into little radios playing the morning news. But the vans were otherwise unobtrusive, given how much hype has been built up around the event. I soon discovered why reporters decided to come later: there’s almost nowhere to get decent coffee before 7. The few interns I saw were at a loss. “It’s going to be a long day,” one said. A few minutes later, walking through the gates on 116th, a campus security guard told me the same thing. When asked about getting onto campus later today, he seemed as out of the loop as anyone, and the details of how they’ll deal with crowds of people flashing CUIDs are unclear. Amsterdam was surprisingly quiet, with the usual crowd of hospital workers and food-cart venders, and will probably be the best place to escape from today’s events. Meanwhile, Broadway is lined with barricades, and the numbers of media vans and police are only going to increase. But if you want to be on national news, swing by. Fox News was out before sunrise interviewing anyone they could find on the street and is sure to be there all day. They asked me, but I still hadn’t had my coffee. Photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Blue Java is giving out free coffee until 11, and free cookies after that!
Not sure quite what's up with this one. More after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
A group of older-looking students has been pasting banners with maps of Iran and various statistics (especially related to the Persian Jewish population) around College Walk. They also seem responsible for a large "No War&nbsp;On Iran" flag poster in front of the sundial. &nbsp; 
Spectator is flickering in and out, but SIPA bloggers are still in the game, and now some J-school students have thrown up a cute little blog, featuring a slide show and nifty map of the goings-on. Meanwhile, Rudy's warmongering at a rally called the National Rally To End The Threat Now. His statement after the jump. Statement from Mayor Rudy Giuliani New York City - Mayor Rudy Giuliani released the following statement to be read at the National Rally To End The Threat Now being held today at noon: "I have always been proud to stand with the Conference of Presidents and speak out against terrorists and their supporters. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is an enemy of America, Israel, and the entire free world. We should never remain silent when evil makes an appearance. "We will not allow a nuclear Iran. Period. We will work with our allies and use every tool at our disposal to stop Iran from becoming a nuclear power. That is not a threat. It's a promise.&nbsp; Iran is the leading state-sponsor of terrorism, the host of Bin Laden's son and other top al-Qaeda leaders, and the supplier of weapons being used to kill American soldiers in Iraq.&nbsp; His promises to destroy America and Israel should not, can not, and will not be ignored. "It is a sad reflection on the United Nations that the General Assembly and Human Rights Council have ignored these actions and instead focused attention on demonizing the State of Israel. "You are standing here today to tell the world that Ahmadinejad's threats and actions have not gone unnoticed by all.&nbsp; I am proud to stand with you." &nbsp; 
Bwog happened on some of the people putting the aforementioned posters up and chatted them up. Tyson Brody, C'09, who's been putting the "bringing sexy back" posters up since 3AM, said, "This is all just political theater, so why not make something fun out of it...It's just become a charade." Why is he really doing it? "I don't know...I'm having fun," he said, shrugging. A group of Iranian students are doing the anti-war Iran PR campaign. "We thought a lot of what was going on was creating hatred against Iran and Iranians...You can take pictures of people being executed in Texas, but that doesn't represent what the U.S. is like," said one female Iranian-born Columbia alum and asked not to be named. "Someone on campus told me to go back to Iran, that have no rights there." 
Or don't have CNN. Or weren't up before the crack of dawn. Dean Coatsworth's interview on CNN this morning: &nbsp; - JNW&nbsp; 
&nbsp;Chris Kulawik addresses reporters this morning outside the 116th St. gates. The way he's holding his hands makes it look like he's sitting atop a bicycle.* &nbsp; *Unconfirmed at press time - JNW 
 "Bush is worse!" So says World Can't Wait (the ones who want to drive out the Bush Regime).&nbsp; People are inside, and the rally is starting! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Geraldo Rivera, his mustache, Chris Kulawik, and serious-guy-with-beard (who is apparently Kulawik's shadow), all made an appearance on Fox News. - JNW 
The Bwoggers trapped inside Roone managed to get these messages to the outside: According to an Office of Communications representative, the spots weren't handed out on a first-come first-served basis. Columbia College was capped at 150, SIPA at 300, and 150 went to Barnard, SEAS, and all other grad schools combined. That's ok though, because nobody really got what they wanted. Communications handed out 20 press passes and 10 for camerapeople (Al-Jazeera got one pass), leaving a crowd of 200-300 languishing in the J-school's overflow room. How'd they decide who got in? "The magic and power of the Communications office," she said. Competition was tough for Columbia staff, too. Communications director Robert Hornsby personally decided who could go. Not so with State Senator Bill Perkins, whom one Bwogger chatted with about life and school--all he had to do was call. And what are all the kids doing in the two hours they have to spend waiting for PrezBo and Mahmoud? Here are some responses: "Well I have a clipboard and a pen, and I'm just working on the old-school pen-and-paper games like MASH." One guy was reading Philip Roth. "It's just a book I'm in the middle of, and I don't want to do work." "We're planning and executing a thumb war. The winner gets to go home with Ahmadinejad." 
 Everyone has their cause today. This one seems hypocritical. Also spotted, man with orange sign wandering around South Lawn: "Two Robots in Every Garage."&nbsp; - SEV&nbsp; 
Everyone from firefighters to Yeshiva University to guys in kilts playing "God Bless America" on bagpipes are thronging outside the gates. The speakout has taken a break for the speech, which will start in about 15 minutes--first 10 minutes for PrezBo, then 10 minutes for SIPA Dean Coatsworth, then 30 minutes for Mahmoud. Classes are being cancelled left and right, and South Lawn is stuffed like a frat party. Lots more photos after the jump.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
South Lawn is standing-room-only. &nbsp; 
 Find CNN's Live Feed here! The speech is starting, and it's like a movie: Coatsworth asked everyone to turn off their cell phones and to stay seated, lest the Secret Service get all up on their asses. 1:50: Bwog has been chased out of Hamilton. Unbelievably, people are still in class. Inside, someone threw a pen. 1:57: Prezbo is talking: "Why are you so afraid of Iranian citizens expressing their opinions, for change?" Proposes that he go talk to the universities in Iran, to huge applause.&nbsp; Prezbo called Mahmoud a cruel and petty dictator, plus ridiculous and uneducated. Ouch.&nbsp; Now he's asking why Mahmoud is fighting a proxy war in Iraq, and goes on with a litany of complaints. The audience's heart swells with pride. Hi Gothamist!&nbsp; 2:03: PrezBo finishes. Oh god--Mahmoud is up.&nbsp; 2:08: Ahmedinejad starts with thanks to God, and then complains about the conditions of the invitation. "I am grateful to God for allowing me to be in an academic environment...At the outset, I want to complain a little but." "In Iran...We don't think it's necessary before the speech is even given, to come in with a series of claims." "He certainly took more than the allocated time to speak, and that's fine with me." "In many parts of the speech, there were many insults, and claims that were incorrect, regretfully." 2:10: Now he's going on about Angels and the Almighty. Bwog is confused.&nbsp;&nbsp; 2:12: From a guy on the lawn: "Either he's stoned or the translator is." Fittingly, the translator is a woman. 2:15: He's spent the last 5 minutes talking about how great science is. "Science means rightness. Real science is the science that rescues humans from ignorance. It is the light that sheds on the hearts of those that have been selected by the Almighty." 2:18: Hi City Room! Uh oh, now he's warning that scientists need to be pure, or else bad shit will happen. The Lawn has turned into a sea of confused faces. 2:25: Moving on to WMD. "Making weapons of mass destruction is yet another misuse of science. Without the cooperation of certain scientists, we would not have witnessed the production of chemical and biological weapons...If nuclear war wages, what human catastrophe will take place?" "These catastrophes take place only when scholars and scientists are misused." Some rich countries want to keep the other nuclear powers down, he says. Hi Dems!&nbsp; 2:27: Wow, first applause when he starts to talk about Palestine other than when he came out originally. And by the way, he considers himself an academic. He teaches classes, he says, at a graduate level. "You know quite well that Palestine is an old wound. For 60 years, these people are displaced." Oh shit, now we're on to the Holocaust. "Why is there not sufficient research that can approach the event from different perspectives?" Says that people have been put into jail for trying to research it in different ways. "Why isn't it open to all forms of research?" "Given this historical event is a reality...why is it that the Palestinian people are praying the price for an event they had nothing to do with?" 2:32: Mahmoud decries injustice in how Iran can't develop nuclear weapons. Look, we've obeyed the IAEA! "Two or three selfish powers want to deny the Iranian people their right." 2:35: "We are a peace-loving nation. We love all nations." OK, he's down. 2:37: A question: do you want the destruction of the state of Israel? Yes or no. Mahmoud COMPLETELY ignores the question. &nbsp;"Is the Palestinian issue not an issue of international concern? Please tell me, yes or no?" is his sassy reply. Then, "Our solution is a free referendum...let the people of Palestine choose what they want in the future." 2:39: Hi Gawker! 2:41: Why do you provide support for terrorism? Welll....we don't, you do! "We were the first nation to object to terrorism, and the first to uphold the need to fight terrorism....We need to address the root causes of terrorism. It's quite clear which powers incite terrorism, fund them." "We don't need to resort to terrorism, we've been victims of terrorism." Bwog is beginning to wonder why this man ever seemed so threatening. Mostly he's just sort of bumbling and self-righteous. Hi Ivygate!&nbsp; On capital punishment: "Don't you have capital punishment in the US?"&nbsp; 2:48: On women: "Women in Iran enjoy the highest level of freedom." "Our nation has the highest level of participation in elections. 80-90% turn out for elections, over half of whom are women. So how can you say that they are not free?" 2:50: What about homosexuals? "In Iran, we don't have homosexuals like in your country." That's it. That's really all he said. Some people booed and hissed. And then he continued... "Women are the best creatures created by God. In Iran, every family that is given a girl is ten times happier than having a son." And they're even lucky! "They are exempt from the legal responsibility of men." &nbsp;2:52: Then he called New Yorkers self absorbed for not letting him come "show respect" at Ground Zero. He references the Iran-Iraq war in the 80's a couple of times; he keeps doing this throughout the speech although crowd members look like they don't know what he's talking about... Hi again Gawker!&nbsp; &nbsp;2:57: Bwog was really excited when Ahmadinejad said he was going to tell a joke! "I think the politicians who are after atomic bombs are politically backward, retarded." The Iranian delegation chuckled amongst themselves; it seems things are certainly lost in translation. Also, "We don't believe in nuclear weapons, period." Ha? 3:02: "Come and speak with our university students. You are officially invited." Also, "I announced that I am ready to engage with Mr. Bush...it shows we want to talk." He makes an earnest face and raises his hands; faces in the crowd are skeptical. Bwog is nearly out of battery and needs to pee. The exit music, as people pour off South Lawn, is Jack Johnson's "Better together." - Blogged by LBD, with text messages and pictures from SEV, KER, and JDC. 
Lee Bollinger, we are forced to conclude, is a superhero. He talked with the Presidents of Malawi and Turkmenistan this morning, took on Ahmadinejad this afternoon, and is now teaching his class. Alexandra Muhler was there for Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov. With all the trouble coming out of Central Asia recently, it's nice to return to the Central Asia we knew last November, when Borat "taught" us all about the region's questionable English and surrealist authoritarian government. This morning, at Casa Italiana, President Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov (Bollinger garbled it out as bair-dee-moo-hah-MAY-doff, which I'll assume is an acceptable pronunciation) brought second-rate Powerpoint and funny hats to the World Leaders Forum. Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov is a monotonous speaker, who occasionally adds emphasis by raising and dropping his voice the way one would pinch up a piece of loose skin and watch it snap back. &nbsp;Thus I was thankful that his entourage had designed a Powerpoint presentation to accompany him. &nbsp;The Powerpoint was everything it should have been: multiple silent videos of the "come visit/invest in some country you've never heard of" genre. Steppe horsemen and dancers in traditional garb cut to footage of gleaming buildings and children using laptops. &nbsp;More unexpectedly, one clip on the natural gas extraction slide seemed to come from a black and white silent film pantomime. The stationary aspects of the slides kept pace with such absurdities. &nbsp;The titles celebrated Turkmenistan's "independency" and the capital, Ashgabat (sounds rather like Jagshemash, no?), which "is as beautiful in daytime…so in night." All provincialness aside, President Berdymukhamedov was much like other leaders who speak at Columbia. He brushed over unpleasant questions (on his fraudulent election, Turkmenistan's butt-boy relationship with Russia, etc) with outright lies and redirections to barely related parts of his bland speech. &nbsp;For example, when a student asked what the president was doing to ensure freedom of speech, Berdymukhamedov responded that Turkmenistan "never had any professional repression of the press" and, as if to prove his point, that students had their own newspaper. When he paused, and a new questioner began to speak, Berdymukhamedov bellowed of the paper's editor: "Moreover, I think he was a sophomore!" &nbsp; Which I, as a member of the class of 2010, found personally inspiring. &nbsp; 
 And here’s what happened: World’s greatest mime, Marcel Marceau, died this weekend in Paris. He was 84. And delightfully silly. *wipes face as if to brush away tear* Harvard got themselves a SEAS. Oh no they di’int. Barack Obama invited you to join him in Washington Square Park: Bjork at the Garden tonight. Tickets still available, Volta still awesome. 
After what was, after all, a rather tame event, the hordes receded from campus. Garbage drifted across South Lawn, a few verbal skirmishes broke out, reporters dragooned passersby for reactions, and it became pretty clear that a post-speech timeslot with the Columbia Coalition's mike wasn't worth much. Via Spec (which seems to be linking to the blog now?), PrezBo's numbers are on the upswing again as people burned up the phone lines in Low to congratulate him.&nbsp; Also, overheard on Barnard Quad: "I mean it was like sooo boring, how was I supposed to sit through all of that?" Thanks to Lindsay Griffith and Sam Reisman, and as usual, more photos after the jump. This lady was peacefully warlike. &nbsp; This lady was yelling all day long. Pre-speech speakouts. &nbsp; 
Crazy shit correspondent Armin Rosen happened by a rather unusual protest on Broadway this afternoon. The Tanach teaches that the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed because of the "groundless hatred" Jews harbored towards their fellow Jews. Fuck it, say the Neturai Karta. The anti-Zionist ultra-orthodox sect whose views on Israel and the Holocaust are in almost lock-step with those of a certain Iranian president don't shy away from antagonizing their coreligionists. And while the mere possibility of Jews coming out "in support of the President of Iran," as Rabbi Mordechai Weberman's group of protestors did today, is enough to plunge our small yet combustible faith community into ugly scenes of internecine rage, the NK's belief that Zionism is religiously prohibited make them a dependable presence at any major Israel-related event. Which is why their protest in front of the 116th St. station was a little puzzling—after all, it isn't Ehud Olmert who spoke at Roone this afternoon. A besieged Rabbi Weberman explained all: "I spoke to him this morning," Weberman said of Ahmadinejad. "These Zionists," he added, "this Zionist robber state…they collaborated with the Nazis." Which might not have been a cardinal offense in the rabbi's mind: I overheard some of his followers referring to the Holocaust as a "myth perpetuated by Europe." The Satmars were decked out in traditional Hasidic garb, and apparently ready for anything. It was impressive that they remained silent during Yavneh president Jon Berliner's heartfelt rebuke: "I'd like to thank you for making out lives so much harder," Berliner explained to a stock-still and indifferent protestor. "Thanks for making orthodox Jews look like idiots." Yet the Israel-hating Yeshivabuchers began to cringe when a woman in her early 60s offered a rather illustrative description of what the NKs can go do to themselves—and offered it in perfect Yiddish. Why give them the time of day, I asked her? She told me that her parents were Holocaust survivors, which was, on a day like this one, explanation enough for me. But questions remained: why would the NKs give Ahmadinejad their time of day? I was suddenly interested in what sociologists call "life trajectories"—in other words, what kind of people schlep to Morningside Heights just to get incense a community that's on edge enough as it is? It was a hard question to get answered, largely because the NKs are not the best of English speakers. The community is so isolated that most of the protestors could only communicate in a garbled English, and would probably prefer speaking their native Yiddish. But then, they wouldn’t have won many hearts and minds anyway. 
 ...or is it?&nbsp; The last news van has left Broadway, and the time has come for the national media to postmortem fair Alma's latest tryst with controversy. Predictably, the Weekly Standard has nothing but nice things to say about the outcome of today's event. Meanwhile, Salon's Michael Grieve predicts that PreazBo's speech (relive the moment here) is "likely to go down in history as one of the most bold and critical set-ups in modern memory." Update:&nbsp;Despite the poor translation, behind this link is a, well,&nbsp;unique take on the whole thing, complete with photograph not from the&nbsp;event. (Though to be fair, a lot of journalists didn't have cameras. Newsweek asked Bwog if we had some to share. As you can see, we didn't.)&nbsp; At Slate, arch-liberal Anne Applebaum threw something of a curve ball by condemning today's event, and argues that the university played right into Ahmadinejad's hands (and the sights of erstwhile presidential candidate Duncan Hunter). Applebaum's article was surprising, but TNR's The Plank dug up what might be the shocker of the day: that Ahmadinejad and MEALAC professor Joseph Massad seem to agree on something.&nbsp;Here's a book about&nbsp;it, kind of.&nbsp; Back in Iran, the writeup from the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency was about as enlightening as one would expect. Ditto the news from Israel, which, according to Haaretz American editor Shmuel Rosner, emerged as today's clear loser. And for if you're not sick of Fox News (or MSNBC)... ...and for if you're sick of hearing intelligent commentary. ..and for if you just feel like wasting a fuck ton of time. And last: apologies for all the link-stacking, but this was just too rich not to post. &nbsp; 
Bwog newbie Pierce Stanley trailed PrezBo to (hopefully) his final event before a well-deserved rest (how does PrezBo relax? Hm.) &nbsp; For a lecture hopper who braved the hordes on Broadway this afternoon only to find himself caught in the depths of an unusually dark and tense Roone Arledge Auditorium, witnessing the verbal smack down of the year, arriving at sun-drenched Low Rotunda for a speech by Chile’s President Michelle Bachelet was a welcome relief. With bright lights shining down on wooden podiums and the familiar World Leaders Forum banner in the rear, the audience found itself much more at ease than today’s Roone faithful. Bachelet was welcomed by the same cast of characters from this afternoon: John “I would invite Hitler to speak” Coatsworth and PrezBo, remarkably fresh after several Fox News interviews.&nbsp; Both were feeling downright effusive. Coatsworth told a long story about his work with Chilean exiles, while Bollinger announced Michelle Bachelet as an honorable defender of democracy and a world symbol of reconciliation. After a suit change from this afternoon and having recovered his confident smile, PrezBo was back to his old self too. Describing her torture at the hands of the military, Bollinger praised Bachelet for her forgiveness, saying that she makes her torturers “carry a bag of guilt so that they can not even look her in the eye.” Bachelet, an almost Hillary-esque figure in her sandy blond hair, eased into a quick speech about the nature of Latin American democracy and the challenges that modern Chile faces, particularly implementing healthcare and education programs.&nbsp; While touting the establishment of democratic rule in many Latin American countries, Bachelet (a medical doctor and Chile’s first female defense minister) cautioned listeners about problems coming down the pike for Latin America, including the disenfranchisement of youth, extreme poverty, inflation, and steeply increasing income inequality. And then there’s the corruption, weak political structures, and a lack of accountability on the part of government officials. Between 1995 and 2007, fifteen different Latin American presidents have not been able to serve out their terms—but Chile will be different.&nbsp; Bachelet noted that in order for the demands of democracy to be met, social changes are essential, segueing into a plug for the opening of nurseries during the first one hundred days of her presidency. Bachelet drew laughs when describing the media’s tendency to oversimplify the nature of politics in Latin America.&nbsp; “The media tries to put us in little boxes with different colors, and they try to organize us,” she said “We are going in the direction of all colors of the rainbow.” The Q and A was particularly light, with only three or four softballs from Coatsworth about the extradition of Fujimori and the president’s experience in exile—but the Q and A was Bachelet’s chance to charm the crowd.&nbsp; She took a question about the obstacles of being a female president in a Latin American political environment dominated by men.&nbsp; “Women’s coats are not the same as men’s coats,” she said with a wry smile. Men and women have the same capacity for politics, she argued, and the political game is one of experience—she should know, having played hard since 1970.&nbsp; In a bit of a strange twist, Bachelet argued that female leaders are essential for “social cohesion programs” because “it is easy to be a woman and understand the needs of the people.” That played well with the audience. “She was very a very impressive and positive speaker and showed how to hold one’s own as a woman in a world politically dominated by men,” said Sara Draper-Zivetz, Barnard ‘09, who asked Bachelet about women in politics. “She left me optimistic for the future of Latin American and Chile.” Bachelet wrapped up her talk with a reference to&nbsp;John Donne&nbsp;– “No man is an island,” she warned as she discussed the values of what she termed “civic friendship.”&nbsp; She noted that representative and participatory democracy is not enough for Chile, and we “have to build a culture of democracy and live it every day.” And the kicker: Bachelet concluded by noting that in a democracy it is important to “put on the table your differences, especially with people who think differently, even if it is your worst enemy.” Hmm…. Sound familiar? 
Spectator's still the Ahmadineblog, but you have to get your news from somewhere. Ergo, CleanSlate. Here's what's been happening news-wise since the birth of the Ahmadineblog.&nbsp; To everyone that slept in Butler tonight, I'd maybe save this one for later&nbsp; But what's a single word we could use to sum up this controversy and then affix "-gate" to its end?&nbsp; Bwog hopes the phrase "No Joy in Mittville" catches on &nbsp; Has this angle really not been argued before?&nbsp; Sometimes a teakettle is just a teakettle&nbsp; And no mention of Slate would be complete without Chris Beam&nbsp; ...or old Hitch!&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 We were just kidding about the clean slate business. First, WNYC opened the phone lines to callers yesterday, and this morning. They also reported that PrezBo, who comments at the end of the radio blurb,&nbsp;stole the spotlight...but not everyone's heart. And NPR reported on the event this morning, catching some of the&nbsp;more controversial&nbsp;quotes on tape. 
What happens when you mix dirrrrty, sexxxy hip-hop with Apple computers? One crazy dance party. Bwog staffer Hannah Goldfield elaborates (photos by Hannah Goldfield and Merrell Hambleton). I first heard Spank Rock while nodding off in the backseat of a friend's car. Someone had added a few bonus tracks to the end of an otherwise mellow indie mix and we all snapped to attention when suddenly it sounded like an NES had been plugged into the cigarette lighter. The song was "Rick Rubin," named after the co-founder of Def Jam--who is credited with inventing "rapcore," the fusion of hip hop, heavy metal and alt-rock--and sure to bring you straight back to the days of Super Mario Bros. After listening to another--"Bump," whose brilliant refrain goes, "Behind my Game Boy I got game, girl"--I was hooked. Their full debut album, YoYoYoYoYo, which I got my hands on a few weeks later, did not disappoint. So I was psyched to hear that Spank Rock would be performing (for free!) at the Apple Store this past Saturday morning, as the last installment of "Midnight Mix," a summer series of DJ shows presented below the glass cube on Fifth Avenue. The revelry began with spinning by Spank Rock's DJ and producer Armani XXXChange, who got the reasonably-sized but tightly-packed hipster crowd nice and riled up. The sweat had just started to stink when Spankrock himself, clad in his signature thick-rimmed square glasses and a Baltimore t-shirt (repping his hometown), jumped onto a table covered with iPods and laptops, which he purportedly kicked and definitely encouraged the crowd to help themselves to, shouting "Steal everything! We're sponsored for this shit!" I didn't see anyone taking his advice but I did see someone fighting the man in his own way by tagging the floor in gold (see picture). By the time he was joined by Pase Rock and Amanda Blank, all spitting furiously (mostly about pussy, although one fan-favorite features the rhyme, "Shake it 'til my dick turns racist") thrilling madness had ensued. There was moshing, there was throwing of ice water and iTunes gift cards into the crowd, there was shock on the faces of the poor tourist families who'd made the mistake of taking the 24-hour elevator down to check out the iPhone in person. And then there was crowd-surfing, which somehow swallowed up Spankrock and ended the festivities--rumor has it he got kicked out of his own show. As the MC repeats sardonically throughout "Bump": typical. 
 Try one on for size: Naiveness&nbsp; Absurdity&nbsp; Surprised Bollinger got all political or whatever? Long time no see, Megan Greenwell! And that is why we cherish you, Bulliet ...and you, Eric Foner 
After yesterday's speech-tacular, a little silent activism on something just up the street was almost refreshing. Spotted on Kent at about 12:30 PM. (It says "Columbia Renewal is West Harlem Removal." Which is almost a pun.) (Hamilton was also festooned with&nbsp;one that read "Expand&nbsp;With Respect.") &nbsp; Viva la bedsheet revolucion! 
The newest edition to The Blue and White media family? A Facebook profile! Make sure to befriend BandW Bwog for access to meeting information, unlimited wall-posts, photos of debauched Blue and White parties and more. We promise we'll never poke you. 
Sara Maria Hasbun reports on a lecture that's very...stimulating. About 75 years ago, Alfred Kinsey got tired of gall wasps and moved on to the mating habits of humans. To the horror and disgust of the American public (who simultaneously snatched his&nbsp;books from shelves, although they'd never admit it), he essentially created the academic discipline of sexology. These days, Dr. Erick Janssen, director of education and research training at the Kinsey Institute at the Indiana University, continues that research with a far less secretive fan base. Today, during an afternoon colloquium hosted by the Barnard Psychology department, Janssen and his sexy subject matter packed the Sulzberger North Tower conference room with undergraduates, graduate students, and psychology faculty alike. His talk, "In the heat of the moment: The effects of mood and sexual excitation/inhibition on sexual interest, arousal, and risk taking", gave an overview of the Kinsey Institute, plugged the film "Kinsey", (in which you can not only watch sexual behavior in action, but see how you stack up with a sexual behavior survey!) along with his own research. Janssen and the Kinsey Institute have put together what they call a "dual control model" which they use to analyze behavior based on the hypothesis that sexual arousal and sexual behaviors depend on competing traits (or states) of inhibition and arousal. By measuring how individuals score on questionnaires that measure propensity for inhibition and arousal, Janssen has been able to investigate how these traits lead to individual differences in risky sexual behavior (instead of just risky behavior, which is more commonly studied). Most recently, Janssen conducted a study in which he showed movies designed to elicit certain emotions -- "The Natural" for a feel-good time, "Silence of the Lambs" for anxiety, and "Sophie's Choice" for depression. Then he showed the participants information on a new (fake) drug, supposedly designed to enhance the sexual experience, but with a few possible side effects ("body rashes, etc"). Subjects took the drug at varying dosages -- the higher the dose, the better the trip, and the worse the risk of side effects. Surprisingly enough, Janssen found that the group of men who had reported low inhibition and were shown the depressing film were significantly more likely to jump for the high-payoff, high-risk option -- significantly more than the other low-inhibitioners who had watched the other movies. (Weirder still, a high number of women who were shown "Silence of the Lambs" also opted for the better sex/ skin rash.) He concludes: negative emotions, combined with a tendency towards low-inhibition, can lead to heat-of-the-moment risky decisions just as much as positive, high-arousal situations. So the next time you drink to your misery and stumble off in search of unsafe sex, think twice -- will you really be able to blame your bar tab in the morning? &nbsp; 
Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer, one of the many Deciders in this whole Manhattanville shebang (after having heard from the masses) will "announce an agreement between the University and the Borough President to balance community concerns with the goals of Columbia's proposed expansion" tomorrow at 1:00 PM. Could be game over for team CB9/SCEG/CPC. Stay tuned--full press release after the jump. BOROUGH PRESIDENT STRINGER AND COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT BOLLINGER ANNOUNCE AGREEMENT RELATED TO COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY EXPANSION On Wednesday September 26th at 1:00 PM, Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer and Columbia University President Lee Bollinger will discuss Columbia University's expansion proposal at a press conference to be held at the Office of the Manhattan Borough President (1 Centre Street, 19th Floor). Stringer and Bollinger are expected to announce an agreement between the University and the Borough President to balance community concerns with the goals of Columbia's proposed expansion.&nbsp;&nbsp;The press conference will take place as Borough President Stringer completes his 30 day review period of the Columbia rezoning proposal under the City's Uniform Land Use Review Procedure, marking a crucial step in the expansion process. 
For those who were wondering how Iranians felt about the whole PrezBo introduction... "Fars News Agency&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;September 25, 2007 Iranian University Chancellors Ask Bollinger 10 Questions TEHRAN - Seven chancellors and presidents of Iranian universities and research centers, in a letter addressed to their counterpart in the US Colombia University, denounced Lee Bollinger's insulting words against the Iranian nation and president and invited him to provide responses for 10 questions of the Iranian academicians and intellectuals. The following is the full text of the letter. Mr. Lee Bollinger Columbia University President We, the professors and heads of universities and research institutions in Tehran , hereby announce our displeasure and protest at your impolite remarks prior to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent speech at Columbia University. We would like to inform you that President Ahmadinejad was elected directly by the Iranian people through an enthusiastic two-round poll in which almost all of the country's political parties and groups participated. To assess the quality and nature of these elections you may refer to US news reports on the poll dated June 2005. Your insult, in a scholarly atmosphere, to the president of a country with a population of 72 million and a recorded history of 7,000 years of civilization and culture is deeply shameful. Your comments, filled with hate and disgust, may well have been influenced by extreme pressure from the media, but it is regrettable that media policy-makers can determine the stance a university president adopts in his speech. Your remarks about our country included unsubstantiated accusations that were the product of guesswork as well as media propaganda. Some of your claims result from misunderstandings that can be clarified through dialogue and further research. During his speech, Mr. Ahmadinejad answered a number of your questions and those of students. We are prepared to answer any remaining questions in a scientific, open and direct debate. You asked the president approximately ten questions. Allow us to ask you ten of our own questions in the hope that your response will help clear the atmosphere of misunderstanding and distrust between our two countries and reveal the truth. 1- Why did the US media put you under so much pressure to prevent Mr. Ahmadinejad from delivering his speech at Columbia University? And why have American TV networks been broadcasting hours of news reports insulting our president while refusing to allow him the opportunity to respond? Is this not against the principle of freedom of speech? 2- Why, in 1953, did the US administration overthrow the Iran's national government under Dr Mohammad Mosaddegh and go on to support the Shah's dictatorship? 3- Why did the US support the blood-thirsty dictator Saddam Hussein during the 1980-88 Iraqi-imposed war on Iran, considering his reckless use of chemical weapons against Iranian soldiers defending their land and even against his own people? 4- Why is the US putting pressure on the government elected by the majority of Palestinians in Gaza instead of officially recognizing it? And why does it oppose Iran 's proposal to resolve the 60-year-old Palestinian issue through a general referendum? 5- Why has the US military failed to find Al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden even with all its advanced equipment? How do you justify the old friendship between the Bush and Bin Laden families and their cooperation on oil deals? How can you justify the Bush administration's efforts to disrupt investigations concerning the September 11 attacks? 6- Why does the US administration support the Mujahedin Khalq Organization (MKO) despite the fact that the group has officially and openly accepted the responsibility for numerous deadly bombings and massacres in Iran and Iraq? Why does the US refuse to allow Iran 's current government to act against the MKO's main base in Iraq? 7- Was the US invasion of Iraq based on international consensus and did international institutions support it? What was the real purpose behind the invasion which has claimed hundreds of thousands of Iraqi lives? Where are the weapons of mass destruction that the US claimed were being stockpiled in Iraq? 8- Why do America's closest allies in the Middle East come from extremely undemocratic governments with absolutist monarchical regimes? 9- Why did the US oppose the plan for a Middle East free of unconventional weapons in the recent session of the International Atomic Energy Agency Board of Governors despite the fact the move won the support of all members other than Israel? 10- Why is the US displeased with Iran's agreement with the IAEA and why does it openly oppose any progress in talks between Iran and the agency to resolve the nuclear issue under international law? Finally, we would like to express our readiness to invite you and other scientific delegations to our country. A trip to Iran would allow you and your colleagues to speak directly with Iranians from all walks of life including intellectuals and university scholars. You could then assess the realities of Iranian society without media censorship before making judgments about the Iranian nation and government. You can be assured that Iranians are very polite and hospitable toward their guests." 
In the middle of so many heads of state on campus, it is easy to look over an apparently modest conversation that included a composer, arts professor, Pulitzer prize winning poet and law professor discussing the role that jazz and improvisation play in everyday life. Justin Vlasits reports. During the Columbia Harlem Festival of Global Jazz, it seems important to discuss the central aspect of jazz that defines its every subgenre, from bebop to latin to funk: improvisation.&nbsp;&nbsp; George Lewis, Director of the Center for Jazz Studies at Columbia, introduced the topic with several minutes of thank you's, first on behalf of PrezBo (who could not attend because he was still recovering from his Monday afternoon boxing match). His short speech was followed by opening remarks from NYU Professor and poet Yusef Komunyakaa, who spoke with the same soft elegance when lecturing as when reading his poetry.&nbsp;&nbsp; "Dolphy's Aviary," from his 1994 book of poems, set the tone for the entire conversation as his recitation of fluid, stream-of-consciousness metaphors silenced the Low Rotunda. Running a conversation along the lines of Komunyakaa's poems proved less successful: the speakers failed to clearly convey intricate concepts without losing the meaning in the metaphor.&nbsp;&nbsp; Instead of a scholarly discussion on the meaning and practice of improvisation, the talk degenerated into a series of disconnected points that Lewis continued to try to relate back to jazz, while others were more concerned with improvisation as its own independent genre, what Professor Margo Jefferson called a "conversation across disciplines." A few ideas emerged over the this verbal tug of war.&nbsp; Muhal Richard Abrams, pianist and composer, emphasized the importance of using previously acquired knowledge in new situations when improvising. "For me, today is yesterday, and it's also tomorrow," he said. And Patricia Williams (famous from her Nation column "Diaries of a Mad Law Professor") stressed her how her understanding and appreciation of jazz roused her to break legal traditions by parodying brief writing (writing a page with only three lines of main text and the rest footnotes).&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; I didn't leave with many answers, but the questions raised stuck with me.&nbsp; "How do you create your own response to a culture being created for you?" Jefferson asked. Live more improvisationally, whatever that means. 
 "hungry not only for Iranian freedom, but also for turkey subs."&nbsp; Spec is hungry for Tajbakhsh's freedom: would they like a turkey sub? This harsh dance critic may be a Columbia alum, but I still prefer Soulja Boy's more concise critical style: "man that shit was ugly" When using latin produces the words "cum-pastry shop,"&nbsp; English might be a better choice The part about the sound cannon was better than the rest of this 
Christine Simpson writes in: Just to let you know, about 15 minutes ago my class in pupin 1332 was told to leave because of a gas leak. &nbsp;I know that at least one other class above the 10th floor was told to evacuate. Just nobody light a match... &nbsp; 
Free NYC Subway condoms at the Lerner Lobby desk-- in case your RA hasn't been diligent about keeping them coming (oh... that was terrible). Courtesy of CQA. 
If you couldn't score tickets to the month-long run of King Lear at BAM, fear not. Bwog newbie Max Friedman shares his thoughts and provides some tips for anyone wanting to make that last ditch effort to see Ian McKellen's performance (and, if you're lucky, his wang). It is hard to imagine a better setting for the Royal Shakespeare Company's performance of King Lear than the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater. The theater appears to have been rediscovered in a state of near collapse, and, though it is now an excellent venue for some of the best theater in New York, the decor maintains the illusion of decrepitude, elaborate murals peeling from the walls and the ornate Corinthian columns standing half destroyed. The whole place exudes a sense of grandeur dimmed by age, majesty (indeed, it was once known as the Majestic) succumbing to the uncontrollable force of time. What could be more appropriate? And, happily, the play lives up to its home. The astonishingly good cast is led by Sir Ian McKellen (of Gandalf and Magneto fame and Leigh Teabing ignominy) as Lear, and, though none of the other actors match him in celebrity, they all comport themselves admirably (Kent is particularly fine). Ultimately, however, the success of a play like Lear is contingent upon the powers of its lead actor, and McKellen is more than up to the challenge. It is a testament to the quality of his acting that it was only several hours after the show that I realized the scope of his accomplishment. That is because, while I was watching him, he seemed so naturally to occupy the part that I could imagine Lear in no other way: he was Lear. Later, as I looked back on the show, I realized that his interpretation of the character differed somewhat from my own reading; he played the opening scene, in which Goneril and Regan flatter their father to gain favor and Cordelia declines to do so, with a sense of humor that I had not seen there, but which makes Lear's character far more coherent. He is lighthearted even after Cordelia refuses him, as he delivers the usually austere line "Nothing will come of nothing." Only after she asserts her independence a second time do mirth and surprise give way to a sudden surge of anger. In anger too, he captures the conflict between the power of kingship and fatherhood, and the impotence of old age. McKellen is at his best, however, in the scenes in which Lear goes mad. In his raving he captures the basic sanity of the words he is uttering in disillusionment, while still unquestionably having lost his mind. The difficulty of being simultaneously mad and sane is one that most actors cannot overcome, usually choosing one or the other, but it is essential to the play that Lear be both. It is worth noting, too, that as the trappings of sanity and kingship fall away together, and Lear divests himself of his regal attire, McKellen chooses actually to remove all of his clothing, stumbling about the stage entirely nude (let's just say he has nothing to be ashamed of). Everything about the performance is, well, quite impressive. My only complaint, and it is a small one, is that Cordelia seems to become far too subservient in the first scene (and also, to a lesser extent, later in the show) after her initial act of perceived insolence. True, she is a loving daughter, but there is also something of the rebel in her character, in her refusal to humor the silly whims of an aged father. I wish that that were more apparent. This is the last weekend that King Lear is playing, and, though the whole run has been sold out for months, the theater holds ten or so tickets until an hour before the show every day for students. The day I went, a miserable crowd gathered outside the theater in the rain hoping to snag one when they went on sale, and practically offering sexual favors to anyone who would sell their ticket, but if you want to go down to the theater quite early in the day and camp out it is probably possible to get a ticket. Believe it or not, it is actually worth the wait. 
 Yes, presidents who weren't "petty and cruel dictators" also participated in the World Leaders Forum. Correspondent Pierce Stanley checks up on two former U.S.S.R states now headed by Columbia alumni. The World Leaders Forum (aka PrezBo's giving of the finger to authoritarian regimes) carried on this morning with the goal of taking on a new foe-- < ?xml:namespace prefix = st1 />Russia.&nbsp; However, today PrezBo had a few friends who also believe in the "individual spirit of liberal democracy" to back him up.&nbsp; Columbia alums Thomas Hendrik Ilves CC '76, President of Estonia (an Edward Herrmann look alike who sports a nifty bow tie for all of his public events) and the President of Georgia, Mikheil Saakashvili Law '94, joined PrezBo in Low this morning to discuss the challenges of European integration, economic progress in small, newly-democratic nations living in the shadow of their neighbors, and cyber attacks, and to proverbially stroke each other for having attended Columbia. < ?xml:namespace prefix = o /> Ilves was nostalgic for cheap beer at the West End, where he said he occasionally treats Estonian academics to a night out to show them what student life at Columbia is like and ponder the value of the core.&nbsp; Hmm... no wonder his efforts to nationalize a core curriculum in Estonian universities consistently fail.&nbsp; Saakashvili on the other hand said that his favorite Columbia memory was his first day of class when he realized that he had a chance to take classes from professors and "theoreticians of the law" that he thought had been dead. &nbsp;More than anything he seemed happy to be have simply survived a PrezBo introduction. "President Bollinger I want to thank you for this unusually soft introduction." While nostalgia for Alma and discussions of the core (Ilves rattled off about half of the CC texts in under three seconds) dominated the discussion, Saakashvili and Ilves were more than willing to get down and dirty with PrezBo on the issues of economic progress.&nbsp; Saakashvili was overly excited to read fresh-off-the-press World Bank Rankings on the ease of doing business. Georgia moved from number 37 to number 18 this year.&nbsp; He noted, "There are no hopeless cases.&nbsp; We were one of the most corrupt places to do business."&nbsp; Both presidents argued for the need of a continued cultural revolution, following on the heels of Saakashvili's Rose Revolution in Georgia, to bring forth greater government transparency and an influx of foreign investment. Things got dicey when PrezBo turned the discussion to the trend of political and economic authoritarianism in the region.&nbsp; While no one named names, opting instead for the phrase "common neighbor," everyone knew that both Presidents were highly critical of Russian corruption and recent political power plays by a certain Vlad.&nbsp; Saakashvili was particularly willing to spar when he said, "Authoritarian regimes fail to liberate energy in the individual person.&nbsp; The individual gives the energy for society.&nbsp; You can buy people off, but soon the middle class will realize that economic freedom is not sustainable without political freedom."&nbsp; Ilves had his own message for the ex-KGB member when he said, "If I never talked about Russia for the rest of my life, it wouldnï¿½t bother me at all." Q and A brought no surprises for the world leaders.&nbsp; Ilves took a cool question about cyber attacks in Estonia to laugh about botnets and to plug for "a couple of long haired Estonian students who started Skype." He insisted that everyone read about e-stonia in Wired of this month.&nbsp; Good man Lee, however, found himself having to stumble around for an answer to a student's plea for more current literature about Georgian political science.&nbsp; Saakashvili saved him this time, saying he would offer to teach Georgian studies after his term is up, and PrezBo decided to call it a day by saying "The World Leaders Forum has always been a great recruiting device."&nbsp; Just like that it was another World Leaders Forum event in the books.&nbsp; 
Hard as it is to believe, not everybody on earth was captivated by Ahmadinejadmania--Buddhist monks in Burma, for instance, spent this past week protesting their country's oppressive military junta. Sympathizers should head to Butler Plaza, where a group of 50 or so students are now holding vigil in support of the "Saffron Revolution." And if you can't make it tonight, the student-led Burma 88 Coalition says it plans on holding a couple more vigils this week. Hooray for people power! Or rather, hooray for apathy?
Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer announced his recommendations today for what should happen to that patch of land up north: basically Columbia's plan, but with a little bit of Community Board 9's plan mashed in, plus a goody bag of benefits that so und nice in a bullet pointed list. Bwog's favorites: $20 million for affordable housing! All buildings built to LEED Silver standards! A teeny park! Help for local businesses over chains! There's time for the community to squeeze more concessions out of Columbia in the next few months as an appointed board negotiates with the University over a Community Benefits Agreement, and while the city planning commission reviews the plans under the Uniform Land Use Review Process.&nbsp; Meanwhile, SCEG seems to have been caught slightly off guard by the announcement. Having planned to symbolically deliver a set of demands for the university's expansion to Low Library this afternoon, they backed out after learning the party had relocated downtown for the press conference, and realizing that World Leaders Forum security might make marching into the building with signs and noisemakers a little difficult. - LBD &nbsp; 
 Moral of this article: check all cabinets for hidden alcohol.&nbsp; This is why you shouldn't poke people in real life.&nbsp; Betcha didn't know The Blue and White was broke! Mom! The kids in my Lit Hum class are pretentious ass-holes! God these first-years are whiny.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Late last night, a couple former Columbia household names--Reggie Gossett CC '06 and Illyana Mendez-Penate--found themselves on the way to prison after a party for the Sylvia Rivera Law Project, a transgender rights advocacy group. The SRLP press release says members of the SRLP were trying to stop police officers from violently detaining a black man outside of the bar. Though the group was peaceful and "on the sidewalk," two were still "violently arrested," and after, the police sprayed pepper spray to disperse the group. The two are currently being represented by Dean Spade, BC '97 and Columbia Law School lecturer. SRLP is protesting their arraignment today at 9:30 at 100 Centre Street, but if you miss that and you want to get them out of jail, call (212) 335-9000 and ask for the early complaint bureau. Update: Columbia Queer Alliance has just released an official statement condemning the SRLP arrests. &nbsp; 
 In front of Butler Kid 1: (looking at chalk) What is... Kid 2: There was a vigil tonight. Kid 1: Oh, but it's done... Was there food- Kid 2: No, they had a vigil. Kid 1: But like, isn't Burma a type of food...? Kid 2: No, they Kid 1: Because I was really hoping for free food - Kid 2: Peter, people are dying! Kid 1: I thought (slowly realizing) - Oh! I thought Burma was a type of food... Oh... (genuine) forgive me for my ignorance! In Koronets Girl: Do you have pizza without cheese? Worker: What? Girl: Do you have a vegan pizza? Worker: ......... No. Girl: What kind of place is this?! Worker: We can scrape off the cheese for you. Thanks to Andy Pommier and Michelle Madejski for overhearing. 
Bwog doesn't seem to remember these guys being in the 117th St. median a couple of days ago. We're hardly experts on statuary, so we'll throw this one to the readers--weird new&nbsp;Barnard sculptures: thumbs up or thumbs down?
 Lucky Barnard girls have it all- apple-picking and shopping! Life is so unfair sometimes. On Friday October 5th, for only $5, Barnard girls will be shipped off to upstate New York to pick apples for an hour and a half, then go shopping at Woodbury Common Premium Outlets Funny, the bus leaves at 9 am and returns at 6 pm. So that allots how many hours for shopping? Run to the Barnard College Activities Office to sign up now! Hurry! Space is limited! 
 Spice up your life! Creative writing majors aren't useless! Entry-level positions at publishing companies are great! New York Film Festival = Fashion week = Ahmadinejad forum Columbia students doth protest too much. Who cares about his policies? Ahmadinejad is like sooooo cute! 
 In response to the SIPA graffiti, several on-campus organizations are calling an emergency meeting tonight at 9:00pm in Lerner C555 to discuss the recent events. 
 Jeremy Sean and Celtic Warriors brought their own electro-acoustic Celtic pop to the Lower East Side's 169 Bar last night. The band, led by Jeremy Blackman, C'09, tore through a half-hour set of sweet, succinct pop tunes. The rhythm section, comprised of Jacob Brunner, C'09, and Coleman Moore, C'10, lived up to their name as the Celtic Warriors, providing a subtle, appropriate accompaniment.&nbsp; (If you're interested, Brunner writes ethereal electronic compositions under the pseudonym rice; Moore records dance music as Young.) Blackman spent much of his summer performing&nbsp; at various antifolk venues solo and with another project, the Proud Decades, even playing some shows with Columbia favorites (and Yale alums) the WoWz. You can catch Jeremy Sean at Goodbye Blue Monday on the first of November (don't worry, we'll remind you). -JAG More pictures after the jump! 
Bwog newbie Lindsay Griffith sobers up at a talk on how to remember September 11. Here is New York: Remembering 9/11 opened on September 11 of this year at the New York Historical Society as a collection of photographs, artifacts and recordings to begin to place the events of 9/11 within the fabric of New York City cultural history. To discuss the display this past Wednesday, the Historical Society gathered a panel of speakers including author Don DeLillo and moderator Kenneth Jackson (a Columbia professor and former Historical Society president). The discussion was as diverse in subject matter as the photographs on display, as the panelists ranged from modern media coverage to 9/11 within the context of New York's cultural past. DeLillo opened with two passages from his most recent work Falling Man, a novel that describes the aftermath of 9/11 on a human level with decidedly imperfect characters. The first depicted the protagonist of his novel blindly walking down the stairs of the towers on the morning of the attacks, and the second described a more private moment depicting two characters connecting while watching news footageâ€”both scenes drawn from images seen in photographs displayed in the exhibit. In their differences, they also showed the dichotomy present in the memorial â€“ one moment is set publicly among thousands and one is a private moment familiar to anyone who watched television following the attacks. And similar to the images hanging on the walls, DeLillo characters in the novel struggle to return to their lives and reconcile the event in their memories. Following the readings, a panel considered how best to memorialize so momentous and tragic a day. Panel members--including Ann Nelson, author of the acclaimed 9/11 play â€œThe Guysâ€; current FDNY fire chief Salvatore Cassano; and war memorial specialist Cal Synder--all reflected on their memories of the day and how they used their own memories to cope following the events. Ms. Nelson discussed how she believes art could be used to heal wounds by providing a new narrative through the voices of those involved intimately historical moments. Her play â€œThe Guysâ€ rose from both her feeling that a story was needed beyond the voice of the media, and her feeling that the experiences of firefighters on 9/11 needed to be heard in their own words. Cal Snyder is currently working a book discussing the over 750 memorials that have been constructed in New York City alone in the six years following the attacks and stressed the unique quality of these memorials. He believes that these memorials are the first time that personal remembrance has been fused with patriotic notions of national tragedy to form a new kind of living history. Snyder stressed that images have become the principal way of remembering tragedy as they are burned into our minds moments after events occur in the modern era (think of the image, for instance, that the title Falling Man evokes). The discussion closed with remarks both poignant and ominous from Chief Cassano describing his memories of the day and his current work in the department to prepare the city for another attack. Remembering 9/11, as exhibited by the speakers of the night, has many facets: from beginning to separate the historical from the emotional to moving forward into the future with a deep seated awareness of the lessons of the past. Here is New York will be showing at the New York Historical Society until December 31.
Bwog is proud to present the Dance Beat, the first in a series of weekly columns in which Siobhan Burke explores one of the city's least discussed art forms. On long car rides, my mom, who went to college in the sixties, likes to put the Subaru on cruise control, pop in Bridge Over Troubled Water, and take me back to '66 ("or was it '67?") when she found herself, unknowingly, in the presence of two budding stars. Simon and Garfunkel were their names, and, as the story so eloquently goes, "Nobody knew who the hell they were." In the preceding weeks, word had spread among the students of Hamilton College that some unheard-of duo called "Garfunkel" would be playing the fall concert. People showed up reluctantly, mainly to take refuge from the snow; seats were left unfilled. But as the enchanting "Sound of Silence" echoed through the campus chapel, and Smith girls (like my mom) huddled close to their Hamilton boyfriends (like my mom's boyfriend), skepticism quickly turned to pure, effervescent, encore-pleading awe. "There was no question when you heard them that they were special," my mom effuses. The memory excites her. "It was an epiphany, really. Before we knew it, they were all over the place, all over the radio." She pauses to turn down the AC, suddenly pensive. "I don't want to get too dramatic here . . . but the texture of their music really does capture the spirit of our generation." Going to see "New Ballet" at Miller Theatre this weekend might not be exactly the same, but I'm expecting--somewhere down the road--the same revelatory aftermath. Don't get me wrong--the choreographers on this program aren't just a couple of guys rolling in with their guitars who might turn out to be good; Alison Chase, Amanda Miller, and Luca Veggetti have all established themselves as potent artistic forces in contemporary ballet. What I'm looking forward to, though--and what this concert, I swear, shares in common with Simon and Garfunkel's Hamilton College gig forty years ago--is the uniquely gratifying experience of being the first to see, in an intimate setting, something of potential greatness, something canonical! I'm serious, sort of. With three world premieres by three cutting-edge artists, each hand-picked by the Guggenheim to make a new work, there might be a "Sound of Silence" lurking among them, some vital sprig of new life waiting to spring from the tradition-laden ground of classical ballet. If you don't care about the next great wave of innovation in ballet, there are still plenty of reasons to see this show. Let me give you some context. "New Ballet" is the third annual program of its kind presented by Miller Theatre, in collaboration with the Guggenheim's Works &amp; Process series. Its mission (and I quote the press release), "is simple: to present new ballets to new music performed live--with the immediacy afforded by the theatre's intimate scale (a set of circumstances too rarely encountered in today's ballet world.)" Well-stated, writer of press release; you speak the truth. Miller Theatre offers a reach-out-and-touch-them intimacy that you don't get at venues like the New York State Theater or the Met. If you want to see postmodern dance in New York, there are plenty of cozy studios and obscure performance spaces that will let you watch it up close. Ballet, though, tends not to inhabit converted warehouses or empty fire stations; it asks you, generally, to pay a lot of money, get dressed up, and go to the opera house. My grandmother, a New York City Ballet subscriber, says few things I agree with, on any subject. But there is one point on which we jive: seeing a ballet up close--beads of sweat flying, muscles elongating, limbs intertwining--gives you something raw and real that makes those orchestra seats worth the extra cash. At Miller, it'll cost you just seven dollars. Seven dollars. If you still don't care about the next great wave of innovation in ballet, and you're not one to relish the dull sound of toe shoes skimming the floor, and you're not particularly strapped for cash or entertainment, I can think of one more reason to go. That's right: amassing obscure knowledge about the arts. Imagine this: six years from now, you're at a dinner party. A wealthy patron of the arts, who happens to hold your professional fate in his/her hands, is waxing intellectual about Luca Veggetti's groundbreaking new work for American Ballet Theatre. You've never seen ABT, barely know what the letters stand for. Fortunately, you caught Veggetti at Miller back in '07. WPA: "I mean, the spareness of it, the sort of, dark intelligence . . ." You: "Remarkable, yes." "It's a shame, really. I'm so tied up with my new site-specific performance piece, I just haven't made it to the Met this season. But I did see some of Veggetti's early work up at Columbia. Absolutely gripping, and danced exquisitely to live cello . . . I don't want to get too dramatic here," you add, "but the texture of his work might really capture the spirit of our generation." 
Although he didn't get in the news much, the man who orchestrated the Ahmadinejad visit was none other than domestic animal and ancient wheel expert (and Iranian history specialist) Richard W. Bulliet. Bwog sat down in his posh office in the Middle East Institute to ask him about his reactions to the speech and his reactions to the reactions to the speech. He had a lot to say in between writing an op-ed for The Washington Post&nbsp;and getting ready for a Ramadan iftar with the president of Turkey and Hillary Clinton. Bulliet being Bulliet, his comments used up our tape. Here's what he said-- in the first hour, anyways. So, you told the Spectator that you think journalism is a "lapsed profession." What did you mean by that? Yeah. Well it's been interesting to look a little bit at the responses to the talk yesterday. The more respected news was accurate. They tended to put the stress on President Bollinger, but it was generally accurately reported, but it was also selective-- No one actually covered Ahmadinejad's speech. They covered his responses to the Q&amp;A. You know, here's a person who sought an American public forum, and who, even knowing that there was going to be some static, persisted in wanting this forum to happen. And then he chose to give the speech that he did, which was sophomoric and soporific and totally forgettable. It makes you ask the question, why did he do this? What was he thinking? One of my Iran informants said, well, you know, that's who he is. He's a religious man, he has a respect for knowledge, and he wanted to sort of say who he was. But from the press point of view, they already knew who he was. He was a Holocaust denying, Jew-hating, atom bomb-throwing evil, evil man. So the fact that his effort to present himself was just totally ignored by the press-- well, that's sort of suggestive of the way in which the press doesn't distort, necessarily, except by selection. You do television and you give them 45 minutes and they give you 35 seconds on air. They get to select. If you're in the media, your job is to be the middle point between producers of content and consumers of content, and you are professionally a judge as to what deserves to cross that frontier between the producer and consumer. What that often means is that you cater to the consumers and what the consumers already know. So here we have what I think is an extremely educational situation where absolutely everybody has the chance to see what was actually said, and then they have the chance to read the news coverage of it. And they find that it isn't quite what they saw. Whether they will go with that or whether they will just say, well, I guess I'll just forget about the things that aren't being repeated in the news because the news must have it right, I don't know. Or for example, he said, with regard to terrorism, he said, you say we support terrorist organizations, I say you support a terrorist organization. He didn't name the organization but we all knew what it was-- if we know something about Iran . But most people in the audience didn't know, so it passed over most of the audience. But the news people also skipped it. Why? Well I think it's probably always been the case with non-Western politics that the only piece that is of interest is the piece that directly overlaps with the Western interest. I thought what he had to say about execution and drug dealers was deeply felt. I mean, this is a scourge in Iran, and most of the heroin in the world comes out of Afghanistan and is funneled through Iran, and they cannot close that border because it's just an impossibly barren, desert area that you just can't police. And so he said, well, what would you do with drug dealers? You have capital punishment here in the United States...When I'm talking about a lapse of the news media, that's what I'm talking about. What you get is a war party in this country that is either telling the media what they should concentrate on or the media are unwittingly going along with them. Is there anything he could have said that would have changed the way he was portrayed? Well, yeah, but they weren't things he was going to say. He could have said, since the last time I spoke to the press, I have come to the realization that the Holocaust did occur and six million Jews were killed and it was a massive crime. He could have apologized for ever saying anything to the contrary. Or he could have said, you know, I used to think that the Jewish state was illegitimate but I changed my mind. Of course he could have said things. But the policies that he expresses in these are not policies that he invented-- they've been around since 1979 with the foundation of the state. And they've been held by all the intervening presidents, so he can't exactly... He's not the ultimate caller of the shots in Iran, he cannot very readily, unilaterally change policies that have been in place for three decades because he found some people someplace else who don't like those policies. Iran has been totally misrepresented for 30 years now, and because Americans can't readily travel to Iran there's not much counter-information. And because most of the Iranian emigres in this country despise the Islamic Republic, you don't get to hear the local lobby. So, the result is that distortions usually go uncorrected. How does that relate to Bush's comments about the axis of evil? Ahmadinejad wasn't president then. At the time of the "axis of evil" speech you have the most liberal of Iran's presidents. Khatami was the president and it was still the axis of evil because of the people who want to destroy the Islamic Republic of Iran are simply making use of the, let's say, the modest intellectual stature of Ahmadinejad as if he were the problem. Whereas in fact they think the entire system should be destroyed, and he's simply the punching bag. But axis of evil precedes Ahmadinejad. In 1959, I remember sitting on the grass in front of the Harvard field house-- there's a balcony in front of the field house-- and there was Fidel Castro speaking to about 10,000 students and others who came to this outdoor event that was sponsored by Harvard. And I remember in the skyline of Harvard stadium you could see sharpshooters up there with rifles to offer protection and so forth. And between then and now I don't think there has been any campus speech of equivalent importance. Even though people now forget Castro's speech, and he gave one a few days later in Central Park. There's been an article written recently by a guy who says Castro was practicing populist diplomacy... that he was trying to speak directly to the American people and cut through all the communist-baiting that was coming out of Washington. And it failed. It was a big event, but he did not convince enough people that he was anything other than a stooge for the Soviet Union. Part of the reason was that the domestic lobby was all emigres from Cuba. There were Cubans around-- you could ask people about Cuba, but what you'd find was that you had evil communists who were throwing good Cuban businessmen and capitalists out of work. Well, that's the same thing here-- the domestic lobby that you might think would actually be able to reinforce this head of state is actually opposed to him to a substantial amount. I think Ahmadinejad really had something in mind like populist diplomacy... The events were sort of parallel? Yeah, the bad guy on campus event... Remember, he rarely leaves Iran. He's not educated out of the country and not educated at a terribly advanced level. I thought it was very patronizing to sort of chide him for being poorly educated... It was sort of unnecessary. But I think he had the thought that the halls of ivy are some sort of place for philosophical rumination, and that his speech would be a speech appropriate to an academic setting, as if he were giving an acceptance speech for some sort of honorary degree or something like that. He should have known better, he should have been warned by the local people because they knew that Bollinger was making that introduction. Did his advisers brief him in general about what was going on here, about the protests? I have no idea... I talked to the ambassador fairly extensively, and then the head of the Iranian division of the American foreign ministry came and had a long talk with me and John Coatsworth about things... The ambassador was very offended by some of the Columbia responses on things, but once-- Was Ahmadinejad aware of the student protesters? No, no, they didn't see anything, and never could see anything. I had told them that it would be arranged so that he could come and go without every encountering any protest. He wouldn't see anything, he wouldn't hear anything. That's what the Secret Service wanted and Columbia security wanted. From a protest point of view... like most protests... like when there's a big protest in Washington, the President's at Camp David-- protests are more for the good of the protesters. But I think in this case should have briefed him... If the ambassador had been here a long time it would have been different. Because he just presented his credentials in July. The other guy had been in this country before and worked for the World Bank. So, I don't know... The speech sounded like one that had not been written for him. Maybe Ahmadinejad wrote the speech himself. I think he would have liked to have felt like he was being accepted as a fellow intellectual. Were those aspects of the speech lost in translation? The translator was really very good. She came with him from Iran. She's very, very good. Everyone agreed that she presented not only the words but also the tone and the inflection. So what you heard was really what he had to say... really wanted to come to the university, and said that if obstacles were put in their way they would adapt. And then he seemed surprised that there were obstacles. I reflect on it because I don't know whether I fell down on the job and did not adequately represent the situation here. On the other hand, nothing that I had seen tipped me off as to the vehemence of Bollinger's speech. Although I thought John Coatsworth would . What did you think about Bollinger's introduction? I think that the sensitivity in Iran about being friendly towards guests is so deeply and profoundly felt that a lot of the Iranians, and other Middle Easterners too, to a lesser extent, will think Ahmadinejad really came out ahead in the entire encounter because the sympathy for him because he was treated badly by someone who should have showed him hospitality. So, some things that pleased very strongly engaged people in this country will have the opposite effect on strongly engaged people in the Middle East. But it's hard to predict in any detail. I sort of wonder whether if theres another speaker we disagree with, will students go to the person doing the introduction and say, we want you to, in introducing him, to challenge him on the following points. Will they try and use Bollinger's speech as a model for how to receive people at Columbia? So that if you don't have someone that everyone agrees with, that you should make very clear at the outset that there is hostility... It's there to be a precedent if someone wants to do it. Some people have criticized the fact that the president of Bangladesh is coming on Friday. Has anyone been hanged in Bangladesh? Probably. Has anyone been abused and mistreated? Probably. Are there political prisoners? Yes. The thing is if you have benign introducers who say now I want to present such and such, then will that person then be criticized for not challenging them? It's very hard to know. I've never witnessed anything like what happened yesterday... Certainly the indictment that he gave sounded like something written for Bush. He mentioned everything in a sort of neocon indictment. In some cases he seemed to indicate that he wasn't aware that the guy who calls the shots in Iran is not Ahmadinejad. But then there's the broader picture that I find quite fascinating. If you build someone up as the new Hitler and then you say, wait, you're not Hitler-- I knew Hitler and you're no Hitler. He doesn't have a huge army ready to launch, he doesn't have an outspoken, explicit hatred of Jews and want to annihilate them. All those things that are associated with Hitler don't fit. In a sense, a possibility of this event, and particularly Bollinger's belittling of him-- if you would belittle him because he is apparently, in truth, a little man, do you in fact take a step back from war? Does this undermine the neocon case for war because for Condoleezza Rice now to say the smoking gun is a mushroom cloud detonated by Ahmadinejad would make you say, him? Is this the face that launched a thousand ships and toppled the towers of Ilium? But that's why the media take is important, because everyone a visual impression of what kind of man this is. And if he is petty and ridiculous and uneducated and so forth then why is he considered the scourge of God? The person who will launch the world into some sort of nuclear annihilation? He will be retired from office, as will Bush, before there is even a chronological possibility of Iran having nuclear bombs. He's not going to order and attack on anybody. He could be re-elected, but the way things are going he almost certainly won't be elected. So, to be on the verge of war because of something that might happen after the current principals are no longer in charge of their respective governments really seems, well, stupid, and almost criminal in that you could end up killing a lot of people for something that ultimately is going to have no reason. My feeling, what I wanted, was to see to what degree this event can serve as a brake on the push towards war. Personally, I don't think there's going to be a war. But many people do, and sometimes thinking it will happen makes it happen... What kind of a triumph would it be to bring down Ahmadinejad? There isn't any statue of him. He doesn't have any personality to be cultish about. People have wanted to go to war ever since the Iran hostage crisis almost thirty years ago. One of the lines is that no one since Hitler has threatened the existence of the Jews in the way that Ahmadinejad does. Therefore, he is Hitler redux. But, in 1967, at the Khartoum Resolution, eight Arab countries signed this declaration of the three no's- no recognition , no peace, no negotiation. For 24 years, that resolution held that eight Arab states denied the existence of Israel and were pledged to try and destroy Israel. That ended at the Madrid conference in 1991. So when you say nobody since Hitler has taken this extreme position, that's literally untrue. A bunch of leaders have taken that position and none of them have been barred from speaking-- some of them have gone to the White House and been received in the Rose Garden and so forth and so on. A year or so ago I asked a head of a neocon organization why we have this lapse of memory as to the fact that Arabs wanted to destroy Israel and never recognized Israel. And he said that they decided to give the Arabs a pass on this because...if they skip the Arabs then they can compare Ahmadinejad to Hitler and have a war. But to compare Ahmadinejad to Abd al-Karim Qassim, who cares? To compare him to Gamal Abdul Nasser, no one really remembers. But you compare him to Hitler and you've got a hook onto a mythic history in which you can figure him as a threat to the entire world... This kind of manipulation of history in order to sway popular passions in the direction of war is so profoundly wrong and against the American interest. Why do you think the U.S. wants a war? I would say that, to the degree that the neoconservatives have a strong commitment to the security of Israel, to guarantee Israel against a hypothetical threat some years in the future. I also think it goes back to that it would avenge the humiliation of the hostage crisis and destroy the Islamic Republic. And then you also have economic interests; all those businesses were closed out of Iran for the last 30 years, by sanctions, would be able to go back and make contracts to buy and sell goods with a population of 80 plus million people. That's a big market. There are plenty of reasons... but in order to make it happen you have to create a jingoistic . And that's what's going on with a radical distortion of history and current affairs. You have a big chunk of the specialist community that starts every sentence with the word Palestine. And they have successfully from 1967 onwards, partly through the extraordinary skills of Yassir Arafat, to turn this side-show into a great world concern so that it's a given in many, many quarters in the Arab world that all problems stem from the Palestine question. That's a great sell. Certainly it's succeeded on this campus. But another portion of the specialist community certainly don't buy that. They think of things like globalization, that that's the issue... So the specialist community doesn't speak with one voice because there are a number of different positions that are very, very deeply held. The people who actually determine policy work very hard, much harder than I do, and once they have decided what they are inclined to recommend, they'll look around for published material support. And if there's a hearing they'll call in someone who wrote and article or a book, and you go in and feel flattered because for an hour some senator will look at you... It's utterly ephemeral. &nbsp;&nbsp; What about the homosexuality in Iran comment? Well, read Joseph Massad... I don't think Ahmadinejad knows who Massad is. But&nbsp;I'm sure he&nbsp;knows there are homosexuals in Iran. Religiously, it's frowned upon, but he knows it exists. The really crucial question that he would have to ask is what does he think an American homosexual is? Did he see a movie with a drag queen in it? Or something in which homosexuality is celebrated as a form of difference? What does he think American homosexuality is? Because what he said in one sense could be arguably true, but on the other hand, it sounded so stupid-- it helped to create this image of a nincompoop that I think may be helpful in stepping back from a war scenario. Hitler said, I want to kill the homosexuals, Ahmadinejad says, we don't have any! How did Kian Tajbakhsh factor into the arrangement? Well, it was not a quid pro quo... that it would be embarrassing for President Bollinger to welcome a president who he has written to on behalf on an alumnus-- He proceeded to lecture me, and I said, I'm not talking about anything humanitarian, you have a word that covers it in Farsi, parti-bazi, which is, well, party like political party and then play...party politics. I said, this is parti-bazi... And he was released. Yeah, he was...&nbsp; I also put the nephew (or is it son?) who goes here... of another prisoner on my list of invites. Interview by Katie Reedy 
 The Obama rally in Washington Square Park right now is streaming here- for those Barack supporters too busy or lazy to go see him themselves. &nbsp; 
In which Bwog freelancer Kurt Kanazawa chronicles the bangingest new show on prime time. So for all of you not interested in the "Gossip Girls WEDNESAYS @ 9 PM!!!!" phenomenon (read: carnivores / SEAS), your antidote is awaiting you on NBC... "Bionic Woman," starring Michelle Ryan (don't worry you've never heard of her), is a remake of the TV action series from the 1970s, "The Bionic Woman." Basically, Jaime Sommers (Ryan) wakes up from a near fatal, and intentional (dun dun duH!) car accident. When she awakes in the hospital her boyfriend/doctor/eye candy informs her that both her legs and one arm had to be amputated. Buuutttt we've made you bionic ("you're hardwired for highly specialized warfare!") Sprinkle in some bionic sex, secret bionic government conspiracy, kick-ass bionic fight sequences in the rain, and some decent un-bionic acting performances and you've got yourself the perfect supercharger to a lazy Wednesday night. That is, if you're one for irony. To help explain what I mean, here's of the better lines from tonight's episode.&nbsp;Jaime has just been told she's a bionic woman.&nbsp;After she nearly destroys the government hospital facility with her unknown strength and is -anesthetized, she wakes up.&nbsp;A nurse comes over to her and says: Nurse: C'mon now, we've got to get you to rehab. Jaime: What for? Nurse: Rehabilitation. Or for the sake of foreshadowing, before the episode begins, Jaime is driving her bratty little sister to school (played by The OC's Lucy Hale). Hale is sulking and eating a pop-tart. Jaime (pre-bionic): That's not real food Sister: WELL YOU'RE NOT A REAL MOM! And wait, there's more!&nbsp;CGI animation reveals to us that her bionic limbs even have fans in them for internal cooling! All these elements are keeping me tuned in for next week, especially when "Grey's Anatomy" sinner, Isaiah Washington, joins the cast. Cue controversy. I'm hoping that the Bionic writing staff will learn from the success of shows like "Heroes," "Battlestar Galactica," and "Lost," and be able to create for me the perfect Wednesday night action study break-- or at least, a satisfyingly corny one.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'd give this one a solid: B+ &nbsp; 
 Barack Obama likes young voters, and Kanye West&nbsp; "The 18 chapters of Ulysses as 18 holes on a golf course." Barnard wants your children&nbsp; Baby daddys not just baby daddys anymore &nbsp;Confrontational graffiti incident gets the smackdown Still talkin' about Monday: Bollinger, Ahmadinejad, academic freedom,&nbsp; other people, Bachelet(!), opinions, opinions, etc., etc., so on and so forth 
 In which Bwog freelancer Kate Linthicum reports on a very special day.&nbsp; There was more than humidity in the air Thursday. At The Riverside Church there was love. &nbsp; Yesterday afternoon ten couples were wed in a mass ceremony as part of "Marry Your Baby Daddy Day." The wedding, which was free for all the participants, brought together couples who already have children, but who hadn't tied the knot. &nbsp; The ceremony was as elaborate as the Church's towering Gothic arches. The brides, garbed in lavish white dresses with long trains, waited in line with their grooms for their big moment before the dreadlocked minister. &nbsp; The Reverend Dr. Thomas L. Stiers presided while each couple exchanged vows, his smooth, soothing voice echoing through the chapel. The couples seemed nervous, but glad. During one ceremony, the groom had to stop his vows to wipe a tear from his bride's cheek. &nbsp; The event was organized by Maryann Reid, a romance writer who held a similar event in 2005. Reid, who is not married, says she got the idea for the event after finding out that nearly 70% of African-American couples with children aren't married. "It came from my high frustration with the out-of-wedlock rate in the black community," said Reid, who noted that yesterday's ceremony featured brides and grooms of other races, as well.&nbsp;"I thought, 'I need to take action.'"&nbsp;&nbsp; Reid, clad in a colorful, ruffled dress with a train of its own (it looked like a crumpled, makeup-stained tissue), is quite the media darling these days. She's been featured in The New Yorker and has touted her books and talked about the out-of-wedlock rate on a slew of television and radio programs. Both NBC Nightly News and the Daily News covered yesterday's wedding, and hushed rumors hinted that Star Jones might be interested in featuring it, as well.&nbsp;&nbsp; After an hour-long ceremony punctuated by prayers and the wails of an unhappy baby, the minister finally pronounced the couples men and wives. He gave them permission to kiss, and the audience laughed as each couple embraced. After all, it was a long a time coming. They held on extra tight. &nbsp; The organ played as the newlyweds filed out, stopping every few steps to smile for photos and kiss. Beneath one pew was a reminder that this had been an unusual ceremony: Amidst strewn flower petals and a wedding program was a diaper. 
 A few details from the Ahmadinejad event have just come to light: although the College Republicans are very good about getting themselves on TV, talking with their fellow students has proven more difficult. According to Columbia Coalition organizers, they didn't show up for their scheduled speaking slot. And after the event, they were nowhere to be found at their own scheduled debrief Monday evening. Where can you find a Republican these days?&nbsp; 
Bwog staffer Lucy Tang stops by Bank Street and relives a time before Lit Hum. Once upon a time, reading for school wasn't stressful. Two days ago at Bank Street bookstore, I was transported to a time when required reading was Maniac Magee, the good old days... A crowded auditorium full of clamoring elementary school children was a certainly drastic change from the Ahmadinejad fervor Monday, but it was refreshing to witness some genuine enthusiasm. Spinelli was at Bank Street to promote Love, Stargirl, the sequel to the New York Times bestseller Stargirl, a book about a lonely boy and his precocious female friend. Though he is an adamant opponent of sequels, Spinelli says, "Once I gave Stargirl a voice, she wouldn't shut up." His books have that widespread appeal that spans different backgrounds. Regardless of race, gender, and even age, everyone can appreciate characters like Maniac Magee and Stargirl. The U.S. government even commissioned Stargirl to be published in the Middle East to promote peace, though the actual effectiveness is questionable, at least it's something. After a short summary about the process of Love, Stargirl, Spinelli moved on to the Q &amp; A session and fifty arms shot up. It reached to the extent where Spinelli would point at one person, and three other surrounding people would ask hopefully, "Me?" The questions Spinelli received were probably those he had been asked a million times before, the usual, "Who gave you the idea for ?" "How do you relate so well to kids?" "When did you start writing?" Yet Spinelli answered the questions with thought and care, inserting various humorous anecdotes like the story about the beginning of his writing career. It was the first day of school, Spinelli was six years old, he sat down next to a beautiful girl and consequently, falls in love. However, he was too shy to say anything to her and wanted to write her a note detailing his feelings. Unfortunately, being the first day of school, Spinelli didn't know how to write. After weeks of learning, he finally learned the words that captured his feelings, he wrote her a note with the words, "Will you marry me?" Throughout the entire meeting and Q&amp;A session, I found myself just as entertained as the children. Then I realized Spinelli's secret, he talks to children as if they were adults, no patronization, "I don't write down to you guys. I write stories as they come naturally."ï¿½ Next author to grace Bank Street: Judy Blume Saturday September, 29th. 
One more President, one more speech. Justin Vlasits reports. According to President Zeljko Komsic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, his country is famous for three things, two bad and one good.&nbsp; The assassin of Archduke Franz Ferdinand was a Serbian anarchist in Sarajevo (bad). One of the region's bloodiest wars was waged in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the mid-1990's (bad!). The extremely successful 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, which failed to incite any Orwellian nightmares (good?). Komsic, a veteran of the siege of Sarajevo (the longest in modern world history), felt that this was an oversimplified view of modern Bosnian history, so he decided to give the "simplified" version.&nbsp; He tracked the area's progress from a 12th century kingdom through Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian rule to post-World War II Yugoslavia, citing unity between the two areas in an attempt to justify the current ethnic-based voting system. He lamented his country's "deep wounds," but maintained that Bosniaks, Serbs, Croats and Jews have all lived peacefully with each other and that the nation's problems have come from outsiders trying to divide his people along ethnic and religious lines. When someone asked what language he spoke, Komsic used the question to expand his point about national unity. "I speak Bosnian, though I am Croatian," he said. "But I also speak Croatian and Serbian." Since the languages vary significantly only in their alphabets--they all use Gaj's Latin variant, but Serbian can also be written in a Cyrillic variation--Komsic was trying to articulate a more metaphorical message: that he still speaks to Bosnians and Serbs even though he represents the Croats as president. He said that he was proud to learn both the Latin and Cyrillic alphabets in school and that he does not care what people call the language--to him, it's just his "native tongue." Komsic's ambitious vision for his country peaked out of an otherwise safe discussion when asked about the future of ethnic-based voting--in which the three different ethnic groups each vote for a president of their own ethnic group, collectively making up a rotating presidency--in Bosnia and Herzegovina.&nbsp;&nbsp; While he said that he could not predict what will happen, he stressed that he was fighting to take care of everyone within the area, regardless of ethnicity and regardless of whether they voted for him --he won his seat in 2006 with 41% of the vote, as the Croatian Democratic Union split their votes among two candidates. Despite one woman who was clearly off her kiester, demanding that Komsic hand delivered a letter to Bush detailing specific human rights abuses that she has experienced, the Q &amp; A gave a much clearer view of present day Bosnia and Herzegovina than Komsic's opening remarks. Maybe, I thought, he'll actually be able to help lead his nation in rebuilding culturally and economically after the tragedy of the Bosnian War. 
A rainbow-struck tipster sent in this photo, taken from a Wein Wien bathroom window, about seven hours ago. We thought it was too pretty not to post. 
 The World Leaders Forum might be over, but Bangladesh's problems sure aren't! Armin Rosen reports on the last of this round of WLF events. Like Turkmenistan, Bangaldesh finds itself straddling a perilously thin line. In Turkmenistan, a solid tradition of dictatorship makes it all too easy for president&nbsp;Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov&nbsp;to lead the central Asian country away from democracy (those who saw him speak this past Monday learned that this is exactly what he plans to do). Bangladesh has an equally checkered history of civil war and military rule, although Dr. Fakhruddin Ahmed's relatively bullshit-free speech at the World Leaders Forum leads me to believe that the country probably won't revert to destructive historical habit--but it was difficult to watch Dr. Ahmed without thinking there's a decent chance that it will. Dr. Ahmed was surprisingly candid as to the challenges facing his country. In impeccable English the Princeton PhD explained that his country holds long term promise, and that trade liberalization, foreign development and support from NGOs have put Bangladesh on pace to half poverty by 2015. Bangladesh could be a middle-income country within two decades, says Dr. Ahmed, who did an excellent job of presenting his country as the least dysfunctional of the worldï¿½s poverty-stricken hellholes--but he was nevertheless clear that Bangladesh remains a poverty-stricken hellhole. He touched on land shortages, corruption and market threats to the country's economically vital readymade garment industry as challenges that could break his small country of 150 million people. And he closed on the ominous prediction that global warming will sink 30% of Bangladesh within the next couple centuries. What Dr. Ahmed didn't touch on during his keynote address was the fact that his very appearance at Columbia portends deep and possibly destructive problems for Bangladesh. Ahmed is the chief advisor to a "non-partisan transitional -government," and the country is operating under emergency rule as set forth in its constitiuon. But in South Asia, "emergency rule" is often just dictatorship by other means--a case in point is Indira Gandhi's heavy-handed tactics during India's "emergency" in the mid-70s. So is Ahmed a responsible caretaker for a poor but inevitably promising country, or a technocratic dictator ruling over a proverbial house of cards? One Bangladeshi expat delivered a Bollingerian scolding during the question-and-answer session, and claimed that Ahmed's "regime" has been curtailing freedom of the press, imprisoning academics and turning a blind eye to religious and political extremism. Another questioner brought up the millions of Bangladeshis who have illegally settled in India, and mentioned that this could turn into a prickly and possibly intractable issue for the two neighbors (likely given the intensity of the immigration debate in our own country). Ahmed effectively sidestepped the question about imprisoned academics by assuring us that they deserve to be in jail. On illegal immigration he pled total ignorance, and he completely ignored the question of whether he is refusing to reign in extremism. Ahmed's commitment to democracy will be revealed in 2008, when an election is scheduled to end Bangladesh's constitutional emeergency rule. If those elections go down as scheduled, and if Ahmed's program of poverty reduction proves even marginally successful he will go down as one of the great leaders in his country's young history. But Ahmed's revealing answers and non-answers suggest other disconcerting possibilities. What's for sure is that Bangladesh is no Turkmenistan--but that isn't exactly a big deal. 
 BSO and the Barnard Organization of Soul Sisters, along with other activisty types, have tacked the SIPA graffiti incident on to a national walkout Monday to protest the Jena 6 business. It's at noon, so you can symbolically walk out of your 11:00 AM class 15 minutes early.&nbsp; Also tomorrow, of less cosmic significance but significantly more medieval fun, the annual Renaissance Festival is going up in Fort Tryon Park. Take yourself back to a land before midterms, if only for an hour. 
It's now time for Freshies to vote for CCSC 2011 and, armed with only 500 flyers and no money to spend, Facebook was bound to become a primary organizing tool. &nbsp; Justin Vlasits surveyed the endless domain of the Internet to measure the standings of&nbsp;each ticket with less than a week until elections. Check back for coverage of the 2011 debate in John Jay Lounge on Sunday at 9 PM--we'll be there with popcorn. RealColumbia Party &nbsp; Members: 167 &nbsp; Ticket: President: Vesal Yazdi Vice President: Tania Harsono Rep: Adina Levin Rep: Alyssa LaMontagne Rep: Davey Gibian &nbsp; Outside website: N/A &nbsp; Pros: Extensive (and most likely overly ambitious) platform including practical reforms such as expanding the hours of John Jay dining hall, JJ's Place and Ferris Booth while also the exceedingly general "ease bureaucratic pressure on students."&nbsp; With three international students on the ticket (2 Canadian, 1 Aussie) and a footballin' theme, they should have a stranglehold on Columbia's Non Resident Alien voting block. &nbsp; Cons: Only 6% of Columbia College is international.&nbsp; Their platform is organized under the "Four Pillars of Reality," which sound more like a postmodern adaptation of the Five Pillars of Islam than a political party's central ideas.&nbsp; iColumbia Party &nbsp; Members: 152 &nbsp; Ticket: President: Anna Ginzberg Vice President: Amanda Olivo Rep: Sean Udell Rep: David Zhu Rep: Michael Mirochink &nbsp; Website &nbsp; Pros: Mad Photoshop skillz (see picture) with the added bonus of partially invisible head.&nbsp; Indeed, this tech-savvy party's website has photographic evidence of their knowledge of the Low steps and Alma Mater! &nbsp; David Zhu can also beatbox while playing flute. &nbsp; Cons: Apple lawsuit pending. Class Action &nbsp; Members: 145 &nbsp; Ticket: President: Learned Foote Vice President: Tom Amegadzie Rep: Noah Baron Rep: Sara Partridge Rep: Melissa Im &nbsp; Outside website &nbsp; Pros: Best dressed.&nbsp; This party has a few clear, attainable goals such as having Luau in Uris Pool and hiring an outside catering company to give free food before sunrise to those that observe Ramadan. &nbsp; Cons: According to their website, Sara Partridge, a candidate for Representative, can predict the color of people's underwear. &nbsp; &nbsp; Fight for Your Right Party &nbsp; Members: 85 &nbsp; Ticket: President: Lalit Gurnani Vice President: Cailtlyn Shea Malcynsky Rep: Lisa Weber Rep: Eric Rosenberg Rep: Shree Awsare &nbsp; Outside website &nbsp; Pros: Beastie Boys references are always a good way to rise in the political ranks.&nbsp; Mike Gravel would be a shoe-in for the Dems nomination if his slogan was "All I really want is girls!" &nbsp; Cons: None of their policy ideas have anything to do with parties. And their website doesn't work despite the fact that they have four publicity organizers, two party organizers and a webmaster. And according to a JJ 14er, one party member takes the elevator to the 5th floor. Columbia's 711 Open 24/7 Ticket: President: Ankit Gupta Vice President: Rep: Nicholas Lall Rep: Uloma Albii Rep: Griff Curtis No detectable facebook group. It's not looking good for the convenience store constituency. 
On Thursday, about 250 cyclists in varying states of physical fitness departed on the annual All Night Bike Ride, led as ever by the indefatigable Kenneth Jackson. Bwog has just recently recovered. We started at the sundial, and departed under cover of darkness with a police escort and even a volunteer ambulance to take care of the weak.  After the t-shirts were dispensed and waivers collected, the peloton departed in a whooping mass through the Amsterdam Gates, proceeded down Morningside Drive, and made its way over to Central Park West. What followed was an epic journey down the length of Manhattan, with adrenaline barely serving to keep some of us awake after a long week. More photos and a sadly incomplete chronicle of the trip after the jump. Professor Jackson, clad in bike shorts astride his red Trek 700, led the brigade--like Washington D.C.'s Capitol dome, none were allowed to surpass him. The horde gushed through Central Park like a storm surge, overwhelming all cyclists unfortunate enough to be caught going the other way. According to a TA, Deputy Mayor Dan Doctoroff (whom Bwogger and Urban Studies geek Sara was sure she saw biking through the Village) was in charge of the City that night while Mayor Bloomberg was away. Apparently, he could reverse the flow of traffic on the avenues, but couldn't change the alternate side of the street parking rules. Going through Times Square was a highlight. Construction workers, along with everyone else, didn't quite know what to make of us. Passersby cheered, took pictures, or just stared quizzically at the motley jumble. "Is this Critical Mass?" they'd ask, referring to the monthly anarchic bike ride through cities all over the country (this month's was actually the next night). No, we'd answer. Just a bunch of nerdy Columbia students. The best response to the "What is this for?" question came from a dour Professor Sam Moyn. "Class," he replied. A water main broke as we went through Union Square, foreshadowing the skies breaking open when we arrived at NYU, drenching those who didn't run for cover fast enough. A few spirited souls led fight songs during the ride around Washington Square Park. Mostly, though, we let the NYUers get ready for their Friday classes in peace. After streaming down the Westside highway for a while, we hopped over to the park, and rode all the way down the waterfront to the Staten Island Ferry. The bikers dismounted and ascended into the terminal in a pack. On the boat, there was much oohing and ahhing over the Statue of Liberty, Governor's Island and the Verrazano Bridge as the group crammed the front of the boat. At least one person pulled a Titanic. On Staten Island soil for a total of three minutes, much of the group spent the return trip unconscious: The most stalwart riders returned from the Brooklyn Bridge at about 7:00 in the morning. 
 Restaurant A--the most charming mom-and-pop, organic, French-Caribbean place that literally takes four years for freshman to find--looked long-gone with its facade painted and a real estate agent's sign hanging like a great blue shroud.&nbsp; Bwog wanted to cry and pound its tiny fists against the cold concrete.&nbsp; But appearances deceived, and we're so glad they did.&nbsp; 'A,' named for the nearby A train, has gone all grown up, scored a liquor license, and moved out of its parents' house.&nbsp; Its new incarnation is located on Columbus Ave between 107th and 108th.&nbsp; A call to the new location went unanswered, but the voice message--delivered in owner Marc Solomon's impenetrable accent--said the place would open on a Sunday "very soon." Now the real question is this: how will A feel about our fakes? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -AMP 
In which Bwog newbie Thomas Rhiel ascends to the height of filmmaker fandom. Critics seem to have lost much of their patience with Wes Anderson (He's elitist! Self-important! Maybe even racist!), but I admit it: I can't get enough. I want my characters quirky, forlorn, and constantly smoking. I want my frames symmetrical and colorful, crammed with eclectic knick-knacks and Futura Bold. I want quick pans and quicker zooms. Another slow-motion sequence set to a catchy pop tune? Yes, please, make me feel it. So it was with a great deal of excitement that I set out on each of the following adventures, journeys into that fantastical realm of child prodigies, jaguar sharks, and Bill Murray. Tragically, each experience left me feeling emptier than the last. One: On Tuesday night, the SoHo Apple store screened the premiere of Anderson's Hotel Chevalier, a 13-minute prelude to his latest feature film, The Darjeeling Limited. Jason Schwartzman, Natalie Portman, and Anderson himself were scheduled to be there, and would take questions from the audience after the film. I arrived an hour early, which, considering the event's scant publicity, I expected to be safe, maybe even worth a seat near the front. Instead, turning onto Prince St., I was confronted by a mob of fellow fans lined up against the Apple building and around the corner, many perched in folding chairs, some playing board games. Disheartened but not giving up, I trudged to the end of the line, where, after 30 minutes, an Apple employee kindly informed my neighbors and I that we should give up. Two: Earlier this week, I heard from a fellow Bwogger that the house from The Royal Tenenbaums is for sale. So yesterday, adorned with a camera and a red Adidas tracksuit, I travelled to the corner of 144th St. and Convent Ave. to pay my respects. The house, a beautiful structure of bright red brick, is unmistakably the one from The Royal Tenenbaums: a destitute Royal descends those stairs with his luggage after his family kicks him out, an unstable Richie climbs through that window on the right after escaping from the hospital, and a doped up Eli Cash crashes into that iron fence in the movieÃ¢ï¿½ï¿½s final moments. I couldn't figure out, however, whether or not the house was actually on the market. There were no "For Sale" signs or people to ask. I was left standing outside a locked gate, observing the overgrown lawn and some ratty-looking stuffed animals filling an upstairs window. I yearned for an uplifting Nico song to swell in the background or for a polka-dotted mouse to scamper past my feet, but there was no whimsy to be had here, no whimsy at all. Three: Also yesterday, I saw The Darjeeling Limited. Several critics have hailed Anderson's choice to shoot the film in India as a sign of the director's maturity, a departure from his usual fascination with subjects wealthy and white. And while its setting gives The Darjeeling Limited a beauty new to the Anderson brand, it also comes at a price: no longer anchored to an East Coast boarding school, a New York residence, or a brightly hued boat, Anderson's characters actually have to go places, leaving them no time for the endearingly eccentric passions--such as Max Fischer's playwriting, Chas Tenenbaum's enterprising, or Steve Zissou's filmmaking--that made previous characters interesting and previous films engaging. If I can't find Wes Anderson's trademark quirkiness in the real world, I at least want to find it in a Wes Anderson movie. 
One week from the infamous day, we offer this SNL original. It's no "Dick in a Box," but it's pretty close. Andy Samberg and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, together at last. Meanwhile, tipster Samiha Rahman pointed out that over on Capitol Hill (or rather California's 52nd congressional district), Republican congressman/dubious quasi-misogynist Duncan Hunter has introduced a bill called the Restore Patriotism to University Campuses Act. Hunter hopes to prohibit federal grants to or contracts with Columbia, and draw more attention to his presidential campaign. Hunter, armed with only a ferocious distaste for logic, took a stance against Bollinger's invitation of Ahmadinejad. "Through their invitation, Columbia University provided a public, prestigious platform on United States soil from which on September 24, 2007, President Ahmadinejad spoke and defended his wide-ranging support for terrorist activities," Hunter wrote. Dick in a box, indeed. - JNW 
 We mentioned the walkout going down tomorrow on Low Steps at noon. The BSO, MSA, and USCC have issued a statement, reprinted after the jump, blaming PrezBo for "creating a problematic atmosphere" on campus within which the SIPA graffiti incident took place. The Dems' statement on the event, not reprinted after the jump because we are tired of statements, omitted that part. But if you've got a couple hours to spare, the motherprotest starting at noon at Washington Square Park is the place to be anyway, especially if you've got any love for Immortal Technique. Justice and solidarity, yeah, but mostly a damn good concert. Finally, if you're feeling a bit more international and/or have a lot of red in your closet, head down to the Burmese Mission at noon to hear about Burma. It's a revolution over there! Statement Regarding Racist Graffiti Found at School of International and Public Affairs The events that took place in Jena came out of a larger climate of racism and intolerance, a climate that exists at this University as well.&nbsp;&nbsp; We saw this on Wednesday night at the School of International and Public Affairs, with the discovery of graffiti at the School of International and Public Affairs that threatened to “nuke” the “savages” in the Middle East and Africa and claimed "America is for White Europeans." We do not stand for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, nor do we stand behind President Bollinger's introduction on Monday, which only demonstrated his own willingness to be a part of the same problematic binary. What is more, President Bollinger’s speech also created a problematic atmosphere at Columbia and it was within this atmosphere that the hate crime in SIPA took place.&nbsp;Bollinger's claim to stand for the "modern civilized world" against the "fanatical", "petty", "cruel", "illiterate", "ignorant", and "astoundingly uneducated" "mind of evil" makes use of the same framework as the graffiti's attack on "savages". That this graffiti is not an isolated incident is indicated by the extensive history of similar events at Columbia, met with utterly inadequate initiative on the part of the University and little willingness to make lasting systemic change. It brings to mind a litany of troubling issues at Columbia ranging from the lack of diversity in the Core Curriculum and the lack of resources for Ethnic Studies to Columbia's displacement of people of color from West Harlem and its investments in military contractors. As a community, it is our responsibility to work to ensure that the conditions that led to the unjust treatment of the Jena 6 are challenged and fought.&nbsp; All charges against the Jena 6 be dropped; The United States Department of Justice to convene an immediate inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the arrests and prosecutions of the Jena 6; Judge Mauffray to be recused from presiding over Bell 's juvenile court hearings or other proceedings; The Louisiana Office of Disciplinary Counsel to investigate Reed Walters for unethical and possibly illegal conduct; The Louisiana Judiciary Commission investigate Judge Mauffray for unethical conduct; and The Jena School District superintendent to be removed from office. Additionally, we must, and will, make similar demands of our own institutions of power here at Columbia! Whether it is nooses on a tree in Jena or graffiti on a bathroom stall at Columbia, the pillars of systemic oppression – Bigotry, Exploitation, and Complacency, -are not acceptable.&nbsp; 
 But wasn't that&nbsp; a doozy of a World Leaders Forum? We had autocratic thugs, alleged autocratic thugs, cruel and petty dictators, and, for variety's sake, the visionary leader of an up-and-coming democracy. This'll be a tough one to top. But don't worry, John Coatsworth: you won't have to to resurrect Hitler to make next year's WLF as action-packed as this one. All you have to do is choose from Bwog's WORLD LEADERS WISHLIST!: Here are 20(ish) leaders we'd like to see squirming uncomfortably at next year's Forum. Because if you can get Ahmadinejad to speak here, you can get anyone to speak here. In no particular order: Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Liberia: Africa's first woman president. Also the first president in post-civil war Liberia. Paul Kagame, Rwanda: Former head of the RPF and "hero" during the Rwandan civil war. Now either Africa's most dynamic leader or a dictatorial autocrat, depending on who you ask. Has the very tough job of making sure Rwanda doesn't lapse into another genocide. Monmohan Singh and/or Sonia Gandhi, India: Gandhi is the most controversial person in India; Jeffrey Sachs once credited Singh for rescuing the country through his program of economic liberalization. Tzippi Livni, Israel: Foreign minister and probably the future prime minister of the most controversial county in the world. Islam Karimov, Uzbekistan: One of the worst dictators on earth, and a one-time close friend of the United States. Also hasn't come clean about a Tiananmen-square like massacre a couple of years ago. Sheik Mohammad bin Rashid, Dubai: Dubai is prosperous, stable and successful in a part of the world that generally isn't. Why? Felipe Calderon, Mexico: Mexico's big, and close by and shit. That and immigration.&nbsp; Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran: since we invited the president of Iran, we might as well meet the guy who's probably got the more legit power in the country. Mahmoud Abbas, Palestine: Peacemaker or panderer? And if he is a panderer, exactly who is he pandering to? The WLF would be a great venue for us to find out. Nicholas Sarkozy, France: He's gotta be better than Jacques Chirac. Or at least we can hope so.&nbsp; Abdullah Gul, Turkey: The first person with a politically Islamic past to become elected&nbsp; president of a country founded on strict secularism. Need we say more? Alvaro Uribe Velez, Colombia: With drug cultivation rampant and paramilitary stalking the countryside, Colombia is a perfect basket case. We'd be interested in seeing what Uribe plans on doing about this. Elias Antonio Saca, El Salvador: Tiny, oft-ignored El Salvador has been in the news because of the fearsome and ever-expanding Mara Salvatrucha gang. And with the complete dollarization of El Salvador in 2004, it'd be worth giving the Latin American country a look. Raul Castro, Cuba: Is Fidel still alive? Raul probably won't tell us, but maybe he would. Angela Merkel, Germany: Best thing that happened to climate change since Al Gore, and recipient of The Rub. Nestor and Christina Kirchner, Argentina: Hooray for South American politics! And nepotism! Benazir Bhutto, Pakistan: Loose nukes, radical Islam and a certain man currently hanging out in a cave in Waziristan make Pakistan a vital spot. And by this time next year, the exiled Bhutto might be back in charge of it. John Howard, Australia: Bwog thinks we could really use an update from down under. Meles Zenawi, Ethiopia:&nbsp; So how's that proxy war in Somalia going, Meles? Yet another U.S.-propped dictator with pseudo-imperial ambitions. King Jigme Wangchuck, Bhutan: Bhutan is the world's only medieval-style Buddhist theocracy. That's umm...cool. George W. Bush, United States: Brazenly provocative; also exhibits many of the signs of a cruel and petty dictator. And worst of all, he's a Yale alum. 
Presidents and VPs and Reps, oh my!&nbsp; Last night in Carman Lounge, speeches were spoken, questions posed and time limits were observed...is this democracy at work at Columbia? When iColumbia Class Representative Sean Udell suggested an epic carnival on campus this coming spring (with both caramel and buttered popcorn!), he inadvertently described the entire Freshman CC debate. Indeed, it was a five ring circus, with&nbsp;the candidates acting as clowns and acrobats, a googly-eyed crowd and CCSC Elections Board member Andrew Ness as ringleader.&nbsp;&nbsp; Let the games begin! If anything can be said of the debate in general, all of the parties agreed on essentially every policy initiative, from improved computer labs and laundry rooms to expanded hours for JJ's and better communication with the student body. However, several parties distinguished themselves by choosing not to discuss their platform in their opening address.&nbsp; RealColumia, instead of going into details about their "Four Pillars of Reality," spent their entire three-minute segment complementing each other on their hardworking attitude (in Vesal Yazdi's case, "a zest for life"). Columbia's 711 Open 24/7, on the other hand, built their entire campaign around suggestion boxes.&nbsp; "I'm not going to do this or do that," said Ankit "Taj" Gupta, who, instead of discussing his plans for a luau in Uris Pool (that was Class Action) or quoting Spectator articles on satellite gyms (iColumbia), told students how unqualified he was (he also loses his Carman room key multiple times a day) and hopes that his brutal honesty is enough to carry him to victory. Presumably assured of victory, none of 711's candidates for representative bothered to show up to witness the spectacle. During the question and answer section, the parties continued to agree with each other, promising transcripts and video of meetings online, facebook messages, weekly emails, etc. The final question, however, cast a shadow on the previous hour of "debate" when the parties were confronted with the expansion into Manhattanville.&nbsp;&nbsp; All the parties with the exception of RealColumbia, who took neither side, supported Columbia, with Fight for Your Right Party going so far as to say that "human advancement" was necessary even though the school would displace 5,000 people from their homes. Sure, boiling down an extremely complex issue into 30 seconds of soundbyte is no easy feat. But isn't that what campaign strategists are for? Just in case you still want to vote, elections will take place this Thursday from 9AM to 7PM.&nbsp; Students can vote on Low Plaza or click on a link to be sent in an email. - JJV 
 Jena 6, Bollinger, Core Curriculum, SIPA&nbsp;graffiti,&nbsp;lack of off-campus flex to be protested Columbia hastening plans for world domination What?!?! We lost a football game?!??! Sweet! We lost a football game! General studies studied Shit. And from the outside (a.k.a. Bwog's big debut!): Just in case you want to relive last Monday from The New Yorker's perspective... 
 So can Columbia go a week without a protest? No. No it can't. But, as speakers at today's Jena 6 walkout pointed out, Columbia also can't seem to go very long without somebody taking out their racist vitriol on&nbsp;a bathroom stall or stairwell. "Are you sick and&nbsp;tired of the same shit happening every year?" one speaker asked the color-coordinated crowd of about 200. Judging by the relatively few people who stayed behind during the rally's 8-block march up Broadway, down 120th St., past SIPA and back to Low Plaza, the answer is a resounding yes. While protestors didn't shy away from the psychical rigors of taking a stand against racial prejudice, organizers didn't shy away from linking&nbsp;Jena, the SIPA graffiti and PrezBo's scathing introduction of Ahmadinejad. In the rally's opening speech, MSA president Adil Sayed Ahmed said that what was happening to the Jena 6 was "an extreme example of what's going on on this campus." He then warned against the conflation of Islam, Islamofascism, anti-Semitism, male chauvinism, homophobia and probably&nbsp;a number of other things; alas, his speech was interrupted by a&nbsp;renegade balloon arbor set up by Columbia's Queer Awareness Month (in another odd juxtaposition, Go Ask Alice was also tabling a few steps away on College Walk).&nbsp;Though Ahmed was understandably flustered,&nbsp;BOSS president Glenda Smiley explained her group's rationale to Bwog. "The&nbsp;grafitti was found two days after visit. Bollinger opened Pandora's&nbsp;box." She added that "campus&nbsp;isn't a place where people&nbsp;should be comfortable writing&nbsp;the stuff that was found on SIPA's wall"--which is something that hopefully everybody can agree on.&nbsp; - ARR 
Even ghosts love stale bagels and lukewarm ice-cream! It's an early Halloween celebration for Morton Williams.&nbsp; Boo! It's Sepia tone! What say you, West Side Market? - JNW 
 Sick of hearing about Ahmadinejad? Of course you are! But watch this anyway. And are you sick of real estate tycoons conspiring with major universitites in order to mind-control unsuspecting students using&nbsp;electromagnetic satellites? Then you, my paranoid friend, have something in common with a former SIPA student who has spent the past week spamming dozens of news outlets with a "Letter to President Bollinger." Writes former American Prospect staffer and blogger&nbsp;David Maxwell Fine: "In your introduction of the President of Iran you said, 'Lastly, in universities (sic),&nbsp;we have a deep and almost single-minded commitment to pursue the truth.'&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The truth happens to be that these satellite-broadcast advanced electromagnetic technologies that can control human anatomy and physiology are secretly influencing our world in many&nbsp;ways today, up to the highest levels, and have been for&nbsp;decades." The culprit? Why who else but New York real estate magnate Robert&nbsp;Tishman, the criminal mastermind behind these "advanced satellite electromagnetic technologies which can control human anatomy, physiology, and the brain." Far be it for us to poke fun at this obviously-distressed (or, conversely, comedically ingenious) individual. We nevertheless note, in all seriousness,&nbsp;that this is probably the most cogent analysis of last week's events that Bwog has come across. -ARR 
Working its way up from the Warehouse in Winston-Salem to Webster Hall, Okkervil River has cemented its place among the best in hyper-literate indie rock. Bwog correspondent Max Friedman chronicles his personal journey with Okkervil River. When I first saw Okkervil River play, four years ago, it was at a small, artsy venue in my hometown of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, just after the release of their then new album, Black Sheep Boy. Having just happened upon their music, I was excited to see them, as were a few of my friends, but it seemed, at least in my town, that we were more or less the only ones. There were only about thirty people at the show, and half of them were sitting through the entire set. This is not to say that the band was dull; they were, in fact, electric, and they succeeded in turning me from new listener into a devoted follower. They simply had not achieved enough recognition among the jaded concertgoers and self-styled musicians of the area to warrant their enthusiasm. When my friends and I spoke to Scott Brackett, the trumpeter and keyboardist, after the show, however, he said that he thought the band was getting steadily better, musically and lyrically, and, though he did was too modest to say it, he seemed to believe that greater popularity was in their future. Friday night, as I forced my way through the crowd at a packed Webster Hall, I realized that Okkervil River had achieved actual stardom, and that Will Sheff, the band’s singer and front man, who had previously performed with an understated enthusiasm, pressing his words into the microphone, had become a legitimate rock star. He danced around the stage, dragging the mic stand with him, punctuating his guitar solos with ecstatic leaps from the drum platform. My favorite moment came when he slowly undid his tie while crooning to the audience during a slower number. The crowd loved him, and he knew it and loved us right back, in a way that perhaps only someone who has recently come to his fame can. Popularity came in the months after I first saw them perform, as Black Sheep Boy’s intelligent, sensitive lyrics and entertaining blend of country and rock music made fans of thousands of casual listeners. A sense of restlessness of spirit and hopelessness in love are portrayed in the album in a manner both thoughtful and original. Despite his newfound fame, however, even on the newest album, The Stage Names, Sheff still makes claims to unassuming modesty, as in the song “A Girl in Port,” in which he asserts that he is “not the lady-killing sort,” a declaration that was more than a little bit subverted by the pair of panties that flew from the balcony to his feet at the song’s conclusion. Sheff seemed flattered but unruffled, thanking the anonymous woman for the gesture and assuring her that her gift would undoubtedly come in handy later on the tour. The transition that I have seen in the demeanor of Sheff and of the band as a whole is equally noticeable in the music itself. Though the band continues to make excellent use of country-influenced instruments like the pedal steel guitar, the tone of their newer album, and of this concert, seems to mark a shift away from country toward unequivocal rock, a change that would be sad if the new music were not so buoyantly wonderful (though the lyrics remain remarkably smart). Many of the highlights of the show came when they played their newer songs, like “Unless It’s Kicks” and “Our Life Is Not a Movie or Maybe,” during the middle of which the song dissolved into a chaos of keyboard and noise reminiscent of the best of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, before falling back into itself for a jubilant conclusion. For me, however, the very best songs were of night were the revamped versions of some of their older songs, which they have modified slightly from their original form to fit their newer sound, a move that is often disastrous, but which they pulled off seamlessly, actually succeeding in improving upon “For Real,” my favorite song on Black Sheep Boy. Likewise, “Westfall,” one of their earliest songs, with which they ended the night, was a triumph. It is perhaps traditional for a critic to find some aspect of a performance, no matter how minute, to criticize, even in the midst of what would otherwise be considered a rave review. I cannot, however, find anything in Friday’s performance, or in Okkervil River itself that warrants even the slightest admonition. The concert was one of the best I have ever attended, and their newest album is basically flawless, even if, as my more musically astute friends assure me, the song structures are not particularly complex. The music is fun, powerful, and often moving. Go out and buy The Stage Names (or stream it all here). 
 Wish you were in Paris right now? Bwog foreign correspondent Sumaiya Ahmed reports on Columbia's big weekend in the City of Lights. This weekend, Columbia students in Paris were treated to another sort of World Leaders Forum organized by the Columbia Alumni Association. The three day affair included Nobel laureate and 7th Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan as the keynote speaker, as well as Columbia professors Orhan Pamuk, Joseph Stiglitz, Jeffrey Sachs, David J. Helfand, and President Lee C. Bollinger. Saturday featured a full day of panels on globalization, arts, and the media at La Bourse, the historic site of the Paris Stock Exchange. The first panel, “A Critical Look at Today’s Media” touched on a number of issues, such as how journalism has changed under the Bush administration. The moderator, Graduate School of Journalism Dean Nicholas Lemann described the current administration as “post-modernists of the right” who refuse to trust journalists, and recalled that Karl Rove had once written to a colleague that “the press is just another interest group.” Michael Oreskes, Executive Editor of the International Herald Tribune, described the survival of print journalism alongside the Internet as a daily challenge. “The Internet,” Mr. Oreskes said, “is disassembling the business model.” Even though major newspapers like the New York Times are still highly profitable, great newspapers are just not economically viable models in the marketplace. The market does not care about reputation, history, or what you’ve been--“it values what it perceives your future to be,” Mr. Oreskes said. A question from the audience underlined Mr. Oreskes statement by noting that YouTube has established itself in three years and Al-Jazeera in five. In the second panel, “A Conversation on the Arts,” Nobel laureate and professor Orhan Pamuk discussed his cultural identity and writing with Carol Becker, Dean of School of the Arts. He pointed out the tension involved with being a writer whose cultural background can serve as a novelty for readers. “If Proust wrote about love,” Professor Pamuk said, “it would be considered universal love. If I wrote about love, it would be called Turkish love.” When President Bollinger, the moderator for the discussion on globalization, asked whether the US still serves as a moral leader, Teachers College President Susan Fuhrman was applauded when she said that she “isn’t sure when we were leaders. Our goal was always a missionary one. Today we have as much to learn as we have to give.” Earlier, Earth Institute director Jeffrey Sachs had said something similar: “We have very little capacity to see through the eyes of a peasant farmer,” he said, “We’re too afraid to do it.” Economics professor and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, added that China and India are emulating America's pattern of success. “That is a world headed for collision,” he said. The entire event, complete with a cocktail party and three course French lunch, was very chi-chi and all free for Columbia students volunteering at the event. “It pays to be a Columbia student,” Elena Hecht, BC ‘08 said. If President Bollinger’s enthusiasm is any indication, I would imagine it pays the other way around too. &nbsp; 
 Spec really steps it up with a 2:7 words-in-headline to pun ratio Arts and Entertainment responds with an athletic 3:7 words to pun stat Ref rules against an impressive, yet illegal use of yesterday's 3:7 A&amp;E headline.&nbsp;&nbsp; A solid 2:7 words to pun rebound to win the game!!! GO TEAM SPEC!!! (...and Lions.) It sounds so dirty when you put it like that! 
In which Bwog freelancer Catherine Chong attempts to find spirituality in tourist purgatory. At 2:00 AM last night, I set my alarm clock to wake me up at the obscene hour of 7:30 AM. The next morning, I was going to church. Specifically, I had two churches in mind. The first is the most famous church in Harlem, the Abyssinian Church on West 138th Street, and the second, Mother African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, was the first black church in the area and is only one block down from the former. Under the impression that services started at 10 AM, I left around 9 AM and got to 137th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Blvd an hour later. There was a huge line outside of what seemed to be an abandoned building, which was ostensibly the line to get into the Abyssinian. Mimicking an elderly woman I had just seen walk in, I tried entering one of the red front doors. But the man who was standing idly in front of the door was actually something of a church-bouncer. As I walked by, he cleared his throat loudly. I pretended not to notice and kept walking. Apparently I didn't look like a regular. "Excuse me," he interrupted. "You need to wait with all the others, down the block. It was only 10 AM, and the line already seemed too long. Most of the people waiting looked like tourists or area-hipsters searching for soul. Too lazy to stand in line and wanting something less touristy, I went to look for the Mother African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church. Upon finding the church I was pleased to discover the house of worship sans line. God was on my side. But when I walked in, it was eerily silent. There was scaffolding up and down the main aisle, and ladders and paint buckets littered the lobby. An old woman walked by, and I asked where the service was. We walk through the sanctuary together, and she tells me that it's in the multi-purpose room in the basement due to the construction. "I have to go teach Sunday School now," she told me. "But you can look at Harriet Tubman." So I looked at Harriet Tubman. Perhaps I was being too picky, but I didn't want my first religious experience as a college student to be in a multi-purpose room. So, I ventured out into Harlem hoping to find a church that was just right. I walked west but ended up running into rows of brownstones and a church that was practically empty. Then, I run into Calvary Methodist Church on Edgecombe Ave, near St. Nicholas Park. A man walking by asked me if I was looking for the Abyssinian. "I guess I wasn't meant to find my church this morning," I thought, as I walked down Adam Clayton Powell, sulking. But I decided to suck it up and go to a church. Any church. So I decided that the next church I saw would have to suffice. This church happened to be Shiloh Baptist Church. Upon entering, I was ecstatic to hear catchy choir music and a sing-a-long in progress. I tried singing, and of course, on my right, I was sitting next to the church's diva, who had a range to rival Whitney Houston's. Unfortunately, my attempt at finding a religious haven turned into my spiritual tourist nightmare. But for those who genuinely want to have a religious experience, Harlem is full of historically significant churches. Righteous.
 It's time to formally welcome two new Columbia blogs to the 'sphere. First up, The Commentariat, the new home of Spectator's opinion section. This time, the focus is "on the voices of individuals with specific interests and unique ideas," opined the editor's note. And what's sure be remembered as the perfect commencement for such a focus, the first post consists of the definition for "Alligator Fuckhouse" copied and pasted from Urban Dictionary. Welcome aboard, Commentariat! On the other side of digital Broadway, we have the newly re-launched Barnard Bulletin. The site contains the archives of the Barnard Bulletin, and thanks to Helvetica and Clip-Art additions, you almost forget the Bulletin includes things like a Wes Anderson profile in which the writer doesn't speak with Wes Anderson. And no issue of the Bulletin would be complete without Sudoku, which totally took 2005 by storm. 
Congratulations to Barnard '11 President Reni Calister! (Time to put the red cup down, Reni). She'll be joined by Becky Gimple and Abbey Warner as the first-year SGA VP and Secretary, respectively.&nbsp; The wheels of democracy are also in motion over at SEAS. Kamal Yechoor of the Fu-Tang Clan was declared the first-year ESC president. His ticket took 58% of the vote, with over half the Fu first-years completing the online ballot. And in CCSC news, does the official photo of the Class Action ticket look like a promotional shot for Gossip Girl or what? XOXO, Bwog 
That'll do girls. That'll do.
 Bwog has been experimenting with Google Docs, the friendly and clean web-based word processor, (really the West Side Market of word processors). It seems that under the "Word Count" feature, the program will tell you the grade-level equivalent of your writing. We played around with this feature using some of our favorite theorists, celebrities, novelists, and lolcats! "A civilization that proves itself incapable of solving the problems it creates is a decadent civilization." - Aime Cesaire, Discourse on Colonialism (Grade level: 15) "Nurture an appetite for being puzzled, for being confused, indeed for being openly stupid, and that - despite what you may think - is very difficult...We all know the cliche' that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing. It is also true that a lot of knowledge can be a dangerous thing as well...use your ignorance as well as your knowledge for creative means."- Lee C. Bollinger (Grade level: 3) "The other did not move, jackknifed backward between the two bunks, grave and clean, the cigar burning smoothly and richly in his clean and steady hand, the smoke wreathing upward across his face saturnine, humorless and calm."- William Faulkner, Old Man (Grade level: 4) "I can has cheezburger?"- lolcat (Grade level: 2) "Passing from an implosion to an explosion in a chain of sounds produces a peculiar effect that marks the syllabic boundary."- Ferdinand de Saussure, Course in General Linguistics (Grade level: 5) "Most people only think of Mitchell as the guitar-strumming folkie that she was in the late ’60s, but her music has been moving through several phases since the mid-’70s, and Shine sums up some of the best elements of each."- Columbia Daily Spectator (Grade level: 2) "After days of debate, a motley pride of unlikely revolutionaries--bearded politicos, earnest academics, and multigrained environmentalists-- collected their cigarettes and left Kasparov's apartment, divided and worn out." - David Remnick, this week's New Yorker (Grade level: 13) "Whoa! Jennifer Aniston and Ben Affleck's Hot Chemistry." - cover of this week's US Weekly (Grade level: 7) - JNW 
 A couple weeks ago, Bwog reported on the sudden and upsetting disappearance of JJ's spicy chicken. However, inside sources revealed that the finest culinary delight Columbia has to offer has been reintroduced to the menu of JJ’s. That’s right. Spicy Chicken is back. Reduced to a humble cafeteria by the loss of the famed dish, the reappearance may allow JJ’s to reclaim its gastronomic renown&nbsp; amongst connoisseurs of haute poulet.&nbsp; Tony Hall, General Manager of Columbia Dining Services, said a new JJ’s manager cut the Spicy Chicken in an attempt to streamline inventory. This culinary Prometheus attempted to synthesize the glory of the Spicy Chicken with a profane combination of Seasoned Chicken and hot sauce. Students were not impressed, and after a variety of petitions, the humbled manager bowed to popular will. &nbsp; - Joe Meyers 
Can the apocalypse be funny? Ashraya Gupta, Bwog's Blue Notebooks correspondent (and member herself), summarizes novelist Matthew Sharpe's recent visit to Morningside and reviews his latest, Jamestown. Not the ex-bassist for Weezer, but Matthew Sharpe, author of the best post-annihilation novel this side of the Book of Revelations—well, maybe. Matthew Sharpe has the kind of acerbic yet winsome humor you’d expect of someone capable of writing dialog like this: “Like you’re so happy, Rolfe. Hope you don’t get murdered in your sleep. Good night. Up yours.” “Where do you think Smith is?” “Also up yours, I would guess.” The Rolfe in question would be John Rolfe, the English colonist, who died sometime around 1622. Smith, of course, is John Smith, whom you probably remember from Pocahontas, the Disney movie. Sharpe’s new novel, Jamestown (Soft Skull, 2007), succeeds in all the ways Disney failed: it stays true to the story. At least, as true as you can stay when you’re shifting everything forwards about half a millennium and adding a devastating war between the city-states of Manhattan and Brooklyn. Last Thursday, during an event sponsored by the Blue Notebooks, Sharpe spoke about the new novel, his process as a writer, and why violence (think lots of arrows, in excruciating places) makes for the best comedy (ditto). Bethany Rower conducted the interview. After a short introduction from Rower, Sharpe opened by saying, “I’m glad I haven’t been subjected to the new Columbia tradition of being denounced before I speak.” &nbsp; He then quickly shifted gears into how he became a writer. A colleague of his, he said,&nbsp;used to dress up for work, donning a fedora and necktie every time he sat down to write. Sharpe didn’t go to such lengths, but found that “one of the most helpful things…to be a writer, was to pretend to be a writer.” His first collection, Stories from the Tube (Villard, 1998), related to this idea of trying on other lives. Each story is based on a TV commercial—Sharpe wondered if the characters could transcend their lives as commodities. His next work, the novel Nothing is Terrible (Random House, 2000), he began while he was getting his MFA at Columbia. It’s a modern bildungsroman, stemming from the “post-modern notion of recycling.” Sharpe explained, “A particular generation…doesn’t necessarily exhaust the possibilities of a story.” He added, “I always feel a little bit like I’m full of bullshit when I do these things.” Nothing is Terrible sold well according to his mother, but not so well according to Random House, so Sharpe found himself in need of a publisher when he completed his next novel, The Sleeping Father (Soft Skull, 2003). Small-scale, independent press Soft-Skull came to the rescue. Random House must have kicked themselves hard after The Sleeping Father was released. Featured on the Today Show Book Club, the novel brought Sharpe and Soft-Skull unprecedented success. It’s the story of a divorced dad with two kids, who emerges from a psycho-pharmaceutical-induced coma with aphasia, an inability to use language. “So that’s that one,” Sharpe said, “a lighthearted comedy for you.” He was joking, but there’s a truth behind the statement—and Jamestown reveals it. It’s a novel full of violence, set in a dystopic, but not-too distant future, and it is funny. Dead funny. At one point, a man leaps from one moving truck to another in search of liquor and falls to his death. His comrades leave him with the epitaph, “HERE LIES HERB MANGOLD, WHO WANTED A DRINK.” The novel is timely, not only because this year was Jamestown’s 400th anniversary, but because it is tied to today’s political climate. Sharpe explained, “This is a myth, a founding myth…And one of the features of a myth is that we reenact them—are we still enacting this myth? Yes, we are.” Here we are, Sharpe described, invading another country for aims both sycophantically idealized and deeply material, facing an “ineptitude that would be hilarious if it wasn’t so horrifying.” Asked by Rower about any kind of hope that may remain, he replied, incredulous, “You found hope in this book?” Ultimately, however, he admits, “There’s a love story at the heart of the novel,” and more than that, it’s the words themselves that provide solace. It may be a misnomer, but Sharpe is in some ways a writer’s writer. He loves the “transmission of wisdom via taking great care with language,” and it is here that Jamestown succeeds most. From the linguistic pyrotechnics of a teenaged Pocahontas to Johnny Rolfe’s unaddressed wireless messages, sent out somewhere to enter the static of the universe, Sharpe traverses voices as well as he traverses time zones. It’s a journey worth taking. 
The Gossip Girl books are ludicrous preteen-girl fantasies marketed by Alloy, a tween clothing catalog. But who are we to judge quality? We are CW viewers. The TV show spin-off of Gossip Girl is The O.C. creator/executive producer Josh Schwartz's newest foray into the world of teen melodrama. With the onset of The O.C. and Laguna Beach, television has entered a world where money is no concern and high school girls&nbsp; have sex and drink while strutting around in Marc Jacobs heels. Unlike the previous two series, less class-conscious shows, Gossip Girl is set in the front lines of the class struggle between the rich and the super-rich. Bwog trash correspondents Lucy Tang and Dan D'Addario present a round-up of what you've missed so far in the first two episodes. Most Likely to Receive Financial Aid The Humprey Family ("I'm not trash. I'm from Brooklyn!"). The Humprey father owns a "crappy" art gallery and the family lives in a loft in Williamsburg, but they're really poor. Best Personality&nbsp; Chuck, who, in the first two episodes, has tried to rape two of the show's female leads, engaged in a threesome with two of his father's employees, tried to beat the crap out of Dan "Williamsburg P.O.V." Humphrey, all while wearing a disgusting patchwork scarf. Least Realistic Aspect of the show The Humprey's humble abode. First of all, the aerial shots are of DUMBO, not Williamsburg (get your facts right, Josh Schwartz). Second of all, poor people live in Williamsburg lofts now? Least Realistic Scene Dan jumping into a cab and telling the driver, "Williamsburg!" It's near to impossible to get a cab to Williamsburg in Manhattan; maybe the scene where Dan is furiously haggling with the cab driver was cut out. Most Williamsburg-y The Humphrey family - have you heard they live in Williamsburg?!? Is this the Gossip Girl equivalent of Chino ? Best accessory The obvious answer would be Chuck's signature look-- that scarf. But the right answer is Blair's two lackeys, otherwise known as the ethnic diversity of Gossip Girl. The Asian and black girl, standing always in the background, being ethnic. Fun factoid: the Asian actress is a pre-med at Johns Hopkins. Most Likely to be a Virgin Blair Waldorf. The queen bitch of the U.E.S. is the only character that Chuck has not tried to rape yet, and she can't get her plasticine boyfriend Nate, still hung up on Serena, to close the deal. We'd do you, B! Best Shot Sequence The reformed bad girl Serena waits in the lobby of the Waldorf apartment for her friends to meet her. Nate comes out of a door in the far background, looking both "contemplative" and "horny." Then the show racks focus to the foreground, as Blair cuts him the fuck off to give Serena a fakey-fake hug. Scorsese, take notes. Biggest Sad Sacks The Humphreys (again). Dan dumps Serena after one date because of all her baggage, as though that weren't the point of dating an Upper East Side girl to begin with. Two weeks in, Jenny is becoming a creepy, Rasputin-like acolyte of Blair. Why are they on this show again?&nbsp; Carrie Bradshaw Memorial Award for Worst Costume Moment Tie: Blair's shiny red lips and intense beatnik black turtleneck at the Palace Hotel bar (Episode 1); Serena's Daisy Dukes (Episode 2) Sarah Jessica Parker Memorial Award for Cast Member Most In Need of a Root Job and a Burger Serena's gay-esque younger brother, who is being set up to date pathetic Jenny Humphrey, like, STOP, show. Cast Member Name That Most Sounds Like a Character Name From This Show "Blake Lively," "Leighton Meester," "Penn Badgley," and "Taylor Momsen" all made strong showings, but it was the alliteration of "Chace Crawford" that won it this coveted title. Also, these people's parents all need to be slapped in the face.&nbsp; "Best," and Most Prophetic Parent: Eleanor Waldorf, who tells Blair, "You'll never be as beautiful or as happy or as thin as you are right now" right before Serena returns and Blair's life turns to shit. Then she tells Blair to fix her split ends, and to stop being a rip-off of Rachel Bilson's character on The O.C. (she just thought the last one). Eleanor, you are what the pretenders on this show -- and we! -- aspire to be. You know you love us! -LT &amp;&nbsp;DPD 
 Despite Picture, The Fruit of This Man's Labor is Not This Small Child &nbsp;A Brave Call For Instructional Clarity, Coordination, Convenient Locations Sports Picks on Someone Our Own Size Box Doesn't Ruin Everything Bush Ruins Everything 
 From 12:00 until 2:00, Columbia Coalition Against the War is willing to buy your petition signature with both normal cupcakes (the smallest type of cakes) and vegan cupcakes. The petition asks CU to divest from military contractors involved in the Iraq War. Those investments have probably paid off well so far, but now, says CCAW, is the time to sell. &nbsp;CCAW originally planned to set up shop outside Butler, but say they're trying to move the operation to the Lerner ramps due to inclement weather. UPDATE: The event is postponed until tomorrow "due to rain." Bwog ain't seen much rain, but we're not a weather blog, so maybe they're right. 
Bwog correspondent Alex Weinberg couldn't pass up another 99 cent store, which called to him "like sirens beckoning Greek sailors towards the rocks." Here are the wonders he encountered: - A toy CD player with 4 discs included. The discs don't spin, but they still manage to contain about 40 children's songs each, most of them Christmas carols. When I pressed a button on the CD player, it began issuing an intermittent metallic groaning. Imagine a robot with heavy asthma. The off button did nothing to stop the noise and people were starting to give me looks, so I left the store in shame. - Some plastic tea cups with a note saying, "Welcome to Degustation / That's Great!!!" - A large metal hoop draped with plastic chains. The chains are lined with clothespins, and they end with a startling metal hook. No explanation is provided. - A squirt gun labeled "HHO Dream." I've never been good at chemistry, so I'm not certain if "HHO" is a technically correct way of writing H2O. However, I do know that it's a bad idea to inscribe "I have a dream. . . " on a plastic water pistol, especially when it's being sold in a dollar store on Martin Luther King Boulevard. - Rubber balloons with the ominous warning, "Wash before inflate." - The Freedom Freshener! Finally, we can salute Old Glory in air freshener form, the way God always intended. It didn't say what kind of smell it produced, but my money is on "flag." Also, the package proclaims that all proceeds from the sale of Freedom Fresheners go towards "disaster relief." I assume that disaster is September 11th, so it seems like they were a little late. (Oh, and you guessed it: The Freedom Fresheners were made in China, probably by prison labor. David Cross was right.) - If you feeling weren't patriotic enough, right next to the Freedom Freshener was a Kyle Petty NASCAR air freshener. All proceeds go toward Kyle Petty. - Very sturdy looking handcuffs. The S&amp;M implications would be obvious even if they weren't bright red and titled "Valentine Love Cuffs." - DVDs, and lots of them. The one that I found for my collection was a double feature. One side of the box advertises "Abduction," the tag line for which is, "Kidnapped and held for ransom can force you to make some unlikely choices." The headline actor is "Leif Erickson," the Viking who famously traveled a thousand years into the future to make 1970s rape thrillers. The other side features a movie called "Embryo: From embryo to woman in four and a half weeks." If the box art is any indication, the main stars are Rock Hudson and a giant CGI fetus. - The absolute highlight was a toy set from the movie Superman Returns (or, as they apparently call it in China, "Superman Come Back"). The package includes four Supermen, each one with notably different color schemes and physical builds. Going left to right, the first Superman possesses a Kung-Fu grip button that does nothing. The next has a positively impressive set of jowls and Steve Carrell's face. The third Superman, possibly overcompensating for his lack of a cape, is riding a purple robotic velociraptor which emits lazer noises from its mouth. I currently have this monstrosity sitting on my desk,&nbsp; and if this place burns down tomorrow, it will be the only thing I'll bother to save. - The last Superman has Elvish written on his sleeves, making me think that they just repainted the upper body of a Legolas figurine. That's awesome enough as it is, but it also gives me hope that somewhere out there is an equally ludicrous Lord of the Rings playset waiting to be discovered. Maybe there are four Legolases, one of whom rides a hang glider and blasts "Suffragette City" from his jambox when you press a button. He also has swords for hands. 
Fresh off the release of Strawberry Jam, Animal Collective brought their orchestra of electronics to Webster Hall on both Sunday and Monday. Bwog correspondent Lucy Tang explains why you should never see a band you love at Webster Hall. Considering that Strawberry Jam is one of my favorite releases of the year, I was very excited to see Animal Collective Sunday night, even if it was at one of the worst venues in New York, Webster Hall. Unfortunately, the set was short and lacked much Jam. The opener Tickley Feather can only be described as endearing. With her lo-fi sound and crazy loops, she managed to make Webster Hall seem intimate. Think Beach House and Ariel Pink, then you’ve almost arrived at Tickley Feather. Huddling over her little 4-track (“My parents gave this to me. I’m not even sure if it works!”), the lead singer looked like a little drunk mouse in the best way possible. Though she charmed me over, a few bros in the front heckled her. One of Animal Collective’s more notable quirks is mostly playing new songs at shows, and they did just that, including a great little calypso number. Unfortunately, many new Animal Collective fans fail to realize this habit, and those who expected a run-through of Strawberry Jam were clearly disappointed. I would have also preferred a few more songs off the actual releases, but “Who Could Win a Rabbit” satiated me. Another detraction to the show was a bit more technical. Webster Hall’s sound is terrible, and the bass was incredibly loud throughout the show. Though the vibrations on the floor actually added to the ambience of the show, the band didn’t seem very enthusiastic about the heavy-thumping bass. In the middle of “Fireworks,” AC's frontman Avey Tare cut the song because he couldn’t hear himself and they just moved on to the next number. For most of the show, the band members all seemed a little lackluster. For songs with such vibrancy, the show seemed like a mere jam session. Animal Collective ended the show rather abruptly with “Leaf House” and immediately walked off-stage, leaving enthusiastic fans to clap and cheer for a good ten minutes before the house lights came back on. Many fans grumbled about no encore, but to be fair, Animal Collective did play an hour-plus set. The fervor was there, even if the band’s energy wasn’t. 
 It was&nbsp;12:30 p.m. on Wednesday, and a band of flannel-clad SCEGers&nbsp;was on&nbsp;a singular&nbsp;mission: to personally deliver their demands for accountable expansion to the overlords ensconced in Low.&nbsp;While rain threatened,&nbsp;a&nbsp;group of about 20&nbsp;students congregated at the sundial and&nbsp;unfurled their paper&nbsp;protest signs, joined together, and prepared to march through the tchotcke shanty-town currently colonizing the plaza. They would be heard, they said, even in the face of imminent and eminent opposition. &nbsp; But before they could nail their list of 10 CB9 theses to PrezBo's door, they were summarily halted by bureaucrats Walter Rodriguez and SDA head Kevin Shollenberger, both formally dressed and wearing brass pins bearing their names.&nbsp;Rodriguez explained&nbsp;to the protesters that they could enter Low (he said this in an&nbsp;excited, patronizing tone, to the&nbsp;mildly confused stares of the&nbsp;SCEGers who reasonably expected no less) but that only&nbsp;three or four of them could enter the&nbsp;president's&nbsp;office. Shollenberger looked around apathetically. And so the demanders&nbsp;set out&nbsp;on their quixotic&nbsp;journey,&nbsp;clutching signs and chanting anti-expansion&nbsp;slogans. They were almost distracted&nbsp;by one pony-tailed vendor who came out from behind his poster stand to say, "This is how the SDS was started! Stop the monster!" as they passed. As the&nbsp;band&nbsp;reached the door of Low, a&nbsp;stern security guard stepped aside to let them pass, and they&nbsp;filed in past the bust of Athena and along the corridor to the president's office. &nbsp; There, a handful (four, maybe five) students entered the sacred room to speak with what looked like a secretary; Rodriguez and Shollenberger, who had been flanking the band, closed the door behind them. No more than a minute later the&nbsp;young Luthers&nbsp;emerged. Laughing nervously, the group turned around, resumed a chant ("Columbia's renewal is West Harlem's removal") and made their way back down Low Steps. The bureaucrats, inexplicably, shook hands with security outside of the presidential office and commented on how well they had completely gutted the spirit and neutered the intentions&nbsp;of the protest (my words, not theirs). And so SCEG convened, kvetched, and dissipated.&nbsp;Read more for the full list of their demands. -KER FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 3, 2007 &nbsp; Students at Columbia demand respectful and accountable expansion Earlier this morning, the Student Coalition on Expansion and Gentrification (SCEG) and allied students vocally delivered a list of demands to the Columbia University administration regarding its proposed expansion into West Harlem/Manhattanville. &nbsp;The students’ demands are the same demands formulated by Community Board 9 in its August 20th rejection of Columbia’s 197-c rezoning proposal, and represent the students’ support for the community’s desire for self-determination. &nbsp;The demands culminate in a call for the University to withdraw its pending proposal until it is in accordance with the community desires as formulated in the community’s own 197-a plan. &nbsp; Students, chanting and carrying banners with slogans such as “West Harlem is not for sale!” and “5,000 gone is wrong”, marched through the halls of Low Library and into President Lee Bollinger’s office and each hand-delivered a copy of the students’ statement. &nbsp;To hold the administration accountable to both the students and the community, SCEG called for a meeting with either President Bollinger, Senior Executive Vice President Robert Kasdin, or Executive Vice President Maxine Griffith, and have set an October 8th deadline for a response to this request. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; The students assert that Columbia’s agreement with Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer, made public last week, does not go nearly far enough to address the dire issues at hand, and in fact does not provide more than has already been stated in Columbia’s application for re-zoning, released in June of 2007. &nbsp;They object to Columbia’s assertion that its compromise with the Manhattan Borough President can replace or even equate productive dialogue within established forums of negotiation such as the West Harlem Local Development Coalition. <!-- D( ); //--> &nbsp; Columbia’s own Environmental Impact Statement (6/15/07) estimates that up to 5,000 people would be displaced by the proposed 197-c plan by the year 2030. &nbsp;Due to this fact, and the plan’s continual rejection by community representatives, as exemplified by CB9’s 32-2 vote against the plan in August, students firmly believe the University should go back to the drawing board. &nbsp;The students support CB9’s 197-a plan, which was developed democratically over a period of years, and reflects the community’s need for affordable housing, living wage manufacturing jobs, and sustainable economic growth that does not lead to widespread displacement. &nbsp; SCEG is a broad coalition of students who desire respectful expansion that is accountable to the community. &nbsp;Given that the City Council is due to vote on Columbia’s plan this December, the group believes the lack of information about the community viewpoint and the social ramifications of the plan is inexcusable and contributes to the exclusion of students from the decision-making process. &nbsp;SCEG feels that students have a responsibility to ensure that an entire community is not bulldozed in their name. &nbsp; For more information, visit www.columbia.edu/cu/cssn/expansion &nbsp; ... The text of the students’ demands is as follows: &nbsp; As students of Columbia University, we find it impossible not to take a stand when our university is actively ignoring the rights of the West Harlem community. &nbsp;Instead of engaging the community in respectful and open negotiation, Columbia is pursuing an expansion plan of disruption and displacement. &nbsp;We believe that the community has a right to affordable housing, living wage jobs, and a prominent voice in any development plan for its neighborhood. &nbsp;We believe that Columbia's plan must recognize the rights of all people regardless of their economic background or race. &nbsp;We believe that Columbia must concretely apply the principles of the community's 197-A plan to its planned expansion. <!-- D( ); //--> &nbsp; It is our view that Columbia’s agreement with Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer does not go nearly far enough to address the dire issues at hand, and in fact does not provide more than has already been stated in Columbia’s application for re-zoning, released in June of 2007. We adamantly object to Columbia’s assertion that its compromise with the Manhattan Borough President can replace or even equate productive dialogue within established forums of negotiation such as the West Harlem Local Development Coalition. &nbsp; &nbsp; As informed and active members of this institution, we refuse to allow the current expansion plan to go forward in our name. We stand in solidarity with Community Board 9's demands and therefore insist that Columbia withdraw its 197-C proposal to rezone Manhattanville. We are not against expansion. We are for accountability. Our demands are the community's demands. &nbsp;We demand the following, as drafted by Community Board 9: 1. Withdraw the proposal for eminent domain, cease to use the threat of eminent domain to intimidate owners to sell, and abandon the process of imposing gag orders on those that have entered into agreements to sell; 2. Withdraw the proposal to build the 7-story below grade structure and the request to build under city streets and convey the area below grade to the University; 3. Build only on property owned by the University and obtained through negotiations with the owners without coercion and without the threat of eminent domain; 4. Guarantee that all housing developed directly by Columbia as a result of the Proposed Actions would meet the inclusionary housing requirements of the 197-a Plan; and that, in all Columbia developed and owned housing, an equal amount of housing for the University and the community would be created both on-site and off-site; and that no direct displacement would occur in the 17- acre area; <!-- D( ); //--> 5. Columbia must immediately develop and hereafter permanently implement and carry out an effective housing anti-displacement program; commit not by itself or through any affiliate to purchase or lease or net lease any residential units in CB9M above 125th Street; and provide sufficient additional housing in areas outside CB9M to house all of the students and employees expected to use the proposed campus. And further not interfere with the transfer of 132 units from HPD to the residents of those units as previously agreed to by the City; 6. Pursue State and National Registers listing of any of its properties within the proposed Academic Mixed-Use Development Area found “eligible” by New York’s State Historic Preservation Office and not oppose LPC landmark designation of any site herein. Also preserve buildings of historic and cultural character throughout the proposed Special Manhattanville Mixed-Use Zoning District and in CB9 as a whole, as listed in the 197-a Plan; 7. Not build pollution emitting power sources - such as power plants and co-generation facilities - or research facilities above biosafety level 2, or other noxious installations that would contribute to the already high environmental burdens of this community; 8. Engage in sustainable design and construction practices that result in LEED platinum designation by U.S. Green Building Rating System prior to the commencement of construction; 9. Engage in good faith negotiations with CB9 to achieve a mutually beneficial land use compromise that would permit the construction of academic facilities needed by Columbia on properties owned by the University, through technical amendments to the 197-a Plan, in a manner that is consistent with the underlying principles and goals of the 197-a Plan and; &nbsp; 10. Otherwise meet the goals and objectives outlined in the 197-a Plan including, but not limited to, mitigating all direct and indirect adverse impacts with respect to job creation for local residents, economic development, socio-economic conditions, environmental protection and sustainable development, public transit, neighborhood character, public open space and other impact areas, as delineated by CB9 in the 197-a Plan. <!-- D( ); D(); //--> &nbsp;&nbsp; 
It's Queer Awareness Month! It's also Latino Heritage Month, but as far as we know Latino Heritage Month doesn't have something going on literally every day for the next several weeks, starting with a reception and speech by with the gay basketball player John Amaechi that's probably ending about now. Check out the schedule for lots of free food and gay love.&nbsp;
 Poor misunderstood Republicans. Who knew Columbia librarians had a blog? Defeats are still not associated with turning points.&nbsp; It's not just a NYU phenomenon, Columbia students can go to the Whitney stoned too! Dear Diary, today I didn't save the world... again :(&nbsp; 
 So females date TAs, because they want to be dominated, but males date TAs for better grades? Oh! Girls like to be treated like crap! It all makes sense now. Car commercials probably killed the indie cred first. But will James Schamus read your scripts? What happens after graduation? Stealing toilet paper. 
 It's time to elect this year's leadership for the class of 2011. Check out the candidates with our facebook primary and debate coverage, and then vote here or swing by Low Plaza any time before 7:00 PM.&nbsp; Meanwhile, Bwog would like to reward the ingenuity of iColumbia with a bit of free advertising. Answer will be available near the end of the day. &nbsp; 
After cracking the mystery of the missing spicy chicken, Bwog freelancer Joe Meyers delves further into the underbelly of on-campus dining locations. In food news, it turns out that loading your John Jay cafeteria tray with a sampling of every available entrée isn’t just bad for your cholesterol; it’s bad for your soul. That’s right; when you take too much food at John Jay you’re actually stealing food from the homeless. According to Tony Hall, General Manager of Columbia Dining Services, every Friday John Jay donates left over food to City Harvest, which then distributes it to community food programs throughout the city. Hall said John Jay alone contributes between 50 and 100 pounds of what is “mostly starch” a week. Almost none of the donated food is “protein.” Yuck. Columbia Catering, on the other hand, uses much of its leftover food to feed employees. Whatever is left over after the employees are fed is given to the soup kitchens of local churches. “There’s so many hungry people in the city, I never throw anything away,” said Executive Chef John Santiago. In Ferris Booth and Café 212, on the other hand, little is either thrown away or donated. According to manager Ray Prete, most of the food they sell is either sold by the end of the week or refrigerated over the weekend. 212 and Ferris keep careful tabs on how much food is sold to avoid having to refrigerate and reheat too much food, since that brings it through what Prete and other food professionals call the “danger zone.” Contrary to what you may want to believe, this “danger zone” is not a 4g inverted dive with a MiG28, but (almost as exciting and dangerous) the temperature range of 40-145 degrees Fahrenheit, within which most bacteria can multiply rapidly. It is generally safe for food to be in this danger zone for up to two hours, and according to Prete liquid food is always brought to a boil after reheating to kill bacteria. a 
To kick off a week of New York Film Festival coverage, Bwog cinema correspondent Christian Kamongi sits down for a two-part interview with Richard Peña, head of the NYFF and Columbia film professor. Christian Kamongi: How do you think the lineup for this year's 45th New York Film Festival reflects any particular positive trends in international cinema at the present moment? Richard Peña: Well, the New York Film Festival was founded in 1963 and this was really the high moment of two movements in film: one was auteurism and the other modernism. In a sense, auteurism has really adhered to a film style to with a lot of personal vision, when you get something like a Sidney Lumet or Bela Tarr, these are filmmakers who are really going for broke, and you really feel that, even if you don’t like their passion, you appreciate their ambition. So much stuff we see feels like it just came off the assembly line and is totally uncommitted, so to see a series of strongly engaged films is really invigorating. Obviously I like all of them. Even the individuals who have problems with them won’t doubt for a moment that what they’re seeing is a highly personal vision. In the case of Modernism what you’re seeing is interesting, rethinking of all kinds of way of making films and telling stories on film. There’s an interesting way in which a lot of films here play with genre, its been one of my complaints that not enough people experiment with genre and I think theirs plenty of that creativity at this festival. Even though it’s our 45th year, it’s fuelled by some of the concerns at the original festival and that’s a really great feeling to have CK: Are there any particular directors who immediately get a pass to join the film festival. Hou-Hsiao Hsien and Lars von Trier seem to be recurrent guests, with all their most recent work at least in this decade being featured at the festival RP: Well in the case of Hou one wasn’t . You know, that’s a very frequent question and all I can say is that no one gets a free pass and every year it’s a blank slate, there’s nothing scarier for me to see a film by a director I love and having to consider it for the New York Film Festival. I give you a case of Hou someone who I think the world revolves around, an absolute master. When I heard that Hou was going to France to work with Juliette Binoche in French, my first reaction was, "Please don’t do it!" I was just sure this was a recipe for disaster, he didn’t speak a word of French, he doesn’t travel, all kinds of different reasons. Well I was at Cannes, and I went to see it…Wow! What a genius, he doesn’t know the language and he still gets it, what do you say? Oh ye of little faith, this was one were I went through a lot of trepidation.&nbsp;I’m not sure that Flight of the Red Balloon is the greatest Hou-Hsiao Hsien film, but its definitely one of his finest work. What’s most extraordinary is that he gets a performance out of Binoche that no one’s got of her for decades. Then you see a film by certain filmmakers and its just not up to the standard you hoped it would be at, take the case of the dubious distinction of turning down films by Godard who I consider the most important filmmaker on the planet since 1945. Most of the work that we rejected was his work from the late '90s that seem interesting now as works that led up to the great output he’s had in this decade. And, you know, its hard to tell someone you admire that you’re not going to show his films. Luckily, though, for us he’s usually a pretty good sport about it. CK: Do you actually get to talk to him on the phone and reject him? RP: Yeah with someone like him who I know personally, nonetheless though it seems nicer than sending him a letter. CK: This all brings to mind a work like Lars von Trier’s Manderlay which was in the festival lineup to the chagrin of many with the exception of myself, as I seem to be the only person on the planet who enjoyed it. Does there have to be universal consensus among the selection committee about a choice? RP: No, I mean were five people we all have very different taste. When we have our discussion, one of the things that counts a lot is passion, and I think if someone’s very passionate about a work, that will often sway that other members of the selection committee. Actually, Manderlay was a work that didn’t necessarily garner a lot of negative criticism but a lot of passionate criticism. CK: Is this J. Hoberman's and Scott Foundas's first year working on the selection committee? RP: Well, Jim was on from 1982 to 1984 then left, and this is Scott’s first year CK: With their titles as "alternative critics," how do you think that changed this year’s lineup? RP: Well I don’t think it altered it, what was great was that two joined right in and were very much part of the spirit from the first day. Neither of them came into it with any fixed agendas, they were very open and polite to everyone. CK: Have their ever been any moments in the past were members made the situation difficult for their colleagues? What happens when one member feels particularly strong about a film with a lack of shared enthusiasm? RP: Yeah, occasionally the latter happens but I don’t think there's ever been anyone who's been difficult. There have been a few people who, it's taken longer for them to get used to it and join in, but I’ve been very lucky. I’ve had really great people. Its never been like, "How am I gonna get rid of this person?" You know, I think people understand that this is part of a tradition that’s larger than they are. So it’s usually a smooth process. CK: Now, two of your favorite features at this year's Cannes Film festival were Silent Light and Secret Sunshine. How do these features reflect your own personal views on the flourishing contemporary cinemas of Latin America and Korea? RP: Well Silent Light was really a film that I loved very much. It was kind of like for me a film that give me a great deal of pleasure because aside from the picture, I’ve always had a strange love-hate relationship with Carlos Reygadas. I remember when I was at Cannes and saw his first film Japon; I remember thinking this guy is really talented, and I wanted to showcase it in our New Directors series that year but I think it went to premiere at Film Forum instead. I just thought he was really talented and he was going to make some really great work and the next film came out, Battle in Heaven, and I just have to say I just wasn’t a fan. I thought it was just mean, there was a real ugliness that put me off. And then he made this film, it was a film that was sensitive, spiritual, able to elicit some incredible performances from non-professional actors, it's unusual, it's this sort of lovely homage to Carl Theodor Dreyer’s Ordet, basically does everything I would want. I was very pleased to see someone who from the beginning I thought was going to be really able to achieve a real promise and also its nice to see young Latin filmmakers who are spreading into directions no one could have predicted. In terms of Secret Sunshine, Lee Chang-dong is a director whose work I’ve previously admired , I was really hoping that Secret Sunshine would live up to his previous work and it more than succeeded. He’s not only a filmmaker but he’s also a well-known novelist and it’s a type of rare film that’s literary in the best sense of the word. It has a depth of a great novel, you get to know characters and situations with an extraordinary amount of detail and it’s a film that I think will get positive reception. CK: I’ve also noticed the youth of the directors whose work is being showcased in this year's festival.&nbsp;Of course, there are the obvious cases of Carlos Reygadas and Cristian Mungiu (his second feature, the Palme D’Or winner 4 Months, 3 Weeks, and 2 Days) but also Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi, Carmen Castillo, Juan Antonio Bayona and many others. What do you think that says about the upcoming generation of filmmakers and how has your experience teaching graduate film students at Columbia affected your view? RP: I’m not sure it really has, I’m not particularly more optimistic, sadly art isn’t democratic. It tends to be much more elite and I do think there are some wonderful filmmakers out there but unfortunately the number of films that have been made have gotten larger and larger and that hasn’t necessarily led to a significant increase in quality. Someone once remarked on how at one point there were 50 independent films made in America and&nbsp;five&nbsp;were good and now there's 500 made and ten of them are what you would qualify as "good" and I think that’s about right. The sad truth of the matter is that most people who make films have zero talent. I mean that shouldn’t be a surprise that same rule applies to most people who paint paintings or write novels. There are so many films out there that it makes it incredibly difficult to great through all the trash and the fact of the matter is that a lot of these people shouldn’t be making films and of course I’m not saying we should stop anybody. Which is why the functioning of the New York Film Festival is so important because finally in a way we feel that we can possibly clear through the noise. 
 Seven-hundred and eight feet of sub sandwiches, to get consumed at Barnard at 7:00 pm!&nbsp; Tables of sandwiches are just beginning to wrap from the edge of Lehman library to Sulz Hall. Bwog was told it's some kind of annual tradition? &nbsp; The sandwiches are being prepared assembly line style, with helpers adding one ingredient at each pass. Of course, because it's Barnard, there will be a Kosher tuna fish option. Get to it, gals, you only have an hour and several hundred feet of sandwich left! -SEV 
What would you name the Nexus? &nbsp; 
 And you thought university housing was a problem? Oh no they didn't! Bollinger speaks: Ahmadinejad, free speech, Manhattanville, globalization (again) Saying you hate Titanic in 7th grade is rough, giving your unpopular opinion as a college student is rougher CCSC takes on Manhattanville? 
 Get ready for for this one: word has it that Columbia alumnus/right-wing writer David Horowitz plans to make an on-campus appearance sometime between October 22nd and 26th to spearhead "Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week," an event put on through the Terrorism Awareness Project. As a special treat, Horowitz plans to bring conservative talk show host Sean Hannity (who did this this little number a year ago) along with him to give us a speech all about Islamofascism. Details have been floating around here for awhile now, where a long list of speakers during the nationwide event&nbsp; include Rick Santorum (UPenn, Penn State, Temple) and Ann Coulter (Tulane, USC). In a Monday blog post, Horowitz denounced the ISO's Thursday evening event "Using Racism to Sell War: The West vs. Islam?" calling the event a message from "leftwing flak-catchers for America's enemies." In his next post, Horowitz refers to the Muslim Students Association as "a creation of the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas and is funded by the Saudis and is part of the Islamo-fascist jihad," generally speaking. Brace yourselves? 
 Learned Foote and Tom Amegadzie of Class Action! The ticket triumphed with 42% of 483 votes. Sean Udell (Representative – iColumbia) was the only candidate to break into Class Action's slate, garnering the most votes of the representatives with 168 (probably because of the awesome carnival that he proposed in the debates). The only Class Action candidate not to be elected was Noah Baron. Perhaps the biggest surprise was that despite RealColumbia's strong showing on Facebook, they seemed unable to turn out their base. Vesal Yazdi and Tania Harsono came in second, 17 points behind Foote and Amegadzie. The turnout overall was pretty low (even for American standards) and with under 50% turnout, Class Action's "mandate" is weakened substantially. In other election news, an anonymous tipster reported the tearing down of a poster and remnants of torn posters in an eleventh hour campaign scuffle between Columbia's 711 Open 24/7 and Fight for Your Right. Read more and you can find the complete results as well as the answers to iColumbia's Sudoku. President Vice President Party Votes Percentage Learned Foote Tom Amegadzie Class Action 204 42.20% Vesal Yazdi Tania Harsono Real Columbia 121 25.05% Anna Ginzburg Amanda Olivo iColumbia 71 14.70% Lalit Gurnani Caitlyn Malcynsky Fight for Your Right 51 10.55% Ankit Gupta Kenneth Beniacar Columbia 711 Open 24x7 28 5.79% No Response 7 1.44% Representatives (Party) Votes Sean Udell (iC) 168 Sara Partridge (CA) 156 Melissa Im (CA) 149 Noah Baron (CA) 148 David Zhu (iC) 125 Davey Gibian (RC) 119 Alyssa LaMontagne (RC) 92 Adina Levin (RC 87 Eric Rosenberg (FFYR) 85 Lisa Weber (FFYR) 74 Michael Mirochnik (iC) 42 Shree Awsare (FFYR) 35 &nbsp; &nbsp; - JJV 
In which Ashish Kundra, a veteran of one internet enterprise himself, leads us through a forest of free services on the web that may just save you some money on your way to tech geek nirvana (if they don't end up on the startup junkheap first). Google on-demand Google on your phone...no crackberry required. Text "Google" (466453) with any search query and Google will text back results. For example, a text&nbsp; with “Mexican restaurant 10025” will give you the closest Mexican restaurants. Be careful though, there isn't a friendly suggestion when you misspell something (“Did you mean blog?”). So spell correctly or make sure you have a lot of texts in your plan. &nbsp; Cross-gadget communication (www.Teleflip.com) Send a text to any phone by emailing the @teleflip.com. For example, if I text 1231231234@teleflip.com, the email will be broken up and sent as a text to that person's phone. For student groups, you could make a list serv of phone numbers (entered as email addresses) to send out messages ASAP. The service is easy to use, but it can't completely replace an email/data plan. The email texts are confusing, too-- sometimes filled with a lot of white space. &nbsp; For the chronic oversleeper (Snoozester.com) Snoozester lets you set up an alarm clock calendar. At your preset wake up times, Snoozester will call your phone and ask you to confirm that you are awake by pressing a digit. It's free for the first 10 wake up calls, then 4 bucks a month after that. Works nicely, but when they start charging you might as well stick with your alarm. Phoneless food Campusfood.com and Seamlessweb.com are the kings of online food ordering. Ordering online is convenient because 1. you can pay with a credit card, and 2. you don't need to call.&nbsp; Both services have their strengths and weaknesses. Seamless has a better restaurant selection city-wide (most large banks/ large accounting firms&nbsp; have corporate accounts for their employees), but CampusFood has a really cool “TXT your order” feature. The downside is that these sites don't have smaller places like Pisticci and Max Soha. For all menus around the neighborhood, there's aways CUEats.com.&nbsp; Taking it to Morton Williams Freshdirect.com is the shit. And judging from their trucks on every block, they are taking over the grocery business in NYC. Their prices are competitive and you can schedule delivery of your groceries within any two hour time window. If you're still apprehensive, you should know that it's owned by the guys from Fairway. Be an instant local If you don't know about this one, you've probably wasted too much time on the MTA site. Hopstop.com will give you subway/bus directions to take you door to door in the city. You also get a time estimate for the trip (based upon the time of day you are traveling). Check out the “Send directions to my phone” feature when you don't want to write directions down.&nbsp; The sound of music Anywhere.fm is basically a web hosted iTunes. Upload your music and access it from anywhere. Also, you can listen to other people's playlists (although file sharing laws still apply: no choosing specific songs). This website is a end product of a program called Y- Combinator, which is like a start up incubator (ycombinator.com).&nbsp; We don't know how this works A testament to the miracle of how the internet makes money out of thin air: if you're shopping online, chances are you can at least save some by checking out FatWallet. Suppose to want to sign up for Netflix. You can use their link to sign up and they'll give you 18 bucks cash back. 
 Armin Rosen was shocked to see PrezBo wearing a digital watch last night. He reports on the festivities at 60 Morningside. Although most of the attendees to last night’s fireside chat were excited just to set foot in the palatial and impeccably air-conditioned residence at the corner of 116th and Morningside, Rajash Ramakrishnan, SEAS ’07, wasn’t buying into the hype. “Is free food, free propaganda a sufficient response?” he replied when asked what kind of expectations he had for the evening’s event. Roughly two hours later, Ramakrishnan felt vindicated. “This wasn’t a forum to answer questions,” he said afterwards. “It’s free food. Let’s enjoy the free food.” And enjoy the free food I did. The menu was delightfully lowbrow, and the spread of mini burgers and pigs-in-a-blanket succeeded in icing what might have been a combative crowd of concerned students. As for the propaganda…this fireside chat represented a crucial opportunity for Bollinger to speak candidly on the single most controversial thing he has ever done or will ever do as Columbia’s president. If judged only as performance it was an unqualified triumph, as Bollinger repeatedly hit on all of his talking points. Basically: when he scolding Ahmadinejad he was speaking not as a university president but as a concerned individual who felt very strongly about everything he said; that we’re “still trying to understand what it means to engage world issues in a meaningful way;” that pandering politeness has no place in serious debates that demand our passion and emotion. The last point wasn’t without a certain irony, since the audience was totally arrested by politeness. Indeed, it took six or seven questions for anybody to even bring up Ahmadinejad by name. If judged as a candid exchange of questions and answers, last night’s interaction fell somewhat short. PrezBo pled ignorance when he was asked whether Columbia’s relationship with pharmaceutical companies conflicted with the goal of bringing cheap, generic drugs to the third world, and he deferred to Dean Colombo on a question about the sluggish progress of freeing up space on Lerner 6. While Columbia remains a bureaucratic nightmare and while PrezBo has turned himself into a lightning rod for lefties and righties alike, you would never have been able to tell. He stayed on message, which can be summarized thusly: the world is changing, and interconnected. Globalization, the Internet, the global society, Kluge, Jeffrey Sachs. How do we prepare you all? By having debates! Lots and lots of debates! That, and Manhattanville will save mankind. The participants seemed oddly satisfied by all of this.&nbsp; Perhaps they were blown away by getting closer to Prezbo than they’d be ‘till graduation (likely; one girl even personally thanked him afterwards for his work on Gratz v. Bollinger). Or perhaps everybody at Columbia actually is happy about everything, and nobody’s pissed about tenure, expansion, GS financial aid (to be fair, somebody did ask about GS financial aid, but Bollinger’s reply that it is up to GS to raise its own funds was far from satisfying), bureaucracy, racism, or the embarrassment to our university that is the Hamilton elevator.&nbsp; It certainly seemed that way, at least in the broadest possible sense: “Is this the kind of campus you’d want to be part of?” PrezBo asked participants at one point. Something tells me he wasn’t disappointed by the response. &nbsp; 
The thrilling conclusion of Bwogger Christian Kamongi's interview with NYFF head and Columbia professor Richard Pena. Christian Kamongi: Speaking of American independent cinema, I’ve noticed that two of the three American comedies are in the tradition of Whit Stillman’s Mannerist comedies (The Darjeeling Limited and Margot at the Wedding ), and there are&nbsp;two features by Sidney Lumet and Brian de Palma, veterans who have lately been on the fringe of American critical opinion. Do you think the American lineup in any way reflects any positive trends in American cinema? Richard Peña: It’s a little hard for one festival to reflect the whole course of such a large national cinema as ours, but it does display a very strong reality that there are many American filmmakers who are making powerful personal visions. We do have an unusual conjuncture of our most talented filmmakers making films in the same year; we have features from Noah Baumbach, the Coen Brothers, De Palma. It's not like that every day and all of these directors seem to be at the top of their game. CK: Why did the committee decide to select The Darjeeling Limited and Persepolis as the opening and closing pieces. After all, that’s an honor that’s been bestowed in the past two years on four films that went on to incredible critical acclaim: Good Night, and Good Luck; Cache; The Queen; and Pan's Labyrinth. RP: The Darjeeling Limited is a film that’s represented a real improvement for Wes Anderson, I think there were things about his previous work that was a little two hermetic and precious. This film really answers to those criticisms and goes beyond that, and entered a really incredibly risky situation but it paid off. And that’s one of the reasons I thought this would be a really great feature is because we’ve all been tracking the highs and lows of his career, so it was truly exciting to see him achieve this new height. With Persepolis , it was something we thought was charming and wonderful, and I’ve also been interested because animation is not really my beat even though there’s been a lot of high quality work being done in that field. Very proud that last year we showcased Satoshi Kon’s animated feature Paprika, in fact were working on a Satoshi Kon retrospective for next year. And, you know, showing Persepolis is really a way of not just showing an extremely fine film but also signaling that now there is really adult animation - and I don’t mean Felix the Cat.&nbsp;Real animated features for thinking adults. CK: Speaking of features that have opened up festivals and our earlier discussion about Hou-Hsiao Hsien crossing cultural boundaries, is Wong-Kar Wai’s My Blueberry Nights as bad as everyone says it is? RP: uh I’d prefer not to talk about films that aren’t in the festival . CK: Now were the features at the Cannes Film Festival as impressive as everyone claims they were? I remember the lineup for the 2005 Festival was extraordinary: A History of Violence, The Death of Mr. Lazarescu, Election , Match Point, Cache, Broken Flowers, and Three Times, but there wasn’t a significant amount of hoopla, so was this year's festival that extraordinary? RP: There were a number of films that personally appealed to me, but overall it was a festival that wasn’t highlighted by as many head-scratchers which left you in state of asking what exactly were those individuals thinking as there were in years before. CK: No Brown Bunny. RP: Exactly, I don’t think there was a single film, at least in the competition, that was unfathomably bad. Overall, the features were of generally high quality? CK: Are there any features in previous years that joined the lineup with a certain amount of public skepticism concerning their appearance that left far more prestigiously? RP: Oh well yeah I think this festival has done that for a lot of films CK: Well, any in particular? RP: A film that I think we were very proud to have in the festival and that also helped launch his career is Michael Haneke’s Benny’s Video. That was an extraordinary film that hadn’t done very well on the festival circuit, we showed it and it really helped establish him. There’s a wonderful film here in the selection called Calle Sante Fe that appeared at Cannes and either nobody saw it or nobody talked about it. And I was really curious about it because it’s a Chilean feature and that’s always been an area of the world that’s intrigued me. When I talked to individuals who had seen it they had mediocre opinions of it and when the selection committee and I saw it we were blown away, it’s a masterpiece. This is a feature that you could say, "Yes, it was at Cannes but that did nothing for it," and I think our limited selection helps do something for it that many other festivals can’t . Then there’s the case of Mystic River which got a really chilly reception at Cannes, zero awards, all the press was unimpressed, so when we invited it for our opening night, it was sort of a second life for it. Of course it’s a Clint Eastwood film, so that meant a certain amount of success but I think we really assisted in boosting it and Warner Brothers intelligently decided to wait for its reception at the festival to see how to market it. It was a good decision because it led them to give it a more enthusiastic release in Europe and the United States, doing far better then anyone expected. CK: Is there any feature that you hope gets distributed in this lineup that you think might be at a particular risk of not getting distributed? RP: Well, I’d like every film to get distributed. CK: Of course, but what particular ones? RP: Well the two previous mentioned features, Silent Light and Secret Sunshine will hopefully get distributed. In fact, in the case of Secret Sunshine, there's a lot of interest. We sometimes try to do a little match making with studios to get distribution for features but it’s really up to them. CK: Now this has nothing to do with the film festival itself, but as you’re aware we lost a lot of masters this year, but while Ousmane Sembene will get a retrospective at Film Forum, and Antonioni and Bergman’s oeuvres are largely available on DVD, Edward Yang, our truly most untimely loss, has very little of his work available to U.S audiences. Have you heard of any retrospectives here or elsewhere in the city for the late Yang? RP: I honestly don’t know. I’ve been in touch with his sister, who I knew pretty well and their family is still recovering but I did mention about doing something in New York City and she told me she loved it and would be really supportive of it but I decided to give her some time. I’ve decided to return to it probably after all of the business of this year's festival, but, you know she’s also not a film person, so she probably didn’t want to get into issues of prints and rights, etc. CK: Well that’s it, thank you so much for this interview, we really appreciate it. RP: It’s my pleasure. &nbsp; 
 For those of you still in need of your last fill of summer, Broadway is brimming with the capitalist and culinary delights of a street fair. And for those unfortunate enough to be holed up in Butler this early in the semester, here's Bwog's best attempt to convince you to go outside for some fresh air. There's no $1 Thai food in Blue Java. Not even the new Blue Java. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
With the Dance Beat, Bwog correspondent Siobhan Burke regales us with a weekly round-up of one of New York's least discussed art forms. Making my way from the 1 train to the L at 14th street last weekend--somewhere along that hopelessly grim walkway--an uplifting image, in billboard form, caught my eye. You may have seen this one around; it pictures an exuberant dancer airborne over the Manhattan skyline, spine arched, chest lifted, head thrown back with a kind of there’s-no-stoppin’-me abandon. “What makes her feel this way?!” you marvel. Seeking the answer, your eyes land on the text below her. “Fall in love,” it reads, “Fall for Dance.” I was already running late for a vegan brunch in Williamsburg, but a wave of nostalgia gave me pause. Thanks to City Center’s annual Fall for Dance festival--which brings a glorious variety of dance to a single stage for ten days each September--I had fallen desperately in love/for dance three years ago for the first real time. Some ingenious presenter had managed to get Merce Cunningham’s How to Pass, Kick, Fall and Run and Bill T. Jones’s Continuous Replay on the same program, and I had witnessed it, in a state of humble awe, from the rear mezzanine. A new world of dance had revealed itself to me—one of non-linearity (Cunningham) and full-frontal nudity (Jones). In those days, when Fosse-style jazz seemed, to me, the height of artistic achievement, I would not have sought out these performances on my own. But this, as all Fall for Dance-goers know, is what’s great about the festival: it throws you a mixed bag filled with unexpected treasures, and more often than not, you fall in love with a few. Forgive the sentimentality, but I feel strongly about this event. At this year’s festival, which continues through this Saturday, I’ve already made some startling discoveries. Last Friday, for example, I showed up mainly to see Doug Varone’s Lux (for the second time), but I came away with a new obsession: the break-dancing, boundary-defying Compagnie Kafig from Lyon, France. I never knew that such tall, lanky dancers could pop and lock so smoothly, or that hip hop had the witty, expressive potential that choreographer Mourad Merzouki has tapped in the scenes of Terrain Vague. (Maybe I’m just behind the times, though. The kind old German woman sitting next to me, who lent me her program, told me she had recently seen a break-dancing opera in Berlin.) Ballet Hispanico appeared on the same program, and in the words of my elderly neighbor, “What fun!” When their Club Havana opened on a lone, spotlighted man lighting a cigar to the sounds of “Chan Chan” by Buena Vista Social Club, I cringed at the potential for Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights cliché. There was definitely some of that in the sensuous Latin dancing that followed, but for me, the skill of the performers—their seamless weaving of Latin and ballet and their impeccable command of both techniques—outweighed the trite factor. In fact, there was something sort of refreshing about the spectacle of couples dancing close, coaxing each other in and casting each other aside, or simply melting into each other. As I lapped it up, I felt like I was indulging in some sort of guilty pleasure, but that’s the other thing about Fall for Dance—it lets you luxuriate in the light-hearted. I don’t want to tarnish this glittering account of the festival, but I do want to tell you the truth about what I saw on Wednesday night. Don’t get me wrong—most of it was up to FFD standards, running the gamut from stark contemporary ballet (Cornered from the Royal Ballet of Flanders) to boisterous, passionate modern-jazz (Keigwin and Company’s Love Songs). But Jerome Robbins’s A Suite of Dances, performed by New York City Ballet’s Damien Woetzel, simply did not belong. Prancing lightly about to Bach’s "Suite for Solo Cello" (performed live), Woetzel interpreted each and every note to the point of dull predictability. Occasionally, he would forget his classical poise, overcome by a contrived, giddy “loss of control:” a jaunty skip here, a click of the heels there, and even a couple of somersaults! Add to this his slinky, velvet burgundy shirt--with matching pants--and you can see why it made me a little nauseous. Unfortunately, the invitation to Fall in Love, Fall for Dance is complicated by the overwhelming demand for tickets—all ten nights have been sold out for weeks. But if you want to catch one of the last two shows (tonight 8pm), there is still a way in: last-minute ticket releases go on sale at 6:30 the night of the performance. Show up a little earlier, and you have a good chance of getting one. I recommend giving it a try; the final program—featuring Camille Brown, Elisa Monte, and Boston Ballet—is sure to make you fall hard. 
Many of last year's V-Show alums seem to be returning for V114, including Rob Trump, Emily Bickford, and Benjamin Velez. Director: Hannah Kass B'09 Producers: Erin Byrne B'09, Jeff Schwartz C'10 Writers: Rob Trump C'09, James Williams C'08 Composers/Lyricists: Katie Hathaway B'10, Benjamin Velez C'10 Choreographer: Emily Bickford B'09 Art Director: Ben Weinryb Grohsgal C'08 Also, you might expect Bwog to pass off a flimsy excuse as to why we're including this clip of the defunct Columbia soap opera The Gates, (for instance, how it was one target of V113's sharp humor). However, dear reader, it's best not to look a gift horse in the mouth. &nbsp; 
 Not to be outdone by Morton Williams' preemptive homage to Halloween, local pharmacy Duane Reade is pioneering the Christmas bandwagon. Morton Williams has the opportunity to counter-strike and capitalize on Reade's Thanksgiving omission. West Side Market, presumably, is too busy providing the community with fresh food at affordable prices to deign to participate. 
Found in Sulzberger and on a South Lawn bulletin board. This photo has been taken down at the request of someone who, over the phone, claimed that he was the person pictured, but did not identify himself.&nbsp; UPDATE, October 10: This comment thread has been removed at the request of an administrator who said that the subject of the post desired its removal. &nbsp; 
Now that 2011 elections are over, the Columbia College political machine is gearing up for Homecoming, initiating new members and even passing resolutions. First and foremost: this week's Class-sponsored free food opportunities. Monday: At 1:00 PM on Low Steps, Seniors present Texas BBQ and Pie Your Favorite Senior (Spectator editor-in-chief John Davisson and Dems president Josh Lipsky will be in attendance, among others). Tuesday: Juniors present Quaker Oats in honor of UPenn's pacifist mascot while thumb-wrestling with '09 football players. Wednesday: Sophomores present more Texas BBQ, as well as Paint Yourself Blue, in which Columbia's bluest student wins a free Jet Blue ticket anywhere in the world. We think it may have something to do with this product placement. Thursday: The freshmen (who didn't know what was going on and sat awkwardly at today's meeting) present something involving popsicles and flag football on South Lawn.&nbsp; Details to follow. Friday: Homecoming Carnival with funnel cake and other assorted goodness. In other news, the council confirmed three new members to the Committee on Manhattanville Expansion, which is set up to educate and reach out to students and create a website containing news and history about the controversy. It was resolved that students want JJ's open longer (really?) and because "WHEREAS, students of all years utilize Friday nights as a productive work night" and "WHEREAS, JJ's Place offers a variety of culinary options, as well as serving as on-campus grocery store." It was also resolved that John Jay take out containers should be extended to weekends. By the way, Lerner bathrooms are not going to be renovated after last year's "Sexify Lerner" resolution (which requested better lighting in the lobby, computer lab improvements, faster elevators, opening up the Broadway room, and other amenities) was amended by the administration because of budget restrictions. Don't worry though, the CCSC bulletin board is getting a glass case and there will be a large map of Lerner so that you can avoid the toxic toilets. - JJV 
 Naked run, 30-second&nbsp;kegstand, a week of sleeping on PrezBo's&nbsp;floor&nbsp;possible requirements for Comittee on Global Thought membership Passing coverage possible requirement for not losing football games World not fucked after all, geekery edition World not fucked after all, unlikely transportation-related project edition Obvious realized 
 Various anti-colonial interests are currently gathered on Low Plaza in celebration of Decolonization Day, an anti-Colonial rejoinder to this most colonial of federal holidays. And if you think that sentence was redundant, today’s event brings back that most recurring (and most annoying) of Columbianisms: poor planning! Come 1 PM, the decolonizers will have to share space with the Senior Class Council, which is giving you the opportunity to chuck pies at prominent soon-to-be graduates. “It is messed up,” one SPEAK representative said of the scheduling mess-up--although as a table of Ba’hai students pointed out, Decolonization Day is all about co-existence. When Bwog asked why they thought it important to participate in today’s events (which include a performance by rapper Hakim, from Channel Five), Makini Boothe, BC ‘08 replied that her faith believes in the oneness of everyone, and a “total transformation of human interaction.” So, to recap: pies, pie-related public humiliation, free food, critiques of Columbus Day and the western colonial attitudes it represents, rap music and spiritual harmony! Right now at Low! And the weather is still pleasantly (or disconcertingly) spring-like... -ARR 
 "Columbus was a criminal," bellowed Hakim from the Low Steps mere moments ago. Disagree!, reply the College Republicans, who are grilling burgers and hot dogs for their fellow Columbus Day celebrants. Yet&nbsp;CUGOP president Chris Kulawik, C '08 emphasized that they are not "celebrating" Columbus per se: "we're just recognizing it's a national holiday" he said, adding that the cookout is a long-standing CUGOP custom. He then went into an etymological explication of the day's significance: "Christopher Columbus. Columbia." Of course, Kulawik doesn't seem to mind pissing people off--he's the one behind Fox flamethrower Sean Hannity's visit in a couple weeks. Maybe it was a trade for the number of times Kulawik has been a guest on their turf? Later, a GOPer was overheard sending one of her ideological kinsmen to fetch veggie burgers&nbsp;at Morton Williams. When asked if vegetarianism conflicts with the GOPs presumed goal of laying the environment to waste, a first-year jokingly assured Bwog that the two are not irreconcilable. -ARR 
In which Bwog lecture hopper Pierce Stanley throws up his hands at the New Yorker Festival.&nbsp; For decades a bastion of intellectual arrogance, The New Yorker magazine reaches the pinnacle of sycophancy once a year during the first weekend of October when it hosts its Festival, during which journalists, artists, and intellectuals with deep or dubious ties alike to the magazine participate in a three-day festival of self-congratulation.&nbsp; Despite the big names, it often falls far short of what it seeks to deliver, turning instead a predictable three day campaign of ego stroking.&nbsp; This year’s New Yorker Festival debate between two badasses of journalistic fame Malcolm Gladwell author of Blink and Tipping Point (and owner of the world’s most beloved Jewfro) and Charlie Rose regular Adam Gopnik (who still can’t decide whether he likes Paris or New York better) was no exception to this rule, as both attempted to live up to the wit that frequently graces the magazine’s pages but fell far short in substance as they tackled this year’s resolution for the annual parliamentary style debate, RESOLVED: The Ivy League Should Be Abolished.&nbsp; To mediate this intellectual tussle at New York’s Society for Ethical Culture was none other than the embodiment of self-indulgence, Columbia’s once-in-a-blue-moon Art History professor Sir Simon Schama.&nbsp; As speaker of the house and with a gavel in tow, Schama took no shame in prodding both debaters with peculiar inquiries, making side comments to the audience, and erupting with random outbursts of laughter throughout the evening.&nbsp; It was clear from the beginning that the debate would be not serious, but a playful exercise in name-calling and joke telling by non-Ivy educated Canadians, and a slight disappointment to a bwogger expecting a little more meat. Gladwell opened the forum by affirming the resolution with a speech that compared the Ivy League to the failed foreign policy of the Bush administration.&nbsp; He isolated an “axis of evil” for the purposes of the debate, arguing that Harvard, Princeton, and Yale were Iraq, Iran, and Syria and should be abolished because they are “fetishized institutions of elitism that stifle social mobility and hurt the less fortunate.”&nbsp; While Gopnik agreed with the need to “defetishize” elite institutions of higher learning, he quickly took issue with Gladwell’s interpretation of the Ivy League, questioning why Gladwell attempted to exclude the other five universities that make up a shitty athletic conference and are considered by most people to be the Ivy League.&nbsp; He noted that if those three schools are abolished other colleges of similar prestige will immediately assume an elite role and the problem of elitism will not be solved.&nbsp; “What are you going to do with the professors, break their glasses and move them?” he argued, “You might as well add Columbia to the axis of evil and nothing will really change.”&nbsp; Therefore, Gopnik cautiously suggested institutional reform rather than outright abolition of the Ivy League. Gopnik came out swinging in his opening constructive for the negative by arguing that Gladwell’s logic didn’t quite add up.&nbsp; He noted that abolishing the best institutions of education in the US would be “like abolishing the NBA to fight obesity in the United States.”&nbsp; To his credit, he had examples from personal experience, citing the leveling of admissions at the Sorbonne, previously one of France’s most elite educational institutions, as a disaster that opened admissions to unqualified candidates and alienated the best professors and students, making that university a joke.&nbsp; He offered a compelling argument for his claim that the abolishment of the Ivy League would inevitably lead to more elitism by arguing that the leveling of the educational playing field in Europe has created hyper-elite universities that train an even smaller segment of the population than before, ensuring that Europe is run by a considerably smaller and even more powerful elite than before.&nbsp; Gopnik urged Gladwell to think in terms of the real world, saying that Gladwell’s creation of an axis of evil schools to be abolished is “the pure unreal where imaginary enemies are assailed.”&nbsp; Then it was on to the rebuttals where the debate devolved mostly into a pissing contest over who could tell a funnier joke. While Gladwell pitied “Gopnik for not sharing the concern of those less fortunate,” he used the bulk of his rebuttal to argue that Ivies frustrate opportunity for social mobility by denying the poorest students a chance at a really good education.&nbsp; He cited a study that points to the United States as the least flexible nation for social mobility in the world and noted that the Ivy League has a considerably smaller percentage of students who receive Pell grants compared to other institutions such as Berkeley and UCLA which have upwards of 39 percent of lower income students receiving grants.&nbsp; Then he went on to cite a litany of admissions statistics and graduation rates.&nbsp; While Gopnik appealed to the audience that Gladwell was just “randomly grabbing numbers from his ass,” the debate got hot when Gladwell began reading marginalia notes written by Harvard admissions deans on application essays as he forwarded the argument that selection based on “personal qualities” was petty.&nbsp; One note said, “This is one of the most brilliant students I have seen but seems too shy.”&nbsp; Another read simply “frothy.”&nbsp; And Gladwell’s kicker was “short with big ears.”&nbsp; Gladwell got the most laughs of the night when he said that by disbanding the Ivy League we are ensuring that schools with combined endowments of over 70 billion dollars do not bestow benefits on an aristocracy of people who have not earned their position, and we can in turn “create opportunities for the shy, the frothy and short with big ears.” At the conclusion of the debate Gopnik appealed for a level of seriousness and asked that the audience reject Gladwell’s “strong, very Canadian vendetta against three universities” in favor of an acknowledgement that the Ivies are a community of “homogeneity and stimulation where great ideas take place,” although in need of a serious program of reform.&nbsp; The debate boiled down to the question of class in the United States and whether it is necessary to abolish some of our nation’s most productive institutions in favor of social mobility.&nbsp; While Gladwell argued that radical abolition is the only way to bring about social change in any system, Gopnik argued that the Ivies are product of a founding aristocracy and that aristocrats in this nation will get what they want by birthright regardless of whether they attend the Ivies or not.&nbsp; In turn, he offered up the examples of two men from humble backgrounds, Barack Obama and Bill Clinton, as evidence that anyone who attends an Ivy League institution, poor or rich, “will be able to create enough social capital to embark on programs of reform.” Both debaters drew considerable applause for their defenses and the New Yorker Festival’s debate drew to a quick finish, with Schama almost having an aneurysm as he leapt to call order in the house and placed the resolution before the public.&nbsp; To his surprise, the crowd overwhelmingly negated the resolution and another New Yorker debate was in the books. Well Columbians…we survived this time. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 With Fair Alma's ritual disembowelment of the hapless Penn Quakers a mere five days away, the Columbia College senior class decided to celebrate homecoming week with a little pugilism of its own. With Decolonization day going at full thrust less than 20 yards in front of them, the CC seniors lined up for some BBQ--with a little whipped cream and raw hatred on the side. To passerby, it probably didn't seem like a spectacular orgy of violence was in store: CC '08 representatives handed out a facebook of pie victims, complete with short bios (our favorite: "Calvin Sun, Vice President of the Senior Class etc...is incredibly terrified of messing up his hair today.") while 08ers politely queued for chicken wings and baked beans. But no amount of meticulous organization could quell the participants' bloodlust: Head Dem Josh Lipsky speculated that GOP counterpart Chris Kulawik was afraid of getting hurt. "I'm here and he's not," said Lipsky. "You do the math." (he wasn't the only one calling out the CUGOP's high-profile leader: one speaker on Low urged people to organize against David Horowitz before decrying the "hypocrisy of Chris Kulawik"). Meanwhile, Spec boss John Davisson was disapointed at the Blue and White's no-shows--"I don't see Taylor Walsh here" he said after suggesting that Bwoggers were "cowards" for skipping out on the event. Up on Low Plaza, a speaker compared Columbia's expansion plans to Columbus's conquest of the New World. "You are just as guilty as Christopher Columbus" he exclaimed, although by then the seniors were more concerned with creaming each other than discussing the finer points of Fair Alma's expansion policy. While Low crackled with moral guilt, College Walk had turned into a cream-charred battleground--soon a belligerent small child had joined the hysterical, close-quarter melee; one senior laughed as he slipped on a piece of tarp, and a pie-covered CCSC prez Michelle Diamond remembered during one break in the action that she had class at 2. It wasn't long before the the worlds of pie-thrower and decolonizer collided: said one speaker, "Take your pie, sit your asses down and listen to what we have to say." The attempted killjoy had no perceivable effect on the pie-throwers, although at least one CCSCer looked conflicted. But for the most part, the combatants were absorbed with the essential task of digging chunks of whipped cream out of their hair. &nbsp; -ARR 
 This&nbsp;guy was really overdue for his own edition of Profs Say, seeing that Bruce Robbins loves offsetting his typically grave&nbsp;delivery with the occasional&nbsp;zinger--some of them completely over the heads&nbsp;of their intended recipients. This is by turns uncomfortable and hilarious to watch, espcially when said zingers crop up in bizarrely theoretical places. From today's lecture: "(Psychoanalyst) Jacques Lacan didn't have much time for therapy. That's actually quite funny, but you wouldn't know why." Ouch. But on second thought, ha! Good one, Bruce! 
Bwog was psyched to attend a verbal joust with Joe Stiglitz, his arch-nemesis William Easterly, and ethicist-in-chief Peter Singer on the question of foreign aid in 417 IAB this evening. When we arrived, the place was so packed that even a multinational corporation couldn't have barged its way in. Those turned away flooded aimlessly into the night, a tide of human disappointment.&nbsp;
Put this one in PrezBo's corner. &nbsp; 
 Okay. That means that our whole solar system could be, like one tiny atom in the fingernail of some other giant being. This is too much! That means one tiny atom in my fingernail could be... one tiny universe. Asking someone if they're from Jersey does not an intellectual conversation make&nbsp; "'Why on earth do we do this?' Fugate muses, only to then answer her own question with the kind of selfless assurance so central to the Ballet NY spirit." Why does Spec do this, Bwog mused. Why do they think sticking two entirely unrelated words together gives a description a more sophisticated meaning? Selfless. Assurance. Selfless assurance. Bwog beats on, back against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past. Alveda King opportunistic, "feminist" Fairly certain this might have originally been published during the Cold War&nbsp; 
In which Bwog Personals returns! And to start us off are two of the Blue and White's eligible editors. All interested parties should contact Bwog via email and we'll provide the $5 for the date. And as always, nominate your friends (or yourself) for a personal by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; GUY FOR GIRL Name: Paul Barndt Year: '08 School: CC Major: Classics and English Hometown: Houston. TX Best Book You've Read for Class: I rep pretty hard for all the dead white guys on the front of Butler--I would find it very hard to pick between them. If I handicap myself by taking all the Core stuff out of contention, I'd probably say War and Peace.&nbsp; Worst Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp; I thought Middlesex by Jeffrey Eugenides was pretty lame, although I'm sure there's something worse I'm forgetting from one of my freshman survey classes. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Doing work that was due way later than both the work I should have been doing, and the work I should have been starting after finishing the work I should have been doing.&nbsp; Beverage of choice: Just as some people have a cup of coffee in the morning, I have a glass of lemon lime Gatorade.&nbsp; What are your most played songs on iTunes? Culture Club, Karma Chameleon Lightning Bolt, Dracula Mountain Chick Corea, El Bozo I listen to Glenn Gould's 1955 recording of Bach's Goldberg Variations constantly when studying, so most of those are in the top 50.&nbsp; What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? Michael Jackson's performance at the 1995 MTV VMAs is one of the most magnificent things ever captured on film--if only it existed in iTunes song form. Also, there are many songs I listen to quite often, but only on YouTube, whether it's because the video is integral to the song or because I'm too lazy to illegally download it. This list would include Mark Morrison's "Return of the Mack," and many Flight of the Conchords songs. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal:&nbsp; probably a cheddar burger at Toast, but&nbsp;late at night, a cheese omelet smothered in Tabasco, fries, and chocolate milkshake at Tom's. The title of your memoir: This is tough--I've barely started it! But it will be an account of my years in West Africa and is tentatively titled Nigerian Rhapsody.&nbsp; Dream date, 5 words or fewer: depends on the person dated Thing you're looking forward to most this year: 12 credits in the spring, or rather, the things I will do the resulting free time.&nbsp; Thing you're looking forward to least this year: I imagine I'd be terrified of the swim test if I couldn't swim. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; GIRL FOR GUY Name: Maryam Year: '09 School: CC Major: English Hometown: Houston, TX Best Book You've Read for Class: Manhattan Transfer, John Dos Passos; Traces, Ernst Bloch. It's a tie. Worst Book You've Read for Class: Probably some terrible first-semester CC reading, long since been blocked from memory. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Watch Youtube videos of real-live talking dogs with floormates at 2 in the morning. Beverage of choice: Thai iced tea (in moderation) What are your most played songs on iTunes? "Wish You Were Here," Radiohead/Sparklehorse cover "Coffee &amp; TV," Blur "Holland," Sufjan Stevens What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? "Ruby Tuesday," Rolling Stones "Someone to Watch Over Me," the Chet Baker Quartet The second movement of Maurice Ravel's Piano Concerto in G - Martha Argerich with the Berlin Philharmonic Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Family Combo Special, Rey de la Caridad The title of your memoir: something along the lines of "It Could Have Been Worse" (definitely with introduction by Bono or some other international rockstar) Dream date, 5 words or fewer: Good jazz, Five Guys cheeseburgers Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Getting my major and core requirements by the end of it, giving me the wonderful freedom to do something different with my life in some other place on earth for a semester before graduating. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Every year Hollywood ruins my childhood a little more -- this time with&nbsp; the bastardization of Alvin and the Chipmunks. 
 Columbia grad ('07) and Hilary Duff look-a-like Meghan McCain has launched a blog chronicling her dad's (Arizona Sen. John McCain) presidential campaign. Meghan, along with someone named La-Toria Haven whom Meghan calls a "political fashionista", and Mary Anne Huntsman (Utah Gov. John Huntsman's daughter), are "traveling on the road with Senator McCain's campaign and about our experiences along the way." Meghan's blog certainly stands out from run-of-the-mill campaign coverage. For instance, in the graphics! Like the sassy, high-heeled silhouette clutching a lap top a la Carrie Bradshaw. Nothing says "Washington insider" like a red stiletto! And her ability to use art theory to draw insights about trends within the GOP: "Both events were devoid of the usual mahogany associated with a political soiree. Sleek, clean lines featuring bold colors – retro-orange w/chrome furniture...As our (event) interiors evolve, so do our perspectives." But Meghan inarguably has unparalleled proximity to Senator McCain—insider information like "My dad has a gold razr phone" and "My Dad's speech was peppered with an abundance of standup comedy. He was having way too much fun cracking jokes at my expense, showing off his '$150,000 screensaver' on his cellphone which has a picture of us at my Columbia graduation on it!" Oh Meghan stop, you're making us blush.&nbsp; Bet Barack Obama's thanking his lucky stars that his kids, unlike Caroline, are still too young to embarrass him! 
For those of you who simply cannot wait for Assassins, on October 11th, SEAS is organizing a giant game on Manhunt throughout the entire campus. Registration is online, natch. That should satisfy any competitive blood-lust until spring.
 Friends of Bwog wandered into the soon-to-be-open Pinkberry a few days ago. They inquired about jobs and were hired on the spot. They were told they needed to go to Chinatown to be "trained". Apparently, Pinkberry is very much hiring. In summation: If you need a job, and love whatever type of food Pinkberry claims to be... well, looks like this just might be your lucky day.&nbsp; 
 According to an e-mail from Teachers College President Susan Fuhrman dated 3:35 PM today (and now WNBC), a hangman's noose was found on the office door of an African American faculty member. Her full message is reprinted after the jump. A meeting started at 9:00 PM in Earl Hall for student reactions, and tomorrow (Wednesday) President Fuhrman will hold an open meeting for students, staff, and faculty at 3:30 PM in Grace Dodge Cafeteria at Teachers College. &nbsp; To the TC Community: The police were here this morning because a hangman's noose was discovered on the office door of one of our African American faculty members. The incident has been reported to the New York City Police Department (Detectives Bureau of Manhattan) and is under active investigation by the Hate Crimes Task Force. The TC community and I deplore this hateful act, which violates every Teachers College and societal norm. Anyone who has any information about this incident is urged to immediately contact (anonymously or otherwise) any of the following: The 26th Precinct Detective Squad (212 678-1351); Crime stoppers (1 800 577-TIPS); John DeAngelis, Chief of Public Safety (212 678-4180); Janice Robinson, TC General Counsel and Executive Director, President's Office of Diversity and Community (212 678-3732). Susan Fuhrman &nbsp; 
 A crowd of about 100 people marched from Earl Hall to Teachers College around 11:00 PM tonight in response to the incident earlier today involving a hanging noose found tied to the door of an African American professor. Earlier today, WNBC identified the professor as Madonna G. Constantine, who teaches psychology and education. Protesters yelled several different chants including "We will not be silent!" and "Bollinger's house for justice!" at which point about twenty people broke off from the main crowd on the steps and attempted directing the protest towards Broadway. Organizers quickly hurried people back toward the steps. The chant changed to "Strike if we must!" Bwog asked a Teachers College student (who prefers not to disclose her name) what exactly the strike was supposed to accomplish. "We will wear all black tomorrow and we are going to walk out of classes. We're trying to change this racist organization. We're going to the Town Hall meeting tomorrow." The march occurred after 9:00 PM emergency meeting that filled the main auditorium in Earl Hall. At the meeting, students decided to support a rally at 2:00 PM tomorrow at the 120th St. gates. NBC and CBS were there under mountains of black umbrellas and were pulling students under cover for interviews and pull quotes, one reporter furiously Blackberry-ing the entire affair. - JNW &nbsp; 
No, this has nothing to do with hate crimes, and yes, it happened several days ago. But sometimes things slip through the cracks, and Bwog newbie Beth Gordon says it's never too late to hear about this band. I’ve been told that if Queens and the Bronx took a shit, it would be Randall’s Island. Nevertheless, Arcade Fire’s last show in New York City for the next couple years was enough to make it worth the trek this Saturday. I found my way to the Island around six, listening to Les Savy Fav from the walkway to the venue. By the time they searched my bag and scanned my ticket, Blonde Redhead had begun their set. I haven’t heard much of Blonde Redhead, so I decided to walk around, eat funnel cake and push my way into the middle of the crowd. I had to be prepared for LCD Soundsystem. LCD Soundsytsem was fantastic. They played songs mostly from their newest album, Sound of Silver (2007). The 25,000 people who crossed the Triborough Bridge packed as close to the stage as possible to see James Murphy &amp; Co. play triumphantly. Members of Arcade Fire joined them onstage for a few songs; Murphy (vocals for LCD) declared he had to tire them out so they could “have an edge” over the headliner. Their electronica/dance/pop sound was even better live than the recorded version—the masses jumping up and down were certainly feeling it. They ended the set with the song “New York I Love You But You’re Bringing Me Down,” which was a bit slower than the previous songs, but the perfect exit for the native New York band and the New York audience. Then we waited, still packed together on the asphalt, for Arcade Fire. The beginning of their set began with black and white videos (toy monkeys playing symbols, a black female jazz singer) on the jumbotron screens. Then the Canadians came onstage with the Neon Bible (2007) emblem (in red neon) on the red curtain behind them—all very dramatic, but appropriately so. They started with “Black Mirror,” the first track on their newest album. Throughout the rest of the set, they hit the right balance between Neon Bible and Funeral, their previous album. It almost turned into a cut-off jeans and American Apparel t-shirt dance party. Every song was epic—they sounded so definite, the chorus of the sweating band members, the violins, and operatic production. Most people in the audience sang along with Win Butler (vocals, guitar). Régine Chassagne (vocals, keyboard, accordion), Butler’s wife, looked angry while singing and then adorably coy when turning away from the microphone. Arcade Fire’s last song, “Rebellion” was cathartic. The “ooo”-ing throughout, somewhere between a chant and a moan, caught everyone in a trance of awe and emotion. Instead of clapping and whistling to bring them back for an encore, the audience started humming or whistling the tune of the last song. Then the encore ended on “Wake Up”—possibly one of the better-known Arcade songs, which evoked pure heartache and reverence. Apparently they went through the audience with acoustic guitars for a second encore, covering the Violent Femmes song “Kiss Off,” even as people had begun filing out to the one pedestrian exit and walking in a herd across the Bridge. The stop-and-go pedestrian traffic back to Manhattan couldn’t sour that night. Picture shamefully stolen from BrooklynVegan. 
 Rather than compete with Cambridge, Columbia emulates Oxford town. "Like the blind men and the elephant" A retrospective on last month's controversy…and last year's Who wants some ice cream jokes!? Denver Broncos sign former Columbia Lion Steve Cargile, to go with former Detroit Lion Dré Bly.&nbsp; Morningside Heights is now a travel destination, and guess who's listed for "free tours open to all?" (New York Times) This one's about you guys! (New York Magazine) 
 Lucy Liu's new show, Cashmere Mafia, is filming on 113th between Broadway and Riverside. ABC describes the show as "a thinking woman's Sex and The City mixed with the wit of The Devil Wears Prada," but you might want to stop by anyway. 
In which free food aficionado Christopher Morris-Lent evaluates the bewildering array of options at everyone's favorite deli. Moving into East Campus sophomore year is hell on the stomach. Having been robbed of the breadbasket of John Jay and being too lazy and ur-masculine to really cook for myself on a regular basis, I found myself having to strike out in search of sustenance on the culinary bazaar known as Amsterdam Avenue.&nbsp; Fortunately, deliverance was little more than a block or two away: Hamilton Delicatessen.&nbsp; For the next few weeks, I was like the Morgan Spurlock of HamDel, relentlessly searching for the most delicious and unhealthy hamburger my parents’ measly largesse could buy.&nbsp; I therefore present to you the fruits of my month-long binge: a comparative analysis of what the deli modestly calls “Hamilton’s Famous Burgers.”&nbsp; (Next month: Ham’s Famous Combination Heroes!) Uncle Sam With its jingoistic name and quixotic mixture of ingredients (dill pickles, coleslaw, American cheese), I was surprised to find that the Uncle Sam is actually delicious.&nbsp; The whole – a sweet, savory burger with nuanced textures – is far greater than the sum of its parts, which is pretty much what HamDel is like in general: the cramped space, unadorned food, and unpleasant crowds somehow combine to create a dining experience that is as addictive as it is psychologically soothing.&nbsp; The other day, I walked into HamDel while in the midst of mental tumult and found myself vacillating as to which burger to get.&nbsp; The sandwich artist read my mind and said, “Uncle Sam, regular?”&nbsp; The intimacy of the service and sweetness of the coleslaw warmed my heart and belly for the rest of the afternoon.&nbsp; (Rating: 3.5 / 5) The Don The Don is undoubtedly HamDel’s worst burger.&nbsp; Its accoutrements (tomato sauce, mozzarella) are comparatively meager and blend poorly together.&nbsp; When I was pitching this article to the Blue and White editors, I waved a half-eaten Don in the air to illustrate the urgency of my project.&nbsp; Then I promptly dumped the rest of it into the garbage.&nbsp; Any potential for rage towards the establishment that made it was quelled by the stamp I got on my gold card, bringing me one step closer to the summit of Mount Parnassus. (Rating: 0.5 / 5) Mona Lisa There is nothing feminine or delicate about the Mona Lisa; rather, it’s the most manly sandwich HamDel has to offer, topped with bacon, melted with mozzarella, and dripping with barbeque sauce.&nbsp; The flavors are gloriously lacking in subtlety, and the certainty of future coronary blockage only makes the instant gratification all the more delightful.&nbsp; I would have completed this project much earlier if not for the titillation it produced within the deepest bowels of my alimentary canal to say: “I’ll get a Mona Lisa, please.”&nbsp; Textural note: sometimes the barbeque sauce can be a trifle unwieldy.&nbsp; (Rating: 4 / 5) E-mail One of the more enigmatic selections on the HamDel smorgasbord, the E-Mail comes with cheddar cheese, raw onions, and guacamole.&nbsp; At this point I would like to present the following two ideas: raw onions are far better (crisper, zestier) than cooked onions; and guacamole is pretty much always delicious.&nbsp; Accordingly, the E-mail is a gustatory delight but somewhat of a textural disaster, as the guac has an unfortunate tendency to soften and perforate the lower bun, creating fissures that bleed green onto the top of your fashionably faded jeans and the nether regions of your new Lacoste polo.&nbsp; (Rating: 3 / 5) The Insult The aptly named Insult’s defining characteristic is the carpet of hot peppers that streches across the top of the burger, cloying the tastebuds and setting the mouth ablaze.&nbsp; Proponents of snorting wasabi might enjoy the Insult; I did not.&nbsp; (Rating: 1.5 / 5) The Manhattan Project The combination of feta cheese, tomatoes, and vinaigrette makes the Manhattan Project a most novel and rewarding taste experience.&nbsp; The mild and savory flavors of the tomato and patty intermingle sublimely with the sharp scintillas of cheese and tangy dollops of dressing.&nbsp; (Rating: 3.5 / 5) The Judge The Judge, on the other hand, is not only a culinary peroration both tastewise and texturewise, it’s an affirmation of everything I cherish about HamDel.&nbsp; Intellectualizing the deliciousness of The Judge would be antithetical to the spirit of HamDel, but I will do it anyway: three varieties of mediocre yet delicious meats are piled atop one another and accentuated with a nationalistic layer of American cheese and a brigade of fried onions that practically explode with flavor and thrombosis.&nbsp; Whoever said America hasn’t developed its own distinctive and orgasmic food culture?&nbsp; (Rating: 4.5 / 5) Hamburger/Cheeseburger/Make Your Own Thinking like this is dangerous. The burger and cheeseburger themselves are far too understated, and all of my own creations have lacked the synergistic quality and convenience of the preconceived sandwiches.&nbsp; (Rating: 2.5 / 5)&nbsp; (Rating: 2.5 / 5) Deluxe or Regular? This harmless-looking question is HamDelese for “would you like fries with that?”&nbsp; At first, I was taken in by the gluttony of it all and assented.&nbsp; I quickly found the fries to be flaccid, bready, and dry, which is a most unpleasant contrast to the juicy, tumescent, savory flesh of the burgers themselves.&nbsp; The only time it’s worth getting deluxe is when your gold card is paying for the entire sandwich anyway; otherwise, if a hamburger alone won’t suffice to satiate your Taft-like hunger, I recommend spending the extra two bucks on a bag of Cape Cod Potato Chips instead. Anything to drink with that? I suggest Peach Ice Tea Snapple. 
 Unless you've been living under a rock, you've heard of Vampire Weekend. Whether you saw them at ADP or Saint A's or read the Bwog interview (their first, I think), these four boys were definitely in the business of invigorating the (almost nonexistent) campus music scene. So here we are, just a little more than a year and a half after their first performance in Lerner's party space during the SEAS Battle of the Bands (they didn't win) and the band is riding high. REAL high. Besides this write-up as "Hot New Kids" on Rolling Stone's "Hot List," VW has recently been signed to XL Recordings (joining M.I.A. and the White Stripes, among others), mentioned in the New Yorker, and provided some blog fodder for David Byrne (FUCKING DAVID BYRNE LIKES VAMPIRE WEEKEND!). They just opened for one of two Animal Collective shows at Webster Hall last week and, oh yeah, they're opening for the Shins(!) in a series of November shows in England and France. It's hard not to be happy for Koening C '06 and company (the band actually incorporated themselves this summer, making them Vampire Weekend, Inc.), but I think it's safe to say that Bwog is jealous (at least I am). While our rock star dreams might never fade, let's rejoice in VW's success. After all, they invented African pop. -JAG&nbsp; P.S. IN RAINBOWS! (and a VW cover of "Exit Music (for a film)") 
Organizers have wasted no time organizing a response to yesterday's noose. Last night's protest was followed by an early afternoon rally today, on the steps of Teacher's College.&nbsp; With a variety of signs and speakers, it seemed the event's main purpose was to demonstrate a swift and strong response. By the time the event kicked off at 2 pm, a good-sized crowd had gathered, stretching as far into the street as the police barrier would allow. Others watched from campus across the street, and a tour bus even rolled by for the photo op. The proceeding moved rather quickly, although at times it suffered from microphone failure, leaving some speakers to be drowned out in the loud crowd. Audible orators included N.Y. State Senator Bill Perkins, Madonna Constantine herself, and (Bwog believes) Reverend Calvin Butts of Harlem's Abyssinian Baptist Church. a loud-spoken individual named Calvin. Perkins took the event as a sign of racism's pervasiveness even in today's society, comparing Columbia University today to Columbia, South Carolina in the 1800s. Although he did not condemn Columbia, he said the threat "sounds like an inside job," noting Columbia's "very serious security." Constantine directly addressed the perpetrators, saying "hanging the noose on my door reeks of cowardice," praised the security and police forces for their responses, and added that she was proud to be a part of Teacher's College (but no mention of Columbia). &lt;br&gt; &lt;br&gt; After a student said an impromptu prayer, another speaker led an impromptu chant: "No justice, no peace!" The speech was not about the noose but rather about Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer voting for Columbia's expansion plan. He warned against trusting the words of politicians who "say things because they have to." "I can say what I want," he said, launching into another rousing round of militancy.&nbsp; The chant was immediately followed by the rally's leaders asking members to peacefully march around the streets.&nbsp; Holding signs ranging from "intolerance is intolerable," and "we all live in Jena", to the very policy-oriented "support anti-racism education," to the 1960s-style "where's the love?," the group looped around Teacher's College and then headed for main campus before returning home for a 3:30 town hall meeting. The peace was kept. Police looked bored. Including "no justice, no peace," the rally and march had at least eight distinct chants, including the following: "What do we want? Justice! When do we want it? Now!"&nbsp; "United we stand!" "Ain't no power like the power of the people cuz the power of the people don't stop"&nbsp; "The people, united, cannot be defeated." "No more nooses" "Not on our campus" and to expand on that one: "Not here, not anywhere" &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -- DHI Also, if you go to Columbia you probably already got this, but here's the latest Bollinger statement, in which he clarifies that TC and CU are "two separate institutions." Dear fellow member of the Columbia community: As most of you now know, a terrible incident of bias occurred at Teachers College yesterday, directed at a member of the faculty. Teachers College is a cherished affiliate of Columbia University with its own president, Susan Fuhrman, to whom I have offered our support and assistance. We may be two independent institutions, but we are one community; and we stand together in our commitment to oppose the frightening sentiments that lay behind this act. Tolerance and mutual respect are among the core values of our diverse community, and all of us must confront acts of hate whenever they occur within it. As I said last night, an attack on the dignity of any member of our community is an assault on all of us. I will be meeting with student leaders this afternoon, and other members of the administration will be communicating with faculty and students in the coming days. Our mission as a university includes addressing the most important and searing issues of our time, and we have a particular obligation to respond forcefully to events that affront our values. Sincerely, <!-- D( ); D(); //--> Lee C. Bollinger
Overheard in Latin American Civilization 1: Professor Caterina Pizzigoni, who is adorable and Italian and sometimes has trouble with English words and concepts, shows a slide of a man holding a rooster. Caterina: "What do you think the man is doing with the cock?" Smartass in the front: "He appears to be stroking it." Caterina: "Do you know why he is stroking the cock?" 
It's been awhile since the last installment of the cart tour, partly because of rumors that any chicken and rice in our immediate locality would be rendered irrelevant by the arrival of Sammy's Halal, the 2006 Vendy award winner that was reported to be moving in to 111th? street, and then mysteriously disappeared. Now, the Lion's Den is reporting that Sammy doesn't plan to come back, but the blog is assembling a letter to change his mind. It's a good effort, but it's hard to argue with business, so we might as well take a look at what we do have for now. Before the 110th street cart came in, the 120th street cart was the reigning chicken-and-rice champion, and it's a place you want to like. The prices are low ($4.00 a platter), the people are friendly, and, topped with three turbine vents, it looks a little like a palace. On the surface, the place looks like it would easily beat its competitors to the south. There's a wide selections of both ingredients and sauces, and whole chickens are always cooking on the grill. Unfortunately, it doesn't quite add up. The biggest strike against this place is the small portions, which perversely might be seen as an advantage in these days of diet-awareness. Incorrect! More is more. It is quite easy to get less from more, and turn the remainder into something useful, while it is nearly impossible to turn less into more. Try this out: buy a single 12 oz. beer, and drink 72 ounces of it. Did you succeed? If you believe so, you have probably had more than 72 ounces of beer before you even started this exercise. But they say a picture is worth a thousand words, so just observe the white space in this food carton: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; There, you've just read 1,111 words on the portions being small, unlike this article. But what about the food? The food is, by relative food-cart standards, "good" but not "delicious," while like the quadruple Stacker at Burger King, the 110th street cart tends in the other direction. Up on 120th, the chicken tastes more like chicken and is less greasy and crispy, the rice tastes more like rice and is less mystery-flavored, and the white sauce tastes like yogurt with a kick of lemon, and is less of mystery blend somewhere between tzatziki and ranch dressing. The red sauce is weak and disappointing - no real redeeming factor here. Taken as a whole, the dish is fine to eat but lacks a kick. The rice sticks together, too, which makes for bland clusters where the sauce doesn't penetrate, and the "cheap white rice" flavor takes over (even though the rice is yellow.) That makes it sound worse than it is: with chicken that is fairly succulent, and tasty sauce, the meal is easy to eat. However, it offers nothing special, not even the retrograde pleasure of grease that can sometimes make up for a lack of quality. If it's chicken and rice you're looking for, 110th is the spot to hit. If that doesn't do it for you, you'd best get to signing that petition. - DHI 
 Alexander Cockburn is an irascible old codger, true, but (or maybe therefore)&nbsp;he's also damned hilarious. At his Tuesday night Heyman Center-sponsored talk on the death of the American left, attendees (who included Bilgrami, Khalidi, Foner, Mamdani, Ed Said's widow, a bunch of student activists and a handful of old NYC lefties and journos) were treated to&nbsp;what&nbsp;seemed like&nbsp;an&nbsp;almost completely extemporaneous rant skewering Todd Gitlin, Barack Obama, environmentalists, Israel, Bill Clinton, neoliberalism, John Muir, Bill Richardson ("he's kind of a dubious character"), and Moveon.org. On the other hand, Cockburn afforded circumspect praise to Mike Gravel, Ron Paul, hippie bread and coffee, Bella Abzug, Quakers, and the internet. All said, Cockburn (pronounced "Coh-burn") was preaching to the choir, but he also managed to piss&nbsp;off part of it by dismissing an avuncular old man who didn't like his comments about Islamic resistance and by basically denying global warming.&nbsp;Nevertheless, his incisive commentary&nbsp;on society and liberal history rang true, and the applause at the end of his talk seemed warmer than one would have expected. - KER UPDATE: Cockburn vs. Foner after the jump! &nbsp; On Wednesday, Eric Foner spoke "in dialogue" with Cockburn in a follow-up session, which felt more like a chat between buddies than an interview. If the two can find some free time when they're on the same coast, the team could challenge Rush Limbaugh for entertainment value. Foner's easygoing humor works well with Cockburn's hyperbolic blasting of nearly everyone on the political field, with the Columbia professor setting him off in nearly every direction imaginable. Foner generally solicited Cockburn's opinion instead of taking him to task on his words, but the debate was such a good time it was hard to be upset. While Cockburn did provide serious answers to serious questions on whether there was much hope left for the left in Europe (not much, but more than in the U.S.), whether capitalist collapse is impending (there's a chance, but don't count on it), or his thoughts on global warming (it's happening with or without us), his best moments came when he played to the crowd. He described his dream scenario of international arrest warrants that would make Bush "fearfully dash across the tarmac at international airports," and suggested that David Horowitz would have turned out differently if he'd been allowed to watch Doris Day movies when he was young. When a middle-aged woman said she noticed that CounterPunch wrote in favor of legalizing marijuana "and I appreciate that," he emphasized that he preferred decriminalization because it would prevent corporations like Phillip Morris from ruining the product. The easygoing atmosphere, was, however, somewhat of a negative as far as it was too, well, easy. While Cockburn did an ample job of bringing in arguments to support his view, he never really got to sparring with opposing views. His hardest question came from an audience member after he repeatedly denounced interventionism in the form of aid. The man pointed out that his criticisms of corruption and inefficiency could be applied to nearly anything, and suggested that it might be a leap to dismiss all forms of aid. Cockburn dismissed these possibilities as theoretical fantasies and told a story about an earthquake he experienced in Northern California, during which he said the help squads cut down trees and made a lot of money but never actually helped anybody. Interestingly enough, although Cockburn got along very well with Foner, he didn't seem to go out of his way to please him. At one point during the Q&amp;A, Foner asked Cockburn what historians influenced him, and the latter cited Charles Beard as one of his favorite historical writers. In his work on the Civil War, Foner is known for rejecting the Beardian interpretation. --- DHI PS: Cockburn gets bonus points for drinking water of out of a mason jar, which is the correct way to drink water. 
 Most likely to DJ Bacchanal, Winter Wonderland, NSOP concert, and etc. Most likely to namedrop a completely unrelated art film.&nbsp; Most likely to wish they had included the Teacher's College incident. Most likely to sleep with the nanny.&nbsp; Most likely to make you cringe, then chuckle, then cringe, so on and so forth.&nbsp; 
 Bollinger... you got some 'splaining to do.&nbsp; Does this mean students will be able to put beer on flex? Confessions of a teenage beefcake. "Hey hey, ho ho, racism has gotta go." Radiohead- DMB for the thinking intellectual.&nbsp; 
 From 1 to 3 pm today, there will be free food and drinks for the freshmen class in front of Hartley-Wallach (or John Jay lounge in case of rain). Wings, chips, soda, candy, and maybe even hot chocolate! Bwog doesn't see why stealthy upperclassmen won't be able to crash. Good eating! In other, competely unrelated news, the Dems and the Republicans held a debate last night on immigration. The Dems have posted a liveblog, full of partisan boosterism and snide swipes at their opponents. Fun!&nbsp; 
 Thanks to SAME (Students Allied for Marriage Equality), there are free cupcakes at the sundial from 12-3! Faux weddings too! UPDATE 2:30 -- Flash flood! The cupcakes have been relocated to Lerner. 
Barnard Fire Safety bribes students to sit through a fire safety video with an iPod nano drawing. If Barnard girls can't put scarves on lamps for mood lighting or light candles, how will they ever find boyfriends? More importantly, what genius heats up a pizza in the oven while it's still in the cardboard box? 
 From The Guardian, Columbia University will not turn over surveillance video that could potentially aid the police with the case. Currently, the police have no suspects, though they are looking into a Teacher's College professor who holds "ill will" against Madonna Constantine. Yet, with only one possible lead, the police is also investigating any students who may carry vendettas. UPDATE: Local CBS reports Columbia has agreed to hand over the tapes. 
UPDATE: Letter from VP Dirks, Dean Quigley and Navratil included after jump. Bwog just got a copy of this blast email that went out to GS students. From: Mary McGee Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:29 PM Subject: **Vandalism in Lewisohn Hall To all GS students: &nbsp;It is very distressing to report that anti-semitic graffiti was found in a bathroom stall in Lewisohn Hall. &nbsp; These kinds of hateful crimes directed against the Jewish community or any other individuals or groups will not be tolerated. &nbsp;I have been a member of the Columbia faculty for thirty years and know that we as a community stand for values that are completely antithetical to such vile and hate-filled images. &nbsp;Let us seize this occasion to renew our commitment to the values of inclusiveness, respect, and toleration that we all cherish. And let us make clear to one another that we will not allow such cowardly hate-mongering to divide our community. &nbsp;I can assure you that the Office of Public Safety and the New York Police Department are conducting a full investigation of this incident . Peter J. Awn Dean" And, after the jump, PrezBo's cumulative response to what we shall heretofore dub&nbsp;(the Great)&nbsp;Racism Rash. "Dear member of the Columbia community, I am saddened to report that one of the bathrooms in Lewisohn Hall was sullied with an anti-Semitic smear. It has been promptly removed and is now being investigated. I want to make two points. When words are the offender, as in this incident, I am reluctant to draw attention to them and will exercise restraint in doing so going forward. I do not want to broadcast, in any way, the message they attempt to send or empower those behind them. Despite the irrational, destructive hatred that persists in our society and world, we do not accept this anywhere at this University. No one among us should feel marginalized or threatened by words of hatred. We are one community; and as one community, we will overcome these hateful acts and hold each other to the highest standards of respect for the dignity and diversity of every individual. In response to questions students have raised, I also want to reassure you that we have utmost confidence in our Public Safety officials and in the NYPD. Not only do they have well established communications protocols in place when there is an immediate threat of harm; they distinguish crimes that threaten our physical safety from incidents like the one that occurred today. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger"&nbsp; &nbsp; Dear Student, We are all appalled to confront again in our community a number of acts of bias, prejudice, and intolerance.&nbsp; It is, perhaps, tempting for those not targeted in these incidents to downplay or dismiss them as the actions and attitudes of only a few, unrepresentative individuals.&nbsp; At times like this it is essential for everyone to try to understand the seriousness of these incidents and how they are experienced by members of targeted groups.&nbsp; Repeated administrative statements deploring these incidents are an essential part of Columbia’s response to their occurrence. But we must seek not only to prevent these incidents from recurring, but also to understand the vulnerability and isolation felt by those at risk, taking collective responsibility for each other’s security, well-being, and full membership in our University community. Columbia strives continually for an academic community of inclusiveness and excellence in every imaginable way.&nbsp; It is what brings so many of us to Columbia.&nbsp; It is a privilege we all share to belong to a community in which a vital part of our excellence derives from our inclusiveness.&nbsp; It is thus everyone’s responsibility to sustain and nurture our diverse community, to understand what it means to say that an attack on any one of our communities is an attack on all of us, and to do whatever we can to demonstrate that sense of acceptance, empathy, and respect for others that enables our diverse community to thrive.&nbsp; We are all the poorer when divisive and threatening acts take place, and we all must do our utmost to strengthen the whole community fabric that can, when we all pitch in together, enable us to be Columbians at our very best. This email comes with an understanding that many of you will rightly feel we are preaching to the already converted, but it is partly directed to those who may not have&nbsp; yet grasped the full extent of our community responsibilities, and particularly to those individuals whose involvement in recent abhorrent incidents indicate that they just don’t get it at all.&nbsp; <!-- D( ); D(); //--> “Not on our campus” our student activists have been chanting this week.&nbsp; They speak loudly and emphatically for us all. To those of our students who need special support at this time, the staff of the Division of Student Affairs and the Office of Multicultural Affairs are there to serve you individually and to link you to other campus resources as needed.&nbsp; Their work will be even more successful if we all find ways of building our entire community upon mutual respect, solidarity and support.&nbsp; Thank you for doing all you can to make our community one of which we can all be proud. Nicholas Dirks Vice President for Arts and Sciences Austin Quigley Dean of Columbia College Gerald Navratil Dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science &nbsp; 
 A smattering of students and a sea of empty chairs confronted Deans Quigley, Colombo, and Friedman (SEAS) about the noose incident at an event this afternoon sponsored by the Columbia Queer Alliance. The small showing was probably due to the time - noon on a Thursday - and also because the admins agreed to show up on short notice. Bwog itself received a statement announcing the event at 1:23 a.m. this morning. Organizers decided to merge their scheduled event to unveil a new "safe-zone" campaign with a session of firmly posed questions from the few students present--&nbsp;and mostly plain vanilla answers from the administrators. Students wanted to know specifics -- in what kind of time frame they could expect to hear from administrators with progress reports on the hate crime front, what tangible things administrators now realize they could have done better to create safe spaces for students. Administrators had palpably reassuring, but vague responses. In his germane way, Quigley acknowledged that administrators should have let students know about the incident sooner, and that Columbia's policy on hate crimes should be more widely known. In his less-germane way, Colombo said he would like to better "demonstrate to the community we are here to support them." And Friedman, SEAS's Quigley, said the three men in collared shirts and ties behind the panel ran "an open shop." When students asked why they heard about the noose from student groups and listsevs and not from administrators, Colombo stumbled, explaining he may wear his Blackberry on his belt at all hours, but that not everyone in the administration does. "You guys start your days at a variety of hours," he said. But perhaps they are learning. After office hours today when news of the anti-Semetic graffiti in Lewisohn hit, Quigley sent his delicate prose response merely minutes after President Bollinger -- who is himself feeling the heat of student criticism on this point. At the end of the hour, students had a few commitments to transparency, tolerance, and inclusion to hold on to, and a new symbol to plaster around the school to signify safe-spaces, and perhaps the goal to blanket the campus in one large safe-space symbol. -SEV Statement by the CQA after the jump... Dear friends, We are following up on the statement we issued yesterday regarding the hate crimes at Teachers College. We thank everyone for the e-mails they sent to bollinger@columbia.edu, and the telephone calls to the university switchboard at (212)854-1754. We urge you to continue e-mailing President Bollinger and calling to ensure that the demands of students at Teachers College and Columbia University be met. Martin Luther King, Jr. said no direct action is ever "well-timed". He also said that there is a time when silence can mean betrayal. These words and ideas came from a man who also said that injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. With this in mind, queer student leaders have worked with Queer Awareness Month, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Office of the University Chaplain to broaden the scope of Coming Out Day at Columbia. Today, at 12PM sharp (Thursday, Oct. 11) in Lerner Hall's Roone Alredge auditorium, students will have the opportunity to hear from Columbia administrators (Dean Austin Quigley and Dean Chris Colombo), who will discuss Columbia's recent response to these hate crimes. More importantly, students will have the opportunity to ask their own questions, and have their concerns addressed as well as to petition administrators to be more proactive. No matter how much discourse or statements are produced by these hate crimes, in the end, we either have safety or we don't. We believe it is important for everyone at Columbia, not just the LGBTQ community, but the community-at-large to be visible and present at this event and we are asking everyone to forward this information as widely as possible. It is crucial that we speak truth to power and we will no longer stand silent reacting to events as they happen, but rather we must examine ways in which such incidents can be prevented or better handled. Subsequently, Queer Awareness Month and the Chaplain's Office has postponed Queer Common Meal. In its place tonight will be a Common Meal entitled "United Against Hate", with a broad focus on all types of violence, bias and bigotry at Columbia. The LGBT community will be attending this event, and we invite you to join us at 6PM-7:30PM (Thursday, Oct. 11) at Earl Hall auditorium. It is critical that we be as visible as possible in this important dialog and process that is taking place between students and administrators at this university. Please try to attend at least one of these events so we can stand together and stand united against all forms of bigotry and violence on this campus. We have enclosed a PDF flyer if you would like to print some out and post some around campus, but we have found that information is more effectively conveyed through e-mail and word of mouth. If you have any questions, please contact bwreid.work@gmail.com. As always, we promise to keep you informed and updated and we thank you for endless love and support. We will close this e-mail with a quote from Audre Lorde. Thank you, and have a wonderful National Coming Out Day. "There is no hierarchy of oppression. I know I cannot afford the luxury of fighting one form of oppression only. I cannot afford to believe that, freedom from intolerance is the right of only one particular group. And I cannot afford to choose between the fronts upon which I must battle these forces of discrimination, wherever they appear to destroy me, it will not be long before they appear to destroy you." 
 Columbia has seen better days. The ceiling of the psychology library in Schermerhorn just collapsed. The disaster came close to injuring a few people. Facilities and public safety have already arrived. Hopefully not much damage was done. &nbsp; 
 Coverage on yesterday's madness, if you need anymore of it Given the last few weeks, the call for safe space is probably in order PrezBo's been doing quite a bit of talking lately On slanderous graffiti: "...we could have noted that the person who wrote it has a small penis." &nbsp;Ah, lovely and nifty multimedia: a bias timeline &nbsp; 
If you were caught up in the spectacle of the Homecoming Carnival, you might have missed Jack Nicholson and his sunglasses outside of Low giving autographs and scaring children. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 If you somehow missed the spectacle of giant inflatables and mobs of people waiting for free food on Low Plaza this afternoon, CCSC Columbia student councils and organizations (edited) celebrated the day prior to homecoming with a carnival that made one a little nostalgic with memories of elementary school PTA festivities -- minus, perhaps, children crying from being kicked in a game of tug-of-war, and with the addition of phallic ring toss (courtesy of none other than CUMB, of course). Sadly, Bwog was in class for most of the time, and was a little disappointed to miss out on the raffle drawings and so-called "beverage pong." Anyway, here's what we got a glimpse of, after the jump. &nbsp; (Somewhere out there, there has got to be a good caption for this photograph.) &nbsp; 
The October issue--featuring drugs, 80s movies, and freshman nostalgia--is somewhere between here and New Jersey. While you wait, here's a profile from Andrew Flynn. “What do Germans think when they think of bread?” Alonzo digresses from an erudite defense of poetry from the ravages of philosophy, aided by the words of Walter Benjamin on pain and brot. “I don’t think I’ve ever gone out and just said to myself, ‘I think I’m going to have some German bread today.’ I’ve said, ‘I’m going to have a baguette,’ and it’s worked out quite nicely. But German bread…” This is Jonathan Alonzo Rios, CC ’09—though he answers simply to Alonzo, due to both Hispanic heritage and grammar school confusions with five other Jonathans. When he says “Ah-lon-zoh,” most think he’s English, or perhaps a poseur English major, but the accent is all his own, the anomalous result of a bilingual upbringing. The name, however, is a relative pittance: Alonzo is a man to be known by sight, to be picked out from a distance by his gait—an easy trot, often supported by a cane for an undiagnosed knee ailment—and his dress. Alonzo favors the obscure and the refined: crème-colored fedoras, gold pocket watches, suspenders. In cold weather, his stout frame is draped in black trench coat, his neck wrapped tightly in a wool scarf. When he smokes, which he quite likes to do, his Nat Sherman is frequently wedged in a cigarette holder, bobbing between his faint moustache and slight goatee, kept afloat by a tight, sly grin. But don’t let looks deceive you. To know Alonzo is to know the roles of Alonzo: gracious host, Muslim seeker, language-dabbler, painter, thinker, to-be-writer, night-walker, and, most of all, constant reader. Upon entering his 191st Street apartment, one must take off one’s shoes before padding down the oriental-carpeted hallway to Alonzo’s study, a room spacious enough for a sofa, a writing desk, and almost all of the classics of Western and Islamic literature, most in their original languages. (Alonzo’s bathroom reading includes Rousseau, Montaigne, and the Iliad in German—“to remind me I should be learning my German.”) “Assume I haven’t read the books. I’m a terrible reader. But I have great faith in reading.” He gestures to a darkened adjacent room filled with luggage. “Poncho puts me to shame.” Here lives his roommate, a high school dropout who has befriended theoretical architect Peter Eisenman and is attempting to ace the SAT under Alonzo’s tutelage. Alonzo shakes his head: “I’m a terrible tutor.” Raised Catholic by traditionally religious Colombian immigrants, Alonzo was originally devout. “If I had remained Catholic, I would have considered the priesthood,” he explains. Instead, he experienced a robust intellectual conversion in high school that puts the punk teenage atheist stereotype to shame. “The Trinity”—his brow furrows, remembering thorny theological wrangling of years gone by. “I didn’t buy it.” Now, the Islamic convert places a fruit plate in front of me and offers me hookah as he begins to recount his most recent quest—the year he intended to spend abroad in Turkey learning Arabic, Persian, and Turkish, the languages he thought would lead him to wisdom. After a whirlwind romance with a red-haired anarchist and a growing paranoia (“I would see meaning in the patterns of the garbage on the street”), Alonzo arranged, via a community of Turkish immigrants living in his hometown, to go to Turkey and study languages. But, when he arrived, it was all a bust. There was no way to study language, no one to teach him Arabic. He returned two months later and holed himself up in his room to read the Qur’an and Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason. Six months ago, he would have worn a turban, but now Alonzo is feeling the need to be a bit more social and a bit less introspective. “I know it sounds trite,” he nods, “but I’ve truly convinced myself that when you find God, God is not the answer. God is the question.” In a momentary revelation of the spiritual limits of a well-stocked library, Alonzo begins to pace, shakes his head, and takes another drag of his cigarette. “I don’t do anything,” he laughs.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; — Andrew Flynn 
In case you were curious about what other things came up in the last 24 hours or so: &nbsp; Robert Kraft, alumnus and New England Patriots owner extraordinaire, just donated a crapload of money to Columbia Athletics ($5 million, to be exact). Consequentially, Lawrence A. Wein Stadium has become the Stadium Formerly Known as Wein, AKA, Robert K. Kraft Field. Apparently another noose was found on a lamppost outside a ground zero post office yesterday afternoon. Indeed, no words can probably describe our reaction to this better than "WTF?" In case you were wondering on how much Professor Hamid Dabashi had to say on the Ahmadinejad/Bollinger face-off, he's got a recent lengthy response to the incident in a Cairo publication. To cut it short: he's not happy, and he mentions Rudyard Kipling. Former J-School visiting professor/VP Al Gore has been announced as co-winner of the Nobel Peace Prize (alongside the IPCC) for his fight with global warming. It's kind of surreal, actually. On a sidenote, the weather is suddenly much cooler, and there are many more people walking around campus with scarves than usual. 
 Because it's homecoming! Bwog commentary and photos to follow later on in the day. 
As the New York Film Festival comes to a close, Bwog contributor Christian Kamongi gives his take on one of the films that may soon hit a theater near you. The Man From London (Official Selection for Competition at the 60th Annual Cannes Film Festival and the 45th New York Film Festival) &nbsp; Release Date: The Man From London is currently without a distributor. &nbsp; Synopsis: A night watchman Maloin discovers a murder take place and retrieves the suitcase of the victim. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As far as Bela Tarr is concerned, no other contemporary filmmaker has drenched his work in such chromatic disparities. He has repeatedly adapted chiaroscuro with a haunting mobility, ultimately creating an effect with black and white as expressive in its strikingly multifarious tones as a Technicolor picture. Unfortunately, his latest project underlies his mastery in the earlier referred to areas but fails on a narrative level to match his previous work. Where is the haunting poignancy of Damnation, the sweeping personal historicity of Satantango, or apocalyptic humanism of The Werckmeister Harmonies ? Luckily for Tarr, this is one of the few substantial criticisms that can be leveled against the feature, and it's more a disappointment than it is a criticism. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For most viewers, even the most hardened adherents to art-house ethos, Tarr is a no go, his takes last as long as Jancsó and Angelopoulos without the splendidly crafted mobility or weighty storylines, the lack of action in his features would put The Brown Bunny to shame. In fact, if you were wondering why Gus van Sant decided to undertake his recent Death Trilogy (Elephant, etc.) it was done as largely a homage to Tarr. I was displeased to be reminded of the popular view of Tarr during the screening of the feature when about one-tenth of the audience walked out. My comrades' first warning was the first scene in which Tarr takes thirty-five minutes to display what most films do in thirty five seconds. The camera epically pans up a ship, with a proximity to its haul that creates a surreal effect that almost leads to the viewer discerning that this is not a ship as much as it is a dance between light and darkness perfectly splintered. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Once we arrive on the deck we witness a conversation between two individuals exchanging suitcases, as the action plays out one of the men is murdered. Our protagonist Maloin (Miroslav Krobot) witnesses the murder and swoops in to fetch the suitcase, which he later discovers contains 64,000 in English pounds. The unconventionality of Tarr is immediately present when we spend more time watching Maloin dry the money (wet from the suitcase having been dropped in the sea) then reveling in what turns out to be his non-existent excitement. Of course the suitcase belongs to someone else but it's absolutely stunning how little of the film is dedicated to what would usually be some sort of sensational rat race between the wrong man and the crime lord. Instead the film operates in reflective tones as we discover that Maloin's relationship to the newly discovered goods is less a cause for joy than a questionable form of exit from boredom. Of course, Tarr's cinematographic sophistication is perfectly molded for the desperation and spiritual nausea that plague Maloin and his family, we occasionally see him fight with his wife (Tilda Swinton, given far too little screen time), playing chess at the pub, or scolding his daughter (Erika Bok, who you may remember from Satantango). &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Problematically, though, between the murder scene and the film's conclusion there seems to be an occasional note of visual eloquence and profundity in a vast space full of long takes and short in dynamism. There are various reasons for this, primarily the film lacks the presentation of a meaningful context which usually serves to legitimize Tarr's austere approach to what he refers to as "pure cinema." A feature of this lacking context is the puzzling setting (I was amused to hear the individuals behind me argue about whether or not Hungary even has access to a coast-it doesn't) we are never aware were this story takes place and if takes place in an émigré Hungarian community in a British seaside town Tarr doesn't do a very good job of proving it. For a film so largely concerned with the exploration of its own surrounding (the personal, the geographical, and the historical) their seems to be a restricted understanding of it but then again what a luminous surrounding it is. 
 Facebook has long deleted facebook personalities that probably actually don't exist. It started with Alexander Hamilton, and moved on to Barack Obama (although he has his own legit profile now anyway). But now, they've killed someone much closer to home: the lovely and charming BandW Bwog, who had the pleasure of becoming friends with many of you in its two-week existence. A quick search reveals that Inside New York and even the well-connected CU Arts have also been disappeared.&nbsp; It's a dangerous world out there for web-based beings. They can't change who they are!&nbsp; 
 It's stroller gridlock on South Lawn. Kids and parents from Park Slope to the Upper West Side have gathered in front of Butler for the New York Times' "Sunday of free fun for book-loving families." It's a day of book signings, giveaways, readings, and performances and toddlers have gathered en masse in inappropriately autumnal apparel. Throughout the day, "notable New Yorkers" will be reading from beloved children's book, including Stacy London (host of What Not to Wear) reading Clementine, NYPD Commissioner Raymond Kelly reading Green Eggs and Ham, and Blues Clues host Steve Burns reading Bud, Not Buddy. Bwog was kind of hoping for a Giuliani reading of The Lorax, but alas. There will also be live performances from musicians and entertainers. Upon Bwog's arrival to the fair, a man and a women took the stage in train conductor uniforms and shouted, "We're all the same when we listen to music!" The kids nodded robotically. Bwog was slightly alarmed. We asked a little boy who the uniformed Marxists were. "Um. Choo Choo Solar," he advised. "No, no that's not right," his mother interrupted. "It's um, here," she said as she pulled out the schedule. "Choo Choo Soul." Bwog began walking back towards Broadway, but Choo Choo Soul made an announcement that Cheech Marin, of Cheech and Chong, would be reading from his new children's book Bus Driver Cheech. "You may not know who this guy is," female member of Choo Choo Soul cautioned. "But your parents do! He's wacky!" Perhaps the same could be said about the following act, They Might Be Giants? - JNW 
 Despite Zuckerberg's victory earlier today with the cancellation of the BandW Bwog Facebook profile, the Blue and White/the Bwog has triumphantly returned to Zuckerberg's fiefdom in the guise of Verily Veritas. Befriend away, good soldiers.&nbsp; UPDATE 11:15 PM: Zuckerberg's empire strikes back! Veritas killed in battle! Bwog is gathering its forces, and storm clouds are setting in. The time has come for the dominion of men! A day may come when the courage of men fails, when we forsake our friends and break all bonds of fellowship, but it is not this day. An hour of woes and shattered shields, when the age of men comes crashing down! But it is not this day! This day we fight! OK not really. But LOTR looks almost fitting at 11:30 on a Sunday.&nbsp; 
 Armin Rosen reports on the big semi-annual, semi-mandatory sophomore class lecture. The title of this post is actually a wee bit inaccurate. This wasn't just the biggest walkout of the year--it was also the biggest walkout of last year, and was probably bigger than any walkouts that were held the year before that one, too. About seven hundred students were at Roone for Friday's Contemporary Civilization course-wide lecture. By the time Berkley Talmud professor Daniel Boyarin had finished dissecting the seventh chapter of Daniel, a mere handful were left in the audience, proving that while Iraq might convince 400 or so people not to go to class, intellectual passivity is one cause around which practically everyone can rally. Even at Columbia. If only John Erskine could have lived to have seen so spectacular a "fuck you" to the Core Curriculum and everything it represents. Granted, it was a Friday afternoon. And granted, I've heard some people complain that Boyarin's central thesis--that the all-time mindblower that is Daniel 7 represents an attempt at suppressing certain polytheistic ideas within ancient Judaism, and that its formulation of an "older" and "younger" God provided a theological basis for the emergence of Christianity as a protestant movement within Judaism itself--has nothing to do with what we've been reading and studying in CC. I've heard others say that his brilliant synthesis of linguistics, history, literature and religion was off-topic and irrelevant; that his meticulous application of comp-lit methods both on a practical and theoretical level were limited to ideas and concepts uninteresting to people without a strong background in Judaism. Sure, these people say, he was able to use documentary and methodological evidence to prove that the vision of the beasts and the "throne apocalypse" were separate texts that were interwoven in order to downplay the latter's suggestion that God could take the form of an earthly "son of man." And yes, he did use exhaustive Talmudic and historical evidence to prove that there existed a surprisingly Christian belief in pseudo-human divinity within ancient Judaism, and that later Jewish thinkers tried to weed out a certain "mythological" strain within the religion. But apparently that wasn't enough for some of you. So Boyarin dropped a Hebrew term or two (surprise--that's the language Daniel was written in!). And he used big, Jewishy words like "Talmud," and "Torah," and maybe dropped a bit more Aramaic and ancient Greek than we're normally accustomed to. But these kinds of criticism only prove that Boyarin was a victim of his own sophistication. Sure, the theological and intellectual history of two major monotheistic faiths might not seem all that relevant to the study of Western thought--except wait a second, how isn't that totally relevant to the study of Western thought? Boyarin was abstruse at times, but the brilliance of his analysis was never in question. He brought a mind-boggling depth and originality of thought to a piece of literature whose significance within the cannon should have been clear, but whose historical and literary meaning certainly was not. His analysis shed light on an obscure but hugely important topic, and complicated typically comfortable theological and historical lines--categories like "Jewish," "Christian," "monotheist" and "polytheist" are only safe until a scholar like Boyarin disturbs them, and reminds us that every last idea has a vast and infinitely complicated history lurking behind it. I thought it was fascinating. Too bad so many people disagree. 
 Joy, innocence, youth make guest appearances on campus Well, at least there's always&nbsp;women's soccer... Except no, no there isn't The real truth about the truth about "The Truth About the Academies," clarified&nbsp; But why is it that conservative activist David Horowitz has written a column consisting&nbsp;entirely&nbsp;of rhetorical questions? 
After an exciting week of Decolonization, celebrity sightings and little children, only CCSC could return the student body to normalcy.&nbsp; No resolutions (or revolutions) tonight, but, for the first time ever, CTV taped the weekly updates. The meeting opened with CCSC's beverage-related homecoming escapades.&nbsp; Once the meeting was called to order and the cameras began rolling, the council presidents were suddenly much peppier and more dapper.&nbsp; George Krebs, in particular, was extremely excited about the possibility of bringing the Big Apple Circus to Columbia.&nbsp; Unfortunately, the sophomore class trip to Montreal was cancelled.&nbsp; The seniors will still be taking a trip down to the Brooklyn Brewery. When the cameras left, however, the council returned to their casual, informal state where they discussed the campus's most pressing issues including the recent bias incidents, the annual tree lighting and whether to switch all eggs used on campus to cage-free.&nbsp; While CCSC did not come to a consensus on how to express solidarity against the recent hate crimes, Sue Yang has planned an elaborate holiday celebration that could include candy canes with personalized notes, Michelle Diamond dressed up as Santa Claus (pictured at her Macy's gig from last year), caroling and jingle bells.&nbsp; The most controversial discussion, however, whether they should to increase the dining budget by 0.4% (financed by an increase in upperclassmen meal plans by $8-10 per year) in order to make more humane meals. &nbsp;The meeting adjourned when freshman rep Sean Udell pointed out that none of the members were chicken farmers and they would get representatives of more informed groups to better understand the issue.&nbsp; - JJV 
Proof from Hamilton 3 that flyering is a legitimate art form: In completely unrelated news, Bwog saw this rather militant-looking vehicle parked outside its window this morning. Though momentarily worried that our nation had suffered an overnight descent into Soviet-style martial law,&nbsp;Bwog's fears were assuaged when&nbsp;it saw that it carried&nbsp;a banner reading "Elite Shooters.com."&nbsp;We're glad that somebody's finally cashing in on the long-dormant urban sportshooting market, although it looks like a few Morningsiders are in for a hell of an office party. Maybe the&nbsp;Saltzman Institute is going for a mid-semester jaunt? &nbsp; 
 Two Bwoggers report on a disturbing journey to the center of the mind... Our reasons for doing Salvia had as much to do with irony as they did with recreation. Free of associations with the 1960s counterculture, the perfectly legal psychoactive escaped the social retrenchment our nation experienced during the 70s and 80s. So while Salvia gets you high on one of the most powerful hallucinogens known to man, it also gets you high on contradiction: going by our current standards (you know, the ones that don’t let you drink ‘til you’re 21), there is no conceivable justification for keeping this stuff legal. None. It’s like hypocrisy you can smoke. I, however, was a bit confused when my co-experimentalist first floated the idea. A visit to Wikipedia turned up the following information (here I paraphrase): Salvia divinorum is a naturally occurring herb related to mint and capable of producing strong psychoactive effects for a short amount of time when smoked and inhaled. Its twenty-minute trip has characteristics of both weed and stronger drugs, like shrooms. Salvia’s Latin name means “sage of the seers”; the word salvia is related to salve, used by the ancient Romans to mean “hello,” “be well,” and possibly ““care for a smoke?.” After digesting this new knowledge, I thought for a few seconds, reveled in the narcissism of enlightened drug use, and replied: “Sure, why the hell not?” After all, I was in need of a psychoactively novel experience, and I didn’t see myself making it down to the Navajo Nation any time in the near future. So a few weeks later he and I, after pushing through throngs of hipsters and goths on St. Mark’s Place and purchasing our wares in a seedy yet comforting headshop (Addiction NYC, for the curious), found ourselves loading surprisingly odorless, fine brown leaves into a knobby and voluminous bubbler. Unlike many drugs, the use of Salvia is governed by a more or less rigid set of guidelines: while pot can be vaporized, spliffed and even ingested whole, Salvia is wasted if it isn’t smoked out of a waterpipe and held in the lungs for as long as is physically possible. It can’t be smoked casually, partly because of its potency, and partly because its potency can only be unlocked if you give the thing the respect and attention it deserves. Like a late-night Spicy Special run, a Salvia trip is an event. So lights were dimmed, the lighter lit, smoke inhaled and held until every synapse thirsted for oxygen, before being exhaled in cumulus formations above the coffee table--at once the warm aura of an near-instantaneous and profound high washed over my being, and I told a stupid joke. From what I could surmise from my friend’s jittery, cackling reaction to said joke, he was feeling pretty much the same. I munched on a cookie; the texture was transcendental. We took another hit, or two or three. For about a minute I felt myself ascending to unprecedented heights of highness. Then a most jarring paradigm shift took place: my entire world existed only within my visual field, and my brain began to segment it into windows of arbitrary size. My body tingled with entheogenic glee; my cognitive processes whirred and reeled. I fixated inexplicably upon the orange Nalgene atop the table, which I promptly deified and worshipped as a symbol of something greater; the smaller green Nalgene right next to it became its divine consort. But no sooner was my new religion established than it began to fade away. The world came back into focus and I gradually came to the realization that there were a couple of people sitting next to me. The few thoughts I had were still obscured by an opaque mental haze, and after kicking my fellow psychonauts out of the suite, I crashed in bed and awoke ten hours later, still a little foggy but no worse for the wear. My tripping partner now has about a half-gram of the leafy black powdery shit perched on his bookshelf. This is enough to make five people trip once, or, conversely, for he himself to trip another five times. He tells me that the mysterious, foggy-orange glass tube does tempt him--but he adds that one mind-bending, socially-hypocritical joyride is probably more than enough. After all, Salvia is a novelty both for its legality and the fact that it offers a vaguely psychotropic experience without exacting any major commitments in energy and time. But inevitably it is little more than that--a strange and discomforting novelty, albeit one that’s legal and considerably less scary than the alternatives. 
 Earlier this week, Riverside Church passed around this undoubtedly urgent security bulletin: "Just a heads up: Incredible Productions, LLC. --- are the producers of the film 'The Hulk'—due out 2008. They will be flying a helicopter around the Riverside Church Tower (500 feet minimum distance—FAA standard) to shoot footage for the film. Please note the particulars: 1. This will take place on Monday and Tuesday---or----Wednesday and Thursday if weather is bad on Monday and Tuesday----during the day, early evening. 2. *_They do not need access to the building at all---for any reason_*---I am telling you in case someone calls and is concerned about a helicopter circling the tower---they are not terrorists!!!!!! 3. We have been chosen _only_ because of our height and proximity to Columbia University---which is the 'unidentified' university being featured in the film. We are the space that gives them a great vantage point of angle they need of Columbia. 4. When you see the movie, you'll see our tower ----digitally enhanced, to appear to be providing military surveillance---there will also be a military aircraft hovering nearby---all computer generated. 5. We will in no way be identified as Riverside Church---nor will any footage of any other part of the premises be taken. You will not know it is Riverside----(well, *you* will because I'm telling you the secret)" Well that's a relief. I&nbsp;mean&nbsp;God forbid anybody recognize one of the true architectural highlights of the Upper West Side...anyway, while Bwog is relieved to know that the helicopter circling UTS this week won't be&nbsp;under the command of&nbsp;terrorists, we're a bit off put by this "unidentified university" bullshit. Really, Hollywood--can we get a little respect? Please? 
 Frustrated with the slow progress of the Manhattanville expansion, Columbia instead&nbsp;decided to dedicate its resources towards constructing a magical Bridge to Terebithia, and annex a SUNY that doesn't exist. Hurrah! Or maybe somebody has a plaque maker, a sense of humor and a little too much time on his/her hands. Thanks to Jonathan Bell for noticing. 
&nbsp; Everyone's favorite Morningside newspaper is taking a midterms hiatus, so no QuickSpec today. There will, however, be Ask Bwog. Bwog will be taking on questions about anything—Columbia-related or not. For instance, "Why does Lerner 4 smell like vomit?" or, "Why does the M104 smell like vomit?" both make excellent queries. Send questions to bwog@columbia.edu and they'll be posted and answered the following Tuesday. Today's question comes from Paul Barndt, a senior and Blue and White editor who wants to know: How can I become a celebrity personal assistant? The obvious starting point would seem to be doing a stint as a non-celebrity personal assistant. As lame as that may sound, it’s probably correct. A friend of Bwog recently made an off-hand comment in one of Bwog’s seminars that he was looking for a job. The professor happened to be looking for an assistant and— voila!— a personal assistant was born. When celebrities are in need of assistants, chances are they’re not going to advertise on Craigslist. What’s more likely is that they will advertise via word of mouth. The most likely scenario is that there will be a lengthy interview process in which the applicant will be screened by several managers, lawyers and agents before actually being interview by the celebrity in question. To ace these interviews, an applicant must have a squeaky-clean background and probably must have some experience as an assistant, nanny or babysitter. The applicant should be extremely organized and at least have a semblance of competence. Finally, if all goes well, the prospective assistant will have a casual meet and greet with the celebrity. If sparks fly, chances are that the celebrity is looking to hire someone as quickly as possible. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; If you are (un)lucky enough to be hired, be warned that the hours of a celebrity personal assistant are all day, everyday. Assistants are expected to do everything from menial tasks like dropping off laundry and picking up Starbucks to helping the celebrity fix appliances in the middle of the night. There are obvious perks, besides the proximity to a theoretically extremely attractive/talented superstar. You’ll probably follow the celebrity as they go on vacations or fly to various exotic locales for shoots. And don’t be surprised if the celebrity passes along swag from award shows and promotions. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The thing about celebrity assistants is that most of the time, attention is paid to the “celebrity” part and no so much the “assistant” aspect of the logistics the gig. Glamour be damned, this is an assistant position. So, my star-struck hopeful, be careful what you wish for. Ask Bwog thanks theprincetonreview.com, fabjob.com, gawker.com, and jobseekersadvice.com. 
A friend of Bwog passes along a tip that Kim’s is having a massive sale. 25% off CDs, 10% of DVDs and 15% off books! That Criterion Collection version of Brazil you want to buy so that you might prominently display it? Yours! For only, like, $45. Meanwhile, rumors of closure are surrounding the indie emporium. A source says it’s “bleeding money.” Shockingly, according to Google,&nbsp; the phrase “Bleeding Money” has not yet been co-opted for the title of a film student’s Marxist love story. 
The arrival of Pinkberry is imminent, so Bwog took to the fourth floor of Lerner to find out how Columbia’s most convenient froyo chain is handling the news. Bwog: Hey, can I ask you a question. Elizabeth, Tasti employee: Sure. Bwog: What do you think about the fact that Pinkberry is opening down the street? Elizabeth: (silence) Bwog: It’s another frozen yogurt chain. It’s opening a few blocks away. Elizabeth: Oh, um. Nothing. Bwog: You feel nothing? Elizabeth: I guess. I don’t know. Bwog: So Tasti is not doing anything in the way of special offers or lower prices or advertising to reach out to hypothetical Pinkberry-converts? Elizabeth: Guess not. ... Bwog: Hi, do you guys eat regularly at Tasti? Alli and Jenny, first years: Yeah. Bwog: Cool, so what do you think is going to change now that Pinkberry is coming? Alli: I’ve never had it, but I’ve heard it had all that weird stuff it in. Bwog: What kind of weird stuff? Alli: I don’t know, like weird animals. Bwog: Pinkberry has weird animals in it? Alli: That’s what I heard. Jenny: We’ll probably try it once. Bwog: So how do you feel about the arrival of Pinkberry? Jess, Tasti addict and CC junior: Oh, that’s funny. The woman who works at Tasti just asked me what Pinkberry was because you asked her questions. She thought it was in the building. I told her it was like Tasti but colder and more sour. Bwog: Wow, Pinkberry really needs to do some better advertising, half the people I spoke with don’t even know it’s coming or what it is. Jess: Yeah. My loyalty is with Tasti. Tasti til I die. I’m not paying for this, you can’t beat that. Bwog: Oh, Flex. Jess: Right. And the convenience. I’ll probably have Pinkberry once a week but Tasti like, twice a day. The Fruit Loops you can put into Pinkberry, that’s cool. Bwog: Yeah, and the Captain Crunch. Jess: Tasti has a huge following. And we’re all still pretending that Tasti doesn’t have any calories. Bwog: Oh, it really does have a lot. Jess: Yeah, I know. 
Columbia continues its recent trend of improving old things by re-doing them in Century Gothic with the launch of the new Lerner website. Even though the new site is the color of a failing kidney, information is streamlined and aesthetically pleasing—like this handy map of Lerner’s innards. And this insultingly oversimplified guide to booking space. If it only it were as simple as the vague, minimalist Clip Art suggests it would be! Speaking of navigating a rocky bureaucratic disaster, the office of housing is sponsoring a “contest”. They're looking for students to volunteer their rooms for a virtual tour to be completed in time for spring’s housing lottery. The “winners” will receive an unspecified amount of Flex points added to their accounts. The deadline of the “contest” is 11/16, so all interested parties should probably start removing drug paraphernalia and illegal residents as quickly and efficiently as possible. 
 Bwog ventured into photo contests last year, held a Lolcompetition last month, and has since learned that some of you have quite a remarkable facility with Photoshop. Now, time to show off your skills: our first Photoshop competition. This time, pick your favorite professor (or your least favorite) and give him or her a makeover, like the badass individual at right. Meanness is to be discouraged, anonymity granted upon request. Entries are due THIS THURSDAY at MIDNIGHT. E-mail them to bwog@columbia.edu. Happy doctoring! 
Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, the print issue will be here. Meanwhile, you can read the whole thing, in all its drugged-out glory, online!&nbsp; Welcome to the Dollhouse...with crack&nbsp; Bet you didn't know that college students abuse substances Well they do You just wish your freshman floor was this interesting&nbsp; Bowie-tacular&nbsp; Robert Thurman gets whitey&nbsp; 
 Touro College Expands Into Harlem Columbia Expands... into SPACE! Frontiers of Science expands minds...into SPACE! An invitation to a "Verses for the Masses"...scheduled with a Lerner event SPACE request Finally, Columbia students discover "unless you hate freedom," the Holy Grail of rhetoric. 
 AXO Theta, the Dems, CMTS, and SEEJ all want to feed you! Actually not SEEJ, they just want to sell you T-shirts, and get you to sign their petition asking Columbia to buy wind power (they'll be there 'til next Wednesday).&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Sometimes, even the most godless among us need to get a little religion. In our first Church Hop, we took you north--this time, Bwog freelancer Alexandra Muhler takes you the other way down Amsterdam. If Sunday mornings came directly after Tuesday afternoons, I'd probably be a faithful churchgoer.&nbsp; But alas, they follow Saturday nights, so it takes a more stirring motivation than my fairly weak, if persistent, sense of spiritual yearning, to put me in a pew at the godly hour of 10 a.m.&nbsp; This week, that motivation was my mother, and the pew was at Saint Michael's. Saint Michael's, located on Amsterdam between 98th and 99th Streets, is a thoroughly nice building.&nbsp; It has been impressively refurbished since the congregation was established in1807, with a grand, high-ceilinged chapel and a gold-and-turquoise color scheme.&nbsp; The south-facing stained glass in the front altar uses one of the wider variety of colors I've seen, sending a dappled stream of morning light into the space. The traditional design of the church matches the style of worship--typically Anglican.&nbsp; A program, distributed to each mass attendee on entering, lists the hymns, gives the words to the prayers, and contains the full Bible passages that are to be read. The congregation tends to mutter along monotonously to accompany the choirs, one of which is a choir of children, dressed in long white tunics and looking altogether too cute and holy. The prayers and statements of faith, at least in the congregants' responses, are delivered in an equally quiet, mumbling tone.&nbsp; The pews, especially in the back, are sparsely enough populated that it feels odd to actually vocalize during the proceedings. But mass at St. Michael's is not a bloodless Upper West Side WASP drearfest.&nbsp; During the Peace, members disperse far and wide through the pews to shake hands and say "peace be with you."&nbsp; The few children present are welcome to fidget with crayons and religious storybooks, and their parents aren't stared at as they carry whiny or crying babies out into the foyer.&nbsp; In the hallway, a poster promotes the faith of one member, who is photographed with his husband and their three children.&nbsp; A bit of history: St. Michael's built the neighboring St. Jude's Chapel in 1921 as part of a mission in a poor black neighborhood on West 99th St. St. Jude's closed in 1957, and the rector of St. Michael's invited its parishioners to join his.&nbsp; The offer wasn't embraced by many of the St. Jude's worshippers, but St. Michael's has persisted in trying to reconcile--last year they had some kind of a march of reconciliation. Now, the congregation seems gloriously mixed: nearly half black and a little over half white. So whether you have a nagging conscience, a nagging mother, or a nagging stomach (free pastries in the back room after mass!), St. Michael's is a hangover remedy you might want to try. &nbsp; 
 Congratulations to history professor Kenneth Jackson, who added a new grandson to the family. Jackson, respected within the Columbia family as the Jacques Barzun professor of history and social sciences, is also respected in his own family: one (the first one!) of the baby's two middle names is "Kenneth." One of Jackson's classes received the following e-mail: Dear members of the History of NYC course, Yesterday afternoon, soon after lecture ended, Professor Jackson was blessed with a healthy grandson, Luke Kenneth Karl Jackson. (He weighed in at 7 pounds, 13 ounces, measured 20 1/2 inches, and received a perfect APGAR score, in case you were wondering.) With all the pop culture, futuristic, and historical references in the boy's name ("Luke," as in "Cool Hand" or Skywalker; "Kenneth," as in Jackson; and "Karl," not really as in Marx), one can only imagine what this child will amount to! Congratulations to Professor Jackson and his family. Basketball fans will notice the newborn has the same name as Toronto Raptors small forward Luke Jackson, who has spent most of his three seasons in the NBA recovering from injuries. Bwog wishes young Luke Kenneth Karl better health.
They're pretty darling from the back, at least. 
 Robert Kraft's recent donation to Columbia got the Lions some sort-of-big-time sports coverage. Gregg Easterbrook, who writes the 6,000- word Tuesday Morning Quarterback column for ESPN's Page 2, wrote a paragraph on Columbia's fundraising&nbsp; program.&nbsp; Easterbrook writes that Columbia may be trying to move into the upper tiers of Ivy athletics by, like Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, schools he says are offering de facto athletic scholarships even though Ivy rules forbid them. Kraft's New England Patriots have also been accused of bending (or breaking) the rules, but are 6-0, while Columbia sits at 1-4. - DHI 
 Topic: A Discussion on Academic Freedom Speakers: Professors Eric Foner (History), Todd Gitlin (Journalism), and David Eisenbach (History), Ph.D Student Alex Gourevitch (Political Science), moderated by Ph.D Student Ian Zuckerman (Political Theory)&nbsp; Drinks of Choice: Poland Spring Water (Foner, Gitlin, Eisenbach), Canada Dry Club Soda (Eisenbach), Jana Artesian Water (Gourevitch) Vitamin Shoppe Iceland Spring Water (Zuckerman). While students arrived for Tuesday's CPU-sponsored discussion in IAB, the professors stood chatting in the hallway. One look inside the Lindsay Rogers room indicated why: even with a half-dozen tables folded down and laid against the wall, there just isn't much space. But audience members stood, or sat on the floor, the windowsills, or whatever they could find, and many stayed for the full two hours. What CPU lacked in room acquisition, they made up for with the actual event, which lived up to its name as a "discussion." Each participant discussed the multidimensional topic of academic freedom from a different perspective, and opening remarks were fairly short. That left a lot of time and room for audience questions, which were taken three at a time with a short discussion to follow each volley. &nbsp; Nobody seemed to have told the professors how to format their opening remarks, which made for an interesting event. Eisenbach, founder of the Friendly Fire lecture series, talked mostly about that(He later said&nbsp; he was planning an installment with Jeff Gannon and Matt Sanchez, so stay tuned), and about freedom of speech in academia on a general level.&nbsp; Foner used a more narrow definition, defining academic freedom as professors' freedom from outside or administrative influences. He followed with a history lesson that went from the 1940 Statement on Academic Freedom and Tenure to the 2001 report by the Lynn-Cheney founded ACTA, which included a list of hundreds of un-American statements made by college professors --- sort of like the Horowitz list, but for serious. He also openly criticized Bollinger, saying that he and Ahmadinejad were "two peas in a pod," (which promptly became a Spec poll) and that the university lacks "intelligent, courageous, principled leadership." In response to a later question, he would accuse Bollinger of shilling for the Iraq war during his Ahmadinejad introduction. He also complained about being outranked by Latrell Sprewell in Bernard Goldberg's book about who's ruining America. Gitlin outlined his speech into four points, as follows. 1. Speech is dangerous, and entails discomfort --- discomfort should not be sufficient reason to cease an activity. 2. Because speech is dangerous, it should be open: as Mill said, the minority could be right, and if not it discussion would sharpen the dominant view. 3. Free speech is not just for provocateurs (some friendly fire for Eisenbach) 4. Outside influences, such as media influences especially during wartime, can condition our speech even if it's free from direct censorship (Bollinger). Finally, Gourevitch, the lone student on a panel with three professors toting wikipedia entries, seemed a bit nervous to start out, but recovered and got his points across. He said that academic freedom had become "ritualized," saying that it was taken as a token value while contrary views were still not given true respect. He also blamed the left as much as the right for repression of speech, pointing to what he said were overreaching speech codes that assumed people were "fragile" and needed to be protected from hate speech. &nbsp;With that, the floor was opened, and the questions poured in. As Mill might have predicted, views were sharpened. None of the panelists thought the teacher's college noose was protected speech - Gitlin said that he couldn't tell what the "speech" was, and that the action was the brandishing of a weapon. One student asked about trying to actively cultivate conservative presence on campus --- Foner responded by saying that political views should remain irrelevant to academia, and touted the diverse methodological views within the history department. The President of Iran was more controversial. While Eisenbach viewed the event as a success overall, as Ahmadinejad was exposed and forced to backtrack on some of his views, others thought it allowed him to become a martyr, and a student said the questions chosen by Coatsworth were weak from an Iranian perspective. While the professors seemed to agree that Ahmadinejad should have been treated with more decorum, many students, some of them experts on Iran, seemed appalled that he would be treated with respect. Gitlin said that he was not sure that Columbia should host the World Leader's Forum, but that if they did it required diplomacy. Eisenbach mentioned that rules of civility were all that prevented him from beating people up every day, prompting the other three panelists to try to top each other's jokes. Foner: "The new most dangerous professor." Gourevitch: "He's the greatest guy since Thomas Jefferson." (Eisenbach mentioned receiving this praise from conservative commentators) Gitlin: "Some people will do anything to get in Horowitz's book." That's some of that fine "intellectual humor" Ultimately, for a two-hour event in a small space during midterms, the discussion was productive. The panelists didn't seem to be afraid to criticize the university, (or had nothing to fear - Foner said "I have tenure at Columbia, nobody's going to bother me, I can say what I like, and I feel pretty good about that"), each other's arguments, or themselves, and there was real back-and-forth. A student, expanding on Gourevitch's emphasis on having real discourse rather than unproductive "trench warfare," called out Foner for one of his snappy responses, getting Eric to admit it "was a low level of discourse." Thankfully, the discussion as a whole wasn't that way. --- DHI &nbsp; 
 Though most of us are bogged down with midterms and papers, Bwog writer Hannah Goldfield provides some alternative reading. Ducking your head and barreling through the cloud of cigarette smoke outside Butler might be worth it tonight. Act fast and you can snag a copy of poli-lit-culture journal n+1's latest pamphlet, distributed, guerrilla-style, throughout the library a few hours ago. <!-- D( ); D( ); D(); //--> Titled "What We Should Have Known," the unassuming, slim, blue volume is targeted at college freshmen, meant to help them traverse the intellectual spiderweb in which they're bound to get caught over the next four years. It consists specifically of transcripts of two panel discussions (which took place this past summer at the n+1 headquarters) about books, mostly: the books you're assigned to read and the books the panel members, a mix of n+1 editors and contributors, think you should read, on your own, sooner rather than later. If you get lost in the sea of titles, don't fret--the ones that truly changed their lives are conveniently compiled into lists on the last few pages. After tonight, "What We Should Have Known" will set you back $10--unless you're a freshman, in which case you might find a copy slipped under your door tomorrow, or, if not, your student ID will get you one for free. Because saving untainted souls from the Western Canon--or at least guiding them through it--is priceless. 
 Finally! Joseph Ratzinger, better known as Pope Benedict XVI, made the announcement today: Archbishop John P. Foley, Journalism '66, will be one of 23 new cardinals in November. According to the International Herald Tribune, Foley had "long been considered a candidate" for the job. At the fresh young age of 72, he's eligible to vote for pope for the next eight years. Foley had been known for his work in Pope John Paul II's Communications Department (well, technically it's a pontifical council), and is currently serving as Grand Master of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem. Not the most progressive bishop, Foley has run into trouble for his comments on the ordination of women (against) and AIDS (a "natural sanction for certain types of activities.") On the other hand, he did make technological progress: Alvin Snyder called him "The Roone Arledge of the Vatican" for his work getting the Pope on TV. But enough about Foley as a pilate. What manner of man is he? Contrary to Columbia tradition, Foley says he's a teetotaler, but makes up for his avoidance of alcohol with his love of chocohol. As he told Nestle executives, he's an avid fan of advertisement, saying that good advertisement is "among the best communication being done in the world today." As a youth, he was inspired by the book You Can Change the World, and as a teenager, enjoyed writing radio plays. Today, he has more of a senior pastime: getting up at 6:00 in the morning to watch CNN (so that he can "know what to pray about.") - DHI 
 Is The Fed calling me fat? If only all men were so considerate and erudite. But who will 2011 make fun of next year? &nbsp;"Jordan's finger accidentally slips into Ariel." Recycling jokes.&nbsp; 
Sick of playing beer pong in McBain every night of the weekend? Lucky for you, Bwog's got some off-campus alternatives. Control at Film Forum Sam Riley resurrects a young Ian Curtis, former frontman of influential post-punk band Joy Division, in Anton Corbijn's biopic, Control. Curtis, who hanged himself a month short of his twenty-fourth birthday, went on to become a posterchild for disaffected suburban goths everywhere. Control's run at Film Forum ends Tuesday. Film Forum,&nbsp; 209 W Houston St., (212) 727-8110, $10.50. Check Film Forum for showtimes. Williem de Kooning: "The Last Beginning" Take the rare opportunity to see Willem de Kooning's Abstract Expressionism in full force (in someplace other than the MoMA) at the Gagosian Gallery. "The Last Beginning" is on display until next week. Gagosian Gallery, 522 W. 21st St., (212) 741-1717, Tue-Sat, 10 a.m.-6 p.m. Islands + The Octopus Project + Enon + And You Will Know... Islands, famously known for being the Ex-Unicorns (though they've already outlasted the one album wonders), returns to the city with a whole catalog of new tunes. Though the Montreal-based mini-orchestra is headlining, Trail of Dead and Enon ensure a little something for everyone. Highline Ballroom, 341 W. 16th St., (212) 414-5994. 8 p.m. $20. 
 Even though Bwog has midterms too, it's still trudging along. No QuickSpec today, but perhaps these Ivy League-related stories will brighten up your stay in Butler. &nbsp; Look on the bright side, Carman may be infested with Natty Ice cans, but at least there's no scabies. To be fair, professor housing is really nice.&nbsp; Nudity- not just a Brown phenomenon. How-to eat out... Wait, didn't the Belle Jar cover this already? Maybe a facebook poke will be more seductive than an e-mail. 
 Forget football--real fans follow club sports. Bwog freelancer (and water polo team member) Jason Patinkin reports.&nbsp; Columbia's big-name varsity teams, despite a little help from their friends, are still bottom-feeders in the world of collegiate athletics.&nbsp; But for perhaps the highest&nbsp; talent-to-cash ratio,&nbsp; check out the in the truly underfunded and actively neglected realm of Club Sports, many of which thrive in the face of athletic director M. Dianne Murphy's attempts to brush them to the side.&nbsp; Case in point:&nbsp; Water Polo.&nbsp; Led by New York Division Coach of the Year Igor Samardzija, CU Water Polo has had quite a season so far, with an&nbsp; undefeated showing at the United States Military Academy (where last year they shocked the Black Knights in the finals to win Columbia's first Regional Championship and a Nationals berth).&nbsp; They also discovered the real truth behind the truth behind the truth about the Acadamies, which has something to do with a room next to the pool with darkened windows called "COMBAT WATER SURVIVAL SWIM LAB." Anyways, the USMA tournament showcased some of the new talent on the CU team, including that of freshman phenom Akhil Mehta and a cadre of reckless walk-on juniors, though it was the veterans who really took the lead.&nbsp; Anchored by goaltenders Victor Fedorov and Prospero Herrera, CU Water Polo proved they've got the bite to fight it out in the pool.&nbsp; Especially notable were captains Joe Matuk and co-captain Billy Martin, who earlier received Player of the Week honors for an impressive 18 goal performance at a September 29-30 tournament.&nbsp; The team heads to the New York Region Championship this weekend at Colgate University, seeded third behind Army and top-ranked NYU.&nbsp; If you're down for a long trek upstate (it's near peak foliage!) you might just get to celebrate a Lion win. 
 Islamo-fascist Awareness Week is almost upon us, but it seems that promised guest Sean Hannity won't be among the celebrants. From a College Republicans listserv e-mail: "Unfortunately, while Sean Hannity has been promoting his appearance at Columbia for weeks now and wants very much to come to our campus, there has been a serious illness in his family and his schedule is as of now undetermined. However, we are very excited to still host David Horowitz on that same day." At least Hannity would have been new. Bwog can't see Horowitz--who's already baited the Muslim community on the Spec op-ed page--differing much from two years ago, with a few Ahmadinejad references thrown in. Meanwhile, the College Republicans are holding a series of fun events (we missed did not miss next week's last night's vigil for the "untold millions who suffer under tyrannical Islamic regimes"). But that's about all we know, since the GOP won't return Bwog's e-mails. Meanwhile, if you notice a bunch of people wearing green next week, that's why. - LBD 
 The New York Times' City Room has a profile on the famous Dizzy Gillespie Chair and WKCR's current fundraising efforts. It seems that WKCR is poor--more so than most Columbia organizations, apparently--and if you want the marathon fundraising broadcast to stop, send cash. An unrelated bizarre Columbia tidbit, artist/druggie/photographer/hipster Dash Snow (punk polaroids of youth culture, grunge art) is the grandson of Robert Thurman (Jey Tsong Khapa Professor of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Studies, B&amp;W's October Conversation), which means Dash Snow is also related to Uma Thurman! 
AJ Pascua of the 2010 council has eye-smarting t-shirts for sale on the Lerner ramps. Their slogan, obscured in this photo: "Our grass is greener." &nbsp; 
 It's been awhile since the last installment of the cart tour, partly because of rumors that any chicken and rice in our immediate locality would be rendered irrelevant by the arrival of Sammy's Halal, the 2006 Vendy award winner that was reported to be moving in to 111th? street, and then mysteriously disappeared. Now, the Hungry Lion is reporting that Sammy doesn't plan to come back, but the blog is assembling a letter to change his mind.&nbsp; It's a good effort, but it's hard to argue with business, so we might as well take a look at what we do have for now. Before the 110th street cart came in, the 120th street cart was the reigning chicken-and-rice champion, and it's a place you want to like. The prices are low ($4.00 a platter), the people are friendly, and, topped with three turbine vents, it looks a little like a palace. On the surface, the place looks like it would easily beat its competitors to the south. There's a wide selections of both ingredients and sauces, and whole chickens are always cooking on the grill. Unfortunately, it doesn't quite add up. The biggest strike against this place is the small portions, which perversely might be seen as an advantage in these days of diet-awareness. Incorrect! More is more. It is quite easy to get less from more, and turn the remainder into something useful, while it is nearly impossible to turn less into more. Try this out: buy a single 12 oz. beer, and drink 72 ounces of it. Did you succeed? If you believe so, you have probably had more than 72 ounces of beer before you even started this exercise. But they say a picture is worth a thousand words, so just observe the white space in this food carton: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; There, you've just read 1,111 words on the portions being small, unlike this article. But what about the food? The food is, by relative food-cart standards, "good" but not "delicious," while like the quadruple Stacker at Burger King, the 110th street cart tends in the other direction. Up on 120th, the chicken tastes more like chicken and is less greasy and crispy, the rice tastes more like rice and is less mystery-flavored, and the white sauce tastes like yogurt with a kick of lemon, and is less of mystery blend somewhere between tzatziki and ranch dressing. The red sauce is weak and disappointing - no real redeeming factor here. Taken as a whole, the dish is fine to eat but lacks a kick. The rice sticks together, too, which makes for bland clusters where the sauce doesn't penetrate, and the "cheap white rice" flavor takes over (even though the rice is yellow.) That makes it sound worse than it is: with chicken that is fairly succulent, and tasty sauce, the meal is easy to eat. However, it offers nothing special, not even the retrograde pleasure of grease that can sometimes make up for a lack of quality. If it's chicken and rice you're looking for, 110th is the spot to hit. If that doesn't do it for you, you'd best get to signing that petition. - DHI 
This year, Bwog's doing a better job of getting to every student production and telling you about it. First up this season is Cowboys and Indians, a new play by occasional B&amp;W contributor Will Snider. We understand the underlying premise of Cowboys and Indians: a pill-popping yuppie kid (Brett Austin Robbins) falls in with a vulgar criminal (Thomas Anawalt) in a romantic effort to free himself from "all that shit." The bank robbing life turns out not to be all it's cracked up to be. Sort of like Cormac McCarthy meets The Perks of being a Wallflower, with a post-Iraq twist. That's where concept confronts the reality of crafting a play with no movement, no character development, and no overarching message (an absence that's more hapless than nihilistic). If writer/director Will Snider--coming off a well-recieved effort last weekend--was going for gut impact, he wins. This play is raw, visceral, and leaves you wanting to hide under the covers and think of a place where psychopaths are more laconic and women exist. Images like a pistol in someone's mouth slap us in the face again and again; for a play that talks about dicks and firearms and masturbation as much as this one does, it's hardly necessary for the characters to explain the phallic symbolism. While the plot relies on deception and violence, the dialogue relies on a steady stream of profanity, so constant that it almost fades into the background--except when the repetition starts to feel like a crutch, gratuitously added for the sake of a tone. If the characters had a dime for every time they said "fuck that shit," they wouldn't have to rob the bank. But the sexual braggadocio, senseless cruelty, and hamburger face-stuffing (accompanied by a good ten-minute bonding session over McDonalds) don't support some statement about modern man--it's all just sort of...there. To be fair, the cast shines. Robbins pulls off a neurotic Holden Caulfield, and Anawalt makes for a truly revolting redneck. The best is arguably Sam Packard, whose entrance three-quarters in adds welcome dimension to a play that up till then had only two, if that. And Snider manages a few good lines: "Retarded or not, he still loves cash. This is America," Anawalt declares.&nbsp; See Cowboys and Indians Friday and Saturday in the Lerner Black Box at 8:00 PM, admission free.&nbsp; - AMP and LBD 
 Sorry guys, The Powers That Be found out that CUIT webpages weren't tracking your print quota and now you are returned to 100 pages per week plus your semester reserve.&nbsp; Let's just pray that Mahmoud doesn't come back... 
 A Bwog tipster recently brought to our attention that the Alpha Delta Phi pirate flag has been missing from the 114th Street brownstone for awhile now. What happened? "It was apparently stolen by MIT's chapter of the frat last week," so says our tipster (although this has not been confirmed by ADP itself). If so be the case: fraternal emasculation? Ouch. As far as we know/have seen, though, the Swedish flag still proudly flies. 
 Noose goes through DNA testing -- meanwhile, we realize NYPD "Hate Crime Task Force" sounds badass Please, the MPAA is so 1999! Better luck this weekend, hopefully? The title of this op-ed pretty much says it best Published yesterday, but wow, this is letter is old-school (literally!) 
Even though M.I.A.'s latest release Kala has been out for half a year, she still managed to sell out new venue Terminal 5. Bwog staffer Lucy Tang treks to the boondocks of midtown and finds that some artists are worth a 2-hour wait. M.I.A. makes me feel less of a woman. Artist, singer, dancer, political activist, "refugee"--why are people still reading about Britney Spears and Lauren Conrad in Us Weekly? That being said, few artists can redeem themselves after the crowd seems ripe for riot, but M.I.A. thrives on that sort of tension. Last night at Terminal 5, doors opened at 7 PM, M.I.A. went on at 10:45. Though many people have voiced complaints about Terminal 5's awkward set-up, the only thing that caught my attention was the smell of wet paint permeating the entire venue, but it was soon covered up by the marijuana smell wafting about. After 9, the crowd grew more and more antsy. They didn't pay $25 to see a DJ mash up T.I. for three hours, and began to boo the DJ and hype-man who failed to realize that the catchphrase "Whoop there it is!" should remain in the early 90's. However, M.I.A. was certainly worth the wait. She walked out in a ball of light, or maybe that was just the light reflecting off her sequined jacket and dress. Despite being wasted, ("I am sooo sorry I took sooo long... There was sooo much champagne."), the girl put on a show. Regardless of your opinions towards her music or political agenda, it's impossible to discount her as a performer. The crowd, at least near the stage, was literally a glob of writhing bodies and sweat. Though the tight quarters prevented people from going crazy, the arms were waving and the bodies grooving. Needless to say, it's hard enough to cross your arms and bob your head while listening to M.I.A, but live, her energy was infectious. In a move reminiscent of Girl Talk, M.I.A. invited the audience on stage with her. An extreme mish-mash of people flooded the stage--metallic leggings, low-cut tank tops, button-down shirts--and proceed to give it their all. She also joined the masses again during "$20" by crowd-surfing; the number of people that rushed to touch her was an actual exodus from one side of the stage to the other. During one song (perhaps "Paper Planes"?), M.I.A. asked for the houselights to be turned off so the audience could light the venue with their cell phones, cameras, or lighters. It was ironic to see people eagerly waving around their Blackberry's and iPhone's to a song about third world inequality. Only at a M.I.A. show could capitalism and revolution co-exist happily. M.I.A. has a long way to go before her fans actually realize that her political agenda is more than just cool animation clips flashing in the background of her performances. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tonight M.I.A. performs at Terminal 5 again with opener The Cool Kids. (All photos by trotornot) 
 Over the last week we asked you, our readership, to submit your entries to our first Photoshop competition featuring your favorite/least favorite professors in remodeled garb.&nbsp; Anyway, we hated to have to choose a winner, so instead we decided to play the proud parent and post all the lovely artwork we received on what we'd like to think of as the Bwog Refrigerator of Achievement (metaphorical magnets included). To the right: an anonymous entry we've dubbed as "AhmadineBo" -- and let Bwog tell you, judging from the entries, President Bollinger is quite a popular man! More entries below (in no particular order) after the jump. #1 "Lee Baggins" Submitted by Kendall Barnes &nbsp; #2 Jack "The Joker" McGourty Submitted by DSTRUCKTIVE FEAT. ASSAPOPOULOS &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; #3 Brokeback Ahmadinejad/PrezBo submitted by DSTRUCKTIVE FEAT. ASSAPOPOULOS #4 Agent 007: Lee Bollinger Submitted by DSTRUCKTIVE FEAT. ASSAPOPOULOS #5 "Prez Dogg" Submitted by D. Sion G. &nbsp; #6 "Sangelina" Submitted by D. Sion G. &nbsp; #7 "Coach Windu" Submitted by D. Sion G. &nbsp; #8 "Bo Accomplished" Submitted by J. &nbsp; 
Better late than never, here are some off-campus alternatives courtesy of Bwog correspondent Pierce Stanley. John Scofield at Blue Note Making his only East Coast tour stop at the Blue Note Jazz Club, Scofield and the ScoHorns celebrate the release of jazz funk guitarist John Scofield’s newest album This Meets That.&nbsp; October 19-21. 131 W. 3rd St., Near 6th Ave. Sets at 8:00 and 10:00 pm. Make a reservation: Bar ($20), Table ($35) &nbsp; Hungry? Check out Art Ate New York, a joint effort renegade art exhibit displaying work from artists discovered through the Artists Wanted art call.&nbsp; DJ’s, drinks, and wild surprises (and free red bull martinis). The 40 Thompson St. Gallery, 40 Thompson St., 7pm – 1 am, FREE Vintage Poster Fair Just in case your life isn’t vintage enough, the International Vintage Poster Fair is here through Sunday Metropolitan Pavilion, 123 W 18th St, 5th Floor, Friday 5 - 9 pm , Saturday 10 am - 7 pm, Sunday 11 am - 6 pm. $15 admission. &nbsp; 
In case you missed what's what happened on Low Plaza this evening, the CSC Night Market brought a different sort of lion to life: Photos by Justin Vlasits. A handful more after the jump. (Last photo: MIP) &nbsp; The entire Raw Elementz performance is below. 
Should you care to look back on the last week with us as we procrastinate on those last few midterm papers, Bwog brings you one of its occasional Weeks in Review. Homecoming happened on Saturday&nbsp; -- we're hoping for better luck next year, both in terms of wins and coverage. In the meantime, Bwog saw the passing of two of our Facebook incarnations within the span of a weekend (RIP, BandW Bwog and Facebook Verily Veritas) while our grass also suffered an onslaught of children and various notable figures (including Julie Andrews and Cheech of Cheech &amp; Chong fame, which somehow seems very wrong). Meanwhile, sophomores began the week with the expected annual CC lecture while CCSC debated holiday festivities and dining plan prices. In the same day, we brought you adventures with salvia (although mind you, the Hulk filming at Riverside is indeed, fact, and not at all a drug-induced post). Tuesday brought you the ups and downs of being a celebrity personal assistant and news of a still-happening Kim's sale while one of our editors embarked on a journey of FroYo interviews regarding the arrival of Pinkberry (which is apparently made out of "weird animals"). Wednesday took readers to the pews with a church hop to St. Michael's and (while we're on the subject of good tidings) brought news of Kenneth Jackson's grandson. Also in the day's postings: a party with Eric Foner, Todd Gitlin, and David Eisenbach; an n+1 guerrila invasion in the library; and a J-School graduate goest to the Vatican. According to yesterday's news: Sean Hannity's got a crisis that might keep him from showing up to campus next week, while WKCR's trying to keep any monetary crisis from taking them over. Part Deux of the Tour de Street Carts went up while we begin the season of theater reviews with Cowboys and Indians. Meanwhile, Fridays remained the usual low-key, save the case of the missing ADP flag and a series of glorious Photoshopped portraits. This week's exodus of the old ID's and an influx of the new is also received a bit of quiet fanfare in lounges across campus (as illustrated above). New plastic, but alas: same awkward pre-frosh photo. - MIP with photo by JJV 
 This year, Bwog's doing a better job of getting to every student production and telling you about it. There's still one more night to see the King's Crown production of The Real Inspector Hound. When a cold gust ripped through Wien at the play's most tense moment, everyone looked around for the wind machine — meanwhile, the King's Crown crew moved quickly to close the lounge windows against the storm that was building outside. Tom Stoppard's popular work of meta-theater, "The Real Inspector Hound," lucked out as a result of more than one fortuitous coincidence on Friday night. During an early pause, a few confused Wien residents wandered onto the balcony, leading more than one member of the audience to crane their necks back and wait for dialogue from the rafters. At the same time, the real cast was lurking outside the windows, keeping PrezBo's private security detail awake next door. For the record, due to the frantic nature of the play within "Hound," I found myself writing most of my notes while the critics were dictating their long, overwrought columns to each other. So any particularly awful turns of phrase must have made their way into this post by osmosis. Stoppard sets two critics up to observe the performance of a ham-fisted murder mystery (with especially great hand-wringing on the part of the female leads, Lydia Brunner and Birdy Sahagian), in which they find themselves personally and dramatically tied up with the cast. "The Real Inspector Hound" is the author turning his disassembling urges on himself — while the characters wander through their lines, the critics intervene, first from their seats and eventually from the stage, unable to change anything outside themselves. Think "Rosencrantz And Guildenstern Are Dead," but with sex jokes, puns, and more yelling. Last spring, CU Players put on another self-inversion of Stoppard's "The Real Thing" — by and large, a straight-up treatise on relationships that surprised fans and critics used to meta-commentary back in 1982. This performance obviously owes a lot to that one (specifically, one director , two cast members, and most of the production team) and it's downright strange to see Patrick Barrett make a comedic phone call to his nattering wife; for a second, the look in his eyes recalls that show and its knock-down-drag-out romantic brawls. Then he bangs down the phone and turns the play in front of him into a farce. It's a great time. The Real Inspector Hound will be performed again at 8 and 11 PM Saturday, in the Wien lounge. Admission is free. — ZvS&nbsp; 
Sure, you can do it in your pyjamas, but running a blog is still work--and right now, Bwog is a few daily editors short. Each of our staff of seven Bwoggers is on call for one 24-hour period per week, QuickSpecking, making posts out of tips that come into bwgossip@columbia.edu...and bantering via e-mail about nothing in particular. Interested? Here's the application: 1. Five (5) QuickSpec headlines for any issue this week or next week. 2. One (1) previous Bwog post you liked and why. 3. One (1) previous Bwog post you didn't like and why. 4. A paragraph about how Bwog could improve, not to exceed three hundred (300) words. 5. A list of five (5) ideas for future posts and/or consistent features. 5. A mock Bwog post on a topic of your choice, not to exceed four hundred (400) words. E-mail what you come up with to bwog@columbia.edu no later than NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27 at 11:59 PM. And feel free to contact us in the meantime with questions. Also! Along with the rest of the blog establishment, we're branching into V-LOGGING--if you like recording things, drop us a line.&nbsp; 
 "Hey! What's up, Chuck? Eh, maybe you don't want to know... it's not pretty!" "Hey, nice suit! 100% polyester?" Part of Siemens Science Day at Columbia University. 
One-time B&amp;W writer Natasha Chichilnisky-Heal, rather than starting junior year, lit out for Mongolia. They have investment banks there too! There's a common saying in Mongolia: "margash, margash..." Translation: "tomorrow, tomorrow." Perhaps what amounts to an expression of Mongolian time-dilation explains why I've decided to delay my return to Columbia for a year. After all, the yak just don't roam quite as freely in Manhattan as they do on the steppe, and I don’t think I do either. I came here in June of 2007 with a plan to intern at the first Mongolian investment bank, Mongolia International Capital Corporation, for three months before returning to my junior year at Columbia College. I'd picked my classes, settled my living situation, met a boy, and generally gotten myself pumped for 2007-2008. This year, I thought, would be different. I would dig into my studies, go to my classes, build my resume, and generally be impressive as all hell. Mongolia was supposed to be a an interesting stop along the way from spring to fall, a break from the never-ending pressures of New York and an escape from the US in general. I arrived at Chinggis Khan International Airport in Ulaanbaatar, the Mongolian capital, at 2:00am after a seven-hour delay in Beijing. My new boss, a Swiss Columbia graduate named Emanuel Steiner, and two of my new Mongolian coworkers (Bayasgalan and Batbayar) picked me up and drove me to my new apartment. I had been warned that it was very “Mongol,” but at the time I’d had no idea how to interpret that modifier. There were no lights. The furniture was monolithic and made of polished wood. I later discovered that all the wiring systems came together under the drainpipe of my kitchen sink, where they daily invited electrical fires. My wall was covered with paintings of the moon rising over silvery lakes and stunted Mongolian horses loping across the empty plains. I almost cried myself to sleep, with no money, phone, or clear expectations. The next morning another Mongolian coworker (Dulguun), now studying in London, knocked on my door to fetch me to the office. She brought me to an Austrian café on the way to work, and we sat and shared some rolls with butter and coffee. I arrived at the MICC office less than seven hours after my arrival in the country, was given a desk, assigned to work on raising funds for a canned meat company, and soon began to scour my mind for some explanation of what I was doing in Mongolia. Over the next few months I settled into my Mongol-ed out apartment, dug my heels into my work, grappled a bit with Mongolian (which sounds a little like an animated Englishman speaking backwards), got kidnapped, was hunted down by the American Embassy, fell in with a gang of Peace Corps Volunteers, and ate goat (I’ve been a vegetarian since the age of five). I also managed to fall in love with a country, a boy, and most surprisingly a way of life that involves sheltering in a felt-covered wood-frame tent through -40 degree Celsius winters. Mongolia is a truly unique mixture of Soviet-era consciousness and infrastructure and Chinggis Khan-era lifestyle. The people are loud, pushy, deeply attached to their nomadic and empire-building history, and amazing at coping with adversity. I realized somewhere along the way that I was here to do what I could for this country, and to see what it could do for me. Simply by virtue of being white and having some experience in the American and European finance worlds, I can be a gateway for foreign investment in Mongolia. I and others in my position are supposed to represent the bridge between the existing Mongolian financial infrastructure and financial institutions in more developed nations. I think it hits me most when I’m bumping along a typical Mongolian “road”, a beaten dirt path initially traveled by cows, in a 20 year old Russian van—one of my favorite clients is a Mongolian road-construction company. Maybe I can help them raise the funds to pave the road to the second-largest city in the country. What would happen then? My mother always says happiness is the feeling you get from being useful. Despite the constant frustrations of time, food, weather, and language, I feel I am useful here. The social concerns of the New York City 20-something melt away in a city where most of my friends are either volunteers far from home or middle-aged international financiers, there are two good nightclubs, and the only thing to “do” is drink vodka or fermented mare’s milk in a circle of ten. But even here one finds a blossoming underground cultural movement, and occasionally bumps into student activists and bizarre international film festivals. There’s even a Mongolian Columbia graduate running the hippest art gallery in the country. So life is, of course, different, but the important things remain the same. Seat of the Mongolian nationalist movement. Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia Sunset on the town of Kharkhorin, the ancient capital of Mongolia. 
YouTube can be a goldmine when you're bored enough. &nbsp; 
In which Bwog conspiracy theory debunker Alex Weinberg takes on something that's been bugging us for a while. What’s up with those teeth? For the past few weeks, there have been odd dental-themed art installations seen outside of Nacho’s and on the scaffolding across from Carman on 114th Street. The remains of a former installation are visible on the east face of the scaffolding around the Law Library, and there are probably other locations that haven’t been called to my attention yet. The pieces consist of protruding sets of faux human teeth, backed by plywood painted in washed out tones. Each piece has a separate and seemingly original poem or song lyric written in chalk: The one on Nacho’s is about huffing, and the one on the Butler scaffolding is about truck driving and singing. The teeth are apparently plaster dentist’s molds and they are fairly brittle. I have come to this conclusion because I broke off an incisor as I was investigating. The artistic style of the tooth installations closely resembles that of the “Books Through Bars” dropoff box in Lerner Hall (which hasn’t been seen in a while). Books Through Bars is a charitable organization that collects books and gives them to America’s convicts so that they can be fashioned into knives. The New York City chapter of the organization is housed at ABC No Rio, a “center for art and activism on New York’s Lower East Side.” These guys love all kinds of guerrilla street art (some of it good, some of it bad) and this sort of thing would be right up their alley. ABC No Rio’s building on Rivington Street used to host the weekly meetings for Books Though Bars, which have recently relocated to the New York City AIDS Housing Network headquarters. But the most prominent clue connecting ABC No Rio to the tooth art is a note on their website requesting that people bring their books to a drop off box that they have installed in none other than Columbia University’s Lerner Hall. The case isn’t airtight, but it’s the best one we have. I tried calling and e-mailing ABC No Rio, but they never got back to me. I even offered to donate my copy of John Madden’s autobiography, Hey Wait a Minute: I Wrote a Book!&nbsp; to their program in exchange for an interview. When they didn’t respond, I destroyed the book out of spite. 
 Ah, Eid ul Fitr, when, after 30 days of no food or water while the sun shines, the practicing Muslims of the world are allowed to indulge in feasting and revelry 'til their&nbsp;belt-buckles burst with delicious joy. And Sunday night in Roone Arledge was a&nbsp;joyous night indeed as the&nbsp;Muslim Students Association&nbsp;feted&nbsp;several hundred guests of every age and persuasion with music, live performances, and heaping plates of rice and kebabs. This year, the annual event was extra-special, remarked&nbsp;MSA&nbsp;president Adil Ahmed in&nbsp;his opening address, because it also&nbsp;celebrated the organization's 50th year of existence, which Ahmed likened to a marriage anniversary. "And how many of you have been married 50 years?" he asked the crowd of primarily undergrads, to a few facetious hand-raises. After an opening prayer and&nbsp;the&nbsp;introduction of guests of honor-- Barnard pres. Judith Shapiro (clad in a salwar kameez, no less), some professors, and a bunch of deans were mentioned-- guests stuffed kebabs into their gullets at an alarming rate. Post-prandial&nbsp;entertainment consisted of one CC freshman's stream-of-consciousness stand-up comedy&nbsp;and a cheerful qawwali&nbsp;performance by one Ali Akhtar. After that,&nbsp;while the audience's&nbsp;collective blood rushed to its collective stomach,&nbsp;it was time for&nbsp;more speeches, addresses, and statements of solidarity.&nbsp;Bwog&nbsp;snuck out of the auditorium humming "dama dam mast kalandar," content in every sense. -KER with pics by MIP 
&nbsp;Did CCSC fowl up my great eggspectations or did they rise above the coup?&nbsp; &nbsp; Be it resolved: no more inhumane eggs in John Jay.&nbsp; While the council tabled discussion on other socially conscious dining issues, the campaign for cage-free fowl in Columbia took a major step forward now that the official representative body of the college decided that no $8-10 dollar increase in discretionary meal plans should stop John Jay, Wien, Ferris and others from upholding their moral obligation to protect hens across the world. Stay tuned for a report from Senior Executive Vice President Robert Kasdin on M-ville next week. - JJV&nbsp; Full text of the resolution after the jump. Certified Humane Cage-Free Eggs Resolution Whereas, the Columbia College Student Council acknowledges the need to promote humane and socially conscious policies whenever possible, Whereas, eggs currently sold in Columbia Dining services establishments come from factory farmed hens forced to live in overcrowded, poorly lit, barren cages no more than 16 inches wide, meaning that in her entire life a hen is not able to even spread her wings (1), Whereas, due to such tight confinement, the hens are constantly rubbing against these wires and are often featherless and covered with bruises and abrasions, Whereas, most hens in these conditions suffer calcium depletion and cannot be used to produce eggs for more than a year; after which, they are sent to the slaughterhouse to produce low-grade chicken products since their meat quality is so poor, Whereas, our distributor, Sysco, has cage-free systems that meet Certified Humane (2) standards—the most stringent available—in which hens are able to walk and spread their wings, are provided perches and pools in which to dust bathe, and are provided regular health inspections thereby significantly improving their quality of life, Whereas, several European countries have entirely banned the use of battery cages and the European Union plans to phase out cage-produced eggs by 2012 due to animal welfare (3), Whereas, more than 150 colleges and universities have switched completely or partially to the use of cage-free eggs, which has reduced the suffering of tens of thousands of hens (4), Whereas, the student council understands this to be an opportunity to extend the University’s commitment to social responsibility by supporting and encouraging the growing market for humanely produced eggs, Be it resolved, that the Columbia College Student Council calls for Dining Services to order cage-free eggs from its suppliers for all on-campus dining establishments. Authors, Alidad Damooei Sara Partridge Vice President of Policy Class Representative CCSC Class of 2011 1 FactoryFarming.com: Factory Egg Production. Access Farm Sanctuary Research Report, "The Welfare of Hens in Battery Cages" http://www.factoryfarming.com/eggs.htm (20 October 2007). 2 Compassion Action for Animals. FAQ About Cage Free Eggs. http://www.exploreveg.org/feat/cagefree/cage-free-faqs (21 October 2007). 3 The Humane Society of the United States, 'No Battery Eggs' Campaign Exposes the Hard-Boiled Truth about Laying Hens. http://www.hsus.org/farm/camp/nbe/ (21 October 2007). 4 The Humane Society of the United States, Cage-Free Egg Production vs. Battery-Cage Egg Production. http://www.hsus.org/farm/camp/nbe/ (21 October 2007). 
 Bwog resistant to flood of Horowitz-related journalism; decides to link to video game review instead of the 90234890234 Islamo-Fascism-related stories in today's Spec Chris Kulawik's invective seeps through computer screen, convinces us to break commitment from previous link A little late there, ESC? A little not very good at football, Columbia football team? Shit, man &nbsp; 
 Just when you thought that&nbsp;this year's oratorical cavalcade couldn't possibly&nbsp;get any weirder, Friendly Fire has invited world-renowned pornographer free speech activist Larry Flynt to speak here on Thursday at 5 PM in the Lerner Party Space (the email says to get there early). No announcement yet on whether there'll be an afterparty at the Hustler Club, but Bwog is holding out hope. One event whose after party certainly won't be&nbsp;held at the Hustler Club (like that transition?)&nbsp;is the College Republican's candlelight vigil to "remember and acknowledge the untold millions who unduly suffer under the tyranny of state-enforced Islamic extremism." In today's Spec, awesomely-named CUGOP board member Diana Lawless called the&nbsp;event a&nbsp;chance for people&nbsp;to&nbsp;"put aside their politics and differences." And such opportunities for communal harmony abound during Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week. David Horowtiz, C '59 is speaking Friday afternoon (register here), and if that isn't enough to satisfy&nbsp;your curiosity/raging Islamophobia/hatred of Islamofascism, there's&nbsp;an "oppression panel" with speakers from CUNY and the American Enterprise institute&nbsp;on Wednesday at 8&nbsp;in Math 203.&nbsp; You can bet that the Progressive Jewish Alliance won't be attendance. Their Facebook group petitioning Hillel to officially condemn&nbsp;the week's&nbsp;events currently has 99 members. And if you still want to see Natalie Portman talk about poverty reduction tomorrow at 1 in Lerner 555, Bwog recommends you email ec2454@columbia.edu&nbsp;as soon as possible. -ARR 
 Last week, Bwog made passing mention that the Students for Environmental and Economic Justice were selling t-shirts on college walk. By way of a follow up, we'd like to say just how much we love their screen-printed, second-hand tees--they're clever and environmentally/economically conscious! But what really piqued Bwog's interest was the cause said t-shirts are repping: the University's full conversion to wind power. According to SEEJer Laura Seidman, C '10, the group is petitioning Columbia to buy their power specifically from wind sources. Our power is curently supplied by ConEd; all we'd have to do is request that ours come exclusively from the company's wind turbines and pay the extra 2 or so percent such power would cost. NYU has a similar arrangement, and SEEJ thinks it's time for us to get on board as well. It would cost each student around ten extra dollars a year--although Bwog wonders whether there isn't some local high-roller who'd kick in $500 million to cut down on energy use altogether. Back when Bwog had a crack-like Sim City addiction, it learned that wind turbines are slightly more expensive but about as effective as coal and oil plants. Same in the real world? Chat up SEEJ and find out. -ARR 
 Not content with battling it out in the U.S. News and World Report rankings, the Ivies are throwing it down&nbsp;by way of that most gentlemanly of pastimes: war! Or rather, inter-campus computerized simulations of games that simulate war! Kind of! Our buddies at GoCrossCampus have organized an Ivy League championship. While Columbia hasn't won a single outright basketball or football championship in the League, we all know that cross-country Risk is the glamour sport of the future. So take up arms, Columbians! Let our arrows blot out the sun! We'll make Princeton pine for 1777!&nbsp;Hoohah! -ARR 
 Pinkberry, the hotly anticipated SoCal fro-yo chain, has finally opened its doors in Morningside Heights!&nbsp; The interior is sleek and colorful, the chairs are plastic and transparent, and the shelves stocked with decorative Japanese kitsch. The ceiling is painted sky-blue and during Bwog's all-too-brief pit-stop at Pinkberry, the music rotated from Moby to Musak. &nbsp;And what of the Pinkberry itself? Well, firstly, what is it? Bwog's Pinkberry-transporter box (apparently Pinkberry melts extremely quickly) read: Contains Swirly Goodness. Swirly Goodness comes in two flavors: Original and Green Tea. Isabelle, a long-time Pinkberry-lover told Bwog she preferred the Original to the Green Tea. So did Joan and Emily, some first-timers who decided against the Green Tea for their trial Pinkberry run. The sparseness of the flavor choices is made up for in the assortment of toppings: Chocolate chips, yogurt chips, almond slices, cookies and cream, granola, Cocoa Puffs, Fruity Pebbles, Cap'n Crunch, and fresh fruits such as pomegranate, strawberry, pineapple, kiwi, and raspberry. Each topping costs $.95 (A small Pinkberry will set you back $2.95). Pinkberry employees Heather and Ornella reported that Original is far outselling Green Tea, while today's most popular toppings have been chocolate chip and strawberries. Columbians have already began making the store feel like home. At the three circular tables, a B-School-looking type was pounding away at his Blackberry in between scarfing down bites of Original with Cocoa Puffs. "Yeah, we've never had Pinkberry, but we're excited to try. We've heard it's different from Tasti," commented Emily, referring to the far inferior fro-yo distributer located above Ferris. "Tasti?" scoffed long-time Pinkberryer Isabel. "I don't even remember what that tastes like!" May we all be so lucky one day. - JNW, photo by SEV UPDATE 10:42 PM: Visit their website to hear the Pinkberry Song. "Pinkberry for me, Pinkberry! P-I-N-K-B-E-R-R-Y." Why yes of course there's also a remix. (Virtual, extra-large Pinkberry to Hannah Goldfield) 
 Well we're giving them some anyway in light of the dapper gentleman they've chosen as their poster child (maybe Andy Samberg helped pick out the picture?).&nbsp;Oh, and their catchphrase is kinda clever in an inadvertently self-negating kind of way... Also featured on CUCR posters for Friday's Horowitz visitation: a man hanging from a rope and a woman being buried alive. Reminiscent of Hillel's&nbsp;people&nbsp;who were active in Hillel but not&nbsp;posting on behalf of Hillel's&nbsp;posters heralding Ahmadinejad, actually, but less colorful. 
This just in from a friend of Bwog: "I lost my necklace presumably on the steps between Hamilton and College Walk, as that is where I totally and embarrassingly fell flat on my face while attempting to learn the date of Michelangelo's Bacchus and walk at the same time. It is a jade circle on a red string. In addition to bestowing my eternal love and affection, I would totally bake cookies for anyone who finds it." And another one, perhaps more drastic: "I've lost my glasses!&nbsp; They're dark brown Hugo Boss frames that have a little bit of cream near the lenses.&nbsp; They have thick temples that taper down behind the ears.&nbsp; The prescription in the right eye is much stronger than that in the left.&nbsp; Probably left in Altschul at Barnard, but also potentially in Hamilton. Pinkberry and/or eternal love, if you find them." If you find a necklace or glasses, or if you've lost anything else, let us know at bwog@columbia.edu.&nbsp; 
Brandon Wolfeld, Bwog's newest Arts correspondent, provides an optimistic roundup of his Saturday CMJ experience. (Photos by Armin Rosen.) What brings six bands from as far away as Kansas to a seemingly abandoned lot in Brooklyn? The answer: the College Music Journal's CMJ festival, an annual 5-day orgy of everything indie. The venue, the Yard on Carol St. in Brooklyn, is vaguely reminiscent of a summer camp theater stage. It offers little more than folding chairs, park benches and spectacular views of the scenic Gowanus, and the event felt more like a family reunion than a concert: at least a quarter of the attendees at this showcase were the performers themselves. I arrived at The Yard midway through a performance by the Lisps, whose melancholy vocals complimented and sometimes contrasted with their folksy, acoustic sound. Next up was Balthrop, Alabama, an excellent blend of Neutral Milk Hotel and the Decemebrists with a hint of Moe and a dash of country. After them came Nebraska-based Eagle*Seagull, a band whose power pop was featured some very danceable beats and equally catchy vocals so reminiscent of Win Butler that you have to wonder if the Texas native had a long lost brother living in Nebraska. Next up was the Two Man Gentleman Band, composed of three Columbia alumni. They were wearing old fashioned suits accompanied by suspenders and fedoras, and when it was their turn to take the stage they produced something that somehow seemed uniquely Columbian: the Gentlemen rocked out in contemporary Vaudeville style with some kazoos, a banjo, an upright bass, a snare drum, and a tambourine duct taped to the lead singer's right foot. More photos after the jump! The rest of the afternoon was taken up by Old Time Relijun and O'Death. The former favored heavy rock, while O'Death demonstrated just how many tight tunes could feature a banjo and a ukulele. In the end, no band stood out because they were all so goodï¿½even an unassuming lot in Brooklyn can give you the unbeatable experience of hearing six great bands for the first time. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The "food" at HamDel and Pinnacle? Kind of not that good for you!&nbsp; Maury audience? Filled with trashy failures! Lectures during midterms week? Tend to be a little empty! Administration plans on doing something, subsequently does it. Prestigious "Chicks Dig the Long Ball" Award conjures up presumably unintended visuals Coming up later today on Bwog: Why Columbia Wants to Send You a Text Message Two Ways to Get More Money Starting Immediately Up to the Minute Natalie Portman Coverage and more! 
Bwog was out getting afternoon coffee when the Starbucks Barista pointed towards Broadway. "I originally thought it was a gay pride parade. But I think it's an Asian pride parade." Actually, despite the rainbow flag and several Asian participants, it was neither. A group of about 15 students (and one monk) gathered in front of Starbucks holding rainbow peace flags and wearing "Free Burma" shirts. One of the flag-wavers told Bwog that they were marching to the Burmese embassy on 72nd, and tomorrow they would be meeting up with other students from different universities are walking from the Burmese mission to the United Nations building.&nbsp; - JNW 
 AskBwog: Special Double Useful Question Edition The first of this week's questions comes from Bwogger Maryam Parhizkar who wants to know where she can convert her loose change into dolla dolla bills, yall. The Bank of America on 107th and Broadway&nbsp; has change-converter machines that are free for anyone to use, regardless of whether they have an account at Bank of America. Although, one should expect the machine to take a commission. The second question comes from an anonymous student who wants to know if he can add Flex Points and Dining Dollars online. "Who wants to wait in line at Kent and Hartley?" Who indeed. Well, yes and no. Luckily for Anonymous Columbia Student,&nbsp; both Flex Points and Dining Dollars can be added on the SSOL website. (Bwog has added Flex Points in celebration of the new Crumbs cupcakes at Ferris.) Log onto your SSOL account on go to Dining Services. It's as easy as entering your credit card (or your parents' credit card) number. &nbsp; Unfortunately, Columbia Dining Services does not have access to the accounts of Barnard, Teacher's College, or JTS students' accounts, thus system is unable to allow them to add Flex/Dollars online.&nbsp; These students, can of course, purchase Flex or Dining Dollars, but hanging out in Hartley at Dining Services is a steep price to pay for a Crumbs cupcake. AskBwog thanks Columbia Dining Services, SSOL, and bank-savvy Paul Barndt. 
 Columbia—in what the administration says are efforts to “ensure redundancy across our communications channels” (swear to God)—has launched the Text Message Enrollment program, in which the University will be sending out important messages to students who register their mobile numbers with SSOL. &nbsp; The email introducing the Text Message Enrollment program cites “the portability and ubiquity” of cell phones as contributing factors that eventually won over the hearts of tech-savvy bureaucrats.&nbsp; &nbsp; Weather emergencies and major transit interruptions are possible instances in which registered students would receive a text message.&nbsp; "its snowin, 1 skippin 116 :( luv CU" 

 Bwogger Pierce Stanley was lucky enough to attend CPU's presentation on microfinance (starring Natalie Portman!) Here, he reports back with notes on Natalie's outfit, micro-lending, and Village Banking. So it looks like Homeboy Jeffrey isn’t the only celebrity with a Harvard degree taking on poverty at Columbia these days. Fresh off the releases of&nbsp; Wes Anderson's Hotel Chevalier and The Darjeeling Limited, none other than Natalie (nee Hershlag) Portman descended on Lerner 555 today for an all too brief, hour-long discussion of microfinance and the fight against world poverty entitled “Action and Leadership in the Fight Against Poverty.”&nbsp; While Natalie was rather autumnal in a super-short pumpkin-colored dress and sandals that looked more like mini deconstructed baskets, the event sponsored by the CPU and FINCA&nbsp; was ultimately more bark than bite.&nbsp; &nbsp; Microfinance was the topic of the hour (Natalie is the FINCA Ambassador of Hope), however the event turned out to be a lot of fluff: more an exercise in watching Natalie sip a Starbucks grande latte and wax poetically about her trips to Uganda than an engaging discussion about the benefits and drawbacks of microfinance lending.&nbsp; Indeed, it was hard to take Portman seriously.&nbsp; When asked later about this apparent disconnect, Portman said, “Its not about feeling bad about what we have, its about giving and sharing what we have with others. Its very easy to condescend.&nbsp; Seeing the reality of the situation changes everything, so you have to travel.” Natalie hurried into the packed room amidst a swarm of agents, handlers, and of course her mother who follows her to most of her engagements. The few stragglers who weren’t able to get in scratched anxiously at the windows trying to catch a glimpse of the former queen&nbsp; of the Galactic Empire. CPU and a SIPA grad student opened the function in classic fashion, providing a short history of microfinance, discussing the Village Banking concept, and of course celebrating the Banker to the Poor himself, Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus.&nbsp; It was even revealed that SIPA offers 6 classes in microfinance, and MiCrolumbia&nbsp; is a student-run lending campaign that is just starting to get on its feet but has a ways to go.&nbsp; After showing a brief video made by FINCA in Mexico of Natalie struggling to articulate why she likes being the poster child for micro-lending, Natalie had a chance to redeem herself by speaking in person, and here she demonstrated a delicate balance of grace, cuteness, and intelligence.&nbsp; Portman spoke mostly about the integral role of women in the Village Banking system, arguing the necessity for groups to go into villages in which the majority of women make under three dollars a day and create a village bank that supports individual business enterprises, fosters social responsibility, and empowers women and children.&nbsp; Portman noted, “Once you’re there, you say to yourself I am not going to forget this.”&nbsp; She touched upon her trips to Israel and celebrated Queen Rania of Jordan as her inspiration for joining the microfinance cause, a cause that she said she wish she had known about during her college days.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; As such, the actress urged college students to join the cause early saying, “You have the ability to spread the word, fundraise, and spread technology.”&nbsp; Indeed, Portman suggested that technology is an important way to promote microlending efforts, citing the creation of Natalie Portman MySpace and Facebook groups as “hip ways of reaching kids in 2007.”&nbsp; She drew giggles from the audience when she said about Facebook, “I know you all check it like twenty times a day.&nbsp; Its what I’ve heard, you know, word on the street.”&nbsp; Q and A was a weak attempt at building room-wide discussion.&nbsp; Instead, it turned into about five questions that were answered by Portman and then supplemented by a FINCA director afterwards.&nbsp; A discussion of the effectiveness of lending projects ensued, and the event got technical with descriptions of the need for cultural sensitivity and the hiring and training of local people.&nbsp; Particularly interesting was one student’s asking of advice for his attempt to build a microfinance project in Ramallah and another student’s wondering if lending projects offer any real benefit beside feeling good about yourself at the end of the day.&nbsp; Portman laughed this question off by wondering if people would be more inclined to contribute to microfinance projects if there was an incentive like, “I’ll kiss you after you give us fifty bucks.”&nbsp; However, she was quick to suggest that microlending for no profit may not be as effective as organizations that provide small loans for profit, noting “the more the better” and suggesting that competition ensures that those who seek loans will choose the best lender. Ultimately, Portman declared that the “mission of microlending is social” and that we need to “try to measure returns that way.”
 Students who log on to the Dining Services website to complete a quality-assurance survey are in for a special treat. Columbia is going to donate ten cents to the charity of your choice! Ten cents?! You might think. That's vaguely offensive and pathetic! But wait! You can take the survey as many times as you want. So that's like, an entire dollar to charity for completing a quality-assurance survey ten times. Columbia: forerunners in philanthropy and accuracy. &nbsp; 
 Islamo-Fascism Awareness week, round one!: Kulawik and co. organize a non-partisan "candlelight vigil" at the sundial.&nbsp; Chopin plays tastefully in the background; more or less sombre-looking College Republicans mill about, ostensibly in remembrance of alleged "Islamo-fascism's" alleged victims. But what's this? Revolution party folk handing out fliers and displaying some choice David Horowitz quotes? Seems even candlelight vigils can't go unprotested around here, although given the sticky subject matter Bwog isn't all that surprised. We are, however, gratified to see that protester and counter-protester are keeping out of each other's business. Hooray for civility! &nbsp; 
Correction: CCSC 2011's free donuts and coffee are from 9:15-10:15 PM in the Lerner Piano Lounge. &nbsp;
 Or was, circa 10:30 PM.&nbsp; We presume the novelty will wear off soon. &nbsp; 
Twenty years ago yesterday, the US Senate rejected Robert Bork's nomination to the Supreme Court. Turns out he wouldn't have gotten there at all were it not for the old Columbia School of Journalism, which wouldn't recognize his degree from the University of Chicago when he tried to apply. "That irritated me a little bit, so in a fit of pique, I went to law school,"&nbsp; he says at about 4:30. And then became one of the most divisive jurists in American history. &nbsp; Thanks to David Yin for his legal geekery. 
Nonexistent 'Florida Airport' Saved From 'Blowing Up' Columbia Begins Piling Up Money to Throw at A Problem &nbsp; Fake ID News is Columbia News Spec interviews "one of the most respected and innovative artists in hip-hop history," makes a pun on his name M. Dianne Murphy --- "so far so good?"&nbsp; 
Bwog historically hasn't run personal essays, but in this case--S. Alex Kudroff's reflection on the wildfires in California--we decided to take a break from snark and make an exception. My town is burning. Santa Clarita, California, home of Disney Channel stars, SUVs, three Wal-marts, and me, is currently also playing host raging wildfires. Meanwhile, I am 3,000 miles away. When I made the decision to come to Columbia, friends and family questioned my choice--UC schools are cheaper, have nicer weather, are closer to home, and are overall more familiar. Familiarity for Santa Clarita residents is very important--for 12 years, I went to school with the same kids, many of which ended up at the UC schools I could have gone to. When everyone comes home from college, the same people spend time at the same local coffee shops and hold the same retail jobs that they held during previous summers. But here I am, New York City, surrounded by millions of unfamiliar people and places. Of course I was attracted to the idea of the unfamiliar things I would encounter going to school so far away from home, and every time I discover new and exciting things in the city, I value my ability to go to school in such a vibrant place. But now that I am here, and nature has decided to take over my hometown, I have no choice but to worry without having any concept of what's actually happening to my home. The welcoming committee for my sophomore year of high school consisted of multiple wildfires throughout the city. I could see the fires from a hill near my house only about a thousand feet from houses in my community. Friends from school were evacuated from their homes. People were living in my high school gym. The sky practically rained ash for days. Now, nature has returned to lash Santa Clarita once again, as well as other Southern California cities, like Malibu and San Diego. I first found out about the fires from my mom, who called me from a nearby beach to tell me that the winds were so bad, the 25 foot tall tree in our backyard fell into the neighbors' yard behind us. She had to leave the beach to go clean up the tree and make sure my dogs were alright. The winds were so strong, she said, the fires were spreading fast. Over the summer, I worked at the Gibbon Conservation Center, which is about 5 miles north of the main part of my town in a more rural area. All of the major roads around the Gibbon Center had been closed off and homes evacuated. The GCC is home to 31 apes, several live-in volunteers, and the director of the center. With no idea of the fires' actual locations, I worried that my primate friends would be in danger. While the people could easily evacuate, the center could usually only tranquilize a few gibbons in a day, since they are such active animals. I couldn't even conceive of a possible way that they could be transported away from the center. After the director of the center didn't respond to my email within 10 minutes, I called to make sure everything was OK. Apparently, the fires had gotten within 1,000 feet of the GCC, and two homes burnt down within 2,000 feet. The pumpkin patch and farm not too far away, where my family went every year to buy pumpkins and look at scarecrows, is completely gone. Even more homes have been evacuated, and all of the friends I have spoken with from home have told me about their parents' plans for evacuation. My mom even packed a bag. Although Columbia is a nice little bubble of escape from our past lives, when things happen that are completely out of our control near our homes, it's pretty fucking scary. I'm still glad I chose Columbia instead of a UC school, because I like new experiences and encountering the unfamiliar. But when all that you once thought was familiar to you is up in flames and could potentially be destroyed, and you sit in your dorm room studying for midterms and only looking at pictures of the smoke, you can't help but feel disconnected from a place that was once (and in a way, still is) your home.&nbsp; &nbsp;
By now, reader, you have probably become accustomed to Bwog hosting contests, what with the photography and photoshop contests, as well as the current "become an editor" contest. Well, the next contest is our Halloween Contest, where you must dress up in costume, photograph yourself, and send it to us before midnight of All Hallow's Eve, in order to win a prize: perhaps fame? Perhaps something concrete? (Check for updates). And now a brief educational interlude: Which previous phrase in italics could be a translation of some form of the Spanish verb "acostumbrarse"? The word has "costum" in it, but it's a trap! A "falso cognato," as they say, a phrase ironically composed of two "truo cognatos"! To everyone else taking Spanish midterms tomorrow, good luck! Halloween is next Wednesday, so you have a little over a week to go incognito. Send in your submissions to bwog@columbia.edu.&nbsp; If you're not participating, know this: it is customary to wear a costume on Halloween even if you don't enter an online contest. 
Tomorrow night WBAR continues its tradition of solid shows by bands you've probably never heard of with No Age and Double Dagger in Lerner's Party Space. Lucky for Bwog, WBAR staffer Jamie Johns had the opportunity to talk with the duo about health food, Squeeze, and the perks of blossoming rock stardom. Over the past year and a half, Los Angeles' No Age has gathered a solid fanbase and heaps of positive press through constant touring and a slew of vinyl only releases. The duo, consisting of drummer/vocalist Dean Spunt and guitarist Randy Randall, have just signed to iconic independent label Sub Pop and single handedly took over last week's CMJ music conference with a show stealing performance at Bowery Ballroom. When I spoke with them in late August though, none of the hype or press seemed to have gone to their heads. They were two of the nicest and most down to earth guys you could ever hope to talk to about the joys of live music, what it means to be from Los Angeles, and why everyone should start their own band. Spunt and Randall met in the early 2000s while they were playing in the now-defunct hardcore band Wives. Concerning the formation of No Age Spunt says "We were together as Wives for about three years I think, we just stopped playing as that band but we didn't want to stop playing together so on April 1st, 2006, we debuted as No Age. Since then our relationship has been really great." When not playing in No Age,&nbsp; Spunt runs the LA based record label Post Present Medium (PPM) and is a stylist assistant for commercials, and Randall teaches high school students. The band's music is influenced by classic punk bands such as Bad Brains and Black Flag, whose slow jam "Nothing Left Inside" is a favorite of Spunt's, as well as pop artists like Francoise Hardy and Squeeze. When I told the band that I only knew Squeeze's '80s classic "Tempted," they were quick to give me recommendations as to where to start in the band's catalog, one music fan to another. That's the best thing about No Age; you can tell that they are playing music because they genuinely love it. On stage, they smile while they play to crowds dancing and jumping around to their incredibly catchy yet still thrash-worthy songs. They are devotees of playing live and talking to the kids that come to their shows, as well exploring a few other perks of life on the road. Spunt divulged one of his favorite hobbies: exploring health food stores. "I really love health food stores, like smaller health food store chains," Spunt says, "so every time we play a place by one I have to go check it out. Sometimes people aren't so cool about that though and I'll be like "Wanna go to the Co-op?!" and they'll be like "Again? Come on!" It seems like the health kick has paid off. No Age's two members seem they have more energy than most bands double or triple size. Spunt's arms flail as he plays his drums and during their anthem "Everybody's Down" he sits atop Randall's shoulders or runs around the stage. Randall climbs up on amps while he plays guitar and if he stays onstage, he moves around as violently as the guitar sounds he's making. Their songs mix intense drumming, fuzzy vocals, and hard edged guitar playing with atmospheric and dreamlike soundscapes. One minute their music is atmospheric riffing a la Spacemen 3, and the next minute it turns into a straight out LA punk song. Unlike much of what passes for punk these days, No Age are not needlessly aggressive. Instead, their music is uplifting and positive. However bizarre it sounds, it works, especially on tracks like "Every Artist Needs a Tragedy," "My Life's Alright Without You" and "Neck Escaper." No Age are quickly getting a reputation for being one of the best bands from Los Angeles and they are extremely supportive of their home city's music scene. When asked what their favorite places in Los Angeles are they were both quick to respond with a handful of venues like The Smell, a place "that's all ages and people, kids especially, go there and do their weird crazy art and music," Spunt says, and bookstores like Ooga Booga and Family, both of which are art and music related hangout places. The DIY lifestyle and community are both important to the duo and the way they approach music is reminiscent of bands from the early 1980s punk scene. Instead of focusing on making money or getting their names in every music publication, the band is more focused on supporting other LA bands, playing all ages shows and fostering a musical community. When I asked them if they had anything they wanted to say to the kids at Columbia, Spunt said "Everyone should start a band that reads this and then when we come through your town we could maybe play with you guys and interview you guys. We'll play and it'll be cool." Somehow I do not doubt this. No Age's first full length release, a collection of their vinyl-only EP's entitled Weirdo Rippers, was released this past summer on Fat Cat Records to positive reviews and the band is going to be touring all fall, including a stop at WBAR tomorrow. Sure they might be playing to larger crowds, but the duo is unphased. Concerning the recent acclaim the band has received Spunt says "It's cool, I mean it's kind of a separate thing than playing in a band. One part of you has to talk about what you're doing while the other part keeps doing what you're doing. You can't let it get to your head, it's really two separate things." With this attitude of music and community first, at the end of the day No Age keep their cool and are still, in their own words, "fangirls of Black Flag and Squeeze." 
Yeah, we're not even gonna touch this one...
 Wednesday, sustainability day was going to be "dedicated to encouraging and promoting Columbia's recent environmental stewardship initiatives and pressuring them to do even more," complete with such accoutrements as a mountain of trash, a PrezBo speech, and giant displays. Unfortunately, it rained. Sustainability day will be rescheduled! Well, the rain didn't stop Columbia's sustainability report card from coming in. Despite its best efforts, Columbia failed to improve, staying at the "B" grade it received last year. It was, however, easily in the top third of the 200 schools graded by the sustainable endowments institute. Most of the other Ivies did better, with Dartmouth and Harvard coming in as "Overall Sustainability Leaders" and Yale racking up a "Campus Sustainability Leader"' recognition. Only Princeton, with a B-, did worse. To be fair, New York City seems like a tough place to be sustainable: after Columbia, the next best Big Apple school was NYU with a C+. Schools were graded in a variety of categories, including food, transportation, and investments. Food and Recycling was the easiest class, with 29% of the students making an A. Endowment Transparency, on the other hand, seemed to be a tough cookie, as only 4% of schools got the "A" grade. &nbsp;Ivy grades &nbsp;NYC grades Dartmouth A-&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Harvard&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A-&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Brown&nbsp;&nbsp; B+&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Yale&nbsp; B+ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Columbia&nbsp; B&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Cornell&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; B Penn&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; B Princeton B- Columbia &nbsp; &nbsp; B NYU&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; C+ Rockefeller&nbsp; C Yeshiva&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; C- Fordham&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; D &nbsp; 
 Have you heard the news? Columbia's been hijacked! PrezBo is not my friend.&nbsp; Walk down frat row or into Carman any weekend night, and you'll see, most Columbia students drink, and not responsibly. &nbsp; How many authors can you namedrop in one article?&nbsp; Columbia really does have a club for everything...&nbsp; 
 Let's squeeze another piece out of Ahmadinejad. So this is an artsy movie with no plot? Sounds super! Let's make fashion!!&nbsp; Well, to be fair, no one really wants to pay for Moby's music.&nbsp; A haunted house for the college demographic. In other news, Columbia ties up some loose ends... Suspect in the Journalism School rape case is deemed sane enough stand trial. Better late than never, right? And opens up another Pandora's Box. Fight in the psych ward! 
 Looking to try delicious Icelandic yogurt? From 11 to 1, the Culinary Society will be giving away free Siggi's Skyr on Low Plaza the Lerner ramps. Hey, it's cheaper than Pinkberry. 
Behind the jump is what you've all been waiting for-- the answers to the last two Bluebook crossword puzzles in all their corny glory. Enjoy, and stop pestering the alias. First-Years Just Don't Understand Across&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Down 4. butlermasterbator&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1. felipetarud 7. love&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2. creepytwins 9. cred&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3. dontbeapussy 10. uris&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5. mattsanchez 12. specblogs&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6. fox 13. illegal&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 8. mcintosh 15. nalgene&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 11. renilaine &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 14. heels &nbsp; Autumntide Across&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Down 1. seminars&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1. snow 4. secondsemester&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2. turkey 7. tryptophan&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3. lernerlake 8. midterms&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5. mellowcreme 9. exfoliate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6. tan 
 There are various trailers lined up along Claremont avenue and a movie set on 118th and Riverside. When Bwog went digging, we learned that it was for a movie called Push starring Star Jones, Monique, and Paula Patton (?). There is very little information available on IMDB on Push, guess it's still in the early stages. Unfortunately, "no one you'd know" was on set, but Bwog did manage to snap a few pictures. The names on the trailers read "Lucy," "Desi," and the other trailer had "Precious."&nbsp; Not a real MTA bus!&nbsp; Soon-to-be-famous garbage cans!&nbsp; Here we have the director's daughter on the left and the executive producer's daughter on the right. Bwog managed to ask one question before the executive producer popped her head out of her trailer and shooed Bwog away with her scathing stare. But if you are wondering, the two girls are in the movie, but the puppy may or may not be. 
A few bits of news that have built up over the last few days.&nbsp; Stepping over the line: The image at right is a poster found on Sunday in Lerner and sent to Bwog yesterday, mimicking the graffiti found in a SIPA bathroom stall about a month ago. We're presuming it's trying to make the same point as the posters down at George Washington a few weeks ago...a bit more bluntly. &nbsp; Shades of Gilchrist: David Horowitz tried to speak at Emory last night, but got heckled off the stage by what appears to have been an outside group. Emory's College Republicans effectively parlayed the incident into a PR coup, while accusations of fascism whizzed over the heads of those assembled. Tomorrow's event at Columbia is being tightly controlled--the Emory paper didn't make clear whether their lecture was RSVP-only, which it seems might have helped things. Hillel under pressure: We mentioned a few days ago that the Progressive Jewish Alliance was petitioning the Hillel Executive Board to "denounce 'Islamo-fascism Awareness Week' as a campaign of misinformation, malice, and hatred against our Muslim colleagues at Columbia." They ended up presenting 150 signatures, and the board responded with a carefully worded statement, which reads as follows: "The Columbia/Barnard Hillel is primarily a religious and cultural group, not a political one, and did not have any role in the invitation of David Horowitz, or any role in his 'Islamo-Fascism Week.' David Horowitz speaks only for himself as an individual, not on behalf of the entire Jewish Community." Not exactly a denunciation, but it seems to have made the PJA happy. Tomorrow there will be an open-mic speakout and rally at the Sundial at 11:00 AM, a panel discussion with various lefties at noon in Lerner C569 (see details on the events calendar), and the man himself speaks at 12:30 in Lerner Cinema. Look out for coverage as the day progresses. - LBD &nbsp; 
 Word has it that Schapiro 12 has been infested with bed bugs since the start of the school year. Students report that they often wake up with bites all over them and some have even discovered the nasty little creatures in their books. Unfortunately, Housing's been extremely unresponsive to this issue. There has been an exterminator on the floor every week putting traps randomly on the carpet, even though the word bedbugs suggests that the traps would be better placed on the bed. Students actually moved the traps to their beds to capture the bedbugs. Then, the exterminator either pointed out "empty" traps or claimed that the bugs in the trap were just "carpet mites." Now that a few students have been bitten severely, Housing has finally admitted that there are bedbugs. Two rooms have been fumigated, one of them twice. Unfortunately, Housing still refuses to clean the hallway and carpet even though bedbugs can easily travel from one room to another. Housing, you've really let yourself go on this one... 
 Chances are you won't be living here fresh out of college anyway Old wounds, with an update A Wiki project with special legitimacy (in more ways than one) Horowitz gets pwned in Atlanta (in German fascist style, apparently) But what about Repubofascists? Isolated incidents: in this case, they don't exist 
A small band of protesters gathered on the Sundial this morning to listen to speeches about the Horowitz speech, scheduled to begin at noon. "Blacks, Latinos, Arabs Asians and whites. No racist war no more no more defend our civil rights!" they chanted. &nbsp; 
 The David Horowitz lecture is scheduled to begin momentarily. Unlike previous events with controversial speakers that Bwog was able to liveblog, we will not be able to do that this time. After initially granting Bwog press credentials to the event, the College Republicans then revoked them, saying that Bwog "lacks journalistic integrity" and calling it a "gossip rag." The Republicans--like all student groups that invite speakers--have full control over the media policy for their events, and are also prohibiting all media outlets from broadcasting live in any form from the event.&nbsp; Check back later for a full update.&nbsp; 
 A bit of late news that was recently brought to our attention: according to the ominously-titled website House of Bnai-Haman, September 24, 2007 will now permanently be referred to as "Columbia's Day of Shame," which the site asks to readers to make sure "is never forgotten." Granted, the blog was actively updated for a grand total of two weeks, so we're not sure how long people will remember such an appellation -- never mind the nifty bit of poetry in the left hand column. Hey, at least its's got those sister sites loaded and running (more or less, anyway). He even makes up quotes from PrezBo himself! Here's one selection: "Since Hitler is no longer available and Amadinejad has already spoken, I want our students to have the chance to hear from this scummy scoundrel," Bollinger said' in a news release. Bollinger further promised that he'd give the nooseman a public dressing down before providing him an open forum to spout his message of hate. While Professor Constantine told news outlets covering the story that she found the incident "very personal and very degrading," Bollinger said the feelings of all victims matter not.&nbsp; "What counts," Bollinger said, "is that in America, everyone from the corner grocer to the corner cannibal has his or her opportunity to besmirch the reputation of our campus." Now that would require some serious sensitivity training. 
After the hubbub in Atlanta, David Horowitz got a relatively relaxing reception at his alma mater.&nbsp; Perhaps the most remarkable thing about David Horowitz’ visit this afternoon was the lack of remarkable happenings: he came, gave a predictable speech, took questions from a well-behaved audience, and left. The room was about half full--most of those who care were at the Anti-Bigotry panel going on concurrently one floor up. A good number of those present were administrators, press, and security guards. Maybe a little disappointing to Horowitz and the College Republicans, who now have no excuse to send out a tragic press release (yes that's a picture of Chris Kulawik; Bwog was shooed away from taking pictures as the presentation began). Speaking in front of a screen showing the hunched, shrouded figure of a woman being shot, Horowitz began defensively, decrying the reception he’s received here and at other universities, and the atmosphere that oppresses conservatives on college campuses nationwide. “Nooses have been put figuratively on the doors of the Republicans, and over my head,” he said (a remark lambasted by Leftist blogger Josh Marshall himself). He then embarked on an explication of the term Islamo-fascism, which he says was coined by Algerian Muslims, and that he originally heard from the prolific contrarian Christopher Hitchens (read Hitchens’ own defense of the term here). He sees Islamo-fascism in the deeds of the Saudi government (an “evil state”), the goose-stepping gait of the Iranian National Guard (an “homage to Hitlerism”), the philosophy of Hassan Al-Banna (“a follower of Hitler”), and a litany of offenses by rulers of Islamic regimes. Throughout the lecture, he wondered incredulously at the idea that anyone (like the authors of this petition) could oppose the idea of Islamo-Fascism Awareness Week, much less call him the names—racist, bigot, fascist—being thrown out on the Sundial only an hour before. “Calling someone a racist is the verbal equivalent of a bullet,” he charged. This led to a discussion of Horowitz’ true bread and butter—the alarming ideological uniformity of university faculty. He said he was never challenged in his beliefs when he attended Columbia in the 50s, while he was still a Marxist. Now, he intoned, Columbia’s faculty is so rigidly liberal that questions of Islamic oppression of women would never be discussed in the classroom. “If you’re liberal, you are never challenged in your beliefs. It’s a bad education,” he said. “There is no professor on this campus who is willing to take the risk of being called those names. You can’t discuss this question at Columbia, and that should horrify you.” The speech then ranged into other topics, from where the responsibility for the Iraq war lies (Jimmy Carter, the Democrats, and the “world-saving environmental crew” who oppose nuclear power in the US) to the “left-leaning Norwegian Nobel Prize Committee” and Al Gore (who “made a movie about himself”) to the “treasonous” New York Times, which “destroyed national security information in the middle of a war.”&nbsp; You could see Horowitz valiantly curtailing his pre-written diatribes about every subject that came up, as the hour and a half ticked to a close. Takeaway points: If they have a chance, the Islamo-Fascists will "kill you all." The Left is in league with the Islamo-Fascists. Your professors are too cowardly to talk about it. And while there may be good muslims out there, they don’t seem to be supporting his crusade. Horowitz said that he met a few “nice” members of the Muslim Students Association at other schools. He told one girl that, if she denounced Hamas, that they could be friends. She didn’t. - LBD 
Bwog editor applications due in a little over 24 hours! Just in case the little box thingy that's been up all week escaped your notice!
&nbsp;We didn't quite get there after the first show...but you can still see King Lear at the Black Box at 2:00 and 8:00 today. Reserve tickets at kcstkinglear@gmail.com. The packet gave a stomach-churning pop as Cornwall clawed at Gloucester’s eye, splattering stage blood across his face. The audience groaned and squealed; several people even covered their eyes in disgust. An hour earlier, they’d been laughing at Gloucester’s light-hearted jokes about his bastard son’s bawdy conception. KCST’s King Lear is far from perfect, but it is undeniably gripping. Director Dan Blank brings us both the humor and horror of Shakespeare’s legendary tragedy—an improvement on any Lit Hum class. Jason Resnikoff comports himself admirably as Lear in anger and madness, an impressive feat for a role that veteran actors often save for the end of their career. His loud, intense delivery of lines works well for most of the show as he grows in anger, but it fails at the beginning and end, when he deals with Cordelia and delicate emotional moments. These weaknesses aside, his lead performance solidly grounds the show, as it must in Lear. His transition to madness is executed clearly and powerfully, and his switch to a prancing fool earned some bitter laughter from the audience at the black-humor of the situation. The cast supporting him varies in quality and experience. KCST is devoted to providing theater experience to almost anyone interested--an admirable goal, but one which often results in mediocre ensembles and supporting roles. Lear suffers from their openness to some extent, but the leading cast members are delightful enough to make up for it. Edmund in particular, played by Jake Green, succeeds at wooing the audience, inviting them to laugh at his endless machinations. Overall, the actors make the text clear, and most of them even seem to understand what they’re saying. King Lear runs a solid three hours, yet for all that, only two seats in the packed house were empty after intermission. I overheard the two leaving as I returned, and one said “We’ll have to come back tomorrow, but I wish we could stay.” For a free, long show, a stable audience is the most tangible vote of support. And this testimony is the bottom line: KCST’s King Lear is fun, effective, and engaging. - A. 
 The Columbia publications scene can seem oversaturated—there’s always something new on newsstands and strewn across dorm hallways. But Barnard has historically been a one-publication campus, with the Bulletin absorbing the journalistic energies of those who don’t take their writing talents across the street, or down Broadway to the Spectator. Until last fall, that is. Keondra Prier, BC ’08, had been developing the idea for a magazine centered around the African Diaspora since her sophomore year—and at the end of first semester, it was born in hard copy with the proxy (decapitalization intended), a glossy, full-color, 44-page compendium of reflections on the African experience, from spoken word to personal essays and graphic pastiches. The magazine’s inaugural issue has no standardized font or color scheme, creating an almost zine-like collage of words and pictures. One of the most valuable inclusions is a reprint of the infamous Blacky Fun Whitey cartoon published in the Fed in spring 2004 2005, which helped set off a wave of protests and which many students are too young to have actually seen (if you haven’t, it’s a bit of a punch in the gut.) &nbsp; The proxy will come out again this semester, with the theme of “commodified activism.” Meanwhile, the small proxy staff has followed AAA’s Blaaag into the world of loosely ethnicity-oriented blogging with thep(rob)e, a fashionably spare site with posts that comment on campus controversies and celeb faux pas, among other topics. Webmaster Muya Souaiaia, BC ’08, and web director Daphne Larose, BC ’10, say that one of the reasons they started the blog was a feeling of bad communication, both from the top (Souaiaia was particularly disturbed that she didn’t know about the rape of a journalism school student last spring until a professor told her) and among groups. Next up is a WBAR radio show, and expanded p(rob)e coverage—but only if they’ve got the staffing for it. If you’ve got the itch to blog, e-mail theprobe@theproxyproject.org. - LBD 
Besides all of your wonderful tips, the bwgossip alias gets plenty of spam. Bwog staffer David Iscoe decided to respond to a few, as various permutations of himself. Inexplicably, he didn't hear back. R obt Herman &lt;ilnggob@caseyfamilyservices.org&gt;&nbsp; Date Sep 11, 2007 8:04 PM chiropractors mailing list For the week ending Sep 14, you will receive a List for Nursing Homes, Hospitals and Dentists at no additional cost when you order the Physician Database Licensed Physicians in the USA 788,326 in total – 17,400 emails 34 primary and secondary specialties 16 different sortable fields Specially reduced price: $353 *** Get the 3 databases below as a bonus when you order the MD list above *** email to:&nbsp;&nbsp; docbizdata@hotmail.com] ------------------------------------------------------------------ Sep 12, 2007 1:11 AM Re: chiropractors mailing list Dear Mr. Robot Herman, Our organization is very interested in the physicians database. It is not clear from your e-mail what contact info would be included in this database: however, this is not our major concern, since we primarily want the list of names. Many of our members are aspiring physicians themselves, and want to be sure that there are no doctors operating in their chosen field who already have the same name. That sort of thing just causes confusion. However, before we consider buying the database, we'd like some assurance that the doctors are indeed real doctors. Therefore, we ask you to send us 10 names, so that we can research them to ensure their veracity. At least one should specialize in orthopedic surgery, and two should be from California. Thanks, David Iscoe Information Specialist, Bwog (212) 221-5623 PS: Would it be possible to get a version of the database without Irish doctors? 17 Sep 2007 07:03:16 +0700 dalacamling20@uku.co.uk subject: HELLO Hello, My name is Dala Camling son of Late Dr. Tavares Camling Sr. former personal assistant on financial matters to the Angolan President. I got your contact through the internet and decided to write you in trust and confidence. It is my humble decision to solicit for your understanding and cooperation in this business that will be mutually beneficial to both of us. At the mid term of the rebellion which is still on till date, my&nbsp; father thinking fast decided to send my brother and I out of&nbsp; the&nbsp; country (Angola),with the sum of US$18 Million (Eighteen million&nbsp; United States Dollars).The money was meant for the&nbsp; purchase of arms&nbsp; and ammunitions for the war, but my father had to divert the funds as&nbsp; a way of frustrating the on-going war&nbsp; that has claimed the lives of&nbsp; millions of Angolan people. The bills were carefully moved as diplomatic baggage to Madrid, Spain. Unfortunately, because of my father’s political influence he was assassinated last December. And as a result of our father's death, we decided not to return to the country but seek for political asylum and look for an opportunity to safeguard the money for proper investment and prepare for our future. We however, discovered that as political asylum seekers, we are not allowed by law to seek for any gainful employment or open and operate a bank account. We therefore need your assistance and co-operation in concluding this deal. You are needed to come over to Madrid, Spain and open a non-resident account where the entire funds will be deposited and subsequently transfer the funds to your nominated account via telegraphic transfer. The whole arrangement will be strictly under our supervision and the transaction will be absolutely risk-free. And the transfer to your account would be completed the same day. We intend to share the money upon successful completion of the transaction as follows: - 22% will be entitled to you for your&nbsp;&nbsp; assistance, while 76% will be for us and 2% will be set aside to take care of expenses. Should this meet your utmost consideration, kindly write back immediately to confirm your earliest date of arrival? Please include your contact number. The confidentiality of this transaction cannot be over emphasized as we trust and believe that you will oblige us the security and attention it demands. Kind Regards, Dala Camling ------------------------------------------------------- Ms. Camling my friend, There are two kinds of people in this world: those who can operate a bank account, and those who ask people to fly to Madrid to help them out. Seems to me like I'm taking all the risks in this deal; not only am I going to your location, and conducting the deal under your "supervision," but I'm risking my legal status even talking about doing business with you. Let's put it bluntly: 22% is not my idea of a cut that would be "mutually beneficial to both of us." I'll take 50%, and whatever "expenses" cost $360,000 can come out of your end. Call me back at (212)678-9416. That's a payphone number, so you'll need to call between 2:00 and 3:00 am Eastern Standard Time. If you're having trouble with time zones, I always found this "world clock" website to be a helpful tool: http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/. Just look for New York :-) I'm looking forward to meeting with you in Madrid, Ms. Camling. Perhaps we can take in a bullfight and even wager a little money, since we'll both be rich. Sincerely, Slim On 9/10/07, Kimberley Donnelly &lt;a-a-l@agam.com&gt; wrote: Hello! I am bored today. I am nice girl that would like to chat with you. Email me at&nbsp; only, because I am writing not from my personal email. I want to show you some pictures. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Ms. Donnelly, I contacted you on your personal e-mail like you said, but I couldn't help but notice your work address! You work at the Agam Group? THE Agam Group, designers of an Aluminum Modular Display System? I loved your company video! (the one right here http://agam.com/content/about/index.html#). This may be too much to hope for, but are you the girl whose sexy, enthusiastic voice is on the video talking about "large friction area" and bars fitting into channels to create a strong bond? If so, I'd would love to chat with you, or look at any pictures you send me. I too am from the Baltimore, Maryland/Washington corridor! Perhaps we could meet in person someday ;-) Yours, David Iscoe Bwog Daily Editor Hello, I am miss Alice Ginger, 20 years old from ivory coast. daughter of mrs Sandra Ginger the Secretary Wife and Personal Assistant to former ivory coast president. I have 8.5 million USD which was made by my mother before she died in oct 2004 which is left in a suspence account in a bank here in my country.&nbsp; I seek your permision to remmit this amount into your account so that i could come to your country for investment and to further my studies. I have accepted to offer you 20% of the total sum for your desire to assist me. Please, i humbly seek for your assistance. Best Regards. Miss Alice Ginger. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Dear Ms. Ginger, This is great news! I too am from the Cote D'Ivoire! Do you know by brother Michael Ekanem from Abdijan? He is very well known in my neighborhood for his skill at scrabble, his proficiency at business, his fondness of whiskey, and his musical parties, but it is a large city so I understand if you are not familiar with him. I am sorry that your mother died - she had such a beautiful name, Sandra Ginger. Like the beautiful actress Sandra Bullock, and the excellent spice ginger. but I hear you want to further your studies? Excellent! I am studying here in new york city where they have many fine universities, and it would be great to have a study partner, especially for my class in herpetology, the biological study of reptiles, since i am having difficulty telling the different reptiles apart from each other. I have an account with citibank that you could use to transfer your money - I had thought that suspense accounts were frozen but if you can make the transfer I am glad to assist. I hate to ask, but can you grant me one favor since you have such a great sum of money - to lend me money at a low interest so that I can complete my studies without incurring debt? I am a hard worker and would be able to pay you back, but am having difficulty establishing a credit rating in the United States. See you in New York! Jim Ekanem &nbsp; 
We know it's almost 2pm, but that just means it's time for breakfast on Halloween weekend. The Muslim Students Association's alumni group just let out in Lerner, and there&nbsp;are copious breakfast-y foodstuffs to be had... go now!
Queer Awareness Month is coming to an end, and they're feeding you to celebrate. Free Dinosaur BBQ in Lerner Party Space at 6:30, followed by performances by CU Step and Notes and Keys, plus standup comedy! What better way to end the weekend?
Bwog received notice that there's been a major car accident on the corner of 114th and Broadway involving a yellow taxi cab and a car full of apparently Columbia students. At the scene:&nbsp;highly emotional cab driver, several kids still stuck in the car, two or three people taping it all, and various medical, fire, and police vehicles. We hope everything is alright; we'll post again if we hear anything else. UPDATE, 10:32 PM: CTV's got the story.&nbsp; 
According to the ever-entertaining 2009 class e-mail, at 9:00 PM, baked goods and hot drinks will be available in Lerner Piano Lounge for your academic sustenance. But this is no ordinary study break: Go Ask Alice! will be there with "post cards, sexually charged refrigerator magnets, squeegee balls and rubbers." As such, this event has been termed the "Study/Slutty Break,"&nbsp; "the only event you will need to get ready for Halloween! Be excited!" The growing sense of excitement over Halloween-as-slut-night is getting a little bizarre. And yes, we realize that three out of our four posts today have been free breakfast, dinner and dessert. Everyone knows there's no such thing as free lunch. 
 Intrepid research correspondent Rahul D'Sa waded through a lot of science jargon to find out what Columbia researchers have been up to in their fancy-schmancy laboratories. Did you know that? Now you know! Researchers at Columbia Mailman School of Public Health recently published a study that claims rises in the annual average temperature might cause a dramatic increase in heat-related deaths by the 2050s. They project a temperature increase of up to 6.5 degrees Fahrenheit, with summer temperatures rising by as much as 7.6 degrees (Then again, they might only rise as little as 2.5 degrees, or 2.7 degrees in the summer, but either way we're screwed.) When the heat rises, they say, the number of heat-related deaths will too-- setting themselves a wide margin of error, they estimate anywhere between a 47- and 95-percent increase in fatalities. But wait, there's more. When temperatures rise, urban counties—like, say, New York City—will be particularly vulnerable, according to Patrick Kinney, the director of the study. There, the “urban island heat effect” coupled with a high population density may result in the highest number of heat-related deaths, even though the worst of the heat waves will probably occur in rural areas. Kim Knowlton, the lead author of the study,&nbsp;adds that New York’s large population of people over 65, large population of people living in poverty, large population of people with cardiovascular and respiratory illnesses, and large population of people living in un-air-conditioned apartments (or in Wien) might actually make the Mailman School’s estimates of heat-related deaths conservative. In another Mailman School study about even more people dying in the future than are dying now, Dr. Ian Lipkin and a team from Peking University in Beijing discovered even more unsettling information about H5N1,&nbsp;which you know as&nbsp;bird flu. By studying how the disease works in the body, they found that it starts with the lungs and then goes crazy, harming the liver, gastrointestinal tract, brain, blood cells, and, as a result, the immune system. Researchers actually found that the virus both suppresses the immune system and over-stimulates it, causing a “cytokine storm” of chemicals that eventually kill the person. So, according to the new study, the bird flu virus either kills its victim or causes its victim to kill itself—basically, H5N1 doesn’t fuck around. Finally, in a less science-y (but still science-y enough to appear on sciencenews.org) study, Barnard Professor Rajiv Sethi, Brown University Professor Glenn Louries, and Sam Bowles of the Santa Fe Institute&nbsp;concluded through sociological research&nbsp;that segregation leads to inequality. Sethi and others developed a mathematical model where historical discrimination between two groups ended and the same skills received the same income, regardless of which group one was in. The study assumed that parents would “invest more heavily in giving their children the skills that employers value when they expect that investment to pay off later in higher wages.” It also assumed that children are more likely to excel when they’re surrounded by other children who are also doing so—an assumption supported by numerous other studies. Because of their history, researchers say, those who are subject to discrimination are less likely to have the “skills that employers value,” so their children are less likely to acquire those skills in their homes. Because social segregation causes children to remain within their own socio-economic group, who collectively face the problem of not acquiring the skills that employers value, children are less likely to acquire those skills from each other as well. As a result, parents’ investments in those children are less likely to result in an increase in earnings, and so, parents will be less likely to invest in them, and children will be less likely to have economic success in the future. The study does, however, serve as a testament to the power of integration, sufficient amounts of which, according to Sethi, can overcome those same inequalities over generations. 
 A Barnard source just confirmed the troubling lice epidemic currently plaguing the 8th floor of Sulzberger hall in the Barnard Quad. Apparently, one first-year had lice and the little bugs quickly migrated into the heads of several other first-year students. Says Steve Tollman, associate director of Res Life at BC: "Recently, there have been several cases of students with head lice within the Quad. &nbsp;It's important to use caution when sharing clothing, brushes and bedding like pillows and sheets, as this is the most common way that head lice is spread. &nbsp;Please know that this is easily treatable. &nbsp;Any student that believes she has head lice or has been exposed to head lice is encouraged to visit Health Services for evaluation and treatment." Ew, gross me out royal. - JNW 
 Bollinger offers tearful apology for Ahmadinejad introduction; pleads for, receives&nbsp;forgiveness from Dabashi, Bulliet Columbia meets bias incident quota for fourth consecutive week Meaningless generalities&nbsp;mar potentially meaningful event. But hey, at least Ken Burns was here! Murder, temporal edition Murder, metaphorical edition Yawn 
 Rare is the day when Bwog kicks things off by satisfying your doubtless insatiable appetite for Columbia-related experimental art news, but here goes: The recent spate of bias incidents have led John DeSerio, GS, to undertake a marathon social and artistic experiment: for the next week, his "word wall" will be on display on Low Plaza from 12-6PM, and ready for you to write anything on it. And DeSerio means anything: For him, the solo project is about "taking ownership over our words," and generating the kind of dialogue and discussion that he thinks will help us get over recent events. Precedent leaves Bwog a little worried, but we're hoping for the best. Meanwhile, the folks over at ABC No Rio (?) have offered this subtle riposte to last week's investigation. For those of you whose high school years didn't involve listening to Biograph on repeat for weeks months years at a time, the rest of this line (from Dylan B-side "Up to Me") goes as follows: "In fourteen months I only smiled once and I didn't do it consciously/Somebody's got to be on your trail, I guess it must be up to m e." Better believe were on your trail, mysterious guerrilla artist with a seemingly endless supply of easy-to-break dental molds. Or as Bobby would say, "I see through your eyes And I see through your brain…” -ARR 
 And by The Boss we mean&nbsp;Bwog-fave&nbsp;Bruce Robbins, whose ruminations on Columbia's dearth of academic freedom made it into this week's edition of The Nation. Esther Kaplan's penetrating investigation of Fair Alma revealed a brewing crisis in contemporary academia: fringe right-wing groups holding controversial events on campuses. And dear God does the future look bleak. Elsewhere, David Horowitz wrapped up this week's anti-Islamofascist carnival by offering America's complacent masses one final, terrifying anecdote: "The Vice President of the Muslim Students Association at Columbia protested my use of the word 'jihad' during my speech, which she said meant spiritual 'struggle' rather than 'holy war' The only problem was that I hadn’t used the word 'jihad' in my speech at all. It was just one of the talking points she had been given in advance of the event. When I asked her whether she would denounce the terrorist group Hamas, which along with the Muslim Brotherhood created her organization, she evaded the question." UPDATE, 2:06 AM: Amreen Vora, Vice President of Columbia MSA, wrote to Bwog to say that she never made such a comment, and in fact was not present at the Horowitz event at all.&nbsp; Also in unholy league with the Islamists is the Columbia Coalition Against the War, a group so dangerous that Horowitz surrounds its name with quotation marks, as if to suggest that they only kinda-sorta exist, but not really, because if they actually existed they wouldn’t have quotation marks around their name, right? Next controversy, please. - ARR -Graphic by JJV 
 Or so claim some senior bio majors evacuated from the building a few minutes ago. &nbsp;They say that their professor told them to get out as soon as they smelled smoke coming from one of the upper floors--other students stood around in puzzlement, and few of the evacuated seemed to be enjoying the all-too-brief break from their academic pressures. "I'd rather be working," an Earth Science professor told us. "Fresh air is highly overrated." The Bio majors, who were interrupted mid-lab, agree. "Cells are dying," one of them said gravely. A panicky grad student echoed her concerns: "I need to get back. What the fuck?" she exclaimed--thankfully for her overworked, engineering ilk, the building was reopened just a few minutes ago, although nobody could else could give a solid explanation as to why it was evacuated in the first place. We'll have more details as soon as they emerge. Update: The building services guy at the 119th St. entrance tells Bwog that Mudd was evacuated due to a lab fire on the 3rd floor. The fire didn't spread, but the man said that the university doesn't take any chances as far as chemical conflagrations are concerned. Most reassuring! Meanwhile, a cop car ran aground on a parked SUV at 119th and Amsterdam, and as of a half-hour ago police were routing traffic through Morningside Drive. The two incidents aren't linked...we don't think. -ARR 
 President Bollinger, evidently aware of recent ferment among the masses, decided to turn his Freedom of Speech class today into an open airing of grievances. An anonymous Bwog correspondent was taking notes. The whole conversation was not overly serious. No students were really accusatory, and none of the answers were really defensive. He actually didn't give answers to most of the complaints, but just kept calling on students and hearing new ones--it all seemed like it was more about him getting his finger on the pulse of the student body than it was about addressing our concerns directly. But no one really cared, because we as a class have a pretty good rapport with him--he's kind of condescending and nit-picky sometimes, and he never lets anyone get away with anything, but he always does it with a knowing smile, and the class is always lighthearted. He has an acute sense of self-awareness and uses it well. How the class starts: Bollinger: (Calls out names as usual.) OK. Any Questions? (No one raises hand.) Anything about the University? (No hands.) How many of you like the University? (About 75% of hands go up.) What can we do to improve it? A bunch of points were raised, some important, some trivial. No one brought up expansion, or the one-sidedness of the liberal faculty, or the recent hate crimes and the state of tolerance on campus. Also, no one said anything that related to Ahmadinejad or Horowitz or anything in that realm. The suggestions they DID make: &nbsp; - There's too much bureaucracy.&nbsp; "It seems like there are too many steps to getting anything done," said one kid.&nbsp;Events are too hard to plan, said another.&nbsp; Bollinger re-states the issue,&nbsp;says "Hm," nods, and points at another student. - We should have more time off for Thanksgiving so that students from far-off places can go home. Bollinger's response, with a wry smile: "Well, I've let you know that we won't have class on that Wednesday. I've done my bit. (Class laughs.) I'm a good guy." - The Jewish high holy days make it almost impossible for Jewish students to be both Jewish and students in September, and there's a disparity in how sensitive different professors are to that fact. Bollinger: "Well, who would you talk to about that? Why wouldn't you go to Austin Quigley, or Peter Awn, or Jerry Navirtil? Why wouldn't student government take on the issue?" - Advising sucks, the mostly-senior class generally agreed.&nbsp;It seems that if you want to go into consulting and finance, you're golden--but if you want to go into any other field, you're on your own. Bollinger: "Advising is always a big problem. But what's the issue here? If you want to go talk to someone about life after Columbia, is it hard to do? Is it hard to do because the kind of people who do this have too many students and its hard to get an appointment, or is it that they don't know very much about the fields?" Students: A bit of both. The pre-law and pre-medical offices, for instance, are combined, which they probably shouldn't be, and it's a pretty small office. Our alumni connections are also pretty weak for all careers outside of consulting and finance. One Student makes the point that the best, most real way to fix this is to strengthen alumni-student connections in other fields. Also, the point is raised that it is sometimes even hard to make jobs out of internships because, unlike many other schools, academic credit is not given to Columbia students for internships, and as such, we have to cut down hours at internships. - New topic: Study abroad is hard in general; bad advising office, tough requirements for transfers, etc. Bollinger's response: Asks how many of us studied abroad (about half), how many didn't (about half), and how many wanted to but couldn't (about 80% of the last half). "One of the things I'm pushing is to create very short, brief opportunities abroad. So you could go visit one of Jeff Sachs' Millennium Village for a week, for example. In our modern age, you really can fly somewhere, stay for three days, and learn a hell of a lot. How many people would find that kind of opportunity attractive?" (90% of class raises hand.) -New topic: Bollinger: "The fact that no one has raised coursework--is that because everyone is completely happy with the way that works?" (Starts calling on students). Someone brings up a point about how TAs are inconsistent in quality. Some gigantic douche changes the subject before Bollinger has a chance to respond to say that he is very concerned with the "Lack of court space for pickup basketball," describing a time when he tried to play pickup basketball and the baseball team was practicing on the court. He brings up what he refers to as "all sorts of non-basketball related activities" overtaking the basketball space. The class laughs and silently hates him.&nbsp; Someone counters with a point about how in general, the Athletic Department is becoming more and more of a business, and fails to engender a sense of community. There is some discussion on this in general. At some point, Bollinger says "The sense of community here is very interesting to me. I sense that it is strong, but perhaps that's not widely felt." Soon, the conversation changes to the Core. One student says that he understands and believes in the philosophy behind the Core, and says that the Core is a great thing--when it's well done. But any given student's experience with the core is determined almost exclusively by his individual professors, and the quality varies so widely that you can't count on core classes being a good experience. Bollinger asks how many people agree. About 75% of the class raise their hands. Bollinger: "Almost everybody I know believes that the Core is one of the great achievements of higher education, especially the curriculum of Lit Hum and CC--to a certain extent. But staffing the Core is a very big problem. It's a difficulty for the institution, and somehow we haven't figured out how to do that better. But now I want to know what you think of this thesis: The problem with the core is that it is almost completely western. You will undoubtedly, almost every single one of you in one form or another, be dealing with China, India, and the international scene. That will be a part of your life no matter what you do, and that needs to be reflected in the Core. Most of the time, it is relegated to Major Cultures. But then again, Major Cultures are dealt with in bigger classes, and it's not treated with the same attention to detail, and it segments the world, and it's an us-and-them mentality. There are many ways to say this, but I want to know what you think of this critique." The class generally agrees and disagrees--on the one hand, our world is more international and that needs to be reflected. On the other hand, we don't want to lose what's good about the Core now. The discussion doesn't really seem to be going anywhere. Finally, after a litany of complaints, he says "OK, I got it." It's about 4:55. 
 But that's being a bit cynical, now isn't it? Besides, New York Magazine says that Community Food and Juice, which replaced the vacated Nacho's Kitchen (sorry, freshies), has delicious seven-grain waffles with "locally sourced seasonal ingredients." Healthy, seasonal, local--just like a waffle should be. (As an aside: We'd love to trust this description--really we would--but Bwog greets references to "last night's John Jay party" with the utmost skepticism.&nbsp;Does their&nbsp;juice also&nbsp;help&nbsp;you&nbsp;plow through that CC paper that's due in&nbsp;a couple&nbsp;weeks? Just as plausible, guys). Bright and vaguely minimalist, Community has an aesthetic that one of our editors accurately described as "downtown-y." It officially opens Thursday, but Bwog spotted people there earlier tonight. Check it out? -ARR, photo by Hillary Busis 
Barack Obama's Columbia years are again the subject of a lengthy profile in today's New York Times. Bwog correspondent CML had a revelation about a particular paragraph. "Mr. Obama arrived in New York in August 1981, at age 20, from Occidental College in Los Angeles. According to his memoir, he passed his first night in an alley near 109th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, unable to get into his apartment. The next morning, he bathed at a hydrant alongside a homeless man." We like to bitch and moan about Barack Obama's weird reticence toward his time here at Columbia, but the more important point here is that very same intersection where the young Barack slumbered is currently the site of the 109 Gourmet "Crack" Deli, home of the storied Spicy Special. &nbsp;For what it's worth, the otherwise completely inconsequential crossroads of 109th and Amsterdam is also mentioned in the J.D. Salinger story "The Laughing Man," as the place where the narrator is picked up by the bus to be taken down to cavort on thesporting fields of Central Park with his youthful companions. Now, whenever I indulge in the disgustingly delicious Special, I'll imagine the spirit of the fledgling Obama, bright-eyed and bedraggled, ruing the day he left California and sublimating his sorrows in processed turkey and arcane cheese. Oh, and I hear there's another Crack Deli up around 123rd and Broadway, but you can only get one type of crack there as opposed to two at the original location. Obama, though, always seemed like more of an Adderall guy to me.
 This editorial is tagged as "hope" and "Star Wars" The fictional kids that the fictional Albus Dumbledore taught at their completely made up school don't have to worry that their fictional teacher is going to fake sexually harass them.&nbsp; &nbsp;"Violence is like selling motherfucking hot flowers." For a lot of us, this title is an apt summarization of senior year of high school, no? Mmm, yeah. Fairly certain Kazahkstanis would rather you didn't refer to their home as "Land of Borat." Coming up today on Bwog: How to fix your computer What's going on in the Internets Your professor's voicemail 
This week’s question for Bwog comes from Daily Editor David Iscoe who wants to know if hitting an electronic device such as a computer is a good way to get it to work? David requests an engineer’s advice. Lucikly, webmaster Zach van Schouwen was on hand to answer David’s question. “The master walks in to find the student flipping his machine on and off in an effort to solve a technical failure. The master shakes his head, and says "It is futile to power-cycle the machine in lieu of understanding the problem." The master then flipped the machine on and off, causing it to work immediately. At that moment, the student became enlightened,” Zach explains. He then clarifies that the official term of computer repair geeks is “percussion maintenance” and that yes, hitting a computer—for example if a laptop’s wireless slides out of the motherboard—can quite possibly get it to work. The idea is that hitting a computer can “dislodge the heads if they’ve become stuck on the platters, or otherwise misaligned,” says Phil Dotree of Associated Content. However, he warns that the risk of damaging your hard drive is high if you choose to slap your computer around a bit. Ask Bwog thanks the always-helpful Zach van Schouwen and Phil Dotree of associatedcontent.com, whoever he may be. 
Josh Marshall may be a liberal flack, but his video of Islamofascism week--featuring a flustered university spokesman, a random documentary filmmaker, and a fidgety David Judd--is worth a gander.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog called some of Columbia's biggest names in the middle of the night to hear their outgoing voicemail messages. Here's what they--or rather their TAs--recorded.&nbsp; "This is Shane, we'll take messages for Bruce Robbins. You can record after the beep." "You've reached the office of Ann Douglas at Columbia. Professor Douglas doesn't take messages um, at this extension. You should try reaching her via email." "Hello this is Michael Golston in the Columbia English department. Uh, I'm not at my desk right now but if you leave a message I will get back to you as soon as I can. Thank you and bye-bye." "Hello, you've reached the the office of Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. This is the direct line of Stephanie King, her assistant. Please leave you name and number, including the spelling of your name, and someone will get back to you as soon as possible. Thank you very much." "You have reached telephone of the director for the Heyman Center for the Humanities. He can't be at the telephone just now. You could leave a message for him on this machine or if it's a matter of some urgency, you could speak to his assistant." "You've reached Taylor Carman in the Philosophy department at Barnard College. You could leave a message after the beep." &nbsp; 
The Barnard College Activities Office has sent out an email advertising cheap tickets to Broadway shows. Which, in theory, is great. But the list of available shows is less than thrilling: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Though Bwog hears David Hyde Pierce was great in Name of Show, the dates just don't really work out.&nbsp; 
 Make sure to send Bwog pictures of yourself in all your costumed glory before you go out trick-or-treating tomorrow night. The winner will receive an outgoing voicemail message recorded on their phone by Andrew Flynn! And eternal fame and accolades! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
In which Bwog freelancer Kate Linthicum discovers soul food that's actually good for your soul. I've been a vegetarian since I was four, when my family's mischievous Labrador puppy attacked my pet hen. Her name was Pearl, and she was the softest, sweetest chicken in the whole world. I stopped eating meat the day I discovered her feathers strewn across the flowerbeds.&nbsp; Morally, it was the right decision for me. Socially, it kind of sucked. Growing up, I always felt like an outsider at lunchtime, munching quietly on home-packed lunches of carrots and peanut butter sandwiches while the rest of the kids loaded up on chicken nuggets. I pretended to know why people went crazy for Happy Meals, sloppy joes and soul food, but I just couldn't relate. &nbsp; But then I dined at Uptown Juice Bar, a little Harlem gem that specializes in vegetarian Caribbean fare. It's one of the only restaurants in New York that serves soul food that's actually good for your soul. &nbsp; Since 1995 the Juice Bar has occupied a narrow storefront on 125th street between Lennox and Fifth Avenue. It's about a half hour walk from Columbia's campus. The restaurant is nestled next to a store that sells specialty wigs, and outside men with long dreads hawk reggae cds.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Inside it's bright and warm, thanks to an army of industrial-looking food lamps that keep watch over a buffet of steaming dishes. Patrons line up cafeteria-style to order. The menu is large and the prices are cheap. All of the chicken, fish and turkey dishes are made out of soy protein or tofu, though mainstays like okra, collard greens and mac and cheese seem prepared in the standard way.&nbsp; The line at dinnertime is long-ish, but the people in it are chatty. When I asked one man to help me choose what to order, a woman standing next to us piped in. "Honey, you cannot go wrong," she assured me. &nbsp; I paid eight dollars for a plate piled with four selections from the buffet. The cooked pumpkin and cabbage were delicious, and the mock duck was divine. My companion, who knows real meat better than I do, said her huge turkey sandwich was not only tasty, but tasted authentic, too. &nbsp; I didn't try any of the juices for which the restaurant is named, but based on the fresh fruit displayed in the front window, I bet they're pretty good. The restaurant also offers a wide selection of vegan desserts. &nbsp; There's a dining room decorated with pretty art in the back, and it's a nice sanctuary from the hustle and bustle of 125th. It's quiet except for the occasional strain of calypso music that sifts in from the kitchen.&nbsp; &nbsp; I liked almost everything about the Uptown Juice Bar.&nbsp; The barbecue soy chunks, however, kind of freaked me out. Crafted after chicken drumsticks, they're as stringy and succulent as I imagine real chicken is. I tried to eat to them, but each time I bit into to a drumstick, I couldn't help but think guiltily of poor Pearl.&nbsp;
 Sachs talks to some farmer who "set the world on fire." Columbia beats down the merchants who "slaughtered Hofstra." Freshman fears being "Attack. Devour." What does $20,000 for Community Impact mean? "student life...will...end."&nbsp; Fittingly, a review discussing the Saw series ends with "There will be more blood." 
 The ghosts and ghouls come out on All Hallow's Eve, but All Hallow's day is ruled by campus groups. The Statement of Principles, in development since the Minutemen aftermath, (and reproduced here after the jump) was unveiled and has been covered in signatures, while the deans have set up a trick or treat stand and are passing out cupcakes. Down on college walk, the Rotaract Club is selling Cuban food, while the Columbia Musical Theater Society is having a classic bake sale. Meanwhile, the Word Wall is gathering more language. And what would Halloween be without a little blood? New York Blood Center is taking donations today. Vee vant to suck your blood (through a tube, so we can give it to medical patients.) Community Principles Statement Columbia University is a community of students, faculty, alumni, staff and visitors. As members of this community we understand that our actions as individuals impact not only our own lives but also those of our community. Through these principles we can continually engage each other in order to understand our differences and similarities. &nbsp;We believe that intellectual discourse in all forms is essential to the University; as such it is vital that we give all perspectives a place to be expressed. &nbsp;We are all responsible to this community and affirm that we treat each other with respect and dignity. Members of our community act with honesty by accepting accountability for their words and actions and maintaining the integrity of the community as a whole. As members of the University with different experiences and ideas, we actively engage each other to understand, appreciate and accept our various identities. We participate in a free and open community and ask that all those who come within our gates&nbsp; act in accordance with these principles. 
The New York Sun is reporting that a swastika was found painted on the door of Elizabeth Midlarsky, a Jewish Teachers College professor who studies the Holocaust. TC President Susan Fuhrman responded to the incident in an email send out to the TC community this morning: "We feel we've been targeted precisely because Teachers College is and historically has been a center for deep multi-cultural work. We are committed to maintaining that tradition by operating as an open, tolerant community." Police received a call at 8am and are considering this a possible bias incident. UPDATE, 12:00 midnight: You think we have problems? George Washington's got seven. - JNW 
Bwog lecture hopper Pierce Stanley reports back on the Heyman Center's discussion on the limits and applications of academic freedom. So it appears that with the exception of Methods and Problems of Philosophical Thought, Akeel Bilgrami, the suave and erudite former Rhodes scholar is bringing his A game to Columbia these days. The Johnsonian Professor of Philosophy and Heyman Center for Humanities director should be given full credit for the assembly of all-stars he brought to Columbia last night to appear on a panel to discuss the topic "Freedom and the University." An impassioned discussion between five preeminent leaders in their respective academic fields who are also key players in the contemporary debate over academic freedom at the university, it was easily the best event of the day that no one knew about. Introduced by Columbia's own Provost Emeritus and academic freedom expert, Jonathan Cole, the event brought together Yale Law professor Robert Post, Joan Scott of Princeton's Institute of Advanced Study, UChicago International Relations theorist John Mearsheimer of Israel Lobby fame, and his quirky colleague, historian Peter Novick to debate, discuss, and joke about the state of the academic enterprise today. While the professors all seemed to generally be in agreement about the freedoms of research and speech by professors at the university, one was left wondering why a more dissenting voice was not included in the discussion, a la Columbia's own favorite David Horowitz. Nevertheless, the panel embarked upon the tough task of determining the current state of academic freedom in American universities, at a time when it is widely perceived to be under the biggest threat since 1950's McCarthyism's crackdown on university professors. Mostly an attempt to determine the role that a professor's outside views should play inside the classroom, the three of hours of discussion flew by, they spared no breath in discussing everything from the intricate rules that a professor must follow according to the 1940's Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure constructed by the American Association of University Professors, to the influence of the Israel Lobby on determining what professors say and do. They touched upon the commonplace understanding that most professors in the university system today are of a liberal persuasion, followed by a debate over the appropriateness of several high profile professor firings and tenure decisions, and even a discussion about the six different definitions of the word "motherfucker" that appear in the Oxford English Dictionary. Robert Post kicked off the night with a highly specific legal interpretation of academic freedom, touching upon four different points that included: indoctrination vs. education, the injection of irrelevant materials in the classroom, claims that faculties are unbalanced politically, and challenging the idea that modern professors create a hostile environment in the classroom. Post noted that academic freedom should extend to what professors say in class and research. He argued that in reality students have no claim to academic freedom. While students are afforded freedom of speech in the classroom, academic freedom is a highly specific term used only to describe the way university professors operate. Post noted that academic freedom should always take precedence because by "watching a professor be independent, it makes students think for themselves and develop a mature independence of mind." Moreover, he argued that we should "never confuse people and ideas" when discussing freedom in a university setting. John Mearsheimer, arguably the father of modern realist international relations theory followed by reading a rather dry discussion of the Israel lobby that he seemed to have lifted from straight from his recent book. Nevertheless his quips about the "New York Sun watching Columbia like a hawk" and jabs at David Horowitz kept the audience in the game. Mearsheimer laid bare for the audience his fear that Pro-Israel lobbies are increasingly involved in the hiring and firing of professors. He cited the denial of tenure to Norman Finkelstein at DePaul University as an example of the heavy hand that Israel lobbyists have in the hiring of professors. The soft spoken Mearsheimer argued that the case for continued unconditional US support for Israel is weak, as 78 percent of the population say that the US should support neither side in Israel/Palestine debate. Moreover, he noted that the Israel lobby is dangerous because it typically conflates religion and ethnicity in the promotion of its cause. After the blasting of Israel lobbyists, women's studies pioneer and former AAUP chair of the Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure, Joan Scott offered a behind the scenes look at academic freedom today and suggested that the classic definition of academic freedom needs to be restored. She cautioned listeners of the increasing demands for moralism in academia today. Referring to the David Project scandal at Columbia, she warned of the increasing trend towards a focus on identity politics by critics of academic freedom. Peter Novick, who apparently thinks its cool to wear New Balances with a suit, was the star of the show not only because of his one-liners that seemed to fly out of nowhere but because of the unique "black box" interpretation that he offered up. Novick, in a flurry of constant hand waving, suggested that academic freedom is like a black box in which an input goes in and we get a different output but with no transparency to see what happens inside. That way, we are always at some point blind in the debate over hirings, firings, and tenure, ensuring that no decision is entirely perfect. Novick brought up clever anecdotes about academic fraud, asking, "How much academic fraud is too much?" and he even suggested that plagiarism is not that bad because it is essentially a victimless crime. Q &amp; A was a chance for Jonathan Cole to jump into the mix and offer his own fifteen-minute diatribe about academic freedom, all while touting the upcoming release of his most recent book. While it was also a good chance to really flesh out the arguments forwarded by the speakers in their opening speeches, in the end, the Q &amp; A turned out to be a chance to see how quirky and quickly these professors' minds worked as they spoke about specific tenure decisions, told jokes and anecdotes, and even reminisced about their own trials and tribulations with tenure proceedings. Last night was a brilliant night of debate with five superb scholars who passionately enjoy what they do and are willing to fight for a freedom that is necessary in the proper functioning of the university today. The Heyman Center event offered a real glimpse into the role of the academic in society, while putting on display a very real enthusiasm for the intellectual life. The only damper of the night: it was a shame more students weren't there to enjoy it. 
As the clock passes midnight on Halloween, a new holiday comes about. Eccentric longtime Bwog commenter and mystery man Manley Cottingshire submits the following message regarding the eighty-fourth septennial of the ascension of his ancestor.&nbsp; UPDATE, Thursday 3:37 PM: It seems that this post has generated some confusion. Please know that it's not a trick, or any sort of cruel inside joke. Manley just e-mailed us, and we thought it deserved an airing. We have no idea who he is. Really. &nbsp; SECRETARY: CONVEY THIS TO CARVER AT ONCE. THE CONTENTS DEPEND UPON RECEIPT THIS DAY. HELLO CARVER WITH GREAT INTEREST AND FULL APPROVAL HAVE I MARKED THE RECENT CHANGES UPON YOUR NEWSPAPER. KNOW MY WARM REGARDS AND FULL SUPPORT: COTTINGSHIRE. BUT I HAVE BUSINESS TOMORROW MARKS THE EIGHTY-FOURTH SEPTENNIAL OF THE ASCENSION OF MY ANCESTOR. IT WAS WITH HIS STRENGTH AND VALOUR THAT COTTINGSHIRE DID ASCEND. AS YOU KNOW, ALL I HAVE I OWE TO MY ANCESTOR. &nbsp; BUT CELEBRATIONS AT THE ESTATE GROW TIREFUL AND LATELY HAVE I SOUGHT A NEW METHOD. HEREIN MY TROUBLES LAY. YET CONSIDER MY RUMINATION: AS AN AVID DEVOURER OF YOUR NEWS-FEED I HAVE NOTED YOUR PENCHANT FOR VISUAL JOVIALITIES, SPECIFICALLY WITHIN YOUR COAT OF ARMS. IMAGINE MY TERROR WHEN UPON VIEWING IT THIS MORN. I WAS CONFRONTED NOT ONLY BY A SADLY MANGLED GOURD, BUT BY THE FOUL DUTCH COLOUR! CARVER YOU RASCAL! A POORER MAN'S HEART WOULD COLLAPSE OF THESE TERRORS! BUT YOU ARE THE VANGUARD, CARVER, AND PERHAPS I GROW OLD, SUSCEPTIBLE TO THIS RAZOR-WIT IN WAYS SEEMING PAROCHIAL TO THE YOUTH. BUT THAT GENERATION WOULD NEVER WREST A SILVER CANDELABRA FROM THE MITTS OF A RUSSIAN BEAR, CARVER, AND THAT EXCITEMENT WE WILL SHARE WITH OUR FELLOWS FOR ALWAYS. THEY INSTEAD SOFTEN, AND THE MERCILESS CHINESE WILL SOON CONQUER AS YOU DID PREDICT ME THAT WARM AUTUMN EVENING SO LONG AGO. MAY IT HAPPEN ONLY AFTER THE HUNDREDTH SEPTENNIAL! AT ANY RATE, I BELIEVE I HAVE FIGURED THE PROPER METHOD TO REJUVENATE WHAT BECOMES A SAD, ROTE WORSHIP: WITH MY OWN SKILLS I HAVE COBBLED TOGETHER MY OWN COAT OF ARMS FOR YOUR NEWSPAPER, RESPLENDENT AND LIGHTHEARTED, WITH A LITHOGRAPH OF THE ANCESTOR THAT I MYSELF DID COMPOSE. VIEW IT. IT IS MY PRUDENT DEMAND THAT YOU PLACE IT UPON YOUR NEWSPAPER ON TOMORROW, THE FIRST OF NOVEMBER. YOUR HESITATION IS UNNECESSARY AS I HAVE ANTICIPATED YOUR OBJECTION: THIS CONSISTS NOT OF POOR PRECEDENT AS NO-ONE OF YOUR READERS POSSESSES THE DEXTERITY OF WIT AND TALENTS THAT HAS BEEN SPAKE OF COTTINGSHIRE. I AM THE STRONGEST HUMAN AND ALL VERBAL ARGUMENTS WILL PERISH WHEN IN CONTEST WITH MY OWN. CARVER, I REMEMBER AS ONCE WE DINED YOU BANDIED A JEST AT THE EXPENSE OF THE ANCESTOR. I KNOW YOU LOVED HIM TRUE, AND AS SUCH I FIND IT WELL APPROPRIATE TO REQUEST YOUR GENIAL HONORATION. HE WAS A BETTER MAN THAN I AND YOU, CARVER. HE DESERVES GLOBAL PUBLICATION, AS YOU KNOW I OFT WOULD REMIND. PLEASE DO ME NO INJUSTICE. I HAVE FASTENED MY CAREFUL WORK TO THIS CORRESPONDENCE. REGARDS -M.C. 
 Armin Rosen spent the past couple nights seeing what The Tribe is up to. Jewish philosophical smack dooooooown! It’s about time the philosophical salon made a comeback: on Tuesday night, a couple dozen List College students gathered in the Mathilde Shechter music room for some laid back Judaically-focused philosophical disputation. The night’s topic was the so-called “New Atheism”--the aggressive attack on religion led by Christopher Hitchens, Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett and others. JTS philosophy professor Leonard Levin began by arguing that the “new atheists” do not realize how little science and religion actually disprove one another. While science explains the particulars of the physical universe in ways that religion can‘t, religion provides the underlying meaning and guidance that science lacks. “Until recently,” Levin said, “religious experience is all of human experience.” Religion is personally and communally centering, and strives to, and occasionally succeeds in, addressing important, fundamental truths. Dr. Austin Darcy from the atheist Center for Inquiry spoke partly in defense of the “new atheists”--while he disagreed with their assertion that “religion poisons everything,” he said that Hitchens and his ilk are removing religion from its pedestal and giving it the unsparing intellectual analysis it deserves. He deployed a Kantian proof that the logical basis for theism runs similar to justifications for atheism: Kant argued that man believes in a God that will order an unordered world, but since the world is assumed to be unordered, Kant’s postulate of practical reason proves that theism is little more than elaborate rationalizing. The night’s arguments were pretty standard, but never trite: Levin, for instance, rebutted the claim that Theists irrationally uphold a solipsistic view of the universe by quoting a 3rd century Talmudic rabbi’s shockingly accurate estimation of the number of stars. Of course we’ve heard this all before: that theism is scientifically and morally untenable, and that religion is more than just blind belief in something we can’t hope to see or interact with. And the arguments had their usual weaknesses: Levin’s concession that secular philosophy could provide the same kind of objective morals as religion means that religion is preferable for utilitarian, rather than qualitative reasons--if religion is superior simply because more people can understand Exodus than Locke’s First Treatise on Government, how superior is it, really? But it’s tough to argue with high-level philosophical discussion in such a laid-back atmosphere, and the question and answer was informal and refreshingly non-confrontational, given the sensitive subject matter. The questions raised--like whether a perfect God can reasonably be expected to create a perfect world--probably won’t be answered any time soon. But events like these show that it sure can be fun to try. &nbsp; Defamation pontification It would be easy to accuse ADL president Abraham Foxman of fear mongering, and believe me, I’m tempted. The premise of last night’s talk at Hillel sure does sound far-fetched: that Walt, Mearshimer, Jimmy Carter and others are reviving anti-Semitic canards that conveniently blame the problems of the day on the Jewish people. But the blustery Mr. Foxman has a bit more respect for nuance than his agitated delivery would suggest. Without explicitly taking sides on Israel, Iraq, AIPAC or other thorny issues, Foxman laid out the facts: there is nothing to suggest, as Walt and Mearshimer allegedly do in the Israel Lobby, that there is any coordinated “Jewish lobby.” Besides which, the pair don’t even try to prove that it is, since they don’t interview a single member of the so-called “lobby”--they simply assume that there exists a massive, Jewish-controlled machinery leading the U.S. to national ruin. But this doesn’t withstand scrutiny: if there really was a “Jewish lobby” driving America to war in Iraq, Foxman argues, why did the Reform Synagogue--America’s largest Jewish organization--officially oppose the decision to invade? Forgetting for a moment that Walt and Mearshimer are careful to point out that not all Jews are a part of the Lobby, which is “comprised of American Jews” rather than “controlled by America’s Jews:” Foxman’s fundamental argument, that even the slightest suggestion that Jews act in any kind of conspiracy to do anything vaguely disadvantageous to the United States smacks of the “blame the Jews first” mentality that’s rife throughout world history. Nitpicking Foxman’s less-than-watertight arguments probably gets us nowhere. Besides, our society isn’t prepared to take chances with other, equally insidious efforts to single out specific ethnic and religious groups. Why make an exception for the Jews, Foxman asks? The fact that the ADL can be accused of “stifling debate” by pointing out the use of historically anti-Semitic arguments, Foxman argued, while such treatment of the head of the NAACP is practically unimaginable shows just how entrenched anti-Jewish double standards have become. And he had stats to back this up: according to ADL surveys, 30% of Americans think that the Jews killed Christ; another 30% believe that Jews are more loyal to Israel than to the United States. It’s tough not to find fault in some of Foxman’s assumptions, or to find fault in his reading of the “Israel Lobby” thesis. But Foxman’s speech provided chilling context for a controversial set of ideas. It was tough not to take him seriously. 
 Well Teacher's College, maybe November will see better days. CU wants u 2 b safe.&nbsp; What does "wadding up" mean? Columbia Spectator is one-sided, ignores "kill whitey."&nbsp; The core is useful beyond just cocktail parties. 
The future of your alarm clock, moving beyond the arm-swinging-snooze-slap--and a way to spice up your everyday "I've had sooo little sleep" small talk standby, from Bwogger Kurt Kanazawa. JUMP! I'll just let the inventor explain this one: "Sfera is a radio alarm clock which hangs above your bed and wakes you in the morning by forcing you physically to get out of bed. When you set the alarm, the glowing Sfera gradually dims and the music gently fades out as you drift off to sleep. When the alarm chimes in the morning, the only way to silence it is to reach up and gently tap the Sfera. This action initiates the snooze function, but it also makes the Sfera rise above your head towards the ceiling. As it slowly rises away from your reach, you must stretch higher each time to gain another ten minutes of snooze. When it reaches the ceiling, you have no option but to reach for it and drag it back down to your bed – an action which switches off the alarm and forces you finally to get up." Sadly, this alarm clock for us deep snoozers remains a prototype.&nbsp; Hear that SEAS?&nbsp; I smell a Gateway project… The rolling alarm clock Snooze is just so convenient.&nbsp; But it's not nearly as lovely when you're forced to chase the button: introducing CLOCKY, created by Nanda.&nbsp; Like other alarms, CLOCKY allows you to set your snooze time between 0-9 minutes.&nbsp; If you don't wake up after the first snooze, CLOCKY rolls off your desk and finds a corner to hide in, forcing your sorry morning self to get up and search for him.&nbsp; This alarm clock is made for those with an inner child, who still love to lay hide and seek with their parents—but remember to keep this guy away from your windows, lest you risk getting kicked out of housing BY A ROBOT. Stop using a buzzer! Self-explanatory.&nbsp; Music is better. Period. Classic wet washcloth If you're lucky enough to have your roommate nearby, or your RA, or the kid who stays in your lounge from dawn til dusk (does he sleep?), you can have him or her wake you up the way my father preferred. A step-by-step to the worst possible way to greet the day: Step 1: wet/soak a towel Step 2: DO NOT wring it out Step 3: throw over sleeping victim, drowning him or her with pure enervation. We all need help getting up in the morning.&nbsp; Hope these tips help to make the advent of morning less jarring - well more so, in some cases. 
 Do you ever get nostalgia for your boarding/private school days? Cardigans? The old boys' club? The Varsity Show has set up a country club on Low plaza, complete with cucumber sandwiches, Arnold Palmer's, bubble gum cigars, and neon golf balls. Delicious! 
Bwog freelancer Kate Linthicum followed the Potluck House kids north last night.&nbsp; What do you get when 40 rambunctious college students descend on a notorious Bronx park for a moonlit drum circle? The NYPD, apparently.&nbsp; The costumed revelers at last night’s “Hotluck” Halloween party learned that the hard way when police swooped down on their party in Van Cortlandt park, ending the night early with a spirited sprint through the city's northernmost borough. It all started, harmlessly enough, with a cryptic e-mail a few days before. Circulated by members of the “Potluck House,” a Columbia special interest housing group, the e-mail told of a secret Halloween soiree. The organizers didn’t say where it would be held, but they instructed interested partiers to congregate at 116th and Broadway with flashlights and noise-making devices. &nbsp; Dozens of students showed up, some in elaborate costumes. They milled around excitedly while one member of the Potluck House tried to prep them for the party. “Please use the buddy system,” she pled. “Things might get crazy.” Then she led everybody to the subway station. Within minutes, the entire group had pressed into a single uptown one train and unleashed a cacophony of noise. They pounded on their drums and pots and pans, stomped their feet and howled wildly. The other people on the train just looked on tiredly. &nbsp; As the train sped north, some students chatted with one another about their costumers. One girl in skin-tight pants explained her look to a friend. “I’m secretly a hipster,” she said, gesturing to the headphones slung around her neck. “Tonight I’m coming out.”&nbsp; The party continued until the last stop. Then the group was led out of the station, down the street, and to Van Cortlandt Park. The park closes each night at dusk, but that didn’t stop anyone. They marched right in, still banging their drums and pans.&nbsp; The park was dark and empty, and looming trees cast creepy shadows on the parade. As they trekked farther in, the students became strangely childlike. Many started to skip and call out into the night with glee. “This is what it felt like on Fourth of July when I was seven!” one girl shouted. &nbsp; Eventually, they arrived at their destination--a dusty baseball diamond in the middle of a huge field. Within seconds the music and the dancing broke out in full force, and soon someone initiated a game of “freeze dance.” The drumming got louder and the gyrating more frantic, and the lights from the city cast the group in an eerie green glow. From afar, they must have looked like they were taking part in a cultish ritual. &nbsp; Maybe that’s what the police thought, because they suddenly came hurtling across the field toward the dancers in an NYPD SUV. “The cops!” everyone started shouting. “Run!” The crowd immediately dispersed as people sprinted off in different directions to escape the approaching headlights. They ran fast and excitedly. “I haven’t done this since high school,” one person shouted. “It’s kind of fun!” &nbsp; This bwogger caught a gypsy cab downtown, but word has it that everyone eventually straggled back to the subway station. It appeared the buddy system had worked: There were no reports of anyone getting apprehended by the police or lost in the labyrinthine park. &nbsp; When they boarded the train to head back downtown, they again took up their instruments. Some reported that the music was even louder than it had been on the ride up. Though the park party didn’t pan out, it was an important lesson in revelry: It doesn’t matter where the party is, as long as you decide to be the party.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 How many drag queens did you see last night? If the answer wasn't well over 3,000, then you weren't at the Halloween Parade in Greenwich Village. The Avenue of the Americas was packed from Spring to 21st, not only with your traditional devils, witches and Teletubbies, but also Popes with blinking LED crosses, Transformers and a Scrabble set.&nbsp; Even New York's finest showed their support (right). After the jump there is a small, delightful cross-section of the best of All Hallow's Eve 2007. &nbsp; The West Village's Top 5 Costumes of 2007 1.&nbsp; Beta Max Tape – Move over VHS!&nbsp; The old cat is back in town. 2.&nbsp; David Bowie circa 1983 (pictured) – This guy was a real Space Oddity. 3.&nbsp; Toof Fairy (pictured) – Just like in your childhood dreams! 4.&nbsp; Dorothy (pictured) – We're certainly not in Kansas anymore. 5.&nbsp; Giant penises – Whether being pushed around in a wheelbarrow or marching erect, these guys were all over the place. &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Honorable Mention: I'm not really sure what this guy is, but... &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - JJV Photos by Greer Feick and Claudia Gallego 
 We've picked our favorites from the excellent crop of costume submissions. Make your choice below, and check out the runners-up. {{poll "11"}} Runners-Up Morgan Robinson as "Pinkberry Girl" Jason Patinkin as Scotsman George Olive as Hamburgler Austin Davidson as Gargoyle 
 On Tuesday night, the newly-formed "anti-racist coalition" on campus met in Hamilton&nbsp;to host a teach-in and&nbsp;make public a list of&nbsp;demands on salient issues. The coalition, largely a conglomeration of old SHOCC hands, SCEJ members, and Ethnic Studies majors, is a self-declared response to the bias incidents that have occurred this semester and a self-conscious revival of&nbsp;prior demands&nbsp;made&nbsp;by SHOCC&nbsp;and Columbia Concerned Students of Color. Their banners and emails speak of revolution on campus, students taking back the University, and a new era of student participation and protest. They are cryptic, however, when asked about their immediate plans. Will they have a name? Will they stage protests&nbsp;or other actions beyond tentative sundial vigils? The campus at large is just going to have to wait and see. At the teach-in, recent grad Jenny Oki and current super-senior Bryan Mercer spoke to the assembled students about the history of bias incidents and efforts like SHOCC over the past few years. Students in the room took turns reading the list of stated objectives (reproduced after the jump) that includes demands for bureaucracy reformation, new bureaucratic posts, withdrawal of the University's Manhattanville plan, and Ethnic Studies empowerment. (All in all, there are a lot of "musts" in the list, which should go over well with the powers that be.) Even some coalition affiliates&nbsp;seemed somewhat&nbsp;unclear as&nbsp;to&nbsp;the current direction of the group-- they're going places, but&nbsp;they're not telling anyone but the most intimate circle where. - KER Administrative Reform 1. We demand more advisors and counselors for cultural groups, students of color, the LGBTQ community and communities of faith, with student involvement in the hiring process of said personnel. We ask that the Office of Multicultural Affairs be expanded physically and responsibly, and that more support for collaboration between the Office of Multicultural Affairs at Columbia and the Multicultural Affairs Office at Barnard be given by the University administration. 2. We demand a Vice Provost for Multicultural Affairs to administrator and direct the University's policies affecting students within all the schools of the University. 3. We demand that Columbia's Public Safety announce instances of hate crimes when they are reported and issue and an annual report of reported bias incidents and hate crimes and how they have been addressed. 4. We demand that Columbia's Public Safety announce instances of hate crimes when they are reported and issue an annual report of reported bias incidents and hate crimes and how they have been addressed. Ethnic Studies 1. Given the inadequate number of core faculty present next semester, we demand the completion of 2 core faculty hires per year for both CSER and IRAAS until each has 12 core junior and senior professors, which must be maintained indefinitely. 2. The academic review of CSER and IRAAS must begin in Summer 2008 where the board must include only ethnic studies scholars from outside institutions as well as Columbia ethnic studies majors. The academic review must also research the steps necessary for the creation of Queer Studies, which has historically been placed under Ethnic Studies at other institutions, as well as Native American Studies which must be considered by the university following the review's completion. 3. Interested Ethnic Studies majors collectively, show through a vote, must be give 1 or 2 votes (depending on committee size) which will be delivered by the current student positions on all hiring committees for junior and senior faculty to increase student presence and determination of CSER's direction. 4. To maintain the integrity of Ethnic Studies and the very possibility of its sustained growth, the CSER and IRAAS must be granted the ability to make hires autonomously. This is not a call of the immediate departmentalization of Ethnic Studies. Rather it is a call for the Ethnic Studies programs to make hiring decision on their own accord, without the need of outside departments to lead the hire. We recognize that this is unprecedented for centers and institutes throughout the University, but see it as a necessary step in creating Ethnic Studies classes and research initiatives that are accountable to the field and on par with peer institutions. The Manhattanville Expansion and Community Accountability 1. Columbia withdraw its 197-C proposal to rezone Manhattanville immediately. 2. After withdrawing its proposal from the review process, Columbia submit its proposal to Community Board 9 for revision in line with the principles of the 197-a plan. 3. After making the relevant changes to its rezoning plan, Columbia negotiate a substantive community benefits agreement which serves to mitigate displacement created by the university's presence and addresses job creation, environmental problems and university-community relations. The Core Curriculum 1. The reformation of the Major Cultures requirement to contain a course in a seminar format which challenges students to think critically about the issues of racialization and colonialism, global phenomena which also are at the Core of the "western" experience. 2. More student voice and seats within these committees, and that their process of selection be better publicized, so that students' passions for changing the Core do not have to flare up in moments of spectacle, but can be incorporated into the constant process of developing the Core Curriculum. &nbsp; 
Freshie Bwogger Justin Vlasits arrived in New York City from his automobile-friendly DC suburb only to find that he is sorely lacking in the city's fastest and cheapest mode of transportation.&nbsp; So, with helmet and vehicle provided by editors Armin Rosen and Lydia DePillis, respectively, Justin is set loose in the Wien courtyard in a vain attempt to learn how to ride a bicycle. I mean, even monkeys can do this, I told myself. Riding a bike can't be that hard--and besides, I'm so good at the stationary ones in the gym! But after 45 minutes of ball-bruising, shin-banging fun, my body would tend to disagree.&nbsp; Each time I tipped over when I started to pedal, I realized just how nice those stationary bikes really are. When I'm in Dodge, I feel like I could have a leg chopped off and beat Lance Armstrong. Out in the elements, the tiny drainage inclines seem like a mountain course requiring minute weight shifts so subtle and complex that I felt like my internal gyroscope must be either missing or fundamentally out of whack.&nbsp; Now would be a good time to explain the motivation behind this endeavor.&nbsp; Normally, one who is extremely inept at something like riding a bike would never try and learn after the age of 10.&nbsp; During a conversation with bike-addict Lydia, however, she convinced me that it is totally unacceptable for a city-dweller to rely on the subway and my size 10 Reeboks to get me where I need to go, and subsequently offered to teach me.&nbsp; Unfortunately, even those who know how to ride a bike are nearly incapable of communicating in words how they do it--the necessary steps are so ingrained into the process of cycling that, despite the most earnest attempts to aid me on my quest, she couldn't get me through the learning process without a measure of physical anguish. And while the gangly boy careening around the courtyard on a too-small bike must have seemed absurd to onlookers (who were, for the most part, kind enough not to laugh in my face), an unbearable pain began to emerge between my legs and I soon forgot I was in the center of the free world and thought that I might be experiencing some sort of ancient genital mutilation ritual.&nbsp; Sorry ladies, the boys are not available this evening. On the bright side, I did successfully move forward on more than one occasion and only lost my crotch and my dignity.&nbsp; But watch out New York, I'll be back and pedaling soon.&nbsp; Once I can sit down again. Photo by Lydia DePillis 
 "Good news" from the Anthropology departments, to some folks' dismay Something tells us a three-year boycott on these proportions this might be a little difficult Rest In Peace TV-Links, Glorious Ruiner of GPAs and Paper Deadlines If you want to know what makes Butler residents angry, here's how to do it Racism: It's overstated! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 A group of first-years (who have collectively named themselves Floor 7 Productions) recently submitted their short film Waking Up and Other Hardships to Apple's '07 Insomnia Festival, in which high school and college student groups create their own three minutes of brilliance in under 24 hours based on a set of pre-listed elements. See if you can spot them for yourselves -- although it may be a bit difficult to rationally explain the huge oven mits. You can rate the film until November 9th to help the group win gain their eternal glory, so go! Vote! This is probably the right weekend to do it, anyway. 
Sticking around campus for the long weekend? Here are a few ways to amuse yourself after you’ve finally caught up on sleep, courtesy of Bwog daily editor Hillary Busis: Friday, November 2 Hip Hop Karaoke What’s that you say? You love karaoke, but you’re bored with wailing sing-along standards like “I Will Survive” and “Don’t Stop Believin’”? Well, here’s your opportunity to showcase your mad rhyme skillz – it’ll be just like 8 Mile, except you won’t have to come up with the words on the spot or have weird sex with Brittany Murphy. Notably absent from Hip Hop Karaoke’s song list are tunes by luminaries like MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice, but we’re confident that this tragic oversight will be corrected before long. The Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard St. at Church St., signup at 10:30 p.m., show at 11 p.m., free. Saturday, November 3 Speech and Debate You go to Columbia. Chances are, at some point in your high school career, you gave an extemporaneous address about the pros or cons of having a school dress code or genetically modified food or something. Whether you’re yearning for your debating salad days or you break out in a cold sweat at the mere thought of public speaking, treat yourself to the inaugural production of Roundabout Underground, the Roundabout Theater’s “initiate designed to foster new works by emerging playwrights.” Don’t be scared off by the fact that director Jason Moore is helming the upcoming Broadway version of Shrek; we hear that Speech and Debate is intentionally hilarious. Black Box Theatre, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theatre, 111 W. 46th St. between 6th Ave. and Broadway, 2:30 and 8:00 p.m., $20. Sunday, November 4 100th episode of Family Guy – “Stewie Kills Lois” “I have to write a blurb about Family Guy, but I don’t know what to say!” “It can’t be any worse than that time Obscure Culture Reference did a totally wacky thing completely unrelated to what we’re talking about right now!” Interestingly, tonight also marks the 100th episode of CBS’s crime procedural Cold Case, but you’re about as likely to watch that as Family Guy is not to rip off The Simpsons. That's right, we went there. 9 p.m., Fox Monday, November 5 50 Years of Helvetica Yes, “50 Years of Helvetica.” The font. According to MoMA, Helvetica is “widely considered the official typeface of the twentieth century” because it “communicates with simple, well-proportioned letterforms that convey an aesthetic clarity that is at once universal, neutral and undeniably modern.” Personally, we’re diehard Times New Romanites, but whatever. At least they aren’t celebrating Comic Sans… although we are looking forward to that new Zapf Dingbats multimedia show at the Whitney. Museum of Modern Art, 11 W. 53rd St. between 5th Ave. and 6th Ave., 10:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m., free with CUID. Tuesday, November 6 Rosie Live at Lincoln Center Remember when Rosie O’Donnell was known primarily as a stand-up comedian? Neither do we. Tonight, the former “Queen of Nice,” magazine owner, and View firebrand returns to the stage in what will be either a hilarious performance or a disaster. Either way, it’s bound to be entertaining. If nothing else, you should show Ro some love for mentioning our dear Alma Mater in her October 28 blog post, written in free verse. It reads, in part, “i herad my name and turned/2 find/a young asian woman/in a Columbia sweatshirt/do u remember me? she asks/i did not.” http://nycomedyfestival.com/ 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis hitched a ride with the Columbia Democrats this weekend on their annual fall campaign trip. Over the next few days, she'll be filing dispatches from the trail, wireless permitting. LEXINGTON, Ky.--I’m not sure why I woke up at 5:40 AM this morning, evidently without my alarm. I catapulted out of bed, swearing loudly, glad that my roommate wasn’t there to be rudely rousted from slumber. I was late for a road trip to help oust a governor. Still cursing, I threw my electronic implements and their assorted chargers in my half-packed bags and shuffled over to College Walk, where four vans sat idling, full of 43 Democrats munching bagels. They had gathered to spend their election day weekend as Columbia’s historical mandarins had intended: pleading with apathetic Americans to vote Democrat. I doubt that those who switched fall break from Columbus Day to early November considered political off years. There are almost no competitive elections around the country, and the one the Dems picked—the Kentucky gubernatorial race—is as uncompetitive as they come when both candidates have a pulse. Ernie Fletcher, the state’s first Republican governor in 30 years, has been charged with conspiracy, official misconduct, and political discrimination for one of the most blatant patronage schemes since the heyday of machine politics. His Democratic opponent, Steve Beshear, could be your grandma’s fruitcake and still lead the polls by 23 points. But a campaign without the specter of defeat—like last year’s trip to Ohio for Sherrod Brown, or the massive mobilization for election 2004—can still be exciting. Kentucky isn’t solidly in either column for 2008, and the Columbia squadron will be shoring up support for whatever Democratic candidate ends up coming through with the nomination. Meanwhile, it’s a free trip to Kentucky—the Beshear campaign is paying for lodging in Lexington, the student councils and governing boards kicked in a few grand for transport, and the Dems covered the rest with their ample and undisclosed (if this year reduced) club allocation. Over the next four days, I’ll be tagging along with the young activists as they canvass the state for undecideds. Having never been south of the Mason-Dixon line before--besides Washington, DC, which doesn't really count--I have pretty much no idea what to expect. Fast horses? Abe Lincoln? Waffles and chicken? Stay tuned! 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis hitched a ride with the College Democrats on their annual campaign trip. Her dispatches follow, wireless permitting. LEXINGTON, Ky.--We’ve touched down in the South, and my minivan might as well have been a spaceship for the distance I feel like we’ve traveled in the last 18 hours. The sun rose and set on the road as we hopped from gas station to gas station, as the population grew in tattoo to tooth ratio with every passing mile. “I want to see southerners! Where are they?” one girl yelled as kids getting lunch poured out of the various eating establishments at a barren strip mall somewhere deep in Maryland. We rolled into Lexington as the sun was fading, dumping our stuff at a bare-bones Econolodge--right next to Spearmint Rhino Gentleman’s Club and the simply named Waffle House--before piling back into the vans for a quick pit stop at the Beshear campaign headquarters. An advance group of CU Dems had been there for most of the day already, making up the canvassing routes for tomorrow and raking leaves from the parking lot in preparation for a rally with the man himself in the morning. Then through the student ghetto of Lexington to the Tolly-Ho, perhaps one of the most wonderful dining establishments I have yet to visit. Imagine Tom’s, but larger, darker, with detailed murals on the walls, and no single item over $5.00. The Tolly-Ho’s signature meal is the Ho and its variations, the Super Ho and the Mega Ho, which are basically like burgers--but Kentuckian. The staff of the Tolly-Ho shifted into high gear to handle the flood of decidedly New Yorkish young people who suddenly formed a line extending out the door. One kid, pants sagging and sporting a wavy ‘do under his UK hat, asked “Are you being serious? This is like Christmas!” We sent UK kid to the front of the line, and later a few Dems recounted to me a conversation they had struck up with him over dinner. According to UK kid, students at the university do three things: have sex, get drunk, and watch football. They also have only about 30 minutes of homework per day, and about half the freshman class gets Ds and Fs. “You guys speak like 10 languages, right?” he asked them. “This is Kentucky. People barely speak English.” UK kid, who’s from Cleveland, says the key to blending in is speaking really slowly and pretending you’re on painkillers. We left, sated and tired. Tomorrow, painkillers are going to come in handy. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog wishes everyone a very merry fall break! 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis is still in Kentucky, along with Brit Spec reporter Josh Chambers, who's blogging here. "Ten?" "Um, Eleven." "Oh, yeah, eleven." Honks, that is. Such began the morning, at 8:00 AM, with the entire Columbia contingent lining S. Broadway St. shivering almost as violently as they were waving their signs--almost everyone had underdressed, and the mercury came up to a decidedly un-Kentuckyish 45 degrees. Nancy Huemer, BC '10, yelled gustily in her oversized Beshear t-shirt, fading back to avoid speeding cars.&nbsp; "A year ago, I never would have thought I would be here standing on a street corner at seven A.M.," she said. "I'm in Kentucky, where none of my friends live. It's kind of cool." The Dems had again roused themselves before dawn to get to campaign headquarters for a rally to launch the canvassing trips that would take up the rest of the morning. Their noise conveyed an outsized impression of their actual presence--at least a hundred other Beshear supporters came out for the rally, mostly well-dressed middle aged to elderly white people. Milling around before the arrival of the candidate himself, I spoke with a couple young and bubbly campaign staffers, who were ranging around dragooning the rallyers into volunteer duty. They've been here for months registering voters, which is most of the work in an environment where your candidate has almost zero chance of losing. Not only Beshear, but the entire slate of Democratic candidates is leading in the polls, in an effect that staffer Travis Scott called ï¿½100 percent coattails.ï¿½ "Ernie Fletcher's the best thing that's happened to the Democrats," he said. The candidate arrived in time for everyone to get thoroughly frozen, glad handing his way through the crowd up to the makeshift podium. Beshear was, however, by no means the highlight of the event: that honor was reserved for Joe B. Hall, head coach of the University of Kentucky's basketball team from 1972 - 1985. Sports are intimately involved with politics in Kentucky; a number of illustrious athletes have made the jump from court to office. By the end of Coach Hall's speech, I bet half the crowd would have supported him in a run for Senate. After warning the crowd not to get complacent, he began a long winded analogy involving horror movies. "When you've got him down, that's when you want to take him out," said the capacious Hall, referring to Governor Fletcher, complete with hand gestures (this blogger has only one official reason to dislike Fletcher--no wonder the media's got a grudge). "Get a wooden stake, and drive it into his heart. Pound it in there!" In his speech, Beshear thanked the Columbia kids for coming out, while the crowd seemed somewhat bemused by their presence. As they gathered for a group photo, a bystander quipped: "I have seen the future, and it's scary-but pretty!" 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis is still in Kentucky, where she's misplaced her camera cord--pictures are going to have to wait until the morning.&nbsp; The Columbia Dems are Beshear’s shock troops. Not that anyone’s shocked to see them--most residents in contested districts have encountered eager young campaign workers before. But it's a cool name anyway. The typical activity on a campaign trip, along with phone banking, is canvassing. After rallying at campaign headquarters, the 50-odd college students split into three-person teams, girded themselves with Google maps, and set out to cheerily remind the citizens of Fayette County to vote. The intimidating lists of names and accompanying numbers that each trio carried is part a sophisticated “microtargeting” system (pioneered by Hillary brain Mark Penn) that the campaign director told me cost in the neighborhood of half a million dollars. According to him, the system will be used all around the country next year, although the Republicans have had it for decades. With almost no other big races around the country, the Democratic National Committee has poured quite a bit of money and resources into the Beshear campaign—the campaign director himself is a DNC employee. I tagged along with Yoav Guttman, GS/JTS '10, Mike Schwartz, GS/JTS ’09, and Jake Matilsky, GS ’09, a spectacle of doorknocking efficiency if I ever saw one. As we wandered through a genteel neighborhood of southeastern Lexington, they politely rapped on the doors of reliable Democratic voters, getting responses maybe a third of the time, and leaving a Beshear banner on each one. There were some charmers. An 88-year-old woman came to the door with shaving cream on her hand, speaking through the door because she was shaving her husband. Another group told of going through a “gayborhood,” with a high density of same-sex households. Ori Sosnik, CC ’09, noticed a trend: the poorer people he visited were more often undecided, while more affluent residents typically knew exactly whom they would vote for. Those who declared they wouldn’t be voting for Beshear often gave as a reason the fact that he would legalize gambling across the state to raise funds for priorities like education and health care. But overall, noted Justine Lai, BC ’09, the going was a lot easier here than in Ohio last year. Perhaps the Southern hospitality stereotype, at least, has a little merit. Upon their return, many canvassers took advantage of an outlet store and its dirt-cheap UK logowear. They still wouldn’t quite fit in, but it’s a start. This evening, the group is going to a party hosted by the College Democrats of America in Louisville, where there’s sure to be lots of…milk. 
 New daily editor Alexandra Muhler tells us what's what when it comes to horsemanship in the City. After a year in New York, I’m used to being cut off in crosswalks by aggressive drivers. But there’s still a thrill in feeling the whoosh of a passing car while crossing the street on a horse. And you can feel just that at D &amp; D Stables in Queens, where you can canter through Forest Park, a charming, chipmunk-filled&nbsp;woodland just a few terrifying, car-filled blocks from the stables. I found D &amp; D Stables with a friend who, like me, had spent a summer working on a dude ranch in Wyoming, where wranglers taught us to ride. Perhaps taught is too strong a word. At most, the wranglers muttered a few commands in indecipherable South Dakotan (something about one leg on each side of the horse), and left us to lope freely across the countryside. We went helmetless, because apparently lawsuits don’t exist in Wyoming. When Bill, our guide in Forest Park, remarked how nice it was to ride with two people who actually knew what they were doing, my friend and I stared at each other in utter confusion. Too intimidated to ask questions of stoic Wyoming cowboys, she and I must have pulled off something like proficient horseback riding – or at least we must have achieved the appearance of it by internalizing our neurotic coastal gibbering. Our seemingly mellow outlook must have been a comfort to Bill, an awkward but likeable man who for decades has worked at the stables on Sundays as a respite from a series of thankless cubicle jobs. He offers life advice along with riding tips – namely, don’t major in English unless you want to end up like him, living on Staten Island and working as a proxy server. The life lessons are one way of getting your money’s worth on the ride. Thirty-five dollars will get you an hour on a horse, a guide (who will, more practically, show you where you’re allowed to lope – or canter, as it’s called east of the Mississippi) and a helmet (mandatory if you’re under 21) that smells like dank straw but looks like an accessory for trench warfare. The trip takes about an hour from Columbia: just take the 1 to Times Square, then the R to Forest Hills. From the station, walk down 71st Avenue through a cozy neighborhood of imitation Swiss chalets, turn right on Sibylla Avenue, then left on 70th Road, which is not to be confused with the adjacent 70th Avenue or 70th Drive – Queens is screwy like that. The best riding times are before noon – show up at 1 on a weekend and you’re likely to have to wait around the horse-shitty street in front of the barn with the stables’ angry, 80-year-old German owner. The scene is fine to observe – there are 3-year-old birthday girls riding up and down the block on ponies, and, in a never-in-Wyoming sight, Chinese and (subcontinental) Indian wranglers lolling around. When a horse finally becomes available, you may end up on a huge group ride with a gaggle of Slovakian tourists, on which you’ll receive no chance to canter, because the tourists haven’t got the sense to lie about how experienced they are on horseback. You may end up with several teenage girls as your guides, who will address you with a surliness born of the ennui that comes with being paid to ride beautiful horses through a bucolic forest. You’ll be better off with Bill, and will have more fun if you don’t let on that you can’t ride. Of course, you may be a scion of the Westchester gentility and be well acquainted with the thin English-style saddle, but if you’ve never been on a horse before, request a Western saddle and lie that you learned to ride on your grandpa’s ranch, or something. The guide rides in front, so stay quiet and they won’t notice you jangling around violently as you trot. Once you break into a smooth lope, though, you’ll feel all Western and untamable, as if you’re soaked in some atavistic sublime. That is, until you slow down and leave the park. Then it’s back to the terrifying crosswalk, to another jarring New York City street scene. 
 The Sun reported a few days ago--from a "source at the college"--that Columbia has rubber stamped the hotbutton professor Nadia Abu El-Haj's tenure bid at the Barnard Anthropology Department, the culmination of a drawn-out squabble on the margins of academia (Bwog's resident expert Josh Mathew took a look when the grandstanding reached its height around the beginning of the semester). Spec still hasn't independently confirmed it, and we don't reckon anyone's going to be answering e-mails over break. But that didn't stop New Republic editor Marty Peretz from going off on the appointment, bemoaning the state of historical integrity and calling for the Trustees to hand PrezBo a pink slip.&nbsp; It's not the end of the world, Marty. At least Joseph Massad still doesn't have tenure, according to another wildly speculative rumor. UPDATE, 1:05 PM: Okay, Spec did confirm it. 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis is still in Kentucky, posting from coffeeshops. FRANKFORT, Ky.--The Columbia cavalcade awoke at a reasonable hour this morning, shaking off the remnants of last night’s indiscretions (I don’t feel the need to recount them here). The Louisville visit went well, if you count driving an hour both ways to awkwardly mingle with other College Democrats and make drunken toasts to Steve Beshear a success. The CU Dems were entitled to a bit of a smug smile in the realm of internecine collegiate politics—according to a source from the George Washington/American University contingent, Beshear had praised the New Yorkers at a rally in Louisville yesterday, leaving the 40-odd DC kids largely unrecognized. Now they’re in Frankfort, getting ready for another round of “hot knocking” in this picturesque southern capitol. The Dems board had been treated to an inspirational e-mail last night from absent president Josh Lipsky, who declared that “this trip helps transcend the usual comings and goings of a college organization and makes us a force in progressive action.” The rank and file, in turn, received a pep talk from communications director Jonathan Backer, who jumped up and down and whooped to whip up enthusiasm. Meanwhile, rather than trying to rehash the larger race, I'll direct you to today's coverage from the Post. Although my Spec colleague and I may snag an interview with the soon-to-be Kentucky governor later today. E-mail me if you've got questions. 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis is in Kentucky, trying life on the other side. FRANKFORT, Ky.--Another door, another vote, another Advil. According to Dems organizers, we may be hitting the entirety of Beshear’s base in this 27,000-person town, and it felt like it --canvassers were assigned large suburban districts and sent out in two-person teams, rather than three. Those who had been on last year’s trip to Ohio spoke wistfully of former Dems president Seth Flaxman’s patented “shotgun method,” wherein one person keeps track of the paperwork, dispatching doorknockers smoothly and rapid-fire. The Beshear field staff, however, had their own ideas, which the Columbia kids were largely forced to abide by.&nbsp; &nbsp; After a few hours tailing dogged canvassers in a neighborhood within sight of the capitol dome, it was pointed out to me that—being a gossip rag and all--there’s really no reason why I shouldn’t try a few doors myself. So, feeling slightly traitorous holding the glossy green and blue Beshear banners, I practiced my spiel and prepared to join the activist nation. Attempt #1: First door. As instructed, I asked for Wanda. The tall young man who came to the door informed me that I must have the wrong house. I reminded him to vote and left, the cheery smile fading from my face as I turned away. Attempt #2: No response, despite a car in the driveway. Or maybe the doorbell just wasn’t working. Attempt #3: The best door I could have possibly encountered. An old man with big horn rimmed glasses was walking down the stairs to his house, looking at me expectantly. I introduced myself, and made the mistake of asking whether I could count on his vote for Beshear. “Well I can’t tell you, we have a secret ballot,” he creaked. Fair enough. Then he asked my name, and I told him, and we got into a discussion about my Italian ancestry and how he had served there in World War II (at one point he started talking to me in Italian tinted with Kentuckian). “You tell Beshear something,” he said (in English). “He’s really gotten off on the wrong foot with casinos. That’s going to bring so much vice and corruption to Kentucky...” I nodded gravely, feeling myself become more and more girlish before this relic of an earlier age, content to listen and prompt him further with my silence. I left reluctantly, wishing I could stay the whole evening to talk—but the whole street beckoned. Attempt #4: I approached a nice little brick house, and after a longer than average wait, saw a little wizened face appear at the window. I heard bolts sliding and chains unclasping, and the door opened to reveal a stooped 94-year-old woman, whom I slowly and clearly told should vote on Tuesday, wondering how in the world she was going to get to her polling place. There was an awkward pause. “What is it you wanted me to do?” she asked, with big eyes and a fixed smile. “Vote,” I said. “On Tuesday.” She nodded, and I backed away grinning nervously, waving goodbye. The door took a long, long time to close. There were more doors and more stories (including one, from Dems board member Mara Richard, involving a man coming to the door, sweating, wearing a pink bathrobe, with a naked woman on the couch behind him, kicking a dog away from the door. Why someone would interrupt such evident fun to answer the door for a canvasser remains beyond me). When I arrived back at the staging area, I was exhausted and famished. I would never make it in politics. Meanwhile, calls to the Fletcher campaign (I’d like to find what college students still spend their weekends canvassing for a guy who’s spending half as much as his opponent) have yet to be returned, although I did happen upon the state GOP headquarters, which are housed in the Mitch McConnell building (at right). Do they rename it every time a new Republican senator comes into office? 
 Everyone's got their own ideas for how to deal with nooses and the like. Let's compare! New York City has declared November 29 to be a "day against hate," when presumably no cars will honk and New Yorkers will throw off their prickly demeanors to live in harmony. On Friday, the mainstream Columbia establishment (the student councils, SDA, the Chaplain's office, etc) are hosting a Community Summit to "create substantive connections and relationships between both individuals and communities," at which participants will "focus on how we can best understand and appreciate the different lenses of experiences at Columbia, respectfully engage and challenge each other particularly around difficult topics, and create an environment that is supportive of all voices." And next week, the newly-created-but-still-highly-amorphous "Columbia Solidarity" group/movement/thingy is promising "a series of actions and escalations" to address the litany of grievances articulated last week. The people will run Columbia, indeed. Look out for coverage of a graffiti-oriented press conference at Teachers College later this morning. - LBD 
There's no fall break when it comes to press conferences.&nbsp; Somehow, Justin Vlasits woke up for it. It was a chilly morning on the steps of the Arthur Zankel Building of Teacher's College as reporters from every major television and radio station crowded onto the sidewalk to hear TC Jewish Association Co-President Rebecca Pasternak and Professor Elizabeth Midlarsky address the recent anti-Semitic hate crimes, and in particular the swastika painted on Midlarsky's door on October 31.&nbsp; This was the first time that Columbia affiliates put this most recent hate crime into a larger context of anti-Semitism, including three incidents in which Midlarsky found Holocaust-denying propaganda in her mail box in the weeks leading up to the graffiti as well as anti-Semitic graffiti and drawings in Lewisohn, Lerner, Watt, Butler (twice) and the Law School.&nbsp; Pasternak also said that, in her opinion, this incident was an escalation of the same environment that puts Nadia Abu El-Haj and Joseph Massad up for tenure and invites You-Know-Who to speak.&nbsp; She called for Bollinger, Shapiro and TC President Fuhrman to amend their constitution to read that "Columbia University will not accept anti-Jewish policies, curriculum, faculty, organizations and speakers on our campuses." While most of the crowd consisted of journalists, TC campus safety, NYPD and organizers, notable attendees included Rabbi Yonah Blum, the director of Columbia's Chabad who would later affix a mezuzah (a case containing the Jewish prayer "Shema Yisrael") on the doorway of the defaced office and even militant Jewish Defense Organization leader Mordechai Levy.&nbsp; After the speeches were over, Levy took reporters aside and said that, several months ago, books in the TC library were found with swastika stickers on them and when professors approached Vice Provost Bill Baldwin, he said that it was a "renowned Columbia Professor" and his wife and that the stickers constituted "free speech."&nbsp; Levy also proclaimed that "when we find them, and we will find them, those Nazi pigs are going to get it."&nbsp;&nbsp; After the brief question and answer period, Rabbi Blum, Pasternak and Midlarsky went upstairs to place the mezuzah while journalists outside speculated that the perpetrator was&nbsp; a student angry about a grade. While the police are involved with the investigation, no one has been arrested yet. This Bwogger did not notice any administrators present at the event, but will update when they have a response. 
 While most of Columbia is away on fall break, high school students invaded campus. Today Columbia was host to the Scholastic Press Association Conference. Bwog managed to snap a few shots of these youths in bloom. &nbsp; 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis is still in Kentucky, where polls will close in 26 hours. FRANKFORT, Ky.--It started like high school--those big group trips to the state capitol, where little children run rampant around the marbled halls of power. Except this time, the visit involved stripping at the podium of the Speaker of the House, as well as a thorough investigation of the outgoing chief executive's office. This morning, before an afternoon of blanketing the town with Beshear paraphernelia (a procedure known as a "Korean lit drop," in which vans make periodic stops and deploy their passengers to hang banners on every door within a three-block radius) the group stopped by Frankfort's majestic capitol rotunda, where they quickly located the den of their opponent. Nellie Bowles, CC '10, led the way into the chambers of Governor Fletcher, attended by a sweet, middle aged woman. Everyone else milled nervously outside, until the secretary invited them in--the Governor was out in the state campaigning, she explained. The Columbians poured into the antechamber, peering into his capacious work area ("It looks like Bollinger's office!"), and marveling at the Ten Commandments perched on a corner cabinet. The secretary may have suspected the group's mission--a few kids still had their Beshear stickers--but they immediately developed a silent understanding that she should not officially know what they were up to. "We're just road tripping," Elyse Ross, BC '08 blithely explained. She gently but firmly shooed the group out after catching two students adjusting the lighting behind the two stone tablets for an optimal photo op. Later, students filtered upstairs to the House chambers, admiring the elegantly appointed rows of desks. Bwog later saw photographic evidence that two students had quickly closed the door and stripped down to their knickers in front of the Speaker's podium--capitol security guards might get a treat if they have an occasion to review the tapes later tonight. After group pictures on the steps, the Dems returned to the staging location, where they reassembled for yet another photo op, this time for Newsweek. The magazine is writing a story comparing the activism of Columbia and Berkeley in 1968 to now, and apparently, the CU Dems are exhibit A. In other news: this campaign has involved some occasionally awkward interactions between paid employees and Columbia volunteers. Just now, one of those got physical: a paid driver ran into one of the big 15-person vans, leaving a significant dent in the driver's door (no one was hurt). "I think it's going to be ok, but the side is bashed in," said media guy Jon Backer. At least SDA can't pin this one on the Dems. One more entertaining wrinkle: nothing but props for my Spec colleague Josh, who's been doggedly pursuing the Republican state headquarters for an interview. He's now been thrown out three times, and the GOP complained to the state Dems, which has asked that Josh stick to his own campaign. "The Kentucky democratic party was having a conniption about it, but we calmed them down," said Backer. The web of phone calls is hard to sort out, but at some point the news got around to the Frankfort field coordinators, who weren't happy either. Pesky reporters. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Monday editor Armin Rosen has election news for those of you who haven't spent the past four days sleeping&nbsp;next to a&nbsp;Kentucky offramp. I believe it was Winston Churchill who called democracy the "worst form of government on earth, except for all those others that have been tried." Well bollocks to you, Winnie. An election-eve barnstorm of our great land reveals that while mob rule does have some pretty obvious hang-ups ($8 packs of American Spirit, anyone?), it's capable of producing an oddity or two--correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure Belarus doesn't have candidates drunkenly pillorying puppet likenesses of their opposition.&nbsp;&nbsp; Going state-by-state: CALIFORNIA: Jack Abramoff's work representing Indian tribes made him an American hero, and it's great to see that courageous activists are following in his footsteps. Besides--Casinos on Indian reservations mean more money for schools and firefighters. And you support schools and firefighters, don't you? NEW JERSEY: Forget property taxes, rampant crime, pollution, a long-standing reputation as America's armpit: the biggest election-year issue coming out of the Garden State is this horrifying ad from Republican New Jersey state Senator Gerry Cardinale. Making possibly racist accusations that your opponent has ties to terrorists is one thing, but that sock puppet was really uncalled for. And if you'll allow me a brief exercise in comparative political puppetry: though crude, the Gavin Newsom puppet produced some undeniably brutal satire. Meanwhile, Cardinale's obnoxious, purple-coiffed duck smacks of desperation--I'm no expert on New Jersey politics, but just as a general rule, election-week TV ads centered on a raggedy yellow hand-puppet are good indication that you're running out of ideas. MARYLAND: What's that? A contested election in the politically homogenous, left-wing utopia of Takoma Park? Well I'll be damned. This calls for an investigation! Bowers, it seems, is anti rent-control in a part of the country that's only slightly more conservative than Berkley; Robinson likes recycling, local business and urban microfinance. I trust the Co-op has been abuzz with discussion over whether the right-leaning newcomer can play the spoiler to the older, carbon-hating establishment lefty, but somehow I think Marylanders have more important things to worry about. AUSTRALIA: Right you are, commenters: Australia is not an American state! But it has&nbsp;apparently picked up some of the better aspects of American campaigning. Actually scratch that: if that sock puppet ad tells us anything, it's that you would never find something this creative or this culturally aware in an American election. KENTUCKY: Wrong! From the bluegrass state comes a masterpiece of short-form polemic, an ad so brazen, so full of chutzpah that I'm a little astounded it hasn't gone viral. Indeed, this is belittling down to its most seemingly irrelevant details: the background snickering, the adorable cutaway shots, the beads of sweat pouring off of the title-character's neckless, almost slug-like face; the girl's forward, delightfully bitchy delivery (OK, that's totally unfair. There's no way she knew what she was getting herself in to)--this ad is a revelation, an apotheosis, the perfection of its form. I donÃƒÂ¯Ã‚Â¿Ã‚Â½t know much about Ernie Fletcher, but he'd sure have my vote. And last: VIRGINIA: The Commonwealth's northern counties are getting bluer by the year, and a sweep in the Potomac region could turn Virginia into a swing state by next year's elections. But don't let that stop you from staying in on Tuesday, Virginians. This election is so momentous that not even C-SPAN dare mention it on its front page. Next year, right? 
Lydia DePillis is on her last day in Kentucky, following the CU Dems' final hours on the trail. SOMEWHERE OUTSIDE LEXINGTON, Ky.--Judging by appearances at the Blue Grass Airport this evening, Columbia students are an extremely odd bunch. Perhaps it was the frustrating afternoon spreading literature in areas that had already been covered, before a thunderstorm put a stop to the redundant canvassing. Or maybe the several hours cooped up in the staging area making signs and eating pizza. It could have just been the freezing cold--or maybe the Dems really were so fired up by Steve Beshear that they couldn’t contain themselves. Whatever the reason, while waiting for the future governor to Kentucky to land in his jet, this band of screaming students rocked the tarmac with lusty takes on Prince, the Beatles, Columbia fight songs, and assorted patriotic anthems. Mixed in with a small crowd of high schoolers, legislative staffers, teachers union people, and party apparatchiks, they worked through cheers both original (“We want Steve! Fletcher leave!”) and standard (“This is what democracy looks like!”). The place felt more like a rock concert than a political event, and the non-Columbians weren’t quite sure what to make of it—although reactions were almost uniformly positive. “I’m glad to see young people so energized,” said Jamie Franklin, chief of staff for the jovial state Representative Charlie Hoffman, also in attendance. “It reminds me of the 70s…it’s a resurgence of those emotions.” The chanting and signwaving grew to a frenzy as Beshear and his ticket landed and emerged via SUV. “Clear a path!” yelled Ori Sosnik. The New Yorkers roared on cue as a lady with a bullhorn yelled out the names of those standing for election today, with special enthusiasm for hottie Attorney General candidate Jack Conway and unaccountable favorite Crit Luallen, running for State Auditor. “Are there any people from Columbia here?” Beshear shouted after his introduction. “Listen, we love you to death. Thanks for coming out.” Then the insane rally broke apart, and the students straggled back to the vans. The sense of exhilaration mitigated the news that the day began at 7:00 AM the next morning, as people start remembering the existence of homework. “We are the energy behind this campaign,” Dems board member Chris Daniels told the group assembled in the motel lobby, in their third pep talk of the day.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Many of you may have heard the distant rumblings of this news, but Bwog has recently received enough on-the-record information to post about a series of newsworthy events that will start tomorrow morning. And so: Remember Solidarity, the anti-racist coalition with the long list of demands? Turns out six of their members are going on a hunger strike (water and gatorade allowed), starting tomorrow at 8:00 am, to pressure the administration into action. Their reference point is the great student hunger sit-in of 1996, which resulted in the creation of the ethnic studies department--many of their demands involve further empowering ethnic studies, in a plan to clear up unfinished business. The precedent has been set apart from 1996, however. A&nbsp;9-day strike&nbsp;went down at Harvard last May, when students deprived themselves on behalf of school-employed laborers, and this article&nbsp;from the Boston Globe has a good chronology of other recent strikes, which have been a lot more common than you'd think. The striking group plans to make their intentions public knowledge at a dinner at 6pm this evening,&nbsp;so they have no official statement as yet. But campus awareness has reached the tipping point, so Bwog posts--despite threats to withhold information for publishing before the public release.&nbsp; And, of course, we'll keep you updated with other news as it develops.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's series of theological tales continues with Bwog newbie Lucy Sun's ChurchHop of the Times Square Mega-Church. Times Square Church holds its services in a straight-up Broadway theater—gilded, shiny, elaborate carpet and all. There is something soul-happy about a glitzy venue that flings its doors open wide to all comers. The congregation takes a loose interpretation of “Sunday best”—for some, it means ill-fitting suits, for others, cashmere sweaters. An older woman in the front row rocks an extravagant hat, while the girl in front of me wears jeans with bejeweled pockets. As the service begins, an usher helps me to my seat while a full choir as diverse as a Columbia viewbook sings call-and-response gospel music, with a rollicking piano and drum set. The clapping of the congregation gets out of sync—some are clapping on the downbeats, some on the upbeats—some are dancing in place. A lot of people sit down before the music ends, just to chill out for a little while. A pastor takes the pulpit, and his head is simulcast on a giant TV while he makes a bunch of announcements, which include a wedding to which the entire church is invited, and “Christmas caroling with the nursing home ministry.” As soon as those words escape the pastor’s giant simulcast mouth, it hits me—this is Organized Religion. This is what a megachurch looks like in New York City. In the sermon, there is a strong, self-conscious sense that Christians are a minority in the city. “You and I are the only Bibles that New York City is going to read,” says the pastor. He begins the sermon calm and collected, and by the sermon’s end, he is fighting tears with a desperate tone in his voice. Members of the congregation cry. I leave the theatre with a feeling of catharsis. Going to a megachurch is a deeply American experience, akin to, well, going to Times Square. Times Square Church is located on 51st St on the corner of Broadway. Sunday services are at 10 am, 3 pm, and 6 pm. 
Bwog's resident film aficionado Learned Foote talks about the new film Bella and also includes mini-reviews of previews! Who says you can't judge a movie by its trailer? Bella is about a former soccer player (Eduardo Verástegui) with a tragic past—though I'll try to avoid too much plot description. After his crazy capitalist brother (Manny Perez) fires a pregnant girl (Tammy Blanchard) from his restaurant, the soccer guy takes the girl to his family’s house for dinner. If I could end my plot description with this unassuming list of events, Bella would be a high-quality film. More on that later.&nbsp; In 2006, Bella won the People’s Choice Award at Toronto Film Festival. Past winners include successes like Amélie, The Princess Bride, and Crouching Tiger: Hidden Dragon. Intriguingly, Bella also scored big at the Heartland Film Festival, which has previously bestowed honors on films like The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, The Princess Diaries, and Jonah: A VeggieTales Movie. (For those of you who don’t know about VeggieTales, it’s a collection of Bible stories retold with vegetables in all the main roles. The interesting array of Bella’s awards continues. According to Wikipedia, the director—Alejandro Gomez Monteverde, an American citizen born in Mexico—received the “American by Choice” (!) award from the United State’s Department of Citizenship for Bella’s “positive contribution to Latino art and culture in the US.” &nbsp; My point is that Bella has quite an interesting array of messages. On the one hand, it’s about grittiness (when we see apples on the screen, they have bruises) and cultural diversity in New York City (by the way, I appreciate every film that has characters learning Spanish—hurrah for slow, measured dialogue). On the other hand, it’s about the power of family, with an unabashedly pro-faith/pro-life message (this stance may throw off many Columbia students, although they seem to handle Six Feet Under pretty well).&nbsp; By and large, the movie does an excellent job with these competing cultural messages. Tammy Blanchard—her face a blend of the honest face of Hilary Swank and the knit brows of Parker Posey—balances between skepticism of the overwhelmingly happy family and a hope that the world may actually be alright. Wearing an ill-fitting and very bright dress—“Wow, you must really love Mexico,” says one particularly snide passerby—she exudes quiet and constant irritation. Her performance provides a balancing antidote to the sugary message of the film (despite rather bad moments in the script where she describes the beautiful summer day to a beggar on the street). Bella focuses on these tiny, everyday interactions we have—with the beggar, the person in line behind us at the subway, the convenience store owner, the temporary girlfriend of a younger brother. &nbsp; In these daily, small-scale moments, Bella succeeds. The movie can’t keep the tragedy in the subtext, however; the filmmakers insist on dragging the deepest darkest past into slow-motion replays. Because this is a feel-good movie, there’s eventually healing, which is even worse. Think about The Ultimate Gift, a really terrible movie about a young girl (the girl from Little Miss Sunshine!) dying of cancer. In the final moments of Gift, as the girl’s mother finds romance and a new life, a little butterfly flies past, presumably symbolizing the dead girl. Bella, thankfully, isn’t quite that literal. But it’s pretty damn close (we see a dragonfly-shaped kite that symbolizes a dead child). Bella tries to be a bit too profound, and this attempt is its undoing. Don’t misunderstand me—the underlying tragedies of Bella are very realistic, and there is room for tragedy within the film’s scope. As a character dryly observes during one everyday chat, 10/10 people are going to die. Bella should have stuck to these truthful little conversations, however, not tried to squeeze in profundities and epilogues where they don’t belong. Now onto the trailers, as they were probably the most important part of this movie-going experience. More specifically, let’s talk about Columbia University’s presence (featuring in an impressive two out of four trailers!). &nbsp; In the new Disney movie, Enchanted, a cartoon heroine transforms into Amy Adams (the cutest thing ever, Oscar-nominated for Junebug) and winds up in New York City. Her prince follows her, and begins talking to the Magic Mirror on the Wall, which turns out to be a TV. The newscaster reports from 116th and Broadway, so the prince triumphantly yells out “116th and Broadway!” and, presumably, rides his horse to Columbia. When this movie is released, I shall investigate further. &nbsp; The other movie trailer intrigued me far less. In between shots of Tom Cruise, Robert Redford, and Meryl Streep intoning very dramatic lines, we see a young whippersnapper of a teenager who has evidently displeased his superior by being cocky. “You…could choose any graduate school in any field you want,” says Robert Redford, over a beautiful aerial shot of Low Library (my dorm visible in the background). Clearly, in this context, “any graduate school” means “best graduate school,” so Columbia rocks. I love having my school pride bolstered by movie trailers. &nbsp;&nbsp; 
Mulling over the merits and drawbacks of a hunger strike, Bwogger Sara Vogel G-chat with a striking member of Columbia Solidarity who wished to remain anonymous. It’s been edited a bit – IM conversations are always disjointed. SV: Sorry to bother you! I've just been thinking a lot about this hunger strike. I don't really know what to think, actually. And I thought you're really involved, and could give me some perspective. StudentStriker: After reading bwog...it is so important to have these conversations about it 8:18 PM SV:&nbsp; To many, a hunger strike is a really symbolic action that calls to mind people like Gandhi and Guantanamo Bay prisoners. Is that something on strikers' minds? 8:24 PM StudentStriker: So the thing is there is a "why we strike" statement and this statement is a collection of the strikers' personal feelings. It is a culmination of individual statements, not to put us on the same level of prisoners who are without rights, expressions, food, or freedom. However, there is the sentiment that if all things were relative, students are in a way robots of this school. The idea is, the core curriculum is so beautiful and so empowering, a social tool and a social weapon, so we should use it to make intelligent citizens and reform it with input from current events--such as the 5 hate crimes in less than a month. But the administration oppresses idea likes this or ethnic studies or expansion.... and they are literally put into a vacuum. We have had meetings with Bollinger where he outwardly doodles flowers on the demands No joke. He has walked out on meetings with students. He has rolled eyes at students. It is really quite disgusting SV: Wow StudentStriker: There is a feeling that students are oppressed because we have had hunger strikes in the past for similar issues that have been "successful" (although it should never have to come to a hunger strike) SV: Wouldn't such an action alienate people who may be supportive of some of the demands, but don't want to commit to a hunger strike? StudentStriker: It is sort of like that "last step"--a cleansing of the administrative process so to speak. But you’re right, a hunger strike marginalizes the student body. But the hope is that people understand this in response to the demands, not part of the demands. So if someone else's response is to sit in a building, or put up art around campus, or talk about these issues in classes, or go to Bollinger's class and ask what's up, more power to them! 8:32 PM It is important also to make clear this is not directly linked to any student group. There is no SGB funding or organization to write on a grad school application. This is purely a group of students that have gathered together. We hope that with time and more transparency more will join. Statement by the strikers of Columbia Solidarity: Why We Strike &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We are on hunger strike because we want change and because we believe that change is worth sacrifice. We strike against a university that seems not to care for the well-being of its students or of its community. We strike because we feel the urgency of a student voice that is continually being marginalized. We strike against the violence of displacing 5,000 people from their homes in West Harlem. We strike because we don’t want students in the future to have to resort to drastic measures to affect change in this institution. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We strike because student input on these issues in meetings, through protests, and through other avenues of vocalization has been ignored or patronized, and the response to our demands for change has been woefully insufficient. We strike because we abhor, viscerally, the failure of current administrators to address student concerns on these issues and because this failure constitutes violence against our intellect. We strike because these are not matters that will, nor can, wait. &nbsp;We have no more words for this university administration.&nbsp; Hunger striking is an ideal course of action because it does not inflict harm on others; moreover, it offers strikers the opportunity for introspection and self-examination. We strike for the opportunity to reflect. We are peaceful. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We strike because we have inherited a world in which racist, gendered, and sexualized hierarchies dominate the way power flows.&nbsp; We strike because the administration consistently resists implementing structural changes that will allow us to challenge these hierarchies. We strike because the university does not recognize that the lack of space for the critical study of race through Ethnic Studies, the lack of administrative support for minority students and their concerns, the lack of engagement with the community in West Harlem, and the lack of true reform of the Core Curriculum are harmful to the intellectual life of its students.&nbsp; We strike because we want the administration to understand that these needs are as fundamental to students’ intellectual lives as food is to the human body. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We strike to reimagine the university as a more democratic place, where individuals are not isolated until communities are attacked, where we are at school in the City of New York, not making New York City more like this school, where students have a deciding say in this university, and where we are not called to a civilizing mission, but rather, to a process of liberation. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We are not striking to be martyrs for anyone or for any cause. We know that some may misunderstand our actions, but we strike with the faith that students questioning, challenging, and taking their own actions to shift the dangerous path that this university is pursuing should serve more to unite us than to divide us. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There has been tremendous unrest on campus this semester, these past few years, this past decade.&nbsp; And people here feel psychically hurt by Columbia’s indifference to our heartache, to our struggle, to our rumbling need for a better university.&nbsp; With luck, Columbia will see the starvation of our bodies as a bellwether of our growing desperation on this campus.&nbsp; It’s a shame that Columbia was not more alarmed when we said our minds, hearts, and spirits were starving, too. 
 Bollinger Heads South, Speaks About Our Plans to Move North Spec Demands Longer Thanksgiving Break, Part of a Kit-Kat Bar Even People Who Have Work on Election Day Get a Break To the Five Boroughs&nbsp; Columbia Sports American Football Loss Rugby Football Loss Tennis Win, Loss Field Hockey Win Volleyball Triple Loss Women's Soccer Win Men's Soccer Loss Also! Looks like the swastika victim at GW wasn't a victim after all... &nbsp; 
Bwog editor Lydia DePillis is finally back from Kentucky, with one last report.&nbsp; LOUISVILLE, Ky.--The day Kentucky democrats had been awaiting for over four years dawned bright and cold. A poll the night before had their candidate up 29 points, with most other ticket members leading by similar margins. But election day is about bodies--on the street, on the phones, at the polls--and the Louisville campaign came in sadly short on that count. They'd managed to recruit only 160 volunteers instead of their expected 400, and so the Columbia Dems arrived in Louisville (the biggest city in Kentucky, and a union stronghold) at about 9:30 AM, ready to roust the elderly out of their beds and to their polling places. For the duration of their time in Frankfort, the Dems had politely butted heads with the campaign’s field staff, and complained in private about their incompetence: the woman in charge sent canvassers to areas that had already been covered, kept the group waiting for hours, and generally micromanaged where the students were used to autonomy.&nbsp; “Its embarrassing for us to watch,” said Dems board member Kate Redburn, CC ’10. One of the staffers also asked non-traditional student Jake Matilsky, GS ’09, to ferry a large box of whiskey to a consultant in Louisville, noting that she’d “never work in politics again” if it didn’t arrive safely. “I felt like there was a trust thing between her and the e-board,” Matilsky said. This time, the activists weren’t bound by the instructions of the Frankfort field staff, and the sense of relief was obvious. &nbsp;“We are allowed to canvass how we damn well please,” trip organizer Mara Richard, BC 09, told her van of doorknockers. “You’re going to go as fast as humanly possible today.” I tailed a squad of students as they fanned out into District 6 to demand whether their target voters—all over 65, all with Democratic tendencies—had gotten to the polls yet. This group’s list included a block of apartment houses, accessible only via intercom, producing call sequences like this: Buzz. Click. “Hi, my name is Annie, and I’m with the Beshear for Governor campaign, and I was wondering whether you had had a chance to vote yet?” Their various responses, uttered in quavery static: “Who is this?” “I don’t think that’s any of your business.” &nbsp;“I’m not going to vote. I’m a old woman, I’m not able.” “Honey, I can’t understand you.” “I’m going to go after I do my volunteer work.” At one point a bent old lady came out to mail a letter, looking terrified to see five strapping young people towering over her in the foyer. She quickly slid her envelope into the box without saying a word, never letting most of her body outside the door. At the end of the round of calls, no one needed a ride to the polls. That held true for much of the rest of the day: according to Samia Zaidi, BC ’10, most of the Louisvillians they reached had either already voted or were on their way to the polls, and only a handful of seniors took up the offer of a ride. The other activity, “Visibility,”—jumping up and down on street corners with campaign signs—has less tangible rewards. But they kept it up until the very last hour, and were phone banking from their cell phones even as the vans rolled away. Riding back in the dark, we heard reports from the radio: with two percent of precincts reporting, it was Beshear by over 50%. His lead narrowed as the votes poured in, and finally triumphed by a comparatively slim 17%, with a lower-than-expected turnout of about 40%. I asked the kids in my van whether they felt like they had made an impact, even with the day spent double-canvassing and the countless hours in a van rather than on the sidewalk (gas came to $1,400 to and from Kentucky, plus an untold amount ferrying 50 people between and around three cities). If they didn’t, they weren’t telling. “Every time you talk to a voter, you make a difference,” said Steve Lowenthal, CC ‘11. &nbsp; 
 Bwog daily editor Alexandra Muhler endeavors to help students nap safely and effectively. As freshmen, many Columbia students recognize the deep fatigue that the frenzy of the last two years of high school has wrought in their bones. Well, now you have two years to select a major, so take a break (or many), relax your pupils, and wrap yourself in your Bed, Bath &amp; Beyond duvet. But first, read this introduction and find what type of nap will work for your schedule, so that your life won't be ruined by the worst breed of sleep – the rogue nap. &nbsp; 1) Napoleonic Naps – Few people are aware that naps are named for Napoleon.&nbsp; All of those who are believe it because I lied and told them so.&nbsp; It may not appear on his Wiki, but Napoleon was accustomed to sleeping four or five hours a night and working in ten to thirty minute naps in between meetings.&nbsp; If your bed is snuggly enough and your room is dark enough, this will work as a great after-lunch, before-Lit Hum cure-all. &nbsp; 2) In-Class Naps – An inferior variety of nap, characterized by instants of nightmarish mixture of whatever the lecturer is discussing and your little anxieties and surreal dream tropes. Still worse is the repeated snap of your neck under the weight of your head that occurs when your neck muscles relax.&nbsp; This nap is excellent, though, as entertainment to more alert but equally uninterested students in your class. &nbsp; 3) Friday Naps – If you party on weekends and work hard on weeknights, you probably get less sleep in six days than you ought to get in a single day.&nbsp;So abandon your Friday afternoon commitments and kill your hangover with nature's placebo: hours and hours of deep, drunken sleep. 
According to The Spine, a blog written by New Republic editor Marty Perez, Joseph Massad has been denied tenure. There's no other source on the story so far and no official word on the reasons behind the decision, but Gil Ronen of Israel National news claimed yesterday that the decision to make Nadia El-Haj a tenured professor was part of an internal deal in which Massad's tenure would be turned down. 
 At noon today, the Solidarity hunger strikers were in high spirits, hanging out and joking with their friends on the Steps like any other carefree students on a sunny autumn day. But by six that evening, darkness and a chill had set in. The five, still surrounded by friends and supporters, were hunkered down like arctic birds, their bodies wrapped up in warm clothes and blankets and pressed against the side of a Low fountain. Some had been going to class regularly-- striker Aretha Choi, BC'10, claimed to have had "a normal day"-- but all had begun their diet of "diluted Gatorade, enough for electrolytes," one auxiliary student said. She added that the five--down one member from last night-- had been checked out by medical personnel. Still, they're keeping a bathroom scale on hand to make sure none fall below critical body weight. Those who have walked by Butler in the past three hours would have noticed their makeshift village where they plan to spend the next week or so, if they can make it. Festooned with banners and full of cushions and survival supplies--we noticed a few jumbo rolls of toilet paper--the three-ring tent complex has seen a steady flow of visitors and curious passersby. Each night of the strike, supporters led by Sam Rennebohm, GS'09, plan to convene for a candle-light vigil. Tonight at 9 pm, nearly 70 pro-strike students met at the sundial to listen to the protesters deliver personal statements and supporters like Peter Gallotta, CC'09, president of the CQA, give statements of support. "Close your mouth against food... Be empty of worrying," he read, quoting the poet Rumi. The assembled lit their candles in a circle and proceeded to the Steps, where they lined up like recent graduates from activist high school. Andrew Lyubarsky, CC'09, said he and several other students, including College senior Christien Tompkins and juniors Desiree Carver-Thomas and Ryan Fukumori, have formed an ad hoc "negotiating committee" to speak with administrators. Fukumori noted that he spoke with Vice President for Arts and Sciences Nick Dirks that day, and that Dirks had agreed to a "cluster hire" of three tenured senior faculty in the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity. But, he added, Dirks has been planning on doing the hires for some time, since at least the University's publication of its inquiry into racial hiring practices last May. "The impact of the strike itself prompted the meeting , but he had been working on CSER before that," he said. Muslim Students Association president Adil Ahmed, also a College junior, said he was aware that some of the demands, like increased power for Ethnic Studies and funding for the Office of Multicultural Affairs, have been in the works for a while and look like they will be met soon. Fukumori acknowledged that the administration was somewhat "receptive" in contrast to past incidents, like the 1996 hunger strike, in which negotiations had not started until the ninth or tenth day of deprivation. - KER &amp; LBD &nbsp; 
 Bwog went far and wide this fall break. From Paris to New Jersey to Bear Mountain to Brooklyn... well it was only four days, but Bwog made the most of it. Five weeks ago, you were taking your first midterm examinations; I was shopping for classes. This Monday and Tuesday, you were taking a break; my peers and I, in London, were enjoying the first half of 'Reading Week,' a much needed break situated smack in the middle of a ten-week term.&nbsp; One thing to do during Reading Week is to take the Eurostar to Paris. The Eurostar is like the Acela, only fast; when the Eurostar hits a big bump in the track, it wallows like a drunken hippopotamus for at least half a minute, which is soothing and terrifying at the same time. France is all about terror, and classiness, two things that Americans are awed by. For your benefit, I went to Paris and observed a few of the ways French people are classy: One, nuclear power makes it cheap to heat the wintry outdoors with glow lamps. Parisians like their sidewalk cafes, and these are available despite the season.&nbsp; Two, the Paris Metro (or subway) closes early, but nights out begin after one in the morning; fortunately it is possible to 'rent' bicycles with something like a Metrocard. Shortly before dawn you can see drunken Frenchmen weaving their separate ways home on borrowed bikes. No word on whether cyclists, like motorists, get 'controlled' by the police. Three, the issues in Paris currently revolve around Sarkozy being a jerk, and the unfortunate upcoming ban on indoor smoking. These issues are handled by drinking copious amounts of wine until (at least) ten in the evening and smoking lots of cigarettes to imbue every wall and jacket with the glorious memory and smell of smoke. When enough classiness had been observed, I returned to London to&nbsp;see Vampire Weekend open for the Shins. I am proud to report that, due to incompetence on the part of the Shins' sound engineers, and to the superiority of Columbia University education, Vampire Weekend played a better set than the Shins. You should have been there. -John Klopfer Last fall break, I made the terrible mistake of taking Amtrak up to Montreal in an attempt to rekindle the passions of an old friendship/crush.&nbsp;When my visit backfired, I returned to the city dejected, out of $150 and twenty-four hours' roundtrip travel time, and missing the spark of naivety that inspired such an idiotic pilgrimage in the first place.&nbsp;This year, I vowed to head off to the less distant destination of New Jersey to the less operatic end of just having a good time.&nbsp; On Friday afternoon my native companion and I hopped on a bus at the George Washington Bridge terminal; five bucks, an hour, and two stops at the mall later, we had reached idyllic Fair Lawn, NJ, the crowning jewel of Bergen County.&nbsp;This isn't the overtly vapid, materialistic suburbia of American Beauty, but something closer to Lolita's vision of the States: recurring restaurants, modern malls, sanitary motels off the 4, cloverleaves turning into jughandles turning into quiet lanes of modest homes. A promenade through a park, with the wind blowing, the children laughing, the parents smiling, was enough to slough off two months of urban neurosis and enter a very Walt Whitman-mindset.&nbsp; By sundown, engorged on multiple pastries and sandwiches and wandering around a derelict CVS, I thought I'd experienced all Fair Lawn had to offer. But it turned out the town contained multitudes: the native companion led me back to his brother's room and unfurled an enormous bong.&nbsp;Remember what I said about just having a good time?&nbsp;A new motto for the New Jersey Bureau of Tourism might read "aim low, reach your goals."&nbsp; The ensuing expedition to Wendy's was tranquil, blithe, and banal, as suburbia often is and vacation too often is not. I awoke at 3 the following afternoon.&nbsp;"It's OK," native companion assured me, "there's nothing to do in Fair Lawn that's contingent on the time of day."&nbsp;In a certain sense, he was right: the bakery closed in three hours, but Wendy's was still open until 4 AM.&nbsp;And if we missed it, there was always tomorrow. -CML Although it's helpful in figuring out how to get places, The New York subway map is particularly adept at two things: denial of the existence of New Jersey (with no apparent terrestrial destination, PATH and Amtrak vanish ominously into the blue), and the reduction of the outer boroughs to a network of tiny black dots. For the Manhattanite, breaking out of this modular tyranny requires a couple dollars, a couple of hours, and usually some goal or another. On Sunday night, mine was to sample the alleged best pizza in the city, at Di Fara on Avenue J. Di Fara could be one of the last places on earth where the customer is wholly secondary to the product. Owner Domenico DiMarco has handmade every pizza served over Di Fara's 50-year history and one gets the sense he would be hand-kneading every crust, chopping every tomato, and measuring out every wedge of fresh-cut buffalo mozzarella even if a spot on the cover of the Village Voice hadn't turned his corner pizzeria into the stuff of folk legend (though there's already&nbsp;something folkloric about an old Neapolitan in an unassuming pizzeria on an anonymous Brooklyn street corner hobbling over to his brick oven and applying a final touch of basil while crowds of hardened city-dwellers stare in awestruck silence). Yes, the story would go, the greatest pizza chef of on earth worked in a place right off of the Q train in Midwood--but if you decide to make a pizza pilgrimage, be sure to allow time to check out the Judaica and kosher bakeries lining Avenue J. You wouldn't know it from its goyiche main attraction, but on Ave J you might hear more Hebrew than English. -Armin Rosen For me, this Fall Break was spent mostly in the city, mostly doing midterms, but I did take a mini-vacation of sorts. My boyfriend and I traveled to Bear Mountain, a lovely state park about an hour north of the City. We rented a ZipCar, a truly wonderful convenience that allows members of the ZipClub to reserve cars to use for as many hours as they choose. Each individual ZipCar has a fun (if Teutonic!) name like Mann or Robinson. Bear Mountain has different hiking trails of all levels that loop around lakes and give you the choice of walking alongside the Hudson or scaling Bald Mountain. There's also an enormous suspension bridge (the largest of its kind at one point!) that hikers can walk across. One of the hiking trails winds around an outdoor zoo. And more! There's a carousel inside the hiking lounge and a place to buy hot-dogs. On our way back from Bear Mountain, we stopped in Nyack for a late-afternoon meal and some coffee. Nyack is a town half an hour north of the City. We read that it was voted&nbsp;"Quaintest Place to Go Ever" or something, but regarding its supposed bucolic charm, it was underwhelming. It was fine for burgers and Starbucks, but beyond that, it's probably not worth the extra hour in the ZipCar. Bear Mountain is a quick escape, and it's fully recommended to anyone with a warm coat and some mittens looking for half-a-day sojourn. -Juli Weiner Brooklyn Academy of Music hosted an all-nighter last Saturday where, instead of drinking $3 coffees while wandering through the Butler stacks, you could drink $3 beers and wander through what can only be described as a cultural tableau, which included films ranging from the avant-garde to Mean Girls and bands ranging from hard grooving rock to shoegazing walls of sound. Oh, and there was a dance party upstairs. The bands were nothing special, but inside, BAM's elegant opera house allowed an ambiance that is decidedly different from typical hole-in-the-wall nightclubs and outdoor festivals. Speed punk band Be Your Own Pet seemed to feel pretty awkward in probably their first and last opera house gig -- but they managed to make it memorable by jumping off the stage into the crowd on more than one occasion.&nbsp;Dirty on Purpose, on the other hand, had a decidedly art school flavor that complemented the domed ceiling with their effect-filled jams. The real highlight of the night, however, was the plethora of films showing in four theatres, including a Lindsay Lohan Mid-Career Retrospective, concert documentaries, and When Animals Hug.&nbsp;While it is somewhat disconcerting that Lohan has reached the middle of her career at 21, the medley of movies on the Rolling Stones, David Bowie, Talking Heads and the Sex Pistols made me wonder whether any band today deserves such immortalizing treatment as David Byrne received in Stop Making Sense. The animals hugging was random to be sure, but several minutes worth tickled the funny bone before the jokes got repetitive. The party raged until 4 in downtown Brooklyn and completely ignored daylight savings time, leading to many a confused alarm clock. -Justin Vlasits As Neil Young would tell you, we've had mother nature on the run since the 1970s, if not longer. But six hours north of Manhattan, Gaia seems to be hiding out fairly successfully in the Adirondack mountains, where a group of Columbia students has made a pilgrimage the last couple Election Day weekends. I decided to join them this year, and on Friday we boarded a fifteen-person passenger van to head for a few of the high peaks. Although this year's fairly mild winter gave us a partial reprieve from the elements, cold weather reasserted itself at the higher altitudes. Many of our summit trails led us up small waterfalls, which progressed to water flowing under ice, and then to solid ice for the last half mile or so. Although Mount Marcy, the highest peak in the state, gave us a great view of the dome-shaped range, the smaller mountains were generally tougher climbs. After we conquered the last two on Monday, the planned short and flat hike on Tuesday seemed boring.&nbsp;We marched through the dark to forgo our last night of camping and get back to campus. Our decision was heavily influenced by Daylight Savings Time. Although the "fall back" had no bearing out in the woods, it gave us an extra hour to make it to the Noon Mark Diner, which is a hell of a horse in the one-horse town of Keene Valley, New York. Lying along what is essentially Keene's only road, the diner not only has regionally-famous pies but is run by good people who run a community bulletin board and welcome travelers. When a group of eleven stinking, dirty, wind chapped, scratched and bruised hikers showed up four minutes before closing, they stayed open for what turned out to be an extra hour and a half before we headed down the road to return to Manhattan before sunrise. -DHI &nbsp; THE END And how was your fall break? 
 And I'm not eating until Columbia changes the names engraved on Butler Library! Meetings with Professor Philip Kitcher and the Committee on CC vs. not eating. Yup, similar tactics. There are people starving in Africa who aren't getting so much media coverage. In case you're not hunger-striking... Animal house! 
 Dear Readers,&nbsp; When writing to or about Bwog, many of you refer to us as BWOG. Although our logo is in all caps, we prefer to be written as "Bwog," like a name, not an acronym. It's not a big deal or anything, but sometimes it bugs us.&nbsp; Love, The Editors &nbsp; 
In which Bwog correspondent Christopher Morris-Lent learns about the most over-referenced year ever at last night's Historical Perspectives talk.&nbsp; It’s 7:00 in 301 Philosophy, I’m well-fed by a catered spread, and before me sits an ensemble cast culled from the cream of the Columbia history department, each here to describe different aspects of the year 1968 that pertain to their respective fields of expertise. Given the degree to which that year is bandied about in Morningside discourse, I hoped someone would explain: what, exactly, is the big deal?&nbsp; 1968, as our sunny moderator informs us, was “a turbulent time marked by political protest,” a year wracked by “student activism and protest, including the Columbia strike.”&nbsp; She proceeds to catalogue all the juicy historical events that transpired in 1968: the assassinations of MLK and RFK, the overthrows of LBJ and Charles de Gaulle, the invasion of Czechoslovakia, the protraction of the Vietnam War, etc. She introduces professors Charles Armstrong, a specialist on Korea and leader of a seminar on the Vietnam War; Manning Marable, professor at SIPA and civil rights struggle veteran; Victoria De Grazia, modern European history aficionado; Michael Merrill, history department adjunct and Columbia alumnus; and Provost Alan Brinkley, world-renowned American historian and author of my AP US History textbook. It’s 7:15.&nbsp; The hostess passes the microphone to Armstrong, who prefaces his monologue by commenting jovially on the “large turnout.”&nbsp; In a certain sense, he’s right: the sixty or so people in the audience – of whom maybe 20 are undergrads – fill the room, making the event well-attended in the same sense as a sold-out Off-Off-Broadway play. After enumerating three obvious parallels between the Vietnam War and Iraq, Armstrong launches into a rather dry historical explication of the events leading up to his topic of the Tet Offensive: the French occupation, Dien Bien Phu, the American invasion, and so on.&nbsp; His analysis of the Tet Offensive is hardly more satisfying: after adopting the AP US-style thesis that (in so many words) the Tet Offensive was a Pyrrhic victory because it sapped American morale, he relates more dry facts to prop up his unfalsifiable argument.&nbsp; It’s 7:28.&nbsp; Manning Marable introduces his topic – the April 4, 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King – by relating his personal experience of the events, as a high school senior in Ohio.&nbsp; Accordingly, his speech is to be an extended anecdote: “I’d like to read a first person narrative, focusing on one theme, the Black liberation struggle as it emanated from the south – and how I ended up being the first person at Martin’s funeral.”&nbsp; Marable’s story is stirring – he opens by stating that “integration brought mixed and sometimes disturbing experiences,” citing the excision of Africa from the World Civilization syllabus and compulsory memorization of “The White Man’s Burden.”&nbsp; As a young activist in the midst of the civil rights movement, Marable felt as if he had no choice but to attend Dr. King’s funeral, dryly remarking, “My father consented to the operation, and purchased a one-way ticket to Atlanta – he was very cheap.”&nbsp; He concludes by invoking 1968 as a means for calling for the equality that his idol hoped to bring about and that he contends continues to elude us.&nbsp; It’s 7:45.&nbsp; Victoria de Grazia is up now, “speaking as a Europeanist.”&nbsp; Launching into an explanation of the student riots beleaguering Europe simultaneous to the civil rights movement across the Atlantic, she makes an interesting point about the protests: they weren’t about money or economic equality, but rather a largely affluent societal group looking for something more and something to do.&nbsp; She relates to the attendees a “very funny slogan” about the French riots and is met with an awkward silence.&nbsp; “Good audience up here anyway,” she says.&nbsp; A story culminating in the line “I shit on Lyndon Johnson” elicits a few laughs.&nbsp; In 1968, de Grazia was a 20 year-old student at Smith College; travelling around Europe, she says, “I remember thinking how horrible it was that the world was ruled by the communist Soviets on one side and the fascist Americans on the other!”&nbsp; It’s an eloquent evocation of the political rupture and general sense of anomie at the time, one which Michael Merrill is happy to relate to a familiar environment in his lengthy lecture on the infamous Columbia protests.&nbsp; In contrast with the rest of the panelists, Merrill’s lecture is filled with good humor, fluid storytelling, excellent delivery, and subtle insight.&nbsp; He offers a compelling take on the protests that’s both personalized and contextualized: from the point of view of a native Idahoan who worked his way through college swabbing counters in the cafeteria, whose first participation in a student-organized event was a “panty-raid” on the Barnard Quad, and whose only involvement in the protests was to throw food to his friends, the insurgency was at once unsettling and exhilarating.&nbsp; Merrill saw the upheaval as one small part of a mass movement, but he’s quick to describe Columbia as a prime spot for such a rebellion, as a powder keg of the tensions that made 1968 what it was: “It was a bastion of privilege,” he said, “that had opened its doors.&nbsp; Slightly ... the first African-American students who weren’t athletes were admitted with the classes of 1967 and 1968.”&nbsp; &nbsp; Merrill was in the class of 1970, making him a sophomore when the demonstrations commenced on April 23, 1968.&nbsp; The rest of the narrative is common knowledge: the protestors conquered and occupied Hamilton and Low, the NYPD was called in, and--342 police brutality complaints and 700 arrests later--things were up and running again.&nbsp; But, as Merrill contends, the consequences extend far and beyond the current state of Dodge: the student body radicalized, the purpose of education changed, and the cost of higher education went through the roof as public support faltered for the first time since World War II and the GI Bill.&nbsp; It’s 8:33 by the time Provost Alan Brinkley begins to speak on the topic of LBJ and the Election of 1968.&nbsp; His speech is as turgid as the book of his I had to read three years ago and uninspiring to boot.&nbsp; He finishes twenty minutes later and the floor is opened for questions, unremarkable but for a middle-aged man’s declaration that he was at Yale in ’68 with George W. Bush, followed by a story that ends with his misinterpreting anguished shrieks of “the King is dead” with some perverse mass quotation of Shakespeare. &nbsp; It’s 9:06.&nbsp; The panel is over. I grab more sandwiches. &nbsp; 
 While you're paying for drinks at 1020, or The Heights, or wherever, some people are actually being paid to go on dates at local Columbia bars. Lonely hearts, look to psych experiments for your next love. Who knew economics held the key to matters of the heart? Bonus points to anyone who can tell Bwog what bar Ray Fisman used. 
1020 not cutting it on Friday nights anymore? Bwog nightlife correspondent James DeWille is your tour guide to a better weekend. Here, he provides a user-friendly guide to Every 2nd Friday in Williamsburg. Friday night is starting early this weekend, so prepare to don your dumpiest and head on over to the Bedford L stop for Williamsburg’s Every 2nd Friday.&nbsp; Every gallery in the 'hood will be open until at least 9pm (most later) for a smattering of paintings, Pabst, and plaid.&nbsp; Expect a lot of debauchery and stumbling from gallery to gallery, as most are within walking distance of each other and beer and wine will run freely till they run…empty (which reminds me, don’t be cool and show up late.&nbsp; At least for tonight you’ll be in the wrong neighborhood for that kind of attitude; drink up and early).&nbsp; Keep the night open and organic: follow invitations (except to Bushwick) and interesting people/sounds to hunt out after parties, impromptu band performances, and chilly but pretty rooftops. For those who still need a guide map, here’s a round up a few shows definitely worth hitting up:&nbsp; Black &amp; White Gallery: The indoor/outdoor space adds to the architectural nature of “Compass: New Directions”, a group show of women artists curated by Jill Conner.&nbsp; The show takes over the gallery and examines the living, industrial jumble of architectural decay and rebirth that has defined the neighborhood and lured people to it.&nbsp; Capla Kesting Fine Art:&nbsp; You may have seen the “MIST” tag on buildings around Manhattan.&nbsp; Guess what?&nbsp; A disgruntled kid made them in the early 80s from the Upper West Side.&nbsp; Guess what?&nbsp; He’s totally a businessman from Miami now.&nbsp; Capla Kesting opens B-Boys; Miguel Paredes’ show of paintings that hark back to his spray can days.&nbsp; Cinders Gallery: Sto, Cinders’ owner, brings a puzzling, eerie yet somehow still storybook-cute show with “My Prayer for You”.&nbsp; Following the semi-narrative of a town after a strange meteor crashes near it, “My Prayer for you” features blunt paintings and sculptures that grab at the paranoia, fear, nightmare, and supernatural enveloping the fictional Greenpoint town.&nbsp; Front Room: Philip Simmons’ new show, “Crash” showcases a series of glossy, sharp silhouette sculptures in bomb-in-your-face colors.&nbsp; They detail 50’s Americana, cowboys and Indians, and farm animals that are so confrontational you may jump back a little.&nbsp; Jack the Pelican: Once you shuffle out of Front Room, consider hopping over to Jack the Pelican’s precious show of Yale MFA student Elisheva Levy’s “Oh!”.&nbsp; Her curious paper creations have created cars and pianos in the past.&nbsp; For Jack, she’s made a graffitied skyscape with a sloppy black “Oh!” scrawled across, and the tagger’s old spray cans sitting nearby.&nbsp; Cute, but just wait, you’ll be all smiles when you find out the cans are actually made of paper too. &nbsp; NURTUREart Gallery: For those looking for something more lively and performance-oriented, heat to NURTUREart, where “Bodies of/at Work” promises a live performance of Holly Faurot and Sarah Paulson.&nbsp; Klaus von Nichtssagend: At this mouthful gallery, Rindfleish/Rapedius’ “Monte Vera” acts as an intrepid and multi-faceted little travelogue for their recent time in Argentina.&nbsp; Most impressive is the giant, upright rolls of white paper, cut to mimic an Argentine mountainscape.&nbsp; &nbsp; Hogar Collection: Hogar Collection follows in the performance vein with an improv soundscape by Jeremey Slater accompanied by the sound of steel sculptures.&nbsp; So get out there, do some exploring, partake in some wandering and the night will be even better.&nbsp; The amount of galleries, openings, and performances is dizzying.&nbsp; If you’re still looking more to alch than art, head to the restaurant Taco Chulo, which is offering 2 mixed punch drinks to anyone saying they’re with “Every Second Friday”.&nbsp;&nbsp; Just be sure to pace yourself, it may be dark at 7 but that doesn’t exactly mean excessive drinking is okay…yet.&nbsp; Remember, you still have to make it to the after parties, or at least back to the island.&nbsp; In any case, you’ll have to look out from behind your cup a few times to see some art and maybe even make some new friends.&nbsp; Try and say something intelligent. 
Sure it's been out for a while, but Anton Corbijn's Ian Curtis biopic Control is still screening. Bwog correspondent Jamies Johns reviews the film and philosophizes on the nature of the rockumentary. Most of us know the story by now: Ian Curtis, lead singer of post-punk outfit Joy Division, hung himself at the age of 23, leaving behind a wife, a young daughter and a handful of impeccable recordings. Curtis’ mystique and tragic death have almost begun to overshadow the music of his band and Control, a film about Curtis made by famed video director Anton Corbijn, will probably only serve to further the cult of Ian Curtis. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing though, because Corbijn’s portrait of Curtis is the only one I have seen that looks fairly at Curtis’ life with a true appreciation for him and the music he produced without reverting to idol worship. The film is one of the best rock bios I have seen; it is not only beautiful, thanks to Corbijn’s use of black and white photography, but it also feels, for lack of a better word, real. Although Curtis would later become an icon, for most of his life he was an average guy. The characters in Control are not distant figures that lived in the 1970s and with whom we can feel no connection. Instead, the deft performances by Sam Riley as Curtis and Samantha Morton as Deborah Curtis, his wife, make Control emotionally devastating. We feel the tender moments between Curtis and his wife and his mistress, Annik Honore, and we also equally feel the suffocation Curtis felt towards the end of his life. Corbijn reminds us throughout the film of two things: first, how young Curtis was when he became the music press’ new savior in 1979 and second, how much Curtis’ life was affected by his surroundings. Curtis’ home city of Manchester was, in the 1970s, a place where tranquilizers were frequently used by average citizens to make life a little bit easier. In late ‘70s Manchester, all you had to look forward to after high school was getting married and finding a low-end white collar job. Married at 18 and a father only a few years later, we see how Curtis fell into the traps of traditional life. Couple this with guilt about his infidelity, an increasingly severe case of epilepsy, and his position as the new “it” boy of British Music, and it’s easy to see that everything became too much for Ian Curtis. Curtis wasn’t perfect and Corbijn does a great job of showing how impetuous and selfish Curtis was, especially towards his wife. While watching Control, it’s easy to see that Corbijn is, more than anything else, a fan of Joy Division’s music. The performance scenes in Control are undeniably good. I will be the first to admit that I freaked out when I heard how good the opening lines of “Disorder” looked and sounded in one scene. Sam Riley and the actors who play the other members of Joy Division perfectly capture their characters onstage personas. Unlike 2002’s 24 Hour Party People, Corbijn does not focus on the incredible Manchester music scene of the late 1970s and early 1980s that existed around Joy Division besides a side reference to Mark E. Smith of The Fall (“At least you’re not the singer of the Fall,” Joy Division’s manager says to Curtis after an epileptic fit) and a brief appearance by what is supposed to Alan Hempsall, the lead singer of the oft-overlooked Manchester band Crispy Ambulance. Although some will fault Control for this, I felt that in the end the film excels in what it sets out to do: document Curtis’ life. Control is still screening at CC Village East Cinemas on 181 2nd Avenue, (212) 777-3456 x 922. 
 But wait! There's more of them! You've never realized how much we take the Lerner elevators for granted, until now Ah, to look back on the years of basketball-playing youth. . . Suddenly, Mean Girls and Steinbeck define the essence of freshman year Something to consider adding to that list of demands, perhaps &nbsp; 
A defense of the Bluegrass state, from Kentucky partisan Carlton Travis Cone. As one of the few Kentuckians at Columbia University, I sat by and read Bwog’s coverage of the marauding CU Dems as they marched around the Commonwealth, visiting such cultural centers as the Tolly-Ho.&nbsp; Any token mentions of the culture of Kentucky or its people had a pseudo-Orientalist snark to them, and so to amend this I have made a fifteen point list (in no particular order) as to why the fifteenth state is worthy of re-examination by a largely uninitiated Columbia community. (Pictured: my ancestor Daniel Boone coming through the Cumberland Gap). Without Kentucky there would have been no United States of America.&nbsp; Or at least not by 1776.&nbsp; The illegal movement of British colonists across Appalachia and into the Kentucky countryside was the catalyst for the French and Indian War.&nbsp; Following the war, Parliament placed taxes on the colonists to pay for their own defense, and retroactively pay off the expenses of the French-Indian War.&nbsp; The colonists began to protests their “taxation without representation,” and the rest, as we say, is history. Kentucky: Land of Natural Splendor.&nbsp; Kentucky is home to the longest cave system in the world, Mammoth Cave, and has the most navigable waterways of any state aside from Alaska (suck on that, Florida).&nbsp; Other features of note include the magnificent Red River Gorge, Natural Bridge, and Lake Cumberland, one of the largest manmade lakes in the country.&nbsp; Lake Cumberland’s dam, built by the Army Corp of Engineers in 1952 has started to fail, and should it give will flood all the way to Nashville about 150 miles away. Thomas Hunt Morgan: Kentucky’s Gift to Columbia.&nbsp; Morgan used fruit flies to prove Mendel’s theories of heredity and variation, and theorized that genetic material was stored on chromosomes.&nbsp; For this work he won a Nobel Prize in 1933.&nbsp; His lab on the eighth floor of Schermerhorn is still a working biology lab. Kentucky the Border State.&nbsp; Kentucky was the home state of Abraham Lincoln, the Great Emancipator and Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederacy.&nbsp; Kentucky never seceded, but was represented by the center star of the Confederate flag.&nbsp; On the importance of the state to the Union, Lincoln said “I hope to have God on my side, but I must have Kentucky.” The Birthplace of the High Five.&nbsp; You read right, recent evidence suggests Kentuckians invented the famed maneuver. The Food.&nbsp; Kentucky has given the world such culinary delights as country ham, beer cheese, the artery clogging Hot Brown (an open face sandwich of toast, ham, turkey, bacon, tomato, drenched in mornay sauce and optional cheddar cheese), Benedictine (cream cheese and cucumber spread), Ale81 soda, bourbon balls, burgoo, mint juleps, and Derby Pie.&nbsp; We also have Southern favorites such as barbecue, cornbread, hush puppies, sweet tea, fried catfish, and of course---fried chicken. Kentucky, Land of Legal Vices.&nbsp; Kentucky is home to bourbon, fields of tobacco, and the drive-thru liquor store.&nbsp; Despite Governor-elect Beshear’s push for legalized casino gambling, in a state synonymous with horseracing, gambling was already here. Kentucky, Land of Illegal Vices.&nbsp; More important than the moonshine industry, Kentucky is the number two producer of marijuana in the country after California.&nbsp; According to the federal government, in 2005, $1 billion worth was confiscated.&nbsp; Kentucky State Police Lt. Ed Shemelya remarked to the Lexington Herald Leader “if every Kentuckian smoked one joint an hour every day for 365 days, they could not smoke all of the marijuana grown here.”&nbsp; With a population of roughly 4.2 million, I leave that Frontiers-style “back of the envelope” equation to you. Famous Kentuckians: Henry “The Great Compromiser” Clay, Muhammad Ali, George Clooney, Hunter S. Thompson, Diane Sawyer, Loretta Lynn, Louis Brandeis, Ashley Judd, and two of the Backstreet Boys. Kentucky, Land of Opportunity.&nbsp; Kentucky is the fourth leading state in automobile manufacturing, was the birthplace of the Corvette, and currently constructs the best-selling car, truck, and SUV models in the country.&nbsp; The state is also home to Lexmark, as well as major hubs for UPS, Amazon, and Proctor &amp; Gamble. Kentucky, Land of Rustic Beauty.&nbsp; Despite all of the industry and being the fourteenth smallest state, it is fifth in number of farms, most still family-owned.&nbsp; Lexington, in the center of the state, is known as the “City in the Park,” due to the verdant beauty of the surrounding horse country. The Horse Racing Industry.&nbsp; Kentucky is world-renowned for the strength of its racehorses, which thrive on Bluegrass enriched with calcium from the same limestone beneath the soil that forms Mammoth Cave.&nbsp; Lexington is the “Thoroughbred Capital of the World” and Louisville is home to the Kentucky Derby, the most exciting two minutes in sports. Basketball.&nbsp; Despite the confused kid from Cleveland Bwog quoted in its first Kentucky entry, basketball is the clear king of the Bluegrass, not football.&nbsp; The University of Kentucky boasts the most wins and best winning percentage in NCAA history, and the Wildcats own seven national championship titles, second only to UCLA.&nbsp; Basketball forges the Bluegrass into the Big Blue Nation every year. Epic Feuds.&nbsp; UK versus Louisville fans, Davis versus Lincoln, and most famous of all: Hatfields versus McCoys. “My Old Kentucky Home.”&nbsp; The state song, written by Stephen Foster and tear-jerkingly sung at every UK sporting event and at the Derby is the symbol of a larger sentiment that life there should be easy.&nbsp; The birthright of all Kentuckians is the serenity of being in the Bluegrass.&nbsp; Life there slows down in a way that is easy to appreciate after even as short time in New York.&nbsp; As Mark Twain wrote: “When the end of the world comes, I want to be in Kentucky, because there it will come 20 years later.” 
A kindly woman was spotted feeding the birds outside Hamilton this afternoon. We hope they were potty trained. &nbsp; 
 Sometimes law school isn't all soulless drudgery. Bwog just received news that students from Columbia Law School's Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic have secured asylum for Ven Messam, a gay man from Jamaica, who feared persecution if forced to return to his home country--not the most friendly place for the gays. "I am grateful to the United States government for saving my life," said Mr. Messam. "My life in Jamaica was constantly in danger, with angry mobs carrying machetes, stones, knives, and guns, threatening to kill me because I am gay. When I tried to contact the police for help, the police instead threatened to arrest me and told me to leave the country if I wanted to stay safe." Hooray for education in action! Full release after the jump. NEW YORK (November 8, 2007) – Today, Columbia Law School's Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic secured asylum for Ven Messam, a gay man who feared persecution if forced to return to Jamaica because of his sexual orientation. The grant of asylum, issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, comes at a time when conditions for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender (GLBT) people in Jamaica are getting more dangerous by the day. &nbsp; Within just the last month, gay Jamaicans have been murdered and the government has not intervened. Rampant rumors that hostile groups are plotting the social cleansing of hundreds of gay people by year's end have forced countless GLBT people into hiding. Far from a tropical paradise, this Caribbean nation continues to imprison and kill its gay citizens with relative impunity. &nbsp; "I am grateful to the United States government for saving my life," said Mr. Messam. "My life in Jamaica was constantly in danger, with angry mobs carrying machetes, stones, knives, and guns, threatening to kill me because I am gay. When I tried to contact the police for help, the police instead threatened to arrest me and told me to leave the country if I wanted to stay safe." &nbsp; "This asylum grant highlights the particularly severe dangers facing gay Jamaicans.&nbsp;From election campaigns that use songs which promote burning and killing gay people to police support for violent, anti-gay mobs, the Jamaican government is actively menacing and endangering its gay citizens," said Professor Suzanne B. Goldberg, director of the Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic.&nbsp; &nbsp; "Mr. Messam's personal story, and the stories of countless other Jamaicans demonstrate the terrifying situation facing GLBT individuals in Jamaica" said Simrin Parmar, one of the Columbia law students who worked on this case. "We are thankful that Mr. Messam will be able to live openly as a gay man—safe from government-sponsored persecution," remarked Jennifer Stark, another Columbia law student who worked on this case, "but it is alarming to think about the fate of other GLBT people in Jamaica who are not as fortunate." &nbsp; Mr. Messam was referred to Columbia's Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic by Immigration Equality, a national organization focused on immigration rights for GLBT individuals, which provided important assistance in the case.&nbsp; &nbsp; Since this past September, four students from Columbia's Sexuality and Gender Clinic—Simrin Parmar '08, Jennifer Stark '09, Jonathan Lieberman '08, and Eileen Plaza '09—have provided legal assistance in preparing their client's application for asylum. The students spent many months conducting interviews, drafting affidavits, researching country conditions, filling out necessary forms, accompanying their client to the New York asylum office, and providing assistance during his interview.&nbsp; &nbsp; "This experience—where students are responsible for working through the challenges of a case that makes a real world difference in an emerging and important area of law—is what the Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic is all about," said Professor Suzanne B. Goldberg .&nbsp;"Thanks to the students' work, we can now provide supporting materials to asylum advocates for gay Jamaicans anywhere in the world," she added.&nbsp; &nbsp; Columbia Law School's Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic began in September 2006 and currently has eight students.&nbsp;Under Professor Goldberg's guidance, students have worked on a wide range of projects, from constitutional litigation to legislative advocacy to immigration cases. Through the broad scope of its work, clinic students have had the opportunity to serve both individual and organizational clients, and they have devoted over 6,500 hours to cases involving issues of sexuality and gender law. For more information, please visit http://www.law.columbia.edu/focusareas/clinics/sexuality. 
Basketball season is upon us! Bwog general assignment reporter CML reports on the sensational season opener.&nbsp; What with the unlikely regression of the football team from last year’s record, hopes for the basketball team were high heading into last night's opener.&nbsp; Some expert analysts* even forecast the Lions as having a fighting chance to win the Ivy League this year.&nbsp; We returned everyone important.&nbsp; We run the kind of methodical and balanced offense that flusters teams better than us.&nbsp; We play inspired and tenacious D.&nbsp; So why not Columbia?&nbsp; That question fell to our crosstown archnemesis Fordham, whose football team already eviscerated ours earlier this year. Fordham, which plays in the eminently respectable and oft-underrated Atlantic 10 conference, was favored by a large margin coming into the game.&nbsp; Blithely unaware of this, I arrived with companion Justin Vlasits a few minutes prior to tipoff, operating under the assumption that we had a decent chance of winning.&nbsp; Strolling past a diverse mixture of fans (Fig. 1) and situating ourselves in the middle of the student section, we were soon joined by a wayward and middle-aged Fordham fan who was evidently unable to locate the writhing mass of Rams advocates at the opposite end of Levien.&nbsp; Soon the game started, Light Blue against Communion Wine Crimson.&nbsp; For the first few minutes neither team did anything to disprove my assumption, but I soon began to see what an uphill struggle it was going to be for the Lions. Shots - particularly those attempted by F John Baumann - weren't falling, and Fordham's superior size allowed it to command the boards, score multiple times off second chances, and shut down a vital facet of Columbia's offense by dominating interior presence C Ben Nwachukwu.&nbsp; The Lions' usually strong perimeter defense was unable to neutralize the outside game, and the Rams rained destruction from behind the three-point arc. Soon we tired of the Fordham missionary's enemy cheering and moved down to the second row of the student section, where a throng of raucous fans was attempting to neutralize the bad vibes propagating from the Rams' rooting section.&nbsp; Fordham's second of seven trifectas in the first half put it ahead 12-7, which was as close as Columbia would get for the rest of the game.&nbsp; Before I knew it, the half was over.&nbsp; Columbia had accumulated a meager 26 points to Fordham's 43.&nbsp; I observed that this was not only half as many points as Duke piled on Columbia in last year's opener, it was exactly how many points Columbia scored in that affair. Halftime ended, and the Lions began to adjust to Fordham's assertive style of play.&nbsp; All in all the Lions matched the Rams step by step throughout the second half, being outscored a mere 36-35.&nbsp; As the game’s inevitable outcome became more and more evident, the crowd got more and more into it, at least by Columbia standards.&nbsp; The clock continued to wind down and the deficit stayed where it was, but it hardly felt like we were losing by 20 to our 'rivals.'&nbsp; Junior F Joe Bova, who was badass enough to return to Division I basketball after breaking his back a couple years ago, made a few inspirational plays.&nbsp; Sophomore G Patrick Foley showed us his sweet shot.&nbsp; Levien was charged with the intensity of a high school gym.&nbsp; Everyone - including the Rams fans, sadly - was having a good time as the clock expired and the scoreboard proclaimed a 79-61 Fordham victory.&nbsp; Someone suggested a chant of "safety school," which seemed unnecessarily flattering, especially when there were so many little things to cheer about already.&nbsp; Bottom line: the Lions lost to a team from a mid-major conference that they were supposed to lose to.&nbsp; In spite of being outmatched in almost every way, we were only outscored by 1 for the last 20 minutes.&nbsp; The bench was productive, the defense and offense adequate against a better team when they finally clicked.&nbsp; Near the beginning of the game my old floormate Ben turned to our row and asked: "Is it just me, or is Fordham completely athletically superior?"&nbsp; Replied my other former floormate Matt: "It's tough to play against teams that give out scholarships."&nbsp; This begs the question: what does this portend for our games against Penn?&nbsp; And Harvard, Yale and Princeton?&nbsp; Conference play is over two months away.&nbsp; For now, stay tuned for a non-conference schedule that includes doormat Delaware State and perennial powerhouse Villanova.&nbsp; The sordid details of the game can be found here. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *My friend at Yale who cares too much about Ivy League sports. 
 It's 40 degrees outside and raining, so the strikers have abandoned their swamp and set up shop in Butler (hopefully avoiding a repeat of last night's e-mail, timestamped 3:10 AM, "wondering if any folks are awake to bring us blankets and lamps"). After being in negotiations with top adminstrative brass Friday afternoon and gearing up for a march and rally today, at least Butler's fetid air is less energy-sapping. Meanwhile, the whole affair has shown up in a smattering of blogs and local publications to date. The Times and Bloomberg has the straight story, the Huffington Post cheerleads, while Columbia fave Michelle Malkin thinks they're a bunch of moonbats.&nbsp; Gothamist aggregates, Ivygate makes dumb jokes, NYU briefs. And if anyone's counting, the strikers' petition has 549 signatures, from anyone in the world who feels like filling out a form. 
 Bwog theater critic Michael Snyder sat through LateNite late last night, and has a few good things to say about it. The Semesterly LateNite Anthology of student-written one-acts always feels like a handful of works in progress. When the anthology is good, they are refreshing and exciting; when the anthology is bad…let’s just say that can make for a long night. This semester’s LateNite is without a doubt of the former kind. The opening and closing plays, though totally unrelated in content, act as clever little bookends for the evening. Flat out funny, they both are joyful, quirky, and undemanding, and if the main goal for each is to make the audience laugh, they both succeed admirably. The first of the two, written by Becky Abrams and Josh Breslow is a hysterical monologue about breasts, performed brilliantly by Colin Drummond. The closing play, also by Becky Abrams, seems to be about picking up girls in diners, and the relationship between grandfather and grandson, and tap dancing to Billy Joel. Whatever it’s about, it’s pretty damned funny. The second play of the evening, "Us, Weakly" by Justin Grace is, apropos of its title, probably the weakest of the six plays, suffering most from the usual downfalls of LateNite plays: a vague opening, idea-heavy dialogue, and extremely stagy speech. Though the play lands several solid jokes, they simply aren’t enough to justify so much moralization. "Us, Weakly" is followed Michael Molina’s "The Last Great Triumph of Melanie Perkins", a disarming theatrical exercise that examines death through the eyes of a child. The conceit of the play is interesting—a little girl is visited in her death bed both by her best friend and toy bear Wooly and the surprisingly benevolent Death—and the writing mostly strong. Still, the play never seems to get much of anywhere and many exciting elements go unexplored, particularly in the figures of the parents, who, in an intriguingly loaded directorial choice, double as Wooly and Death. Perkins features three strong performances from Laura Kleinbaum and Colin Drummond as Mother/Wooly and Father/Death respectively, and particularly from Rachel Leopold in the title role. In terms of sheer ambition, Alex Symonds’ "Quarters" is the standout of the anthology. Though the play fell into some typical LateNite traps—unnecessary allusions, overwrought narrative gimmicks—the creativity and craftsmanship at work here is undeniable. Though Symonds handles her poetic flights nicely, the best moments in "Quarters" tend to be its most straightforward, namely the scenes between Rhea and Dan and their alter-egos Leah and Dave. Morgan Childs and Maura McNamara as Rhea and Leah respectively gave the loveliest, most mature performances of the evening. Of all the evening’s plays, "Crash Text Dummy", the text message musical by Laura Kleinbaum and Shruti Kumar, feels the most complete. In ten minutes of witty, just-sardonic-enough music, "Crash Text Dummy" tells the all-too-familiar story of the drunken text messages we send and receive, and does so with exactly the right ratio of snark to sweetness. It’s a tightly written, neatly packaged piece of musical candy, light, fresh, fun, and strangely sweet. More than the evening’s five other playwrights, Kleinbaum and Kumar have a firm grasp on how to fit form to content, picking a topic that needed exactly the ten-minutes time that it filled, nothing more and nothing less. Overall, this is a strong anthology, entertaining, varied, and refreshing. You won’t see any perfect plays, but you’ll walk out excited about the possibilities each one suggests for future development. And besides, how could you not enjoy a night that concludes with an old man tap-dancing to Billy Joel? See LateNite tonight at 8 and 11 PM in the Lerner Black Box. Tickets are free. 
 Bwog reviewer Michael Snyder is back - and so quickly! - to report on what he peeping-tommed in somebody's Hogan suite. "The Sublet Experiment" is, according to its posters and playbills, “a romantic comedy about mis-taken identity,” and, as per its title, it delivers some solid laughs, some not-so-solid writing, and a happy ending. The CU Players production, which went up on November 9th, and goes up again next weekend on the 15th and 16th, is graced by a an outstanding four-person cast and a creative team that takes the play beyond its gimmick. Sublet's central feature, you see, is in its staging: real apartments (or in this case, real suites). The play, by Ethan Youngerman, repeatedly asks to what extent our surroundings determine who we are, and engages with that question repeatedly by changing its surroundings several times, from a suite in Hogan this weekend, to an East Campus suite next Thursday and to ADP next Friday. It is certainly a cool concept, but the play itself stumbles when it comes to stepping outside that concept. The play’s best moments are those that most closely approximate real conversations, and the charm of the quick banter early on can’t quite stand up to a rather facile plot that seems to have been written largely to accommodate the concept rather than the other way around. Lauren Glover’s skilled direction and her wonderful cast more than compensate for the play’s shortcomings. Aware of the script’s problems, Glover helps her actors to give their characters much more personality than the script does. Josh Breslow, 'CC 08, makes Eric—a guy who places a vague online add offering free rent in exchange for a physical relationship—far more credible than he should be. In fact, one of the play’s major problems—and one that it does confront a bit late in the game—is that the Eric we see on stage does not seem like a guy who would ever post an online add looking for sex. Still, once the play gets going and Breslow settles into the intimacy of the room (he’s a little bit too frenetic at first), he exerts enough awkward charm to make you forget this little lapse in characterization on the part of the playwright. Toby Mitnik, 'CC10, plays Harry, a cut-rate villain attempting to steal Eric’s identity by pimping out his girlfriend for information, as a fast-talking fool, an idiot over-burdened with useless information and delusions of grandeur. He’s a silly character, and Mitnik plays him well, without the self-conscious winks to the audience that one might expect. Justin Grace’s Stranger—that’s how he’s listed in the playbill—is a similarly ridiculous character, and carried off with equal aplomb. He’s a silly screwball type and a total pleasure to watch. The highlight of Sublet, though, is Nessa Norich as Melanie, Harry’s girlfriend who agrees to con Eric and, predictably enough, falls in love with him in the process. Instead of delivering lines, Norich simply speaks with all of the candor and ineloquence of real life (not to mention of Youngerman’s script). She stutters here, or stumbles there, and makes Melanie a reality rather than a character. Even in the script’s worst moments, Norich compensates with just the right amount of unaffected charm, speaking Youngerman’s words with a slight smile as though she—Melanie, not Norich—knows just how absurd they are, as we all so often do in daily conversation. Generally quiet and understated, Norich’s more passionate moments seem as surprising and refreshing to her as they do to the audience. It’s this unpretentious assurance that makes Sublet such an enjoyable experience. Everything down to the soundtrack, recorded and performed by the Columbia-based band The Kitchen Cabinet, feels right, not too intent on making what is essentially an insubstantial play into anything more. What makes the show so exciting is its ability to include you in the lives of these people without breaking the fourth wall. It’s voyeuristic, sure, but sometimes that’s exciting, especially when the subjects are as talented as these four. 
&nbsp; A group of anti-Manhattanville expansion-ists and pro-hunger strike-ists are on Low steps right now, giving brief speeches, wielding signs, and listing things that are "not for sale" ("our homes," "our businesses," and especially "our love")--along the lines of every Manhattanville protest in recent memory. They're about to head over to PrezBo's house, after which they'll return to the center of campus to rally again. Hurry!&nbsp; The Rude Mechanical Orchestra&nbsp; is warming up! Negotiations, meanwhile, are at something of a standstill. After a meeting with Quigley, Brinkley, Nair, Colombo, and Dirks at the IRC went from public to private in the span of twenty minutes, Bwog was not able to attend the first round on Friday afternoon.&nbsp; But, there's a roundup here (and an account by an anonymous hunger striker, curiously posted by "b. mercer"). The second round is tentatively scheduled for Monday, we hear. We'll keep you posted once things start heating up. More photos after the jump. &nbsp;The hunger strikers, three nights in, are looking good so far. Coalition to Preserve Community leader Tom DeMott was there, as always. State Senator Bill Perkins and Councilman Tony Avella were also supposed to show up. Bryan Mercer delivered the most rousing speech, garnering appreciative huzzahs and drum beats, with a monologue about his place as a student of color at Columbia. He also reiterated the strikers' position: "We are not eating until our demands are met or we're in the hospital!" &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
In the vein of our dispatch from Mongolia, Bwog friend Ernest Herrera, CC '09, tells us what's going on down south. Since no one ever assumes I’m a ‘gringo,’ I can’t always tell when my cover is blown in this country. However, I know better than to think I can completely ‘fit in’ when a rabbi in La Paz tries to convince me of my Jewish heritage as I don my Bolivian fedora, or when I – more through fatigue than misunderstanding the language – ask the money-changer how much a shoe-shine costs. But after a few months in South America, at least I’m comfortable enough to slip up with Spanish phrases in paragraphs I’m trying to write in English.&nbsp; &nbsp; Thanks to a crazy suggestion from our study abroad dean to travel sooner than later, I am spending this semester studying in Bolivia with the School for International Training (SIT). The group consists of twenty-six American university students, with interests ranging from theater to economic theory, based in Cochabamba, the just-right-porridge city in a country with regionalistic politics and extreme climates. We attend lectures from university professors, academics, and political and social leaders regarding ‘culture and development’ – a mix of history, politics, and anthropology. We also travel and have ‘class’ in the form of visits to places like the ‘Birthplace of the Sun,’ where the 2700 year-old Tiwanaku empire held its seat on an island in Lake Titicaca, and Cerro Rico, a mountain in Potosí that has claimed the lives of nearly eight million miners over the centuries that its silver and mineral ore have been exploited.&nbsp; It was on Cerro Rico, probably the least conventionally attractive of touristy stops, that I could most clearly sense the intensity of its history. Wearing miner’s garb and a helmet complete with electric lamp, a man aware of his striking resemblance to Hugo Chavez gave our group a tour. Before entering an unused mining tunnel, he showed us a pile of raw mineral ore and instructed us to turn our gifts of coca leaves, Coca-Cola, fruit juice, and plantains over to children or women whom we wandered by. A number of the workers on the cerro have their homes on its faces. The heads of these homes are not necessarily men--life is often cut short in the mine by collapses, explosions, and poisoning. Boys, who can begin work at 12 to 14 years of age, take over that paternal role. In the middle of the ore explanation, one cerro resident, a boy appearing to be around eight years-old, walked away from our group, looking back and smiling. Chavez’s voice faded from my hearing as I watched the kid disappear around the mountain just as easily, somehow erasing the euphemisms and justifications that seem readily available when speaking of the deadly exploitation of the mines. &nbsp; &nbsp; For my fellow political junkies reading this, I highly recommend you put down your books about China or Obama for a minute and read about the process of change occurring in Bolivia. If you are at all interested in learning Spanish and being informed about Latin American politics, you should study this country. For those of you interested in learning Aymara or Quechua and witnessing the re-writing of a constitution, you should study in this country. Our group had the fortune to visit La Asamblea Constituyente (Constitutional Assembly) in Sucre, where elected representatives from around Bolivia are duking it out in their constitutional capital to establish a new state system. This would be the equivalent of international students coming to the United States to have a conference with members of Congress. Perhaps I exaggerate, but I have felt more than privileged during my time here.&nbsp; As a student, I have found the level of access to information here to be amazing. Through luck and well-established SIT connections, I have been able to direct questions at people such as Oscar Olivera, a national labor-union leader who headed the protests that ran out the San Francisco-based Bechtel after it privatized Cochabamba’s water system and raised domestic service rates by 200%. Through my homestay family, I was able to chat with a ‘relative’ of mine, Imbert Acosta, who is the national president of one of the indigenous confederations that pushed for the formation of a political instrument, the Movimiento Al Socialismo (MAS – party of the current president, Evo Morales). However starry-eyed I have been though, I have been sure to keep my wits about me. &nbsp; I recognize a certain political leaning that comes with the institution I study under here. They do not try to hid this, and I don’t think it hinders their program. I entered the program with a certain bias against US policy in the region, and the staff don’t shy away from talking about the damage our coca-eradication efforts have had on local communities. Although I tend to lean in their direction, I become wary of some of the structure when I think it obvious that Professor Jeffrey Sachs (he designed controversial neoliberal economic adjustments imposed here in 1985) has not received a fair shake in our lectures, or when we only meet MAS representatives at La Asamblea. Despite any suspicions, I always walk away from such experiences more convinced of the significance of a student’s impact in this country, negative or positive, by way of studying and writing about the people and issues here. Though I am inclined to tell myself that ‘none of this is my fight,’ I cannot help but empathize with a government that acts more democratically and seems so much more representative of the people.&nbsp; &nbsp; Transcending polemics and highlighting my privilege is my experience of Cochabamba. While writing a report on urbanization with a small group, I visited the south of the city. In this ‘Zona Sur,’ how politics might help becomes less clear and cynicism creeps in. Among interviews regarding the lack of potable water and the absence of parents due to immigration to Spain, Argentina, and the States, I spoke with one woman whose lack of words was more informative. To questions about the community and its history, my friend and I received single word answers after long pauses and stares. We figured that she was new to the language, probably a native Quechua-speaker. Her business of selling ice cream from a foam ice chest demonstrated the norm in this community of informal employment. Like the boy from Potosí, her looks more than adequately explained systemic inequality as a living fact, not a historical theory. &nbsp; &nbsp;With all lessons learned, and at the end of my semester here, I expect to be so in love with the place that I will have no choice but to return. While all of my compañeros in New York have almost two months left, our semester nears its end before we set out for our month-long independent study projects next week. I hope to study the affects of militant rebellion against outside cultural and political influence on the nationalistic identity of an indigenous Aymara community in a western province of La Paz. It will be fairly cold there, but it should be a good warm-up for when I get to see all of you again in the dead of New York winter.&nbsp; At left: Don Juan reads coca leaves and tells me in Aymara that success and a woman taller than me await me after college. &nbsp; Below: El Christo overlooks Cochabamba from the East. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog's caught wind that at least two Columbians are among the finalists for that prestigious prize named for diamond magnate Cecil Rhodes: Burma activist and jetsetting anthropology major Geoff Aung and CCSC President Michelle Diamond, for their home regions (New York and Florida respectively). We found no traces of the announcement, despite some assiduous googling, though we did find this fabulous photo illustration of the fast-paced life that awaits winners in at Oxford. 
 Responding to an uncertain statement in this hunger striker post, Bwog e-mailed political science professor Dennis Dalton--who teaches classes on nonviolence and has written a book about Gandhi--to ask whether he was really striking too. He responded thusly: "Thanks for your message. Yes, as I announced in my class last Thurs., I am in support of the demands and I have joined what I prefer to call the fast rather than hunger strike. Gandhi, about whom I have written extensively, preferred the former term to the latter, but apart from the significant difference in language, I enthusiastically endorse the four demands and I am acting accordingly. Best wishes, Dennis Dalton" Et tu, Provost? UPDATE, 11:30 PM: Dalton told Bwog that he's drinking water and juice.&nbsp; Good thing his wife Sharron Dalton is a Professor of Nutrition and Food Studies at NYU. &nbsp; 
Butler denizens are reporting that hunger striker Aretha Choi, who appeared to be passed out on a couch in 209, has been carried out on a stretcher by about 10 CAVA staffers. A statement from the support team is posted after the jump. UPDATE, 2:05 AM: Meanwhile, a Bwog tipster reports that about a half an hour ago a group of about 15 students, evidently intoxicated, gathered at the Sundial to hand out a flyer entitled "Why We Act, Why We Eat." One girl read from the text of the simple Times New Roman sheet of paper, which is reprinted at their blog and after the jump. UPDATE, Sunday, 12:50 PM: It's official: there's now an anti-striker facebook group. GOP treasurer and Hardball commentator Will Nosal has started Don't Support the Hunger Strikers, currently with nine members and related groups including Chinese Jews for World Domination and Barnard 2011. UPDATE, Sunday, 2:20 PM: The group seems to have disappeared. Sorry about that. UPDATE, Sunday, 5:52 PM: The return of the Facebook group (actually not at all the same as the first one, but still). &nbsp;&nbsp; "This evening, one hunger striker was admitted to St. Luke's hospital.&nbsp; She will not continue the strike for personal medical reasons. Organizers, other strikers, and supporters are aware that risks to the body are inherent in the action of a hunger strike, and we greatly respect her commitment to doing what she and others feel is a necessary action to demand change at the university.&nbsp; Her hunger strike is over, but her commitment to the demands – support for ethnic studies, an ethical expansion, reform of the Core, and an accountable and supportive administration – continues. &nbsp;We hope that members of the Columbia community who identify with these issues will challenge themselves and others to act for change." Why We Act, Why We Eat... We eat against a group that seems not to care for the well-being of its students or itself. We eat because we feel the urgency of a student voice that is continually marginalizing itself. We eat because we don’t want these students to resort to dramatic measures. We want Columbia to negotiate a substantive food benefits agreement which serves to mitigate the food displacement created by the university’s policies and addresses food creation, food related environmental problems, and food-university relations. With luck, Columbia will see the gorging of our bodies as a bellwether of our growing desperation on this campus. It’s a shame that Columbia was not more alarmed when we said our minds, hearts, and spirits were overfed, too. FAQ’s WHY NOW? Recent acts of starvation, in conjunction with people who don’t eat, in conjunction with people who make us nervous. Lastly we act in solidarity with Dining Services, which we consider a partner in the struggle against needless starvation and purposeful under-nutrition. WHAT’S LOVE GOT TO DO, GOT TO DO WITH IT? About as much as the noose at TC’s got to do with anything. It may have something to do with it, but it’s got nothing. WHAT ARE THE DEMANDS? We will not, not continue to eat until these 69 theses are met: 69.A We want dining services to be expanded, physically and responsibly. 69.B We also want ourselves to be expanded, physically and responsibly, by force if necessary. 69.C We want the creation of a Major Foods Department, including the intense study of the historiography and cultural ramifications of nutritionalization. MFD and CUSJ must be granted the ability to make hires autonomously. 69.D Columbia amend its 197-C Proposal to rezone Manhattanville to include the addition of a new McDonald’s Center for Enthusiastic Eating (MCEE) 69.E We demand that Columbia lobby the federal government for less restrictive immigration policies because that would probably make food cheaper. 69.F Finally, we will not stop eating until those who are not eating, eat! WHO ARE WE? We are not a campus group. We are human foie gras waiting to happen, just like eggs are meat waiting to happen. We demand that these strikers pull the tube from our throats. 
Closet filling up with dead appliances? There's a big crate outside on 115th and Broadway that will take them off your hands, today until 4:00 PM, and tomorrow between 4:00 and 7:00 PM. Say hi to the robot for us. 
Bwog met NYU student W.M. Akers at a bar one night, and found that his fair institution could use some explaining. They don't have a Core, a campus, or 250 years of academic elitism--but there are some (dubiously) redeeming qualities. Territory Columbia's Claremont dorm, two blocks from the 116th stop, is classified as "Extreme West of Campus," hyperbole that seems quaint to an NYU student. Though a few of us—mainly freshmen—actually live around on "campus," we have housing from 23rd Street to the Financial District. While Columbia expands through financial might, NYU's student body does that work for it. On Friday nights you can see flocks of stumbling blondes outside the sorority housing in Chinatown, while actors just let out of Studio step through Madison Square with songs on their lips. Call it soft power. Population Ever play the name game with people from other cities? "You're from Atlanta? Do you know Tom?" NYU students play that game with each other, and with similar success rates. There are some 18,000 undergrads here, and none of us know anyone. Did you have a hygiene accident in a dorm hallway last year? Don't worry, because outside of your tiny circle of disgusted friends, no one else knows about it. Go meet other people, and let your natural charm shine through. You'll have a fresh start in no time. Commerce The curse of the liberal arts education is that, for most of us, it's simply too liberal. Anyone interested in one humanity loves them all, making it difficult to choose between the passing fancies we have for everything from anthro to art history to Arabic. I want to major in everything, which is why I'm horrified when I hear one of NYU's extremely well dressed undergraduates at the Stern School of Business complaining on the bus that, "I've already taken Financial Report Analysis and Competitive Change, so I have to find an elective for next semester. I can't think of anything!" Can greed really be their profession and their hobby? Divine Right There's a reason all the subways converge on Union Square and not Riverside Park. Though not officially as cool as anything across the East River, there are still great bars, restaurants and people watching below 14th Street. This makes it a natural weekend destination for Columbia students without the energy to go to Brooklyn or the know-how to track how far one has to travel out the L to still be hip. NYU dorms give us an excuse to live where you visit. Countryside Besides our mention in this clip, Washington Square is probably the best part of the university. Though the fountain is off for the season and the benches are no longer crowded with families and reading students, the park is still the loveliest way to get from the library and student center to the classrooms. Even in Winter it has an antique, severe beauty. Its continued attraction means that I can perch from certain vantages and see every student walking to and from class, as well as the odd lunatic wandering through the pack. If you're curious about what they're up to, come down and take a bench on the North-East Corridor and see for yourself. But if you don't have the $2, don't fret. I'll be keeping an eye on them for you. - WMA 
We know you're tired of it. Bwog's been a bit busy laying out the November issue, but we promise we'll get more non-striker coverage up soon. Meanwhile, some noteworthy news bites, next to the Octopus that Ate Affordable Housing: 1. Take Back the Night has issued a statement in support of the strike. Interesting, considering they declined to participate in the Columbia Coalition speakout on Ahmadinejad Day, saying they were a "non-political" organization. 2. The Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race--one of the strike's potential beneficiaries--has also issued a statement of support, arguing that "internal conflict at Columbia exhibits deeper tensions in the U.S. body politic and its education system." 3. Aretha Choi wants "the adminstration to know that 4 days was obviously too long of a time for me to wait while they are on their little vacations to Cape Cod or wherever they go to escape their responsibilties." Also that a CAVA member mocked her and the hunger strike as she was taken to the ER, and that "the students who care enough about Columbia University to want to change enough to starve and to hurt for it, will remain strong." 4. In an e-mail sent to 33 listservs asking clubs to help with outreach, a strike organizer enumerated the hardships the strikers have so far endured. "But as Bryan has said, we cannot confuse those who are simply weak-willed and prejudiced, with those who we can potentially reach and educate about our demands," she wrote.&nbsp; Is it just us, or is Mr. Mercer turning into something of a prophet? UPDATE, Monday, 9:30 AM: At the abovementioned strike organizer's request, the full paragraph from which the quote was taken has been posted after the jump. THE E-MAIL&nbsp; "That said...those who stand against us think that they can dampen our spirits by beating us down.&nbsp; We are getting attacked by bad press (and lacking press as well), drunk passerbys knocking stuff over at our tent sites, hecklers shouting egregious things like "mmm I want a nice juicy burger right now", Columbia administration officials giving negotiators blank stares at a meeting when we reported Aretha's rushing to St. Luke's Hospital because of low blood sugar, and perhaps the biggest blow to our our faith in our peers, and a terrible thing to see from our fellow students; anti-strikers websites that have propped up and counter-rallies with racist, homophobic, and xenophobic rhetoric being held right by our tents in public.&nbsp; But as Bryan has said, we cannot confuse those who are simply weak-willed and prejudiced, with those who we can potentially reach and educate about our demands.&nbsp; That said, we ABSOLUTELY NEED folks to help us do outreach... there's a lot of misconceptions floating out there right now about what our demands are, and we need to address them.&nbsp; And just to reiterate, our demands are rooted in a campus in which 1) our core education reinforces the norms of a system that marginalizes people of color, people of faith, queer folks and other groups; 2) Ethnic Studies programs in which we learn about the histories of our own communities (most of which was founded after the 1996 hunger strike led by Latino, Asian American, Black, and American students for Ethnic studies)&nbsp; are under-resourced and swept aside by this university; 3) the administrative organization of our university right now does not allow adequate/ prompt responses to hate crimes, such as t he noose that was hung on a black professor's door at TC; 4) an official expansion / eviction plan that will displace 5000 residents of West Harlem and will be voted on early December, a plan that bulldozes entire communities in Harlem and uproots real people." (Bolding in original)&nbsp; 
 You all are gonna looooooove this.... The Fed now stumping for enlightened discourse; Philosophy department to publish bi-monthly humor mag Misfired&nbsp;sexual pun in lede an unintentionally perfect metaphor for misfired MTV awards show Surprise!: Sarcastic Edition Surprise!: Not Sarcastic Edition More mindblowing Columbia history and lore from Bob Ast. 
 And if you're a foreign affairs newshound or doing work-study at the Harriman Institute, you'd immediately know that that person is Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili, Law '94 and member of an alleged "'Columbia Club of Post-Soviet leaders." While the real Columbia club is still a tenant of our much&nbsp;hated and intellectually sub-standard rivals at&nbsp;Princeton, the fake Eastern European one isn't taking guff from anybody--especially not from democratic opposition movements. But Saakashvili's Columbia education hasn't gone totally to waste. In a move practically unprecedented in the history of post-Soviet despotism (and feel free to prove us wrong on this one, Area Studies majors), Saakashvili is shrewdly giving in to the protesters' demands and calling new elections for&nbsp;this coming January. So now he's both feared and loved, even by some of the same people. Package deal! For this simultaneously brilliant and reprehensible political maneuvering, Columbia's own would-be Musharraf is Bwog's first ever Alumni Who Makes Bwog Both&nbsp;Ashamed Lets Bwog Down and Proud. Congratulations? EDIT: Right you are, commenter! Looks like Columbia alumni have given us fewer opportunities for scolding, in fact so few&nbsp;that we temporarily forgot the name of our own feature. Good job not letting down, alums! -ARR 
So what's it like to go six days without food? When Bwog tried asking a hunger striker earlier this afternoon, we were politely redirected to a member of the strikers' "support team:" according to Jamie Chen, C '09, the strikers want to "bring attention off of the hunger striking and on to the demands," which means they weren't able (willing?)&nbsp;to field questions themselves. But Gabe Espinal, C '09, gave Bwog a sense of how the strikers are doing so far. He said that Health Services has been checking up on the strikers multiple times each day and characterized them as being in "decent shape"--although he added that oncoming cold weather is a concern. Chen and Espinal declined to speculate on how much longer this will last. "Past hunger strikes at Harvard and Georgetown have gone on for almost a month," said Chen. Will this one? Stay tuned. Elsewhere in strike-related news: Nick DeGenova has issued a statement of support, complete with his wishes that the strikers' "example flourish and insipre countless comparable acts of liberation!" Tonight's vigil will be hosted by Lucha, and will be commemorating all those "killed crossing the US-Mexican border in serach of a better life." Columbiaphobic folk singer Nellie McKay paid a visit to the tents for a vigil last night; meanwhile hunger striking has been all the rage this week, catching on in such diverse places as Pakistan, Bangladesh,&nbsp;Fiji, India, South Korea and Bahrain. Hopefully the one here won't go quite as awry as this one. -ARR
Midterms month is rough, what with the long hours spent staring up at the ceiling of the Butler reading rooms (are those deer antlers? I think so!) and praying for it all to end. Might we suggest some (potentially) intimate&nbsp;human contact to help you recover your undoubtedly fleeting social acumen? All interested parties should contact Bwog via email and we'll provide the $5 for the date. And as always, nominate your friends (or yourself) for a personal by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. GUY FOR GIRL Name: Kirill Skok Year: 2010 School: CC Major: Econ Philosophy Hometown: New York City / Kharkov, Ukraine if we look way back. Best Book You've Read For Class: Crime and Punishment&nbsp;and Hero of Our Time in a tie Worst Book You've Read For Class: Great Expectations in 8th Grade Most shameful thing you've done to procrastinate: Trolling Craigslist with a friend and penning fake responses to personals. Beverage of choice: Water, semi-dry white wine, and Sam Adams, tied. What are your most played songs on iTunes?: Kargo - Sairin Elinde (Turkish Rock Song) Dokken - Breaking the Chains Rammstein - Wo bit du Joy Division - Interzone Pavement - Date with Ikea What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes?:&nbsp; A melange of Poison, Bon Jovi, Dokken, and Twisted Sister Favorite Morningside Heights meal: Judge Deluxe with Curly Fries, Hamdel The title of your memoir: Wouldn't I have to be successful before I start thinking about things like that? Dream date, five words or less: El Bulli, Mountains, Beach Sex. Things you're looking forward to the most this year: Really looking forward to winter break and New Year's Things you're looking forward to the least this year: Really not looking forward to the end of winter break. &nbsp; GIRL FOR GUY Name:&nbsp;Darya&nbsp;Deker&nbsp; Year: '09 School: BC Major: Anthropology Hometown: Sherman Oaks, CA Best Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp;Urbanism, Le Corbusier; El Coronel No Tiene Que Le Escriba, Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Worst Book You've Read for Class: Everything from Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: First, I think it's apparent that I have no shame. But to answer the question, it'd have to be the time I tried to make a dress out of an umbrella. Beverage of choice:Caffeine-free Diet Coke, The Heights' mango-passion margaritas &nbsp; What are your most played songs on iTunes? 1. Montanita, Ratatat 2. Gardenhead/ Leave Me Alone, Neutral Milk Hotel 3. Under Control, The Strokes 4. Ghostwriter, RJD2 What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes?: Beirut's cover of Grizzly Bear's "Knife," anything by Youngblood Brass Band, Kings of Leon, and The Unicorns. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: A Stroko's or Westside Market salad; the 'fixins' of which are most definitely dependent on my mood.&nbsp; But goat cheese is a must. The title of your memoir: Did This Fall Out of One of Your Orifices? (taken from a conversation with my mother, c. 2002) or Where'd They Go? (this is actually the working title; I began it one afternoon last spring, upon losing my anthropology class at the Met.) Dream date, 5 words or fewer: We wake up in Brazil Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Celebrating the one- and two-month anniversaries of filling out this survey, basketball season, tree-lighting on College Walk. Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Walking from Plimpton to 1020 in the rain/snow, reading period. 
Way back when, Ashraya Gupta, Bwog's Blue Notebooks correspondent, attended a BN-sponsored conversation with music critic Alex Ross. Even a series of technical (and editorial) snafus couldn't keep her report from reaching the masses. At the most recent Blue Notebooks event, The New Yorker critic and recent author of The Rest Is Noise, expounded on some of his favorite topics: the death and life of classical music, his love for Doctor Faustus, and exactly what the Beatles owe to John Cage. Ross’s new book, The Rest Is Noise, traces a connection between 20th century composition and broader cultural and political history. His blog of the same name does that on an everyday basis. Where else are you going to find out that Jamie Foxx is not only a classically-trained pianist, but is now taking cello lessons from a member of the Los Angeles Philharmonic? His interview last Monday dealt less with Foxx and more with names you might not know unless (a) you’ve taken Music Hum, (b) you’ve read his book, or (c) you actually listen to classical music. As audience members entered 501 Schermerhorn, Steve Reich’s “Music for 18 Musicians,” which does indeed make an appearance in the Music Hum textbook, could be heard. Ross kept fiddling with his iPod and laptop, appearing anxious to share more. Once he was certain everyone had found their seats, he turned down the volume and turned to his interviewer, Linden Park. The conversation began with the most pressing question: is classical music dead, and does it matter? Ross immediately pointed out that there are now more symphony orchestras than there were fifty years ago. If classical music is dead, it can certainly be heard more now than ever before. If all that’s true, then how come the question doesn’t stop getting asked? Ross thinks it has something to do with the aestheticization of politics. The supposed death of classical music came with its link to totalitarian regimes and warfare. These days, the connection between a villainous soul and a taste for symphonies is made apparent in such caricatures as Hannibal Lecter. Somehow, classical music has become the soundtrack of the cold-hearted. Except, of course, in Ross’s case. He’s warm, affable, quick to joke about the obsolescence of the term “modernism.” His original intent was to not even use the word in the book, but that proved too difficult even for him. Still, his primary concern is how so-called “modernist” music connects to the art and history often thought of as independent of it—namely, politics and pop music. Quickly turning to his laptop, he played a comparison of John Cage’s Williams Mix and the Beatles’ foray into tape loops, “Revolution #9.” It was moments like these that perhaps held the greatest interest for audience members without a classical music background. Ross was nascent of the fact and explained that one of his aims as a critic is to write for the uninitiated. In classical music, which has so often become a genre dominated by connoisseurs, generating interest among the general public can prove difficult. But Ross is doing his best, analyzing the Velvet Underground as responses to minimalism and garnering praise from Bjork for doing it. 
 Of 70 Columbia professors, expressed to the New York Sun! Some of them rather prominent! A faculty action committee statement of concern&nbsp; accuses PrezBo of failing "to make a vigorous defense of the core principles on which the university is founded, especially academic freedom." Particularly rankling to signatories--which include such luminaries as Akeel Bilgrami, Bruce Robbins, Mahmood Mamdani, Gayatri Spivak, Eric Foner, and former Provost Jonathan Cole, as well as predictable lightning rods like Nadia Abu al-Haj and Nick DeGenova--is the impact of outside groups on tenure and other "academic freedom" issues. The New York Sun suggests (albeit very implicitly) that this could be the early stages of the kind of faculty ouster that cost Lawrence Summers his job; meanwhile, the professors plan on presenting their grievances tomorrow at a meeting of the Arts and Sciences faculty. Conspiracy theorists will note a number of carefully worded references to recent events in the professors' statement: "Tenure, "the hosting of controversial speakers," "villifying members of faculty," "partisan political positions concerning the politics of the Middle East"...this thing could be read as the culmination of faculty discontent with Low Library's handling of the MEALAC controversy, the al-Haj tenure debate, the Ahmadinejad introduction, and Islamofascism awareness week. But one conspiracy theorist has gone a step further: according to the mysterious "Emmett Trueman," who has been flooding publicaton inboxes with "inside information" about this year's tenure battles, an ad hoc committee has recommended that Professor Joseph Massad be denied tenure (which New Republic resident codger Marty Peretz called a few weeks ago), and the letter is an attempt by the MEALAC faculty to persuade the administration to overturn the recommendation. Also worth noting: at a panel tonight lauding Massad's Desiring Arabs, hosted by the Heyman Institute, the professor noted that he was "personally grateful for this intervention." So the profs are pissed ("concerned"), Massad could turn into next semester's Minuteman, there are hunger strikers camped out in front of Butler and *gasp* Kansas is still undefeated. Thank God for dollar beer night is alls Bwog can say.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's inbox is abuzz with declarations, communiques, and plans regarding the encampment on Striker Lawn (although the strikers themselves are now tucked away in Malcolm X lounge, safe from the damp).&nbsp; You should have all received the first tidbit, from Deans Quigley and Dirks: an enumeration of what they're already doing to address the general spirit of the 13 Demands, minus the expansion part, which is being dealt with in separate meetings. Briefly summarized: reviews are in the works, and student voices considered. CCSC, in a surprise move, also released a statement declaring support for a watered down, less specific version of the strikers' demands. You can skip the awkwardly worded introductory paragraph, which says very little of substance, but check out their support for mandatory anti-oppression training, a Vice Provost for Multicultural Affairs, and the departmentalization of both CSER and IRAAS. Also note that, while a Committee has been researching the expansion for about a year now, "the council is not in a position to take a position on the expansion this semester." Would you like to expand on that? No word yet from PrezBo, although he did send out a university-wide e-mail today regarding graduate student teaching awards. President Shapiro, of course, sent out a statement last Wednesday, noting that "while hunger strikes have a long and important history as a form of political action, they are not without their dangers and may not always be a necessary strategy in a particular situation." The full e-mail, as with the abovementioned documents, are posted in our Hunger Strike Primary Source Reader after the jump. Meanwhile, Gawker finds eating disorders to be the most newsworthy part about the whole affair (while noting that Ivygate took down its post of a few days ago that ran with a pro-ana photo). Finally, if you notice that classmates look a little more wan than usual on Wednesday, they may be abstaining as well: those who didn't want to undertake the strike whole hog are fasting from 6:30 AM until 8:45 in the evening. - LBD November 12, 2007 The University is already taking initiatives and conducting reviews in many of the areas you raise for discussion.&nbsp; We will include concerned students in these processes, along with other students already involved.&nbsp; We will also invite them to meet with standing faculty committees whose current deliberations bear directly on some of the matters at issue. Academic Matters In the first instance it needs to be recognized that the faculty are in charge of the academic curriculum through the standing departmental and interdepartmental committees.&nbsp; Administrators convene many of these meetings, we are confident the faculty will wish to hear from all concerned students, and we will arrange for them to do so. (i) CSER – IRAAS and related issues As a result of regular meetings this fall between Claudio Lomnitz, Director of the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race (CSER) and Nicholas Dirks, Vice President for Arts and Sciences, and as part of ongoing meetings with concerned students about the future of Ethnic Studies that began in the spring of 2007, the following new investments have been made.&nbsp; First, a search committee for senior positions in Ethnic Studies has been authorized to recruit up to three senior faculty from its current interdepartmental search.&nbsp; Second, the recruitment of a scholar in Native American Studies has been authorized.&nbsp; Third, one senior hire in the field of African American studies is currently being conducted by IRAAS.&nbsp; Fourth, incremental resources have been committed both for programs directly conducted by CSER and for the development of a collaborative programmatic relationship between CSER and two other units:&nbsp; the Institute for Research in African American Studies (IRAAS), and the Institute for Research on Women and Gender (IRWAG). Finally, we have committed to a review of CSER by the Academic Review Committee.&nbsp; This review will include in its mandate relationships between CSER, IRAAS, and IRWAG.&nbsp; Although student participation is a routine part of these academic reviews, we will ensure that student voices will play an especially important role in this review given the particular history of CSER as the outgrowth of student interests, concerns, and activism. Major investments over the last three years, totaling now over $20 million, have been directed specifically to increasing the diversity of the faculty in the Arts and Sciences, and many of the faculty hired through this initiative have already begun to work closely with CSER, IRAAS, IRWAG, as well as with other units on campus that contribute broadly to the work and concerns of these units (including new programs in the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy (ISERP), and the re-opening and strengthening of the Institute for African Studies). (ii) Core Curriculum President Bollinger convened a major Task Force on Undergraduate Education in the autumn of 2006.&nbsp; The Task Force is made up of senior faculty and administrators along with student leaders, and has undertaken an extensive review of the entire undergraduate curriculum and experience.&nbsp; Four working committees have been established, on the structure of the curriculum, on the issues around teaching and learning in Columbia classrooms, on the challenges of globalization for the undergraduate experience, and on science.&nbsp; As part of this review, the Core curriculum is being re-examined, in particular the kinds of requirements it entails in relationship to majors and electives, the demands it makes on instruction, the relationship it has to a changing world, and the demands this world makes on what students should learn and encounter during their undergraduate years. There is already widespread agreement that the Major Cultures component of the Core needs to be strengthened, bringing it into parity in terms of classroom size and curricular importance with other parts of the Core.&nbsp; At the same time, the Major Cultures section of the Core is also currently under review as part of the work of the Committee on the Core.&nbsp; Though students already sit on some of these committees, further arrangements will be made to enable concerned students to address these committees and contribute to their deliberations.&nbsp; Two of your representatives are invited to the next meeting of the Committee of the Core tomorrow morning at 10:00 AM. Administrative Matters Last month, Dean Nair informed student leaders that Leadership Consulting Associates has been engaged to assist the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Division of Student Affairs to conduct a review of the OMA and its services.&nbsp; This consulting firm was involved with recent reviews of both the Center for Career Education and the Center for Student Advising. These reviews have resulted in the development of action plans to enhance student services, hire and train new staff, and establish the need for additional space. The OMA review process will incorporate a wide range of student voices, including yours, along with those of alumni and staff.&nbsp; It will also include data already collected from multiple student surveys, program assessments, and strategic planning done by the staff of OMA.&nbsp;&nbsp; The review will result in an action plan for the further development of the office. In the light of your concerns, this review will be extended to incorporate consideration of the need for, and possible function of, a Multi-Cultural Affairs officer at a higher level. Expansion plans for the Inter-Cultural Resource Center and Inter-Cultural House continue to move forward, as students involved in the planning are aware. The annual orientation program for new faculty will incorporate more extensive discussion of diversity issues. The Office of Public Safety will take responsibility for disseminating information about hate crimes in our community.&nbsp; There is already a protocol for reporting such incidents to the Office of Public Safety, which then reports them to the undergraduate Student Affairs Deans. We hope you will agree that the points made above are consistent with the views and aspirations of the concerned students you represent, that they can serve to bring these discussions to a speedy conclusion, and that our students can return to their residence halls and classes. To the Barnard Community - Among the issues of concern to students beginning their strike today is one that is common to Barnard and Columbia: the extent to which we are failing to live up to our diversity aspirations. I share our students' deep concern over recent incidents of hate and bias and also, as you know from previous communications, feel that we must attend to everyday patterns of behavior that maintain barriers between students of different backgrounds.&nbsp; I look forward to Barnard's joining with Columbia and Teacher's College to participate with the City Council in the "Day Out Against Hate".&nbsp; We must all hope that the intense attention this day will bring to issues of inter-group strife and intolerance will provide the inspiration to maintain our focus in an ongoing way in the days that follow. In terms of curricular issues, the Barnard Trustee Committee on Diversity, which includes faculty and student members, recently had occasion to discuss whether our General Education Requirements in such areas as Social Analysis, Cultures in Comparison, and Reason and Value might better prepare students to confront issues of difference in as knowledgeable as way as possible.&nbsp; This will, of course, be part of the ongoing work of Barnard's Committee on Instruction, which has four student members. Barnard's Student Government Association recently sponsored a Town Hall that provided a good venue for airing these issues.&nbsp; I welcome further suggestions from the SGA about how to proceed with additional activities and conversations that can play a productive role in our campus life A final word: while hunger strikes have a long and important history as a form of political action, they are not without their dangers and may not always be a necessary strategy in a particular situation.&nbsp; I am hoping that we can together strengthen our efforts to making the changes we need to make in our community. Judith Shapiro The Columbia College Student Council would like to address the current state of the Columbia Campus. We feel that it is important to acknowledge the history of activism and student protest that have served to the betterment of Columbia, while also acknowledging that there are many different views about the type of protest that is currently taking place. CCSC would like to express its concern for the health of the strikers and wants it to be made known that we will continue to be involved, wherever appropriate, in finding a peaceful resolution to the situation on campus. The events of the last five weeks have had such a large impact on the student body that CCSC has been working extensively to address the issue of hate crimes and bias incidences. With that said, CCSC wishes to look at the issues that are currently at hand and inform the student body of what we voted to support at our most recent meeting. We will be publicizing the recent events in order to inform the greater student body. Many of these issues have been bought up in the past and have not been followed through on. We would like to stress the seriousness of these issues as they pertain to the improving of our University. We will follow up on these issues by working with administrators and students to develop policy initiatives and resolutions, as well as a structure of accountability, to make sure that there is sufficient follow through in this area. We invite student input as we take these steps and it is our hope that they come to us with their ideas. Not only do these issues need to be addressed broadly, they need to be addressed on specific levels. If you read below, you will see the specific goals that CCSC plans to work towards this year. &nbsp; The Core Curriculum, CCSC Advocates for… The reformation of the Major Cultures requirement to contain a variety of courses in a seminar format. More student voices and seats for the Committee on the Core and the Committee on Instruction, as well as voting power for students on both committees, and that their process of selection be better publicized. Ethnic Studies: CCSC advocates… Support and autonomy for Ethnic Studies and the departmentalization of the Center for Study of Race and Ethnicity and the Institute for Research in African American Studies Administrative Reform: CCSC Advocates that… Columbia’s Public Safety announce instances of hate crimes when they are reported and issue an annual report of reported bias incidents and hate crimes and how they have been addressed. A clear definition of what a bias incident is The expansion of the Office of Multicultural Affairs with more communication and collaboration between the Office of Multicultural Affairs at Columbia and the Multicultural Affairs Office at Barnard The hiring of a Vice-Provost of Multicultural Affairs to administer and direct University policies affecting students within all of the schools of the University Mandatory anti-Oppression training for all incoming faculty and public safety, with full day workshops, on the level “under1roof”, on issues of race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, power and privilege. The Expansion The Columbia College Student Council has been doing research and gathering information on the expansion through its expansion committee. The council is not in a position to take a position on the expansion this semester. &nbsp; 
 Looks like Manhattanville has bigger problems than our expansion... "'I left you a piece of my ass,' he might say. Or I might take a bite regardless, spread with a liberal schmear of chipotle aioli" Appointing a Pigeon Czar might not stop the pigeons from acting like pigeons. Enter: Kulawik Football team's courageous Ivy League losing-strike continues for third month &nbsp; &nbsp; Coming up today on Bwog: How to improve your transcript by filling out one sheet of paper What Google thinks about you That horrible smell anywhere northeast of Low—explained! 
 Bwog played around with Google at work yesterday. Here's what Google suggests we're trying to find when the bolded word is typed into the search bar: Butler Library Butler Library columbia Butler Library hours Butler Library columbia university Tao Tan Tao tanning lotion Tao tantra Tao tang Tao Tan lehman Columbia Spectator Columbia Spectator online Columbia Spectator noose Columbia Spectator madison Columbia Spectator newspaper Columbia Spectator blog Barnard Barnardos Barnard marcus Barnard college Barnard castle Barnard castle school Columbia Columbia university Columbia house Columbia sportswear Columbia college Columbia jackets Columbia sc Gayatri Spivak Gayatri Spivak can the subaltern speak Gayatri Spivak columbia Gayatry Spivak Bruce Robbins Bruce Robbins columbia Bruce Robbins sweatshop sublime Tasti D Lite Tasti D Lite nyc Tasti D Lite calories Tasti D Lite nurtrition Tasti D Lite nurtrition facts Tasti D Lite delivery Columbia students Columbia students walk out Columbia students walkout Barnard Student Barnard Student store Barnard Student webmail Barnard Student directory Matt Sanchez Matt Sanchez rob majors Matt Sanchez usc Matt Sanchez pictures Matt Sanchez video Matt Sanchez photos Matt Sanchez videoegg Columbia football Columbia football schedule Columbia football team Columbia football stadium Bwog Bwog columbia Bodog.net Bugnet Bwogo Dennis Dalton Dennis Dalton jewelry 
 Free samples of Boar's Head meats and cheeses, and Izze juices, in the Uris cafeteria right about now. You can also nab a nifty Boar's Head insulated sandwich bag that you can cool in your freezer. And also, Columbia Catering, the exclusive catering service of Lerner Hall, has free bag lunches in the Piano Lounge. UPDATE: Each sandwich comes with an apple, Lays chips and an Oreo brownie, and you may accompany your meal with a selection of drinks including Coca-Cola, Seagram's Ginger Ale, Minute Maid Lemonade, 7-Up, and Lipton Brisk. They have mozzarella and tomato, ham and cheese, and tuna salad. They used to have roast beef, but Bwog got the last one. - DHI 
Ever wanted to take Turkish? Now you can, thanks in large part to Professor Etem Erol, whom Bwog correspondent Omar Siddiqi sat down for an interview last week. As I understand it, you weren’t always a Turkish professor, but in business before. Why did you switch into the world of academia? Well, that was another life time. In my previous life, I did have an MBA in Finance, but then I switched. I always wanted to study history but social pressures led me to study for an MBA. I worked in that field for 12 years, but at the age of 40 I decided to change my direction. I’ve never looked back after that. By training I’m a historian, and the connection to language actually came with the need to learn Ottoman Turkish, in order to study my own history. After learning Ottoman history I ended up getting into languages. Proper training in Ottoman Turkish requires knowledge of Arabic and Persian, so I got into learning languages because of that. As I was teaching history, I was actually called by other universities to teach history there. I began at Columbia teaching Ottoman Turkish. So, that’s the language connection. Since then, well, I made a fateful decision. Some people convinced me that I should expand into Turkish, not just Ottoman. I’m very happy that I made that decision. On the side I don’t mind going to other schools like NYU, in other words, I still get my kicks teaching history. I don’t feel that teaching language, especially in advanced levels, makes me too distant from history. Even in elementary levels, the subject of a historical context comes up. I have no intention of teaching Turkish for tourists. Etymology still interests me, as well as teaching Turkish within a cultural context. I find that to be exciting; in the final analysis, who wouldn’t want to talk about himself? I find that in class I am constantly talking about myself. I don’t approach teaching in a mechanical fashion. I don’t have much respect for the word private; I go with the word public. I like talking about myself; I like myself. There are different ways of teaching language, but my choice is teaching language within a cultural context. In advanced, that becomes even more prominent. I think that a lot of students are unaware that there is a Turkish program; can you talk about its development? Thank you for asking that. Let me say at the beginning that I cannot ask for full credit for the development of Turkish here; there have been many people from whom I’ve received a lot of support. Also, there’s been a growing interest in Turkish studies. For example, Orhan Pamuk is somewhere in and around our department. He has yet to stop by the building, I don’t think he knows where we were, but he’s part of MEALAC. &nbsp;When we started Turkish at Columbia three years ago, I had 8 students, which became 16, which became 22, and now I have 30. If you add Ottoman, we have almost 40 students. Again, there are many factors for this development. I can certainly claim some of the credit. A lot of muscling, a lot of eleven hour days non stop, six days a week non stop, organizing events, bringing speakers. I keep telling everyone, the only thing I haven’t done to promote Turkish here is bringing belly dancers and organizing wrestling matches. Other than that, I’ve done practically everything. Here’s the thing. Before I started teaching Turkish here, all the students would go to NYU. Two years after I started working here, in the middle of the semester, students would say, “Oh, you are teaching Turkish here too!” So it was an uphill battle. Now, I don’t have that problem so much. One thing, though, is I would like to have more freshmen in my classes. But there are certain folks who come in the third year, which, if they want to master Turkish, they are going to need three years. There are very encouraging signs. A lot of students take Turkish because they want to work with Nader Sohrabi or Rashid Khalidi on Turkish or Ottoman history. And I am grateful to Khalidi, because he emphasizes that if you are going to learn about the modern Middle East, you have to understand the context, meaning you have to know Turkish to access the archival materials.. In that sense, Turkish is a developing, well rounded program. Our slogan is that everyone in New York will speak Turkish and be a Fenerbache fan, Fenerbache being the glorious Turkish soccer team. Has anyone complained about the placement of Turkish within MEALAC as opposed to with European languages? It never crossed my mind actually. Perhaps some of the so called European department languages should be part of MEALAC as well. Turkish is, like the Semitic and Indo-European languages, a category by itself. Is this a prelude to get my opinion about Turkey joining the EU? No, no, I promise it’s not. I come from a tradition. My training for this job is that I learned Arabic and dabbled in Persian a tiny bit as well. My basic reason for learning Arabic was to improve my Ottoman, which is actually to improve my Turkish. So Turkish being part of the Middle East, that’s a very natural designation. What else could it be? In fact, most of the time, especially teaching my students with some nationalist heritage, etc., it totally amazes me that the new generation of Turks is completely unaware of the amount of give and take that took place between Turkish, Persian, and Arabic. I get exactly the same sense from the Arabic and Persian speakers in my class. Not a day goes by that we don’t cover 5-10 words that are heavily borrowed. Most of the time it’s so embedded that the same word has become part of all three languages. It’s beautiful to see the overlap of those cultures. But then again, it’s very difficult to cross over those nationally determined boundaries. Let’s face it, the Turkish Republic, Iran, and the Arab counties have had a distinct period of “cleansing,” that is still being continued, and it certain points it becomes ridiculous to divide along national borders and to attempt to rediscover essentialist linguistic groups. And I enjoy ridiculing those efforts to divide and segregate. There is a Turkish saying, that before a tongue touches a tongue, you can’t learn that tongue. That is it; there’s no give and take without that. 
 Lucha, the militant Latino activist group responsible for all those newsprint gravestones on College Walk yesterday, is now in newsprint:&nbsp; el participante, their fashionably uncapitalized, eight-page newsletter, began distribution on Sunday. "In addition to being a way for Lucha to communicate with the activist community, we hope it can turn into a place for discussion, criticism, and analysis of the left at Columbia," explained editor Rudi Batzell in an e-mail.&nbsp; The first edition, available as a pdf here, contains reports on a recent march on Washington and Jena 6 rally at Bronx Community College, as well as the hunger strike demands and selections from a speech given by Malcolm X a week before his death. Now all we need is the return of the Citadel... - LBD 
 A reminder to all considering passing/failing/or getting a D: The new system will allow you to "uncover"a grade. This means that if you receive a C- or higher, you will be allowed to keep that grade on your transcript instead of the "pass." (Ds and "fails" will remain as such). Make sure to register to take a class pass/D/fail by the end of the week! However, SEAS students can't opt for pass/fail until they fulfill 128 credits, while BC students aren't given the "uncover" option. BC is allowed to pass/fail their "Core" requirements, though. Happy uncovering! 
 Because Columbians are all over the press today. CU Student groups are no stranger to the Talk of the Town section in The New Yorker, and the Columbia Libertarians are the latest to be featured. In the article, Ben McGrath asks the Libertarians about Ron Paul. "He’s the most boring little old man from Texas who has these laughs that make him look like a Muppet sometimes," said Adam Sparks, CC '08. Meanwhile, The New York Times has reported that Columbia and USC lead the nation in percentage of international students, edging out downtown rival NYU. The Times also commenced its coverage of the hunger strike on its CityRoom blog. 
 HOLY SHIT! Columbia is up 23-21 against The Ohio State University in basketball. The game is on ESPN right now, so tune in if you want to see what is currently a miracle and will either stay that way or turn into a heartbreak. Halftime UPDATE: Well, maybe we shouldn't have posted anything, because the ol' "Bwog Jinx" seems to have kicked in. Right after this post went up, OSU came up with 12 unanswered points to go up 33-23, although the Lions did retaliate with a 3-point buzzer beater to bring it to 33-26 at the half. For comparison, Duke led by 21 at halftime last year. Final UPDATE: 68-54 Buckeyes. OSU coach Thad Matta finally figured out how to win a basketball game with a team of much bigger dudes. Meanwhile, Columbia coach Joe Jones figured out how to stay close with a team of much smaller dudes. So who's the real winner? According to ESPN Gamecast, it's still Matta. But at least they have a nifty little chart where you can visually see OSU pull ahead in the second half. - DHI 
 As hard as it may be to believe, there are still other issues around campus besides striker stuff that people care about. If you were outside between the hours of 11:00 AM and 1:00 PM today, you might have noticed a large cardboard dollar bill and a halloween-worthy Capitol Building. The connection may seem vague, but the Free Culture kids (now with a new improved website!) were protesting something pretty specific: a Democrat-sponsored bill in Congress threatening to yank financial aid money for schools that don't actively deter and provide alternatives to illegal file-sharing. Which seems not all that progressive to Bwog. Also this evening, the Columbia Coalition Against the War planned to have a rally at the Sundial in support of its divestment campaign right before a meeting of the Socially Responsibly Investing committee, which makes recommendations to the Trustees about how they should invest the University endowment (currently not doing so badly!) in better, more do-goodery ways. According to organizers, their protest permit was thwarted, so the rally turned into a "covert poster-making session". But you can't get away from the hunger strikers entirely. Word is that negotiations that started at six were still in progress at 10:30. News to come, we're sure. The General Studies Student Council is in solidarity, and they really really want in on the OMA. Meanwhile, tomorrow the GOP will be rallying on the steps to "eat, drink, voice your opposition to the striker’s tactics, and talk about the issues important to you." Watch out for flying bottles of Gatorade. UPDATE, 1:06 AM: Oho, the Engineering Student Council just slammed the strike in a statement of their own, calling it a "show of sensationalism." It's much better written than CCSC's, but you won't be finding this one on the striker website--as far as we know, it's the first statement by a n official student body opposing the strike--so it's pasted after the jump. For good measure, we'll add the strikers' responses to Quigs/Dirks (we're pretty sure they just made a typo on that last point), which you can find in this edition of the Hunger Strike Primary Source Reader. - LBD ESC Statement on the Hunger Strike November 13, 2007&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A hunger strike is a drastic measure usually reserved for the most extreme causes; it is currently being used on our campus in a manner that is inappropriate and self-defeating.&nbsp; Regardless of the merit of the demands made by the strikers, the tactics being employed have completely overshadowed the issues that they have sought to resolve.&nbsp; Not only have these actions undermined any progress that could have been made towards these goals, they have endangered the health and well-being of several members of our community.&nbsp; Although we have nothing but the best wishes for the individual members of our community and their prompt return to normal collegiate life, we cannot support institutional change based upon intimidation.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Had the strikers approached the administration in a spirit of cooperation, they would have discovered that many of their demands were already being addressed.&nbsp; Furthermore, the current protest has thus far failed to produce any results beyond meetings.&nbsp; The faculty hiring actions that have been announced within the past week were part of a cluster hire that had already been planned.&nbsp; Many resources are available to promote and facilitate student interaction with the administration, including the undergraduate Student Councils and the University Senate Student Affairs Committee, none of which were approached for support, administrative contacts, or guidance before the hunger strike began.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Institutional change takes time.&nbsp; The most recent hunger strike that took place on our campus in 1996 resulted in the creation of the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race.&nbsp; Significant reforms to both of these organizations are among the strikers’ list of demands.&nbsp; Sensational activism results in band-aid solutions that eventually prove inadequate and ill-formed, and in many cases the four-year span of an undergraduate's time at this University is not enough to see change happen.&nbsp; The recent reforms made to Columbia’s advising system have been many years in the making and were made with the full support of the student body.&nbsp; The students who began the conversation that resulted in these reforms as well as the students who continued those conversations had long been graduates when the changes began, and yet the full change is still not complete.&nbsp; Meaningful change in the university requires purposeful, direct, and continued actions toward well-defined goals, not overly broad and general demands rushed to completion.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The hunger strikers have taken our community hostage in a show of sensationalism.&nbsp; They have chosen self-harm to promote their agenda instead of working with their fellow students, the faculty, and the administration towards mutually beneficial and agreed upon change.&nbsp; These fallacious arguments have not allowed for dissent in an open forum that facilitates a fair, equal, and respectful discussion.&nbsp; The ESC calls for an immediate end to the hunger strike and requests that interested parties proceed through legitimate and proven University channels to motivate institutional change.&nbsp; At that time, the ESC will gladly support the dialogue surrounding any and all issues on our campus. Strike Committee response to Quigs/Dirks Ethnic Studies / IRAAS (i) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; While we appreciate the commitment to hiring three faculty, we would like to point out that two of these three promised faculty were committed to Latino Studies over two years ago and that this "new development" refers to only one new faculty line.&nbsp; This is insufficient in truly meeting the needs of CSER as a vibrant part of the university/ (ii) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We appreciate the authorization of the Native American Studies professor search, however it is important to recognize that this hire should be expected to establish a program and major around Native American Studies which would require not just the single hire of this scholar, but the resources to build a program which includes further hires (iii) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The one senior hire listed in IRAAS is simply a replacement for a senior faculty member currently on leave from the university that will most likely not return. This is not seen as an investment in IRAAS. (iv) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We appreciate the increased resources for collaboration between CSER, IRAAS and IRWAG.&nbsp; This should not be confused with resources for faculty hires or hiring power. (v) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Our demands ask for an Academic Review Committee that includes ethnic studies scholars within and outside the university in order to compare with and learn from our peer institutions. (vi) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The diversity initiative has resulted approximately in 15 faculty hires. However many of these hires have occurred outside of CSER, IRAAS, IRWAG, and ethnic studies-oriented work, at a time when these programs have lost faculty and therefore this point is irrelevant to our demands. Core (i) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There has not been a written commitment and guarantee to securing the funding necessary to reform Major Cultures into seminar format. (ii) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The demanded class on racialization and colonization is not addressed. (iii) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The enhancement of student power on core committees has not been addressed. Administrative reform (i) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Concrete commitments towards the creation of additional safe spaces and programmatic resources can be agreed upon and added before review.&nbsp; (ii) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This past semester has clearly showed the need for such resources that need to be addressed immediately. (iii) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; While the expansion of the Intercultural Resource Center is exciting, a concrete timeline of construction and programming is still lacking. Funding must be secured. (iv) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We understand that public safety already has a protocol however we demand a review and revision of that protocol.&nbsp; Expansion (i) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; None of the demands or issues raised have not been addressed. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Hunger Strike&nbsp; Faculty Dissent! Faculty Meta-Dissent! Some Show About Models Sounds Like a Show About Airplanes The Fuckin' Googleplex! 
He's the guy who wanted to bring Gilchrist back to Columbia, and the only presidential campaign communications director you might also run into on College Walk. Bwog correspondent Christopher Morris-Lent was&nbsp; sat down with his former Lit Hum teacher to chew over free speech, gay rights, and why Mike Gravel is an American hero. Illustration by Julia Butareva. Is it true that you haven’t left Columbia since arriving in the fall of 1990?&nbsp; DCE:&nbsp; It’s very true.&nbsp; I’ve spent my adult life more or less around Columbia University.&nbsp; Give the peanut gallery a quick summary of how you’ve been occupying yourself since you first got here.&nbsp; DCE: First as an undergraduate I did a modern European history major, specializing in the Second World War.&nbsp; After that I went to Teachers College.&nbsp; Then I taught for a few years, just right on 106th Street at a high school for kids who were convicted for crimes and actually incarcerated there.&nbsp; Then I went back and got a Ph.D. in History while teaching at the Manhattan School of Music.&nbsp; (Ed.: Dave’s also been teaching Lit Hum for five years.)&nbsp; Didn’t you also write a book or something?&nbsp; DCE:&nbsp; Last year I published Gay Power: An American Revolution – it’s the first history to explain how the gay rights movement altered the entire American political and social landscape and transformed life for gays and straights.&nbsp; When people ask why I wrote about this, I tell them that these brave gay activists expanded freedom of all Americans.&nbsp; They began a public debate about something that was completely ignored and out of that debate came liberation for everyone.&nbsp; That’s why I call it an “American Revolution.”&nbsp; By the way, two chapters of my book describe events at Columbia: the creation of the first gay student group and the first gay student lounge. Tell me more about teaching at MSM.&nbsp; DCE: There’s lots of flexibility in teaching there – for example, I offer a course on Shakespeare’s Tragedies. Is there then a chance you might teach something other than Lit Hum at Columbia?&nbsp; DCE: I teach a course called “Governing the News Cycle: American Media and Politics, 1950 to present” in the summer session and this spring I’m teaching a history of the Presidency and presidential elections.&nbsp; The primaries will be going on, so there’ll be a lot of class discussion about what’s happening right now. &nbsp; So what inspired you to conceive of and consummate Friendly Fire?&nbsp; DCE: The Minuteman fiasco last year.&nbsp; After that I was constantly reading all these news articles and editorials bashing Columbia for its inability to maintain a commitment to free speech.&nbsp; I decided that Columbia needed a forum that was nonpartisan so that people could walk in there and engage in discourse in an open setting – it was designed for an open discussion of controversial ideas.&nbsp; Any connections between the philosophy behind Friendly Fire and your laissez-faire Lit Hum teaching style?&nbsp; DCE: My feeling is that truth comes out through debate and discussion.&nbsp; The only way in which we as a free society are going to survive is if we have a free and open airing of ideas.&nbsp; And so that was the idea behind Friendly Fire, and that’s the idea I bring to every Lit Hum class.&nbsp; Plus, it’s a lot more fun that way.&nbsp; To date: who have been your most and least successful guests on FF? &nbsp; DCE: Arianna Huffington was my most successful guest, and I can’t say that I’ve had an unsuccessful guest – I was unsuccessful in bringing Gilchrist to Friendly Fire, but that’s a whole ‘nother story.&nbsp; Care to share this story?&nbsp; &nbsp; DCE: As I said, I created this series after reading editorials in the Daily News and the NY Times that blasted Columbia for its handling of the Minutemen scandal.&nbsp; All of them said that Columbia needed to bring Gilchrist back to show it could handle free speech.&nbsp; I agreed and was determined to have him on Friendly Fire, so I decided to invite him back this fall on the one-year anniversary of the melee.&nbsp; The original hope was to also have Karina Garcia (Ed.: a former Lit Hum student of Eisenbach’s) back.&nbsp; She and I had some discussions but she decided not to do it.&nbsp; CPU, which now sponsors Friendly Fire, had a choice of whether to go ahead with the event with Gilchrist alone or try to find someone else to debate him, but they just felt that at the end of the day it was going to upset too many people and cause too much bad blood between them and various campus organizations like the Chicano Caucus and the Socialists, so they decided not to go through with it.&nbsp; Did you have any trepidations or reservations?&nbsp; DCE: No!&nbsp; None whatsoever.&nbsp; I felt it was going to be a healthy moment for the university.&nbsp; I perhaps have a naive faith in the rationality of mankind such that, given a certain level of security and general sense of decorum, we could have pulled it off, and it would have sent a message to the world that Columbia can indeed handle free speech.&nbsp; I think that had we been able to subject Gilchrist to tough questions, that he would have had to confront realities that I don’t think his ideology acknowledges.&nbsp; I disagree with Jim Gilchrist, but I definitely think he has a right to say what he wants to say.&nbsp; What’s the rest of your lineup looking like this year?&nbsp; Any chance of getting Mike Gravel to make a cameo appearance?&nbsp; DCE: Yeah, but it’s not easy.&nbsp; I’m the communications director for his campaign, and even I’m having trouble setting up a date.&nbsp; When you’re running for president, you’re all over the place all the time.&nbsp; But I’m trying to get him in here sometime during December.&nbsp; Sweet.&nbsp; So what are your official duties on the Gravel campaign?&nbsp; DCE: Well, I manage the media message (exclusively), and I write the speeches and prepare him for the debates.&nbsp; How do you feel about his treatment on the debates?&nbsp; &nbsp; DCE: I think it’s dreadful.&nbsp; This week NBC announced that they weren’t going to invite him to the next debate because he hasn’t raised enough money.&nbsp; If you don’t think our media is controlled by corporations and money, then you’re delusional.&nbsp; And this is a prime example of that.&nbsp; It’s a shame because our democracy is threatened by a number of things but money is the ultimate threat.&nbsp; Aside from that, how have things been going?&nbsp; &nbsp; DCE: Great!&nbsp; Considering we haven’t raised even a half-million dollars.&nbsp; The idea that you could run a campaign without a million dollars in today’s politics – I never would have thought it was possible.&nbsp; And it wasn’t possible ten years ago.&nbsp; The difference is the Internet, and this is where I come in.&nbsp; I know how to work the Internet – it’s the unpaid media that we focus on.&nbsp; We’ve been doing a great job of it, and we’ve been getting a lot of support.&nbsp; When the corporate media giants cut you off, though, it’s hard to fight that.&nbsp; What are you guys hoping to accomplish with the campaign?&nbsp; DCE: We want to stop two wars: the war that is now raging in Iraq, and the war that is impending in Iran.&nbsp; Mike has consistently argued that his presidential opponents in the senate – Obama, Clinton, Biden, Dodd – could use their powers – the machinery of the senate, procedural votes, filibuster – to stop the war.&nbsp; Yet they refuse to do it.&nbsp; And he’s been the one to point out in the debates and on the stump how the Bush administration is going to push us into another war with Iran.&nbsp; And it’s the knowledge – the voicing of these things, the urging of the American public to look at both wars separately and empower them to stop them – that makes Mike Gravel, in my book, a true hero.&nbsp; War with Iran?&nbsp; Tell me more. &nbsp; DCE: There are factions within the Bush administration – led by Dick Cheney, of course – who want to attack Iran.&nbsp; Though we don’t have the troops and resources for a full-scale invasion, they think that bombing is going to do it.&nbsp; They’ve realized they can’t sell the war by talking about the Iranian nuclear threat – experts say that the Iranians won’t have a nuclear bomb for ten years.&nbsp; So they’ve moved on to Plan B, which is to label the Iranian Revolutionary Guard a terrorist faction.&nbsp; They’re a military and political force consisting of around 125,000 members that has ties to just about every power base in Iran.&nbsp; And to label them a terrorist group – which is what Congress, including Hillary Clinton, voted to do weeks ago – we’re making it impossible to deal diplomatically with Iran, which will result in a skirmish, which will erupt into a war.&nbsp; Since we’re on the topic of Iran, what did you think of Ahmadinejad’s visit?&nbsp; DCE: I thought the invitation was great, but the execution was questionable.&nbsp; I understand what it’s like to be bashed in the press, as Lee Bollinger was, mercilessly, for days, and to feel the need to come out publicly and clarify that you aren’t a terrorist or an anti-Semite or something like that, but I think he should have restrained himself.&nbsp; This is the idea of Friendly Fire – tough questions from me, from the audience, will force the guest to defend themselves.&nbsp; And I thought that the best part of the entire event was the Q&amp;A from the audience.&nbsp; Ahmadinejad really exposed himself when he said there were no homosexuals in Iran.&nbsp; How would you respond to the liberal establishment’s allegations that Gravel’s campaign is somehow undermining or delegitimizing their positions?&nbsp; DCE: Well, there aren’t any other candidates that confront the issues as boldly as he does. Kucinich is good on the issues, but he never calls out the candidates, like Mike does – asking Hillary whom she was going to start a war with next, or Obama whom he wanted to nuke, for example.&nbsp; Gravel is the only one who has nothing to lose, and therefore he has the ability to be honest.&nbsp; I mean, if you look at the last debate, Tim Russert was asking questions like, “What’s your favorite Bible passage?” or “Do you think there should be smoking zones in restaurants?” or “Red sox or Yankees?” – just these ridiculous, asinine questions.&nbsp; You’re not going to get honest coverage from the networks – but it has to come from someone, and Mike Gravel is the only one who brings out the real issues.&nbsp; At least when he gets the chance to.&nbsp; &nbsp; So Gravel’s rhetoric is actually moving the party to the left.&nbsp; DCE: I would say he’s moving the party to the truth.&nbsp; As an example, Mike has pointed out that as long as you deprive gays of the right to marry, then they remain second-class citizens.&nbsp; And Edwards and Obama, who previously advocated civil unions only, have recently warmed to the idea of gay marriage.&nbsp; On the other hand, Hillary has refused to admit that she made a mistake. Weeks ago I told a friend who works for Obama that he needs to quit the ‘above it all’ act and start going after Hillary like Gravel does.&nbsp; According to Sunday’s NYT, Obama now says he’s going to start attacking Hillary on Iran and other issues.&nbsp;&nbsp; Once again Mike Gravel blazed the way.&nbsp; So you see Gravel as a kind of embodiment of the principles behind Friendly Fire, in that his campaign forces the mainstream Democratic candidates to engage with his views and reconcile their own with reality?&nbsp; Right.&nbsp; The point is pushing people to not accept necessarily the common wisdom, but to think, and talk, and debate, and out of that mix there might be a lot of hurt feelings – Mike Gravel pisses people off constantly – but we’re gonna be in a better place than if we shut down all debate and silently march off to war. &nbsp; 
 Grammatically, Nuts4Nuts, a NYC snack food cart chain found most proximately outside the 116th Street Subway, is pretty interesting. "Nuts" has several meanings as an adjective, noun, and verb, and the numerical "4" can be read as "for," "four," or even "fore!" if you're creative enough. Even paring down the options to "for," nuts (food), and nuts (crazy or crazies), there are still at least three ways to parse the title. In contrast to its name, Nuts4Nuts has a very simple menu. It offers "honey-roasted nuts," which in reality are nuts dipped in vats of sugary syrup that caramelizes to form a crispy shell. They taste as good at they smell, although they do tend to be a little too chewy on the inside, rather than crunchy. You can get peanuts, coconuts, almonds, cashews, or a mixed bag, but since peanuts are a dollar and it costs twice as much to get anything else, it's hard to justify the other options.&nbsp; Plus, according to Go Ask Alice!(!!!), peanuts are among the most nutritional nuts anyway, so that will slightly offset the copious amounts of sugar you consume. As they say in the wide, wide world of sports, "it is what it is"- DHI 
Bwog's not sure what it thinks about noise music. After all, what separates it from, well, normal noise? Music correspondent Jamie Johns tries to get at the mystery in this e-mail exchange with Carlos Giffoni. Since the early 2000s, Carlos Giffoni has been at the center of a burgeoning noise scene in New York as a musician, festival curator, collaborator and label owner. He’s released numerous solo recordings as well as collaborations with legendary Japanese noise master Merzbow, Sonic Youth members Lee Ranaldo and Thurston Moore, and renaissance man Jim O’Rourke to name a few. Oh yeah, and Giffoni’s also in two noise supergroups: Monotract and Death Unit, featuring members of Mouthus and Hair Police. In most of his solo work and collaborations, Giffoni uses a mixture of computers and analog synths to create music that can be aggressive or gentle, throbbing or static. In 2004, he started No Fun Fest, a three day festival of noise musicians and sound makers which just celebrated its third year. On top of all this, Giffoni runs his own record label, No Fun. Is Carlos Giffoni an over achiever? Probably, but he would never let you know it. Whether or not noise music is your thing, Giffoni is definitely someone to admire. I spoke with him via e-mail over the past week and asked him about his music and extra-curricular activities in anticipation of his show at WBAR tomorrow, November 15th. Full interview after the jump! &nbsp; Bwog: How did you get interested in noise music/creating and supporting noise music? It seems a lot of people start out listening to more "traditional" music and then working their way up to noise, was this the case with you and what music was particularly influential for you? Carlos Giffoni: I've been involved in playing in different kinds of bands since I was 14 and I was always interested in the more experimental sounding stuff. I was in Venezuela until I was 17 so at first it was harder to find but I got my hands on as much as I could, the more predictable stuff was always boring to me. I didn't really work up to noise but rather searched for it until I found it. Music particularly influential for me in my teen years: Sonic Youth, Boredoms, Merzbow, Masonna, anything on the Bulb on Hanson records catalog and dozens of acts I started to meet while going on tour in the US when I was 18. Bwog: How much improvisation do you do onstage? CG: It really depends on the project I am presenting. My solo work when presented live is a combination of both prepared structures and improvisation, so the structure is pre-set (no backup tracks, all live, always different) but even then I might find something interesting while I am playing and go with it, so this pre-set structure is very elastic. On the other hand, most collaborations are 100% improvised, except for specific projects like Death Unit where there is a good amount of planning involved, or Monotract where there is hardly any improvisation at all. Bwog: Your releases have been a mix of both live recordings and studio recordings, do you feel that the work you do onstage influences what you end up recording in the studio or do you see performance and studio work as entirely separate entities? What do you think is the benefit of a live recording over a studio recording? CG: I think it is quite the opposite actually. I spend a lot of time on recordings when I am working on a “studio” record. For example for my last full length I recorded just under 40 hours of stuff before I felt like I had enough material to choose/work from. So the studio material always ends up influencing what I do live, it is where I polish techniques etc… and work out new ideas that are not ready to be presented live. A live performance is never the same as a studio recording though; there are so many factors like volume at a live venue, audience, acoustics of a room, atmospheric conditions that affect the sound of my analog synths... I find the live setting very interesting and important in my music, but for the most part separate to the studio work. Bwog: One thing I really admire is the way you work with and support the work of tons of other musicians, either by releasing their records on your label or by performing and recording with them. How important is creating and fostering a community of musicians to you? CG: It is just what I've always done. It is not the kind of thing I sit down and plan, despite what it might seem like. I am a very impulsive person, I do what I feel like when I feel like it and that's how the fest and other shows I set up started, that's how 95% of the collaborations I’ve done have happened, that's how the label and the releases happen. If I see something I like in a band/musician I go ahead and ask them if they want to work with me with a release on the label. So this community I might be fostering is just a side effect of doing what I need to do to feel alive/content with my work. Bwog: Do you approach your collaborations differently from your solo work? CG: Yes absolutely. Solo work is a dictatorship, while collaborations are based on ideas from multiple ideas and finding a common ground that works sonically and aesthetically. Bwog: I just read that The Hook has closed down. Will you take No Fun Fest to another venue? What does the future hold for it? CG: Yes, before The Hook closed we had already been talking to Knitting Factory and we are getting the entire venue for 3 days: May 16, 17, and 18. &nbsp; Giffoni will be performing tomorrow, November 15, in Prentis Hall at 8 p.m. 
 We'll update this post as more developments roll in. It's the ninth day of the strike, and this time the vigil isn't just a quiet watch. Starting an hour ago, about 150 kids gathered around the sundial to hear members of the striker negotiation team speak, standing in silence and chanting in response when asked. According to strike negotiator Christien Tompkins, there's "some kind of fancy alumni dinner tomorrow" featuring former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, and "they certainly don't want them to see how upset the students are with this administration." The administration, he said, has threatened to force two strikers to go on academic leave for their health. Meanwhile, they say, the administration has said that negotiations will not be continuing--and they haven't been productive so far. "They have not made any concessions to the hunger strike at all," he said. "They have merely explained how we can participate in the bureaucratic process." &nbsp; After a march to the steps of Hamilton, where administrators are meeting, a large crowd has gathered and is now listening to speeches. Stay tuned for updates. 10:02 PM: We've just been informed that the administrators are no longer in Hamilton. Maybe they were airlifted from the roof. Now the plan is to march around campus and reconvene, or something. And Nellie Bailey of the Harlem Tenants Council, as well as other typical characters from the neighborhood, are here firing kids up. "This is an historic moment! There's no need to try to recapture 1968, because this is 2007. Don't fall for the hype, it's all smoke and mirrors, you are the 21st century generation!" &nbsp; More more more after the jump! Now including striker-admin agreement! 11:15 PM - After the protesters marched on Hamilton, they continued their circuit past John Jay, Butler, and Lerner like a swarm of really angry fireflies, wax dripping from their candles along the bricks. At 10:13 or so, the marchers convened at the sundial to discuss the night. Admins had threatened to take down their octopus campsite, they said, by midnight, but they would simply not let that happen. Dancing and speeches ensued, and leaders promised that tomorrow at noon they would continue the rally. &nbsp;It was around this time that several familiar faces were noticeably absent, and sure enough we spotted the primary negotiators hanging out in the Lerner lobby, fresh from talking with the administrative corps and newly-designated primary liaison Dean Ajay Nair. 11:20 PM - We have heard that due to the rally, administrators have reopened their negotiations-- More on that is to come! As of the past five minutes, students are milling about the sundial, attended by security, playing catchy tunes on guitars ("Don't Stop Believin'", anyone?) Here are some more pictures sent in by people inside Hamilton during the mini-siege and other cool tipsters who are helping us out. 11:37 PM - Major Cultures seminars are a go! More info to come. UPDATE, 12:35 AM: OK, so we got the rundown. Here's how the day went, according to all-purpose Communicator Sam Rennebohm, GS '09, and others: Sometime in the late afternoon, the administration presented the negotiation team with a document containing the concessions they were prepared to make about the academic reforms, under the condition that the team have one more round of edits before making their final offer. The admins also said that of the hunger strike does not end tomorrow, two of the strikers, Bryan Mercer and Emilie Rosenblatt, who have been deemed a liability because of their health by Health Services, will face disciplinary action--since they've become a liability to the university, that action might include more-or-less forced academic leave. The strike committee refused this offer. Meanwhile, at 2:30, the negotiation team met with Executive Vice President for Government and Community Affairs Maxine Griffith about expansion, presenting five distinct demands. Bwog was there, but the meeting was off the record, so that's about as much as we can tell you. So then the rally happened, during which the admin relocated to Lerner. Sometime during the march, negotiators received news that the admin was willing to reopen negotiations, and the hunger strikers vowed to continue until there is significant agreement on all four of the demands. Things to which the administration has committed: - Student participation and voting power in a CSER review, to begin in Fall 2008 and end in Spring 2009, which will include hiring the three three new "cluster hire" faculty members. They stopped short of awarding hiring power to the Center, since CSER faculty are still divided over whether that's even desirable. - More student representation on the Committee on the Core, including potentially public meetings. - Student participation in an outside review of the OMA, to begin in January and continue for 6-9 months. On the table in this review will be an "upper level administrator" for Multicultural Affairs across all undergraduate arts and science schools. - By the end of November, a decision on the expansion of the Intercultural Resource Center, including an LGBT community center - Fundraising $50 million to develop a Major Cultures seminar, which would have to go through a pilot stage and extensive review processes (think Frontiers) before becoming a full-fledged Core requirement. - Mandatory anti-oppression training (which the B&amp;W explained in a cover story last year) for all incoming new faculty. - A Blue Ribbon panel, composed of students and faculty, to ensure that these agreements come to fruition. That's what they were missing in the events of 1996. So, they're meeting again tomorrow to come to a final agreement, but Rennebohm says that three out of the four areas of negotiation are "pretty much resolved." Looks like that octopus' days are numbered. - LBD, KER &amp; SEV 
 Wednesday was a big day. Thursday, though, might be even bigger: striker kids (whom this UCLA student thinks are great) have scheduled a rally at the Sundial at noon in preparation for their final negotiations. While it seems that the three academic components have been largely straightened out, expansion has yet to be settled--and the hunger strikers have promised to go on hungering until those demands are in the bag. At a meeting this afternoon, the strike negotiation team presented six demands to Executive VP Maxine Griffith, who said responded with variations on "no," "we're working on it," and "I'll get back to you on that." The negotiators' points, which will be presented again at a meeting toda at 4:00 PM in the IRC, are posted after the jump.&nbsp; Meanwhile, about 650 people aren't OK with that. Leaders of the anti-striker movement have called a "silent gathering" for tomorrow at 8:30 PM at Alma Mater (too late?) to protest the administration's concessions. Pictured is Professor Dennis Dalton, who hasn't eaten since last Thursday, speechifying on the Sundial at the rally tonight. He told the assembled students, as quiet as if the steps were seats in a lecture hall, all about the successful movement for divestment from South Africa in 1985. "Again and again the students have been right," he said, over his 39 year tenure at the University. "We have a tradition here at Columbia, and that tradition has to be upheld, and that tradition is to nonviolently protest injustice on this campus."&nbsp; The movement has a granddad! Finally, since we didn't mention it earlier today, SGA's statement on the strike is also posted after the jump, in Bwog's third edition of the Hunger Strike Primary Source reader. STRIKE COMMITTEE EXPANSION DEMANDS Point 1 Columbia has a responsibility, as stated in the EIS, to mitigate the impact caused by the proposed actions. The body with which the university has committed to negotiating with is the West Harlem Local Development Corporation. However, the university has also reached agreements with other entities on issues of community benefits, most recently and prominently Borough President Scott Stringer, who has a representative on the LDC body. We demand that the University commit to, in writing and on the record, negotiating community benefits exclusively with the LDC, excluding any separate agreements with individual politicians, including but not limited to those politicians represented on the LDC. Point 2&nbsp; The agreement reached with Borough President Stringer is problematic on many levels. First, demand a clarification on what exactly is proposed. Is it a loan or a grant? When does the money get transferred and how does that happen? Secondly, with an estimate of $200,000 per creation of each affordable unit, this would create 100 units in an area with 5,035 people living in unsubsidized housing. This is an extremely low floor in negotiating an anti-displacement program with the LDC, especially given the cost and potential profit of the project. The students demand that a far more significant commitment to affordable housing be a part of any agreement with the LDC and that Columbia come to the board with a number that mitigates the full effect of its project. Point 3 Columbia has pledged officially to relocated the tenants living under the TIL program to equivalent housing. This is a positive step. We demand that any relocation occur as a result of direct agreement with the tenant affected and not through an agreement of property transfer with any city agency or outside entity. Point 4&nbsp; Columbia needs to take eminent domain off the table for the commercial property-owners in the area and reach agreements with them on an individual basis, even if that implies that they are to stay there in a revised development scenario. Point 5&nbsp; Using funding specifically earmarked for the expansion plans or fundraised independently of existing efforts, Columbia should develop and financially empower those parts of the university that provide community programming. The university should provide resources for the development of new programs in the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, the Institute for Research in African-American Studies, the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Double Discovery Center, Community Impact and other university institutions that would provide services for both students and community members. Point 6&nbsp; Columbia is one of the foremost educational institutions in the country and the world. As part of its expansion, we feel that the university has a responsibility to the community it is effecting, not merely to its own constituency. This responsibility is profound and goes beyond the Secondary School proposal. Students demand that local students be granted access to Columbia resources, including libraries and course auditing privileges. We also call for a scholarship admission program for CB9 residents, and for a comprehensive educational complex that would serve the community's needs, including not only K-12 education but also an infant and pre-K school, a health clinic, and an adult education service. This should be funded directly by the university. The university's resources are vast and can be shared more broadly. SGA STATEMENT Dear Barnard Students, In light of the strike currently going on at Columbia, the SGA writes today to inform students that the SGA is committed to addressing issues of ethnic diversity, curricular shortcomings, and necessary institutional reform on our campus. These goals have been part of SGA's 2007-2008 agenda since the beginning of the semester.&nbsp; To address these issues, the SGA held a Town Hall on this subject in October, attended by Barnard College and Columbia University students, faculty, and administrators. All present expressed and stressed the need for additional steps to be taken to ensure that all Barnard students graduate having had the opportunity to intellectually engage with these issues.&nbsp; The SGA is thus committed to reviewing and assessing necessary curricular changes.&nbsp; Additionally, the SGA is calling for an Ethnic Studies major at Barnard, and the provisions to be set up for the eventual creation of a center. The SGA also recognizes that the demands being made of the Columbia administration affect Barnard students. The SGA acknowledges that many members of the Barnard community, students, faculty and departments, have been active in the strike and in response to the strike, both voicing support and dissent.&nbsp; Although the strike is addressed specifically to the Columbia University administration, the SGA supports the call for changes that will improve the academic opportunities and quality of education that Barnard students receive.&nbsp; Moreover, the SGA officially calls for various curricular and institutional changes at Barnard College that are in a similar vein.&nbsp; The SGA expresses its support for the following: 1.The SGA calls for the Committee on Instruction to move forward on the creation of an Ethnic Studies major. Towards this end, the SGA would like to see a thriving, well-funded and administered Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race (CSER) at Columbia that can support an influx of Barnard majors. In the long term, the SGA supports the creation of a center at Barnard dedicated to the study of racial and ethnic power dynamics, similar to the Barnard Center for Research on Women. 2. The SGA calls for the incorporation of discussion of racial and ethnic formation into the 9 Ways of Knowing.&nbsp; For the short term, the SGA plans to facilitate the creation of a more diverse First-Year English reading list.&nbsp; In the long term, the SGA supports the Committee on Instruction in reviewing how to better incorporate these issues into the 9 Ways of Knowing, particularly looking at the Social Analysis, Cultures in Comparison, and Reason and Value requirements. 3. The SGA calls for the appointment of a Provost for Diversity. Many of our sister schools, as well as many Ivy League universities, have such an office.&nbsp; A Provost for Diversity will work closely with the deans and the President of the College to ensure fair hiring, tenure, and curricular practices. 4. The SGA calls for better communication and more collaboration between the Office for Multicultural Affairs at Barnard and the Office of Multicultural Affairs at Columbia. The SGA continually seeks student input, concerns and support on all of these initiatives and hopes that Barnard students feel empowered to work with the SGA.&nbsp; While institutional reform does take time, student voices are heard and ideas are supported by the administration through the SGA.&nbsp; The above mentioned goals are also part of discussions being held by Barnard faculty and administrators.&nbsp; The SGA does recognize the need for immediate and tangible examples of progress.&nbsp; From the SGA student representatives on the Committee on Instruction to all of the participants at our Town Hall, Barnard students have been actively engaged with this debate all semester.&nbsp; Please be encouraged to join your fellow students in these discussions by contacting sga@barnard.edu or by attending our weekly Representative Council meetings, held every Monday at 7:45pm in the North Tower. Yours Truly, The Student Government Association of Barnard College &nbsp; 
 Maybe you should take the Core first before protesting it. Up next in Lit Hum-- Toni Morrison!&nbsp; The way to Kuwalik's heart is through his stomach.&nbsp; Why are we so cynical? Another day, another protest, another bar.&nbsp; PLUS: Minneapolis Community College students find novel uses for nooses. &nbsp; AND FOR THE VISUAL AMONG YOU: Video from last night's rally over at CTV. 
 Art for Alzheimer's! "It's fashion, but not with a capital F." See, progress can be made without stooping to hunger-strikes. Even beatniks get old. McSweeney's did this better. 
 Two of the hunger strikers, Emilie Rosenblatt, CC '08, and Bryan Mercer, CC '07, have decided to cap off the Gatorade for something more substantial. Concessions were made, medical leave threatened, Manhattanville still happening. For the full release... Two Columbia University students have ended their hunger strike after eight days. The students, Emilie Rosenblatt, CC '08, and Bryan Mercer, CC '07, have been on strike since Wednesday, November 7, in support of demands relating to the way the university deals with race in its curriculum and administration as well as its planned expansion into West Harlem. The students' decision was made last night after the Columbia administration offered significant concessions in three of the four areas of concern to students and faculty supporting the strike. However, the administration has yet to address students' critique of its planned expansion into West Harlem, and the displacement of Harlem residents expected to result. Four other students, Victoria Ruiz, CC '09, April Simpson, CC '11, Rich Brown, CC '10, and Sam Barron, BC '10, will continue to refrain from eating until the university revises its expansion plans to bring them in line with Harlem community needs, as expressed in Community Board 9's 197-a plan. The two students who are ending their fasts made this decision after thorough discussions with the remaining strikers and with other allies. The students will begin eating once more both for medical reasons and as a sign of good faith in response to administrators' concessions regarding curricular and administrative reform. Emilie and Bryan were warned yesterday that Columbia Health Services officials judged them to be in serious medical danger and that they would be placed on involuntary medical leave for the remainder of the current semester should they refuse to end their strike. The two strikers were prepared to continue regardless, but when further negotiations produced acceptable results, they decided to transition to other methods of struggle. According to Bryan, "the agreements reached tonight are a true beginning of progress," which "came about through the mass rallying of students, and show the ability of students to push through their concerns." Emilie noted that "even though I've stepped out of the strike, the struggle continues, and I will continue to be involved in other ways. It's crucial that we make progress on making the expansion responsible." A meeting is scheduled for 4pm today at which students will negotiate with administrators regarding the major outstanding issue, Columbia's expansion plans. A separate meeting will take place to work out the last details of the positions to which administrators and the coalition of concerned students and faculty and administrators have already agreed in principle. Students and allies will rally at noon on College Walk at the center of campus in support of the remaining demands, and will hold their daily candlelight vigil at 9pm. 
 Despite the stormy elements, at noon, the hunger-strikers organized a rally at the sundial. They explained to supporters that two strikers had dropped out for medical reasons, declared progress due to the university's concessions, and reiterated the six points of negotiation. Due to Columbia's agreement to make major cultures into a seminar format, shower curtains were provided for students to pen their thoughts on how the changes should proceed. The typical cast of characters was on hand, including Reverend Earl Kooperkamp, former striker Bryan Mercer holding a mini teach-in on expansion, Tom DeMott and Tom Kappner of the Coalition to Preserve Community, Professor Dalton on the eighth day of his fast, a random lady from the Spartacists calling for socialist revolution, and Nellie Bailey of the Harlem Tenants Council inveighing against the "outsider" Lee Bollinger (she mentioned that he was the highest paid university president in the country, which is not true). Near the end, a student organizer got up to explain the game plan for today: negotiations on expansion will commence at 4:00 PM. At 5:00 PM, PrezBo will be holding an event with Kofi Annan to have a "critical conversation and dialogue" about matters of race and power, which she called an "attempt to divide and conquer this movement." Faculty from CSER, IRAAS, and IRWAG, she said, will not be attending in protest. More pictures after jump. &nbsp; 
 Reading comments, it's pretty easy to see who cares enough about campus events to post on Bwog. Yesterday,&nbsp; Bwog went around campus to force people (mostly freshmen) to talk, whether they care or not. We asked them two questions: 1) Do you think you have a full understanding of the strikers’ demands?&nbsp; 2) Do you support them?.&nbsp; And, because we’re all just a little voyeuristic, we also asked what they were in the middle of when we interrupted. &nbsp; Emily Setton and Andy Schlesinger (CC '08) Setton: “Yes.”&nbsp; . “I support the strikers” Schlesinger: "I don't think they've renewed discussion based on events from last year; I think they're a continuation of conversations had on campus for several years. as for direct causes, I think the events of the past TWO MONTHS catalyzed action. as for their four demands, I DEFINITELY support them and advocate agitation. However, I don't think that hunger striking is necessarily the best way to agitate." Bwog interrupted: twins? &nbsp; &nbsp;Claire Halberstadt (BC '09) “I’m aware, but I couldn’t like tell you all of them…I think it’s sad that people are walking around hungry. “ Bwog interrupted: Hemingway reading affair and 10 layers of clothing indoors… &nbsp; &nbsp;Bommy Kim (CC '11) “I think it’s interesting that in only a couple days there are half as many people joining the ‘anti-hunger strikers’ facebook group, compared to the number of members in facebook group.” Bwog interrupted…tantalizing grasp of laptop / personal ad &nbsp; Kara Bess (CC '11) “I think it’s stupid.&nbsp; They are protesting for the sake of protesting.&nbsp; Plus, they’ve got Gatorade packets.&nbsp; That’s not really hunger striking." Bwog interrupted…Pippi Longstockings &nbsp; Vanessa Guida (University Writing professor) “No…what’s going on?” Bwog interrupted: a graduate student &nbsp; &nbsp; Scott (CC '11) “Spectator: no comment.” Boring. Bwog interrupted: going to Spanish class, “but hey I’ve got a Gatorade.” &nbsp; &nbsp;Sonya Chandra (CC '11) “I think it’s something about the core…but I don’t get why hunger striking is worth it.&nbsp; I mean, you already don’t sleep because of the core, so eat up!... If you’re going to hunger strike, you should be willing to die.&nbsp; This is half-assed, you know?” Bwog interrupted: “getting lunch”…which would explain a lot &nbsp; &nbsp;Yamila Hernandez (CC '11) "Although the hunger strikers' goals seem noble, I don't appreciate them offending great Classicists by calling themdead, white men. Additionally, I support the current CORE that Columbia has, and I do not want to see it changed." Bwog interrupted: conducting her own survey on party affiliation. We said Constitution Party, just to mess with you Yamila! &nbsp; &nbsp;Brian Hobgood (CC '09) “Not aware of it.&nbsp; Don’t care.” Bwog interrupted: a Box Office in Lerner Lobby selling tickets for Pippin this weekend in Lerner Black Box. &nbsp; &nbsp; Justin Chow (SEAS '11) “The demands for updating the CORE are really irrelevant for SEAS students--we don't have time to take more core classes…, I think the university has a responsibility to use their money in order to help prevent displacement, or else support those who are being relocated. Bwog interrupted: Chem study, on my hand…(what the hell is that?) &nbsp; &nbsp;Ben Mann (SEAS '11) “If they want change, I think they should have found out what was going on already before they went on a hunger strike. I do not support them. , it’s just pure economics.&nbsp; Competition will displace people.&nbsp; There’s nothing you can do about it." Bwog interrupted: Chem study, in my mind…(at least he’s more discreet about it) &nbsp; &nbsp;Alex Wei (SEAS '08) "It involves Manhattanville so I don’t really care. I also don’t get why the hunger strike when people are making fun of them.&nbsp; I overheard these guys yesterday planning an 'eat-strike.'" Bwog interrupted: chemistry lab / promiscuous posing… &nbsp; &nbsp; Dominique Mosbergen (CC 11) “Noble effort…but there are just so many expectations.&nbsp; Maybe if they just focused on one…everytime I check there seems to be more demands” Bwog interrupted: casual celebrity smoke &nbsp; &nbsp;Nuriel Moghavem (CC '11) “I understand their concerns.&nbsp; But I love the core.&nbsp; I came here for the core.&nbsp; I do not want it changed.” Bwog interrupted: Roarie the Lion. Gabriel Prospective (CC '12?--This guy doesn’t even go to Columbia, but he had an opinion to express anyway) “Columbia’s a great school.&nbsp; I sympathize, but it’s irrational.” Bwog interrupted: yet another uncontroversial prospective. Hooray! &nbsp; &nbsp; Rob Voss (CC '11) “All their demands are unrelated.&nbsp; I went and talked to them, and they seemed at a loss when I asked what the four things had to do with each other….I think it takes away from importance of each individual demand” Bwog interrupted: Dwight Schrute &nbsp; &nbsp;Anonymous advising administrator “If I knew their ideas, I would support them.” Bwog interrupted: her attitude 
While the rally was happening on the sundial, there was a curious little table set up on Low Steps with cookies and hot chocolate. No it wasn't a counter-protest against the strikers, or the work of Columbia Republicans, but rather Obama-supporters. Cookies and hot chocolate in the name of Barack, rather fitting for this rainy day.
 Hipsters and their music- blech. Can video games fall under verisimilitude? Here, we call "go pills" Adderall (or cocaine). Before Ahmadinejad, there was El-Haj. Real Africa is a little harder to get funding for. Also worth noting: Marty Peretz is a fan! 
Remember the Hamburgler from Bwog's Halloween Costume Contest? George Olive CC '08? Word has it that he and Emma Kaufman CC '08 are both recipients of Marshall Scholarships, and George's Rhodes interview is tomorrow. Congrats to them both! 
In which Bwog daily editor Alexandra Muhler sits in on a discussion about Latin American literary identity. Last night, Columbia - or should I say, co-LOOM-bee-ah - hosted the Planeta Lecture: Spanish-Language Literary Voices and the United States.&nbsp; The event's four featured authors explored the relationship between New York City and Latin America, far beyond elucidating the pronunciation differences between our university and their continent's country.&nbsp; The lecture was sponsored by Grupo Planeta, a Spanish-language publishing house; by the Fundacion Jose Manuel Lara; and by the Hispanic New York Project of the Columbia American Studies Program. The authors, though not especially different from one another in terms of race (all appeared to be of European descent) or geographical origin (all are South American), have diverse literary pursuits.&nbsp; Roberto Ampuero, a Chilean, writes detective stories and teaches at the University of Iowa.&nbsp; Jorge Franco, from Colombia, writes novels invariably described as "gritty" and "urban."&nbsp; The two Argentineans are Pablo de Santis, who went to film school and has written thrillers and young-adult novels, and Maria Negroni, who writes poetry and teaches it at Sarah Lawrence. "Lecture" is not an appropriate label for the Planeta event.&nbsp; Each speaker gave a five-minute talk.&nbsp; The most English-deficient of the bunch, Mr. de Santis, relied heavily on notes while Professor Negroni spoke extemporaneously.&nbsp; Later, the facilitator, Professor Claudio Remeseira, head of the Hispanic New York Project, asked questions.&nbsp; After that, an audience dominated by Latin American amateur writers joined in.&nbsp; In sum, the format was muddled, and it was often difficult to see what the questions, whether asked by the audience or elicited by the lecture topic itself, and the answers had to do with each other. As far as I could tell, the subject of the night was what it means to be a Latin American author, especially in the United States.&nbsp; Mr. Franco was the most direct in trying to define the term.&nbsp; He asked, but could not answer, whether "authors who speak Spanish, who have Spanish names," but who write in English, are Latin American writers.&nbsp; Ms. Negroni added that she had fallen in New York because it is "the center of the world and the best catalogue of the Third World," at once very different and very similar to Latin America.&nbsp; Mr. Ampuero offered a field report on literary exchange between Latin America and the United States.&nbsp; Through the University of Iowa, he teaches a Spanish fiction writing workshop to both native and non-native Spanish speakers and a creative writing class for recent Mexican immigrants.&nbsp; Mr. de Santis, however, did not speak on the link between literature and society.&nbsp; Rather, he gave, in the most lyrical terms, a "Reading Rainbow"-esque schpiel on the silent moment that exists when a reader is transported by a book. The question of a Latin American literary community was further probed in discussions of the transformation of the global perception of Latin American novels after the Boom of the '60s.&nbsp; Nearly all the authors spoke of the influence of "Gabo" (Franco was consistently introduced as the man who "Garcia MÃ¡rquez has described...as 'one of the Colombian authors I would like to pass the torch to'") and of the expectation of magical realism.&nbsp; Franco jokingly pointed out that Colombian reality was so bizarre that its realism and its magical realism are not so different.&nbsp; The group's three novelists also noted that the small publication houses of yore did a much better job of circulating books, mainly through hand-to-hand passage, throughout the Spanish-speaking world than the multinational corporations that dominate the business do now.&nbsp; Mr. Ampuero remarked that it has been easier for him to be published in China that in every Latin American country. Mr. Franco's most recent novel is about the gritty, urban drama that goes down when two young Colombians immigrate to New York City.&nbsp; To research it, he lived a few months in New York.&nbsp; When asked whether that short time was truly enough to inform his writing, he replied that Jose Hernandez only spent two months in the Argentine prairie before writing "Martin Fierro," his epic poem of the pampas.&nbsp; Clearly, these writers accepted this invitation not for this hour and a half of intellectual meandering, but for the free trip to New York.&nbsp; All I could do was wonder what they were taking in after they left the lecture, and how this long weekend in New York might look in some future novel or poem. 
 On Tuesday night, Bwogger Jamie Johns braved the mosh pits to see Battles perform. Battles have been together since 2003. Before that they played in groups like Helmet, Don Caballero, Lynx, Storm and Stress, Tomahawk. Their latest record, Mirrored, could be described as experimental, techno, new music, math rock, jazz and yet none of this explains it. Finger tapping, irregular time signatures, loops, effects pedals, keyboards, tailored shirts - the musical makeup of Battles. The best part of seeing Battles live was watching them create their music which, on record, seems to come out of nowhere. They played so hard that one song into their hour long set, drummer John Stanier's shirt was soaked with sweat. He took it off and kept on playing, what a beast. Watching guitarist Ian Williams, dressed in a lovely chest-baring canary yellow tailored shirt, play a note, record it on his echoplex, and then play that recorded loop was pretty tremendous. As Battles played, you could see how much work goes into their music, but they are much more than just guitar tapping and pedal pushing. The band has energy when they play live, probably more so than most "straight-forward" bands. The whole crowd was going insane during their set, especially during "Atlas." More than anything else they're a charismatic band, smiling and seemingly having a great time onstage. Dave Konopka (bassist/guitarist) was the unsung hero of the night, anchoring the band at the back of the stage, as he bounced around and smiled. Tyondai and Ian were the showmen; they writhed around, made faces and gyrated back and forth in front of their keyboards. John, along with his seven foot tall cymbal, was placed in the middle of the stage, and he lived up to being the center of attention by having the stamina of a race horse. Each member worked perfectly with one another, making Battles' last US show of the year memorable. But more than anything else, the show solidified their place as the most interesting band in music right now. (photo cred goes to billl.)&nbsp; 
 Low Plaza became a peaceful battlefield this evening as a sizeable crowd of people convened by means of the now 700-member facebook group "We do NOT support the hunger strikers" gathered by Alma Mater just half an hour before the strikers' nightly vigil at the sundial. Formally, the group stood there for only about 20 minutes, carrying signs with such ironic slogans as "I AM BEING SILENCED." By and large, those Bwog talked to didn't have problems with the specific demands themselves, but rather the methods used to achieve them. Also, many of them hadn't ever been to protests before--but then there they were, standing awkwardly in the cold. Speaking to the group, organizer Josh Mathew, CC '09, said: "I feel that in general what's brought us together is that we haven't had a voice, and we'd like to have a voice now. We'd like people to know that our presence exists, and we exist outside a facebook group." Aga Sablinska, CC '09 and creator of the Facebook group, stood watching. Earlier this afternoon, members of the strike support team had e-mailed Mathew and Sablinska suggesting that the anti-strike gathering become "a space on Low Plaza for students to engage in open and constructive conversations." Because of the logistical difficulty of making a collective decision to change the nature of the event, the anti-strikers went on as planned. Bwog noticed a few Columbia boldface names in attendance, including Hillel President Josh Rosner, Chris Kulawik (no introduction needed), and former Dems president Mike Nadler, CC '07, who currently works for Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer and who opposes the strike. "Regardless of the value of the demands, I just don't believe this is how you go about achieving those aims," he said, noting that none of the strikers tried running for any representative Student Government post. "Those are the people who have the legitimacy to speak on the students' behalf." But it wasn't all a late night tea party. A ghostly Professor Dalton materialized as Bwog heard one student calling the strikers "idiots." "I'm Dennis Dalton, and I haven't eaten in seven days," he said. "Am I an idiot?" "Yeah, I'd say they're idiots," said Paul Stamm, GS '08. "I've been here for 39 years and never been called an idiot." "Well, there's a first time for everything." The discussion, which had grown to a circle of male students around Dalton, proceeded more civilly. Meanwhile, the action had shifted to the Sundial, with the now-familiar succession of speeches and negotiation updates. Representatives from Take Back the Night read a follow-up statement of support, and asked everyone present to take a moment of silence to "think about what makes you feel safe." The formally off-the-record expansion meeting this afternoon, Bwog was told, did not go well. "Nothing of substance was offered," said negotiator Andrew Lyubarsky, CC '09. "The response was completely unsatisfactory." The strike committee had tried again to move forward on their six main points--to which the administration responded in writing--and added two more: that the University establish a committee of faculty members to oversee planning for the new campus, and that the currently planned biotech level three facility not be elevated to level four. Executive Vice President Maxine Griffith conceded this last point, which has never really been in question. The strike negotiation team has posted their account of the meeting here. Hunger striker Victoria Ruiz, CC '09, on her tenth day without food, had harsh words for the bureaucrat. "Maxine Griffith said she had a really happy feeling about this meeting," Ruiz told the candle-holding crowd of about 30.&nbsp; "The only reason she said that is because she thinks that she silenced us, that the negotiations are over. But this is the beginning." At the end of the vigil, seven strikers and supporters joined hands, leading the same call-and-response chant they had used at last night's heady events, the crowd yelling back in a noise that echoed. "It is our duty to fight! It is our duty to win! We must love each other and protect each other. We have nothing to lose but our chains." That last part was muddled; a few people said "fear" instead. On the second recitation, everyone did.&nbsp; - LBD 
The Met puts on fabulous events just for college kids every couple of months. Bwog correspondent Lucy Sun attended last night, snapped a few photos, and had a swimmingly good time. Young, warm people formed a ridiculously long line outside the Met tonight for a masked ball in honor of the Met's new galleries for Oceanic Art and the Art of Native North America. Inside, the lobby was lighted in ocean blue, with music ranging from techno to bongos. The crowd's dress ranged from "I go to art school" to "I'm going clubbing" to "I'm going to the Prom." An announcer begged us to stop crowding the lobby and go look at some art. The new galleries include rooms of intricate masks and delicately whimsical jewelry, all made of gold, as well as deeply organic masks and totems made of shells, hair, and wood. 
 These alumni certainly did not go without dinner last night Meanwhile, it was business as usual on the picketers' campgrounds "gay pigeons, erotic German love poetry dedicated to a waitress, a comparison between love and cheese, a love of nachos. . ." Give in, already? No! Not yet! &nbsp; Plus: Here's how the Sun tells the story... &nbsp; 
CUArts is bribing you with free food at 1:00 PM in the Satow Room! You'll probably have to stick around and hear about free money for a while too--and internships and tickets and arts programming--but Bwog can think of worse ways to fill your stomach.
 Once upon a Thursday dreary, into Hillel I wandered weak and weary and heard many a piece of dreadful lore… The 22nd Annual Joyce Kilmer Memorial Bad Poetry Contest had many moments, ranging from hilarity to mediocrity to…is that Umbrella in Latin? Whether it was Columbia Blue balls from the window to the wall or a scientific explanation of Paradiso or a dissertation of the lovability of your cat rendered in fourth grade, readings were intense and poetry was by all means bad. The night was kicked off by Thomas Vinciguerra, the very same Columbian that, 21 years before, kicked off the original Bad Poetry Contest in John Jay lounge and helped revive the Philolexian Society after years of dormancy. A consequence of the contest's popularity has been to attract not only geezers (Philo alums) back to Morningside Heights but also several members of University of Pennsylvania's Philomathean Society. Victorious, however, was neither the erotic German poet nor the Ode to John Cage (Silence), but Amitai Schlair's exploration of an explosion at the poem factory where all mediocre poetry creating machines out of commission. Schlair used a variety of techniques, from similes (poetry is like sausage) to poetic puns (the meter meter) and employed them with riotous distaste. Runners up were geezer Everett Patterson, current Philo President Joshua Schwartz and freshman Jeana Poindexter, respectively.&nbsp; However, the slew of Columbia and Barnard judges failed to recognize the clearly superior poetry of Megan Shannon, who's Two Unseasonable Haiku (plagiarized from Hannah Gould) and Sexy Beard Man were full of vivid description and a deep sense of irony that riveted an audience that was, for the most part, ambivalent towards the diminishing hilarity of the poetry as the night progressed. At least there weren't any acrostics. -JJV 
 Still unsure about what to take next semester? Bwogger Pierce Stanley offers a few suggestions. Yes, they're real classes. I. The Interrogative Variety Spring 2008 Religion W4722 NOTHING, GOD, FREEDOM Spring 2008 Philosophy BC1001 WHAT IS PHILOSOPHY? Spring 2008 French G8650 WHAT IS FRANCE? Spring 2008 Philosophy G9482 MEANING Spring 2008 Anthropology G6085 THING THEORY II. Roe v. Wade: the Remix Spring 2008 Anthropology V3972 CONCEPTION AND THE FETUS Spring 2008 Anthropology V3974 LOST WORLD/SEC SPACES:MOD/CHLD Spring 2008 Anthropology V3977 TRAUMA Spring 2008 Anthropology G4173 THE DEAD,TERMINABLE/INTERMINB Spring 2008 History BC4324 VIENNA &amp; BIRTH OF THE MODERN III. Rise of the Machines Spring 2008 Anthropology V3995 ANTHROP OF THE WAR MACHINE Spring 2008 Biomedical Engineering E3150 THE CELL AS A MACHINE Spring 2008 Anthropology V3924 ANTHROPOLOGY &amp; DISASTER Spring 2008 Mathematics V3025 MAKING, BREAKING CODES IV. For Shits and Giggles Spring 2008 Art History G8742 INVENTING THE MONUMENT Spring 2008 Anthropology V3947 TEXT, MAGIC, PERFORMANCE Spring 2008 Classical Civilization W4100 THE HANDWRITTEN BOOK Spring 2008 History BC4901 RE-ACTING (TO) THE PAST II V. Ethnic Studies Reform Spring 2008 Ethnicity and Race, Center for Study of G4020 THE COLOR OF AIDS Spring 2008 History W4602 JEWS IN 19TH CENTURY FRANCE Spring 2008 French BC3068 JEWS IN FRANCE DREYFUS-VICHY Spring 2008 Classical Literature V3200 DAUGHTERS OF DIDO VI. The WTF Does this Listing Even Mean Variety Spring 2008 Anthropology V3907 RADICAL EXPANSIONS OF THE SOC Spring 2008 Anthropology G6186 PERF SUBJECTIVITY-AGE OF REVOL Spring 2008 Anthropology G6212 PRIN/APPL-SOC &amp; CULTRL ANTHROP Spring 2008 History W4302 FR WAR-PEACE:BRITAIN-FR-1940'S Spring 2008 History W3003 REL,MYTH,RITAUL-GREEK CITY-ST Spring 2008 Earth and Environmental Engineering E4009 GIS-RES,ENVIR,INFRASTRUCTR MGT Spring 2008 History BC3570 ALMA MATER:HIST U.S.COLL/UNIV Spring 2008 Sociology G9080 CONTEXTUALIZATION OF CONTEXT 
 Now that the academic demands are taken care of, the hunger strikers are still going hungry for the Manhattanville expansion.&nbsp; But in an e-mail to the Community Board 9 listserv, CB 9 chairman Jordi Reyes-Montblanc told them to knock it off: "I again beseech you to stop your hunger strike as it pertains to the CU Expansion issues," he wrote. "The ULURP process is alive and well and I am confident that your personal sacrifices have been noted and opened some eyes both at the City Planning Commission and the City Council." The full message is posted after the jump. Also, according to this Observer article,&nbsp; the West Harlem LDC has finally put up a number--the group wants "in excess of 100 million" for an affordable housing fund. Columbia hasn't agreed to that number but, "the source said that the school, while it had not offered its own number, understood it had to contribute more, and in a more timely way." This is one of the points the strike team was negotiating for. Looks like the need might be covered. We also think it's worth reiterating that, according to today's Spec, Kofi Annan was never supposed to come to campus dinner last night, as strikers claimed two nights ago while speaking to the crowd at the sundial.&nbsp; The "fancy dinner" they alluded to also raised $1.75 million for the College. &nbsp;UPDATE: The Coalition to Preserve Community--a group composed of anti-expansion West Harlem activists is pleading for the second time for the hunger strikers to stop.&nbsp; A portion of their latest press release reads: "Five days ago, on November 11, the Coalition to Preserve Community (CPC), a four-year old West Harlem community group opposing the Columbia University expansion plan, asked the Columbia students who had been on a hunger strike since Wednesday, November 7, to withdraw their demand that the University recall its 197C rezoning application. They rejected our request at that time, but today we are asking them again. We do not want the students' health and welfare to be sacrificed in waiting on Columbia to engage in an honest dialogue and negotiation with the community on the rezoning application." And finally! Beyond the jump, behold our super-useful Manhattanville Decoder, to help you understand the jargon in the various intallments of our Hunger Strike Primary Source Reader. &nbsp; - AMP CB9M Chairman's Message to Students in Hunger Strike As you may know I am away recovering from surgery but I am following the developments quite closely. I firmly believe you have made your points and received wide media coverage. I again beseech you to stop your hunger strike as it pertains to the CU Expansion issues. The ULURP process is alive and well and I am confident that your personal sacrifices have been noted and opened some eyes both at the City Planning Commission and the City Council. It would be highly detrimental if your health deteriorates and places your lives in danger with the onset of inclement weather. We need you healthy and in fit condition for the struggles still ahead. I congratulate you for your courage, dedication and affection for our community, your efforts will have great value and take a place of honor in the history of student activism on behalf of our community. I look forward to see y'all upon my return. With respect and admiration Jordi Jordi (George) Reyes-Montblanc, Chairman Community Board 9 Manhattan 565 West 125th Street New York, NY 10027-2301 Manhattanville for Dummies: Community Board 9 (CB9): a group of West Harlem (Hamilton Heights, Manhattanville, and some of Morningside Heights) residents and business owners who applied to the Borough President's office and were selected to represent their neighborhood. Local Development Corporation (LDC): Because CB9 isn't invested with the power to negotiate with developers, the city created the West Harlem LDC.&nbsp; It's a group of CB9 members, public housing tenants, environmentalists, artists, and elected officials who meet regularly to decide what they want from Columbia in return for the expansion. Community Benefits Agreement:&nbsp; This is what the LDC is working to for.&nbsp; It's an agreement that will decide how much Columbia will put into an affordable housing fund, what environmental standards it will use, how much funding it'll give to the arts in Harlem. Outside of side-deals with elected officials (e.g. the deal with the Borough President) this will be negotiated entirely by the LDC. Uniform Land Use Review Procedure (ULURP): A slow process that any developer must go through if they need a zoning change in order to build.&nbsp; Columbia's expansion plan is mid-ULURP right now--CB9 and the Borough President have already voted on it.&nbsp; Next it goes to the City Council and then the mayor. 
Bwog daily editor David Iscoe watched a movie, really liked it, and wrote about it. While The Darjeeling Limited and American Gangster got a lot of anticipation, perhaps rightfully so, there was no movie that I'd been waiting for longer than No Country for Old Men; it's a Coen brothers movie based on a Cormac McCarthy book. What's more, it's a very filmable Cormac McCarthy book at that, far more filmable than All The Pretty Horses and infinitely more so than Blood Meridian,which Ridley Scott will attempt in 2009. Basically, a man stumbles upon a busted heroin deal near the Texas/Mexico border, finds a case of money, and runs away. An assassin endeavors to hunt him down, and an aging sheriff tries to deal with the whole affair.&nbsp; Some critics have been calling No Country for Old Men a return to the Blood Simple days of the Coens, but I didn't find it to be that, exactly. The movie's overall structure, and even some plot elements, are actually similar to The Big Lebowski, although their current film is obviously much more serious in tone. Like Raising Arizona, Barton Fink, and O Brother Where Art Thou! the movie has what Sherrif Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) calls "a true and living prophet of destruction," the ruthless but impeccably calm Anton Chigurgh (Javier Bardem,) and Chigurgh is both the scariest and most convincing prophet of destruction yet. The rest of the cast, particularly Jones, deserve a lot of credit for their performances, but Bardem steals the show; when he's on screen, much of the audience is visibly uncomfortable -- and he's on it a lot. Although as previous Coen movies were known in part for their clever dialogue and either inventive or well-stolen storylines, they were really carried by great casting, perfect shots, and expert editing: in short, really good directing. That's also what carries this movie, with the story and dialogue taken verbatim from McCarthy's novel.&nbsp; The movie takes the feeling of the story almost as directly; the adventure, violence, and brutality are there, but so is the disturbing lack of closure and poetic justice. The Coens significantly cut down the last third of the novel into a much smaller portion of the film, and the result is that the disquieting "no country for old men" part of McCarthy's work comes through even stronger than it would. Their screenplay omits or cuts down a lot of scenes that I was looking forward to seeing on the big screen, but, seeing the product, it's impossible to complain.&nbsp; Or is it? The ending, taken directly from the book, seemed to solicit some negative reactions. One old lady, sitting in front of me in the theater, boisterously asked "and then what happened?" as the credits began to roll. Several others complained about it on Fandango or something. However, these people are INCORRECT. The CORRECT opinion about this movie is that it is great to begin with, better after it sinks in a little, and, probably, like most Coen movies, even better on a second viewing. Consider yourself CORRECTED, gramma! No Country for Old Men is currently in a limited release, (with four theaters in New York, so not that limited) and will be widely released on November 21st. You can read this conversation between Joel and Ethan Coen and Cormac McCarthy that appeared in Time magazine last month. 
 Following the release of a joint statement on the agreed-upon academic concessions--posted after the jump, in all its wonky glory--the four remaining hunger strikers will start weaning themselves off not eating after a vigil and press conference, same time same place (9PM at the sundial).&nbsp; Anything happen on Manhattanville? Nope. The story on that will come out when we can pry it out of people. UPDATE, 9:35 PM: According to Feditor Chas Carey, a "group of individual students" sent an open letter to the strikers, listing their grievances and questions, about a half an hour before the strike ended. Hey, it's never too late to be friends! Academic Matters In the first instance it needs to be recognized that the faculty are in charge of the academic curriculum through the standing departmental and interdepartmental committees.&nbsp; Administrators convene many of these meetings, we have been assured faculty wish to hear from you, and we have arranged for them to do so. (i) CSER – IRAAS and related issues &nbsp; As a result of regular meetings this fall between Claudio Lomnitz, Director of the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race (CSER) and Nicholas Dirks, Vice President for Arts and Sciences, and as part of ongoing meetings with concerned students about the future of Ethnic Studies that began in the spring of 2007, the following new investments have been made.&nbsp; First, a search committee for senior positions in Ethnic Studies has been authorized to recruit up to three senior faculty from its current interdepartmental search.&nbsp; These positions are incremental to the junior lines already allocated to CSER. Second, the recruitment of a scholar in Native American Studies has been authorized.&nbsp; Third, one senior hire in the field of African American studies is currently being conducted by IRAAS.&nbsp; Fourth, incremental resources have been committed both for programs directly conducted by CSER and for the development of a collaborative programmatic relationship between CSER and two other units:&nbsp; the Institute for Research in African American Studies (IRAAS), and the Institute for Research on Women and Gender (IRWAG). Finally, we have committed to a review of CSER by the Academic Review Committee.&nbsp; This review will include in its mandate relationships between CSER, IRAAS, and IRWAG. &nbsp;Although student participation is a routine part of these academic reviews, we will ensure that student voices will play an especially important role in this review given the particular history of CSER as the outgrowth of student interests, concerns, and activism. The Ethnic Studies faculty have invited you to work immediately with them to formalize your participation in the long term academic review of the Center and in the hiring processes already underway.&nbsp; This review, along with the ongoing search, are precious opportunities to establish a consistent student input in the direction and governance of the CSER.&nbsp; Vice President Dirks has received the agreement of Claudio Lomnitz to move this process forward in the following way: Renewed participation of student representatives in the current search. They will have unprecedented input in the process and are invited to the next meeting of the search committee on December 4.&nbsp; A meeting with students and the leadership of the Center will be held early next semester to discuss the intellectual project guiding current changes, views of the future, and commitments to guarantee continuing student participation in the governance of the center. Academic review of the center.&nbsp; One student representative will sit on the committee that will draft the self-study of the center. This representative of the students will also guarantee the continuing consultation with students throughout the research and writing of the study. The ARC guidelines provide the basic structure of the items to be covered in that study (including current status of the program, plans for next five years, and areas where consensus has not been achieved). The review has been scheduled for the 2008-2009 academic year. This will allow the spring of 2008 for the production of the self study. After the self-study is delivered to the ARC, students will participate individually and collectively in the review through meetings with the Internal Review Subcommittee in Fall 2008.&nbsp; Students and faculty of CSER will advise ARC on the composition of the external review committee which will work and issue recommendations during the Spring of 2009.&nbsp; Students will participate in meetings with the Vice President of Arts and Sciences in Spring 2009 to discuss recommendations of the final ARC report. Since this report is confidential, ARC, CSER and the VP of Arts and Sciences will determine, in consultation with student representatives, which parts of the reports can be discussed in the community of the center.&nbsp; Students will then discuss with CSER faculty the implementation plan that will be the response to the final report.&nbsp; Students will participate in the monitoring process of the implementation plan from Fall 2009 through Spring 2011. Major investments over the last three years, totaling now over $20 million, have been directed specifically to increasing the diversity of the faculty in the Arts and Sciences, and many of the faculty hired through this initiative have already begun to work closely with CSER, IRAAS, IRWAG, as well as with other units on campus that contribute broadly to the work and concerns of these units (including new programs in the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy (ISERP), and the re-opening and strengthening of the Institute for African Studies). (ii) Core Curriculum &nbsp; President Bollinger convened a major Task Force on Undergraduate Education in the autumn of 2006.&nbsp; The Task Force is made up of senior faculty and administrators along with student leaders, and has undertaken an extensive review of the entire undergraduate curriculum and experience.&nbsp; Four working committees have been established, on the structure of the curriculum, on the issues around teaching and learning in Columbia classrooms, on the challenges of globalization for the undergraduate experience, and on science.&nbsp; As part of this review, the Core curriculum is being re-examined, in particular the kinds of requirements it entails in relationship to majors and electives, the demands it makes on instruction, the relationship it has to a changing world, and the demands this world makes on what students should learn and encounter during their undergraduate years. There is already widespread agreement that the Major Cultures component of the Core needs to be strengthened, bringing it into parity in terms of classroom size and curricular importance with other parts of the Core.&nbsp; At the same time, the Major Cultures section of the Core is also currently under review as part of the work of the Committee on the Core.&nbsp; Immediately after Vice President Dirks has received approval from the Task Force and the Committee on the Core, departments will be invited to submit new Major Cultures course proposals, and efforts will be initiated to secure the necessary funding. Though students already sit on these committees, further arrangements will be made to enable concerned students to address these committees and contribute to their deliberations.&nbsp; Specifically, to enable you to address your requests to faculty committees as soon as possible: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Your representatives were invited to yesterday’s meeting of the Committee on the &nbsp;Core so that your opinions could be heard; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Professor Grieve, chair of the Committee on the Core and the Committee on &nbsp;Major Cultures, has agreed to put on the agenda of the December meeting of the &nbsp;Committee on the Core discussion of your views on student participation in the &nbsp;committee’s work; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Vice President Dirks has received agreement from Professor Martha Howell, &nbsp;chair of the Working Group on Curricular Structure, that your representatives &nbsp;will address the next meeting of the committee, later this semester. Administrative Matters Last month, Dean Nair informed student leaders that a professional consultant has been engaged to assist the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Division of Student Affairs to conduct a review of the OMA and its services.&nbsp; This consultant was involved with recent reviews of both the Center for Career Education and the Center for Student Advising. These reviews have resulted in the development of action plans to enhance student services, hire and train new staff, and establish the need for additional space. The OMA review process will incorporate a wide range of student voices, including yours, along with those of alumni and staff.&nbsp; It will also include data already collected from multiple student surveys, program assessments, and strategic planning done by the staff of OMA. &nbsp;&nbsp;The review will result in an action plan for the further development of the office, and as soon as that is established, efforts will be begun to provide the funds needed to implement the plan. In the light of your concerns, this review will be extended to incorporate consideration of the need for, and possible function of, a Multi-Cultural Affairs officer in Arts and Sciences.&nbsp; Dean Colombo has confirmed that the Office of Multi-Cultural Affairs is open to all undergraduates including those from General Studies. Expansion plans for the Office of Multi-Cultural Affairs and the Inter-Cultural Resource Center continue to move forward, as students involved in the planning are aware. The Division of Student Affairs has been working closely with Columbia University Housing and Facilities to secure suite-style housing contiguous to the Intercultural Resource Center (IRC).&nbsp; We expect to announce by the end of the semester the exact location of the IRC extension, and the launch of an initiative to secure the necessary funding. The annual orientation program for new faculty will incorporate more extensive discussion of diversity issues, incorporating perspectives that address the socio-historical legacies of power and privilege. The Office of Public Safety has primary responsibility for responding to incidents of possible hate crimes. Among their responsibilities are: documentation of the incident, notification to the relevant deans, and, in the case of criminal acts, notification to the N.Y.P.D. for investigation. These protocols are discussed more fully in a pamphlet prepared by the Division of Student Affairs, titled, "Community Support: Responding to Acts of Bias and Hate." Dean Colombo has confirmed that the Office of Public Safety has agreed to meet with students to discuss staff diversity education and training, as well as other issues of mutual concern. Every effort will be made to meet before the end of the semester.&nbsp; ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------&nbsp; Given the importance of these agreements and their multi-year implementation, an oversight committee of faculty, students, and alumni will be created to monitor their progress over the next five years. We hope we can all now agree that the points made above are consistent with the views and aspirations of the concerned students you represent, that they can serve to bring these discussions to a speedy conclusion, and that our students can return to their residence halls and classes. LETTER TO THE STRIKERS FROM "A GROUP OF INDIVIDUAL STUDENTS" To The Strikers:&nbsp; We understand that you wish to meet privately with members of our group, off-the-record, to begin a conversation about our concerns regarding the strike.&nbsp; At this juncture, private conversation is not a relevant or appropriate way of engaging with the greater community, since neither we nor any individual can claim to represent the general opinion of those who oppose your unilateral action. If we do engage in dialogue with you, we (or any of the 730 students who currently oppose the hunger strike) can only speak as individuals. The most effective way to engage in dialogue right now, in the absence of elected representatives, is in a public forum accessible to all, where each student can read and respond. Over the last five days, several students have repeatedly submitted questions and concerns to you, both electronically and verbally. We have yet to receive a public response on the record.&nbsp; Until you provide a written, public response to our concerns, most notably as to the legitimacy of the strike, we do not think it appropriate to engage in private discussions with you. You have unilaterally taken steps to institute sweeping changes that impact every student at Columbia. The onus is on you to engage publicly with the student body such that all viewpoints can be fairly represented.&nbsp; Private, off-the-record, discussions are inadequate for the following reasons: Many students are uncomfortable approaching you individually with their concerns, lest, given the current environment, they be accused of racism or cultural insensitivity. There is no guarantee of accountability for your statements, or that you will include our opinions in your discussion with the administration. Even if you do take into account the concerns of individuals who approach you, such individuals, in private conversation, have no legitimacy to represent the greater student body. Most importantly, it is impossible to disseminate the content of private discussion accurately in the public sphere. To start this open and publicly accountable debate, we have attached a list of questions that have been previously posed to you in several formats. Please make your answers, the questions themselves, and this letter available on your website and/or any other public forums of your choice.&nbsp; We were personally very disappointed by the disingenuous comments of Christina Chen to the Spectator indicating that we were uninterested in engaging in dialogue. We are fundamentally interested in engaging in dialogue. Indeed, this has been one of our primary concerns from the outset. The question is how that dialogue should take place. Only in the public arena, where all students can access and discuss all views while participating and holding all parties accountable, can we hope to make any meaningful progress.&nbsp; We look forward to your swift response to these questions.&nbsp; Sincerely,&nbsp; &nbsp; Nina Bell CC’07&nbsp; Chas Carey CC’08&nbsp; Thomas de Swardt CC’08&nbsp; Timothy de Swardt CC’08&nbsp; Joshua Mathew CC’09&nbsp; Michael Nadler CC’07&nbsp; Aga Sablinska CC’09&nbsp; Paul Stamm GS’08 Questions:&nbsp; How many Columbia students do not support your hunger strike? Can you provide any kind of quantitative data for this? Have you publicly acknowledged their dissent, and how will you reconcile yourselves with these individuals, if at all? Can you provide any kind of data about how many Columbia students support your hunger strike? If not, have you taken any measures to try and get this kind of information? Do you have evidence that your views are representative of the entire student body? If not, why do you feel that you have the right to impose your vision of Columbia onto those who may not agree with it? What gives you the right to negotiate with the administration on issues that will affect, at the very least, the entirety of Columbia College, if you are not certain that you have majority support? In your statement, you say that you “strike to re-imagine the university as a more democratic place….where students have a deciding say in this university.” If you have not taken steps to make sure that you are representing the opinion of the majority of students, this appears to be contradictory. How is your vision a democratic one if it is not representative? How do you respond to this apparent contradiction? Do you not think that your demands should be channeled through a student organization that is democratically elected? Have you created an atmosphere where all students can participate in discussion of your demands, equally and without fear? Why or why not? Have you marginalized students who may support some or all of your arguments but question your legitimacy and methods? If so, what actions have you taken to reconcile your methods with those mutually-shared opinions, if any? Prior to the hunger strike, had you exhausted all other options for furthering your demands? If so, provide concrete evidence and demonstrate what attempts you made to engage the greater student body in these efforts. Did you make clear that non-participation would result in a hunger strike? At which meeting was the decision made to go on a hunger strike? How many were present and how did the debate over appropriate action reach this final result? If concerned members of the Women’s Studies Department or the Human Rights Program went on a hunger strike demanding the reallocation of the $50 million set aside for a Major Cultures Seminar to their respective under-funded causes, would you support them? Why or why not? Returning to your commitment to “a more democratic place” for students, if your demand to allow more student voices on the Core Curriculum is implemented, and the majority of students still do not share your visions for the Core, what will you do? In a similar vein, you make the following demand: “Interested Ethnic Studies majors collectively, shown through a vote, must be given 1 or 2 votes (depending on committee size) which will be delivered by the current student positions on all hiring committees for junior and senior faculty to increase student presence and determination of CSER's direction.” Is there any precedent for this in any other Columbia departments? Should this be something that is enacted across the board, or just in the Ethnic studies area? Why or why not? What kind of a precedent does a hunger strike set for those who have attempted to deal with these or similar issues in other ways? &nbsp; 
 Going by the tone of tonight's candlelight vigil (and counter-protest), the fact that the hunger strike has ended doesn't change anything. The strikers still plan on holding vigils every night at 9. They still plan on camping out on the lawn between College Walk and Butler. And, as speakers and attendees to tonight's vigil reiterated, they definitely haven't forgotten about Manhattanville. Said one student, "this is phase two." As for the end of phase one: pre-vigil, the feeling among hunger-strike supporters was an almost unqualified sense of having accomplished something important. When asked if the lack of progress on Manhattanville and the failure to produce any spectacular, immediate concessions lessened the impact of the strike, Political Science professor Dennis Dalton suggested that the discussion started by the protest was its most important result. "I'm feeling very happy," said Dalton. " a time to discuss our cause, and to add a whole new dimension to the discourse." By around 9:15, a group of about a half-dozen counter-protesters had gathered opposite the sundial. You'd think the anti-hunger strikers would have been happy to see the hunger strike end. Not so: "the strike isn't ending in response to students," said Josh Mathew, C'09, citing CB9's statement of disapproval as a larger factor than the opinions of the students the strikers professed to be representing. Aga Sablinska, C'09, added that the counter-effort will still be going on: on the anti-strike Facebook group she created, she posted that "further plans of action (not by me, by others) are being formed right now." The vigil was billed as a celebration of the hunger strikers and all that they had accomplished during an undoubtedly rough 10 days without food. The hunger-strikers spoke first: Just about all of them thanked the students and the community for their support, and vowed to continue the fight for "ethical expansion." Brian Mercer, C '07 read an excerpt from Stoakley Carmichal's autobiography (written, confusingly enough, by Oscar Wilde); after him, an older man arrested during the 1968 protests elicited cheers when he said that his daughter was one of the people who had occupied Hamilton Hall during the 1996 hunger strike. &nbsp; Striker Richard Brown's speech more or less epitomized what the night was about: brandishing an unopened Twix, he explained how the unity of the two chocolate bars within was a metaphor for the shared fate of the student body and their greater community. While his tone was light-hearted and celebratory, he remained on message. And with so many of the speakers alluding to the hunger strike as a "movement" or a "revolution" (said one hunger striker, "the day after the revolution is as important as the revolution itself"), it was clear that supporters viewed the week's events as a starting point. But for what? Dennis Dalton didn't go into specifics about that--but he did thank students for their support, and said that Wednesday night's protest was the best nonviolent action he had ever participated in at Columbia; Aretha Choi spoke next, and said that Bwog commenters had briefly made her "utterly scared of the student body." As with every other vigil this week, participants observed a moment of silence, during which the counter-protesters folded up their signs out of respect. Although they stayed behind and chatted with journalists, the vigil proceeded to the Low steps, where the hunger strikers led the crowd in a chant: "It is our duty to fight!" they screamed. "It is our duty to win! We have nothing to lose but fear!" Hunger striker April Simpson, C'11, closed the rally with an update on the Bob Marley song "War:" "We are confident in victor of good over evil," she sang. "There's a war. Until that day, Columbia University will not have peace." The hunger strikers broke their fast at the sundial moments later with bread and Gatorade. "Food!" one screamed excitedly; amidst the hugs and tears one striker gave a pretty succinct--not to mention candid--read on things: "this has been so insane," she said "and now we have to do it all over again." One Harlem resident opined along similarly cryptic grounds, suggesting that the University had fatally mishandled the situation. "How they're really in trouble," she said. "They've made the biggest blunder in the world." So the hunger strikers are optimistic in spite of forcing limited concessions and making admittedly little progress on Manhattanville; meanwhile the counter-protesters were pessimistic in spite of the hunger-strike being over. Could the punishing, sub-freezing mid-November cold have contributed to this no doubt counter-intuitive "conclusion" to the hunger strike? Probably not, although lost in all the giddy, frostbitten celebration of a hunger-strike well done was the question of whether anyone will pay attention now that the stakes (y'know, not eating and all of its resulting physical effects) are considerably lower. &nbsp; -ARR -Pictures and additional reporting by JJV ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ In case you're wondering what the hunger-strikers themselves had to say about the end of the hunger strike, here ya go: &nbsp; ***FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE*** November 16, 2007 *Tonight all remaining Columbia hunger strikers will break their fast* In response to the concerns of the Coalition to Preserve Community and prominent community members for the Columbia University hunger strikers' health, the remaining hunger strikers will break their fast at tonight's 9pm vigil. Although, at the urging of community members, they will change their form of protest, the individuals who have been on strike and those who have mobilized around this movement are committed to continuing their struggle for an ethical expansion by Columbia into West Harlem. Negotiations on the strikers' demands relating to Columbia's expansion took place yesterday. The administration's response to student demands was patronizing, and led to nothing but a restating of the university's current positions, demonstrating continual resistance to engaging in constructive discussion with its students. Ryan Fukumori, CC'09 and a student negotiator, noted that, on the issue of expansion, "This administration is in a moral crisis when its financial interests surpass the greater needs of the community." He added, "Despite significant advancements made in the areas of administrative and curricular reform, we have unfortunately not seen the same cooperative attitude from administrators on the topic of expansion." Community members have expressed their greatest appreciation for the student movement that escalated into a hunger strike ten days ago. The administration's appreciation for the community is less apparent: community members were asked by present officials to leave the gathering of silent observers at yesterday's negotiation. It had been agreed at student insistence that negotiations would be made public, but it had not been explicitly specified whether community members were included in this agreement. Students maintained their resolve over their demands regarding Columbia's expansion. The points brought by students to the negotiations yesterday were compromises from the students' original positions. Demands include: that Columbia take eminent domain completely off the table; that it promise to negotiate with tenants and the Local Development Corporation rather than landlords and city politicians; and that resources be allocated to creating affordable housing for the 5035 people who are living in unsubsidized housing in the area of expansion. 
 In which Bwog generalist Chris "The Frank Bruni of Amsterdam Ave." Morris-Lent reviews the leftmost column of sandwiches offered by everyone's favorite surrogate cafeteria, Hamilton Delicatessen (est. 1991). GODFATHER Description: With a name suggestive of Al Pacino's greatest performances and a variety of meats within its buns that would put even the most diversified of Sicilian slaughterers to shame, the Godfather is the ultimate cold-cut Italian-style sandwich.&nbsp; Ham, salami, and pepperoni explode like a car bomb with flavor, and the two varieties of peppers, sweet and hot, are a nice touch.&nbsp; The only problem is the excess of balsamic vinegar, enough to dissolve the mothballs in Marlon Brando's cheeks, which soggifies the bun and overpowers the meats. Rating: 3.5/5 AMERICANA Description: The Godfather's emigrante counterpart, the Americana substitutes the traditional meats of roast beef and turkey for The Godfather's salami and pepperoni while adopting a more austere mix of veggies and cheese as well.&nbsp; The liberal drizzling of vinegar ensures that both taste largely the same, but I tired of eating the Americana far faster. Rating: 2.5/5 ALL STAR Description: My favorite of HamDel's three untoasted sandwiches, the All Star consists mostly of roast beef and turkey while using the shady yet delicious "Russian Dressing" in place of vinegar.&nbsp; HamDel's infamous and ubiquitous coleslaw lends the sandwich a slight sweetness.&nbsp; As often happens with HamDel, the whole is greater than the sum of the parts.&nbsp; There's just nothing to criticize about the All Star. Rating: 4/5 MONTE CRISTO Description: Moving on now to the toasted heroes, the Monte Cristo sports an ensemble cast of sumptuous ingredients – ham, turkey, bacon, and swiss, uncorrupted by any sauce and supported by a spartan complement of lettuce and tomato – but the experience left me yearning for more.&nbsp; Some extra cheese?&nbsp; An additional meat?&nbsp; The Monte Cristo is decent and the lack of sauce precludes the possibility of a sorrowful spillage, but it's missing a certain X-factor that makes certain HamDel confections (the Mona Lisa or the E-Mail, for example) so delectable. Rating: 3/5 FAT BOY Description: There's something internally consistent about the Fat Boy that's lacking in most of HamDel's sandwiches.&nbsp; The exotic meats of pastrami and corned beef are excellently complemented by the coleslaw and the Russian dressing, which in turn benefit from the textural counterpoise of the crunchy hero.&nbsp; The addition of American cheese is unfortunate; asking for provolone or swiss instead might be sacrilegous but necessary. Rating: 4/5 JAWS Description: The fish fillet at HamDel is weird, the juxtaposition with American cheese even weirder.&nbsp; I've always been suspicious of Atlantic seafood.&nbsp; Fortunately, the pungent tartar sauce carries the day, making the Jaws a not unappealing item, something I wouldn't decline as a gift, but also not something I'd spend upwards of six bucks on.&nbsp; A number of misogynistic analogues come to mind. Rating: 2.5/5 BIG BIRD Description: The Big Bird is an excellent sandwich, almost as excellent as the television show that starred its bewildered yet adorable namesake.&nbsp; The name is also evocative of the oft-overlooked cinematic masterpiece "Big Bird Goes to Japan," which I once watched in second grade as a perverse predecessor to the major cultures requirement.&nbsp; The flavor is dominated by the Russian dressing and the coleslaw, but the variety of meats lends great textural and nutritional benefits to the sub. Rating: 4/5 N.Y.P.D. Description: A canonical HamDel favorite, the N.Y.P.D. consists of a liberal helping of hot roast beef with a number of synergistic toppings: onions, peppers, bacon, and the catalyst of barbeque sauce.&nbsp; The American cheese actually works well here, adding to the uninhibited exuberance of the sandwich as a whole. Rating: 4/5 TEX MEX Description: Disappointing.&nbsp; At best an ersatz N.Y.P.D.&nbsp; Too many peppers numb the tongue, ruin the taste, and wreck the texture. Rating: 2/5 LEWINSKY Description: Its name recalling a juicy scandal of a bygone era, perhaps a more current moniker for this delectable mixture of a chicken cutlet, melted mozzarella, and "secret sauce" would be the "Judith Nathan."&nbsp; The cutlet is substantial and filling, the cheese sticky, the sauce enigmatically delicious, the entire combination very satisfying.&nbsp; I wish I liked chicken more. Rating: 4.5/5 BALBOA Description: Also based off a chicken cutlet, which coalesces weirdly with the ham and the melted provolone.&nbsp; Strictly inferior to the Lewinsky. Rating: 2/5 CHEESE TEASE Description: An unrepentantly revolting mixture of American, swiss, muenster, provolone, lettuce, tomato, pickles, oil, and vinegar.&nbsp; Cheese, cheese, cheese.&nbsp; Probably conceived of as a sadistic trap for wayward drunkards or intrepid stoners on a dare. Rating: 0/5 CLINTON Description: The Lewinsky's nomenclatural counterpart, the Clinton evokes with its simple and immaculate artistry a bygone era of innocence, one during which I graduated from preschool, got suspended in first grade for biting a kid when he cut me in line, matriculated to middle school, and was hit with puberty before I could get out of the way.&nbsp; A variation on the classic BLT, the Clinton ingeniously erases its precursor's weaknesses while highlighting its strengths by means of a dollop of chicken salad, which renders the sandwich tasty, texturally nuanced, decently filling, and surprisingly healthy.&nbsp; Per its eponym, the Clinton embodies Plato's ideal of justice as something both instantly gratifying and good for you in the long run.&nbsp; Is there any sandwich at HamDel that can match these virtues?&nbsp; Stay tuned for Tour de HamDel, Stage III, coming in a week or two. Rating: 4.5/5 
 Bwog freelancer Lucy Sun takes our guide to Sunday morning on an intellectual journey. Tim Keller is in the middle of a sermon about intense religious experiences. “I had to ask Him to stop so that I could get some rest,” he says, with perfect comic timing. The audience laughs, and Keller doesn’t frown.&nbsp; Dr. Tim Keller is an intellectual heavyweight in modern Christianity. His book, The Reason for God: Belief in an Age of Skepticism is coming out in the Spring. &nbsp; He’s not an advocate of passive religion. “You don’t just sit with your Bible in a room and say, ‘Lord, hit me,’” he says. Like a good Lit Hum professor, he continues: “Be aggressive towards that text. You have to wrestle it to the ground, with the attitude that ‘There is stuff in here that can change my life.’” During the sermon, he wrestles a Bible verse to the ground. He focuses on a single word, tells us its Greek root, and ties it all in to the big picture. Then he’s all over the place, with references from poetry to Buffy the Vampire. I feel like I’m watching Gilmore Girls.&nbsp; The pews are full of business casual. During the offering, the band plays Miles Davis’ “Heaven,” and I almost expect the congregation to start milling about, networking and eating hors d’oeuvres. That day, a lawyer and an i-banker take their official vows of membership to the church.&nbsp; The multiple services at Redeemer offer a choice between “Classical” and “Jazz.” At the jazz service, I find that the music is more complex than traditional gospel—the program has notes for sight-reading, and a background in high school choir would have helped. I can’t lose myself in the music—I have to keep thinking about which note comes next.&nbsp; The service as a whole is like that. It’s less of a shared emotional experience, and more of a lecture—with a good professor, nonetheless. I have to keep thinking. 
 The hunger strike is over, and contrary to what we we were told last night, so is the camp-out. Hunger-strikers and volunteers are currently taking down the tents, dismantling the Columbopus's remaining tentacles, and otherwise preparing to permanently vacate Butler Plaza. Hunger striker Richard Brown, C '10 cited a "need to clean up" as one of the reasons for ending the nearly two-week encampment. "We can't have these out here forever," he said. "The tents have served their purpose." While the tents were a pretty obvious presence on campus, less obvious was what the strikers were keeping inside of them: Bwog spotted about a dozen blankets, a few portable radios, musical instruments, and a cardboard box full of books, including Breakfast of Champions by Kurt Vonnegut, a Penguin collection of English romantic verse, a long essay by Noam Chomsky (with the ever so Chomskyan title of "The Prosperous Few and the Restless Many"), the 33 1/3 for Neutral Milk Hotel's In The Aeroplane Over the Sea, and an anthology of poetry read at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe. If this was a bittersweet moment for the strikers, none of them were showing it. "The hunger strike is over, but the struggle continues" said striker April Simpson, C'11. Even though the strikers are abandoning their temporary home and base of operations, and potentially (severely) diminishing their visibility on campus, this is about as sentimental as things have gotten out there. Right now, they're pretty much just cleaning up. -ARR 
You know that list of links down on the left? Yeah, we never click on them either. Apparently, though, they come up with some good stuff once in a while. Short on Christmas money?&nbsp; Or on classy uptown drug-du-jour money? For once, NYU students are more awkward than Columbia students In an attempt to shake off the repression of the Victorian era, the English explore the "exhilarating" world of public restrooms. Whereas I rely on the reek of cloves to figure it out He also wants to steal candy-flavored Tylenol from sick children. 
 Poor, misunderstood Columbia. No one seems to get the story straight--not even campus media sometimes--and the Hunger Strike of Fall 2007 was no exception. We've compiled what we're sure is a woefully incomplete list of inaccuracies. We'll let Columbia Assistant Vice President for Public Affairs La-Verna Fountain explain what was wrong with the bit about the $50 million for Major Cultures figure in a Nov. 16 New York Sun article, in a statement she released to CB9 Chairman Jordi Reyes-Montblanc, posted after the jump. "The Sun has informed us they intend to run some kind of correction of this inaccurate story, but for reasons known only to them have decided to wait to publish this in their next edition on Monday. We look forward to seeing it," she wrote snippily. While they're correcting, the Sun might want to note that Emilie Rosenblatt is a senior, not a junior, and that the striker who dropped out is named Aretha, not Victoria. Besides being generally noxious, the New York Post had a similar problem with the $50 million number: "Columbia agreed to raise $50 million to beef up ethnic studies and expand programs for multicultural students, strike organizers said, but refused to budge on the protesters' biggest demand - killing the school's proposed expansion into Harlem...Columbia's concession will expand the school's multicultural student center and expand the required freshman ethnic-studies class from a several hundred-student lecture to small seminar groups." Also, the strikers didn't directly want to kill the expansion plan, just withdraw it for revision. And the "freshman ethnic studies class" is neither a freshman nor an ethnic studies class. Too bad it's already reached the right-wing masses! From the world of possibly less legitimate media: the Workers World isn't factually inaccurate, it just reads like it was translated from another language. Over at Spectator, it's fair to point out that Bryan Mercer's statement: “When the administration told me I had to stop because of my health, I was totally unwilling,” Bryan Mercer, CC ’07, said. “Hearing from the community their concerns and seeing the administration make no move forward on the expansion demands meant that it made a lot of sense to move onto new tactics.” ...is somewhat misleading, considering that Chairman Reyes-Montblanc sent strike organizer Andrew Lyubarsky an e-mail (reprinted on the CB9 blog) on the day the strike started asking them to not go forward with their "extreme" action. Conveniently, Reyes-Montblanc reissued his request eleven days later, right before the strike ended--as did the Coalition to Preserve Community, which itself had asked for the strike to stop five days previously. On this article, there's a debate about how many students in fact gathered at the anti-strike rally a few days ago. Protests from the anti-strike organizers did result in one of the better corrections Spec's done in a while, though. Finally, in a more enigmatic slip, we think the source of the following quote may not actually exist: “It’s too cold for a hunger strike,” Lenger added. “When Gandhi was doing hunger strikes, he was doing it in a balmy, sub-tropical area. ... Unless we can see your ribs sticking out, then it’s, really, in a PR perspective, sub-optimum.” A people search for Mark Lenger, SEAS '09, turns up no results. But this phantom student has now showed up on Huffington Post and Ivygate, and potentially elsewhere. Could Spec have been fleeced again? - LBD &nbsp; Statement by University spokeswoman regarding the New York Sun article: "The New York Sun story erroneously reports that, after faculty approval, the strike could cost the University $50 million in spending to pay for a restructuring of the College's core curriculum that would add faculty for enhancement to the Major Cultures component of the core and other initiatives. Apparently based on an earlier inaccurate story in the Spectator, The Sun's story mistakenly confuses $50 million of endowment funds that could be raised in the current capital campaign for undergraduate education (a $865 million goal) with new "spending" resulting from conversations between administrators and the striking students. But faculty committees on undergraduate education have already been planning such enhancements to the Core as part of the effort to add greater global perspective to the curriculum. In all events, any potential "spending" here is a small fraction of this hypothetical $50 million and is not the direct result of the student strike. It also has not even been decided whether such Core enhancements, if actually approved, would be funded through endowment income or other sources. The Sun has informed us they intend to run some kind of correction of this inaccurate story, but for reasons known only to them have decided to wait to publish this in their next edition on Monday. We look forward to seeing it." Request from Community Board 9 chairman that the strike not go forward Date: Wed, 7 Nov 2007 13:21:10 -0800 (PST) From: "J Reyes-Montblanc" Subject: Re: Student Hunger Strike at Columbia To: "Andrew Lyubarsky" CC: "Patricia Jones" , "Rev. Earl Kooperkamp" , "Sarah Martin" , "Tom DeMott" bfrappy24@aol.com Although I am most grateful for the support your group is giving our 197-a Plan I must try to dissuade you from this step at this time. Such actions as you propose are extreme and should be considered only as a last resort. I am not convinced that we have reached such a point in time in the ongoing negotiations. There are many other protest means available to you and the community at this time before such drastic measures are needed.I beseech you to reconsider and to exlore other effective and headline grabbing means of protest.I will be away for 3 weeks, y'all should to attend the next Manhattanville Rezoning Task Force Mtg and hear the up dates and results of the City Planning Commission decisions on both the 197-a and CU's 197-c Plans. &nbsp; &nbsp;
 The results are in! Missourian George Olive is running two for two--following up the Marshall--while Political Science Students Association president and Careless Cook Jason Bello brought home the second Rhodes for Columbia, ending a four-year drought. Other finalists included CCSC President Michelle Diamond, Burmactivist Geoff Aung, and the B&amp;W's own Paul Barndt (who will always be a winner in our eyes). And now for the craven competition part: Columbia beat out Yale, Penn, and Dartmouth, which got one Scholar each; tied with Harvard, Princeton, and the University of Georgia, and fell second only to Stanford's three winners (although two shared the award). Hugs and kisses all around. 
In just two days, you can have your very own copy of the Blue and White's November issue. Until then, amuse yourself with some online highlights of the magazine:&nbsp; Epidemiologist who is "not some crazy yahoo" prepares Columbia for outbreaks of Bird Flu, SARS, West Nile Virus, Bubonic Plague They say the neon lights are bright on Broadway Barnard freshpeople dislike Chaos, Symmetry "In many ways, Stephanie never left Jewish day camp." &nbsp;Paul Haggis hates nuance as much as he hates racists 
What's new in the world of dance? Bwog's resident dance specialist, Siobhan Burke, returns to answer the question. Dancers, non-dancers, musicians, people who dance/make music alone in their rooms/cars/the shower: All are invited to come out and play—with movement, with sound, and most importantly, with each other—at Sunday night’s no-experience-necessary contact improv jam session, 7–9 p.m. in Barnard’s Streng Studio. A contact improvisation jam—at least the one I attended last weekend, my first ever—is, for a dancer, like recess for a restless first-grader or playtime for one of those puppies that gets hauled to the grocery store in a purse. Next to the daily rituals of dance class, in which you basically move as you’re told, or academic work, in which your mind churns but your body stays still, an improv jam is magnificently freeing. Quite simply, your body can do what it wants, without the pressure to master, comply, or perform in any particular way. The one guiding principle—which puts the “contact” in “contact improv”—is to let movement grow out of physical touch with the people around you, to lift, nudge, embrace, and support your way through a fluid give-and-take of bodily weight. The organizing force behind Sunday-night contact improv is Lorene Bouboushian, Barnard sophomore and devoted dance collectivist. In an effort to cultivate a wide-open “creative space” for music and movement, Lorene has successfully orchestrated two jams this semester, drawing fifteen dancers and a lively drum circle to the first, and a smaller but equally eager group to the second. Encouraged by the response so far, she’s hoping that next semester, the jam can become a bimonthly gathering. (If you can’t make it this Sunday, keep an eye out for future fliers.) The key to a successful jam, Lorene says, lies in finding enough people who feel comfortable in a highly physical, improvisational setting, and who are willing to step outside the structure of a conventional class or rehearsal. A fulfilling contact experience, trite though it may seem, is mainly a matter of moving in the moment, of maintaining a ready, responsive physical awareness. That’s why, according to Lorene, the most important tool you can bring to a jam is not necessarily your dance training, but an adventurous, inquisitive attitude. “Even if you come in with little experience,” she says, “you can learn from the others who do have it. What’s important is that you come with an open mind and a willingness to listen to signals from the people around you.” Contact improv, as open-ended and widely practiced as it may be (go to Australia, Norway, or Argentina, and you can find a jam session), is steeped in theory and history. Springing from the movement studies of postmodern dancers Steve Paxton and Nancy Stark Smith, it traces its roots to the anti-establishment dance of the late sixties and early seventies. Before my first jam session last weekend, I had read about Paxton’s 1972 Magnesium, a fearlessly athletic work for eleven men catapulting (at each other) through space. I had also seen footage of Paxton and Smith dancing together in the studio, their two bodies moving like a single unit in swift, effortless symbiosis. As I warmed up pre-jam, these images of virtuosity, of expertise, came to mind, and nerves set in. Unsure of what to expect in the hours ahead, I pictured something like Magnesium coming to life right there in Streng Studio: bodies flying at each other high-speed, my own tossed around, disoriented, in an unhinged kinetic whirlwind. Of course, that’s not how it went down. While some people broke out a noticeably advanced kinesthetic vocab of full-tilt lifts and spins, others were newer to the form. Depending on the style of your partner(s), your own frame of mind, and the mood of the music, the pace could be rapid and reckless, or tempered, slow and gentle. In either case, dancers and musicians were sensitive and receptive to each other’s impulses, and Lorene’s words held true: “It’s really about learning to listen.” For many contact improv enthusiasts, one of the most exciting aspects of a jam is the potential for discovery, for invention by chance. Lorene recalls a session at American Dance Festival when two women danced palm-to-palm, trancelike, for an hour. “A lot of cool stuff can happen,” she says, “that probably won’t get repeated ever again in your life.” She also points out that while contact jams stretch the boundaries of body-to-body physicality, stillness and solitude can be just as compelling. “A jam setting doesn’t necessarily have to be about constant touching and dance. Mainly it should be a creative space, both for the dancers and the musicians.” So bring your bodies, your instruments, or both, and, as Lorene puts it, “just see what happens.” Sunday 11/18, 7-9pm, Streng Studio, Barnard Dance Annex. 
Bwog NYU correspondent W.M. Akers is back, this time with a few observations on how our neighbors to the south go out and get down.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Does Columbia have a "Sex and the City" problem? Girls at NYU, it seems, are still infatuated with the show, and those who go out regularly tend to fancy themselves as Carrie Bradshaw. Miranda was always my favorite--so sensible!--but I never see anyone dressed up in a power suit and bad teeth. Perhaps it is unfair to connect the habits of the NYU sorority crowd with a single TV show--it's possible they came upon their style as a group, convening around the start of the millenium to agree, "Okay, so it's a little black dress, high, badly bleached hair, and heels we can't quite walk in. We're wearing that three nights a week for the next decade." But they do as Carrie did, riding cabs to the coolest clubs, sipping designer cocktails and sharing anecdotes in a haze of post-feminism, which took the place of cigarettes years ago. Carrie, of course, was deft enough to enjoy both at once. As every first week freshman knows, to have fun in New York one must spend $30 to walk into a loud room where they sell $11 drinks and help you get a $20 cab home. After a few weekends most freshmen--or at least their parents--notice that such fun abuses body and wallet, and begin socializing more conservatively. The onset of cold weather poses a unique problem for those students who continue to spend their weekends on steamy dance floors. If there is a coat check it probably costs extra, and God knows you won't look cute if you don't shed the fake mink before you start to shake your thighs. The correct approach is that of a pair of coatless young students huddled outside my dorm last night, learning that cold winds grope indiscriminately. The rational clubgoer dresses for heat, avoiding the biting cold during the few the minutes it takes to hail a cab. They shivered, hunched over, tried to catch a driver's attention and lost him to a couple wearing sensible shoes. When I finally moved on, our pair was clomping towards the stolen cab, expressing their disgruntlement in full voice. Down the street at La Esquina, hungry predators waited for tacos and watched the miniature drama. These creatures--the stumbling and the staring--are good specimens of a nightlife tadpole. As they grow--note that the word "mature" is inappropriate--they will become more assured and less excited about their excursions. They may go out less often, but with stronger sense of purpose. Many will fail to reach full growth, passing instead to a dating lifestyle of take-out Chinese and Blockbuster rentals. But for those who develop fully, a thrilling, if tawdry, life awaits them. Take, for instance, a couple I passed a few Fridays ago, shuffling home after two in the morning. From head to toe the woman had perfect conformation, not attractive so much as well-executed: gently curled hair, flesh-pinching silver dress, the works. She marched, shoulders back and with eyes looking at neither the sidewalk nor her mongrel boyfriend. Now, I am ever amused by the success or failure of women in this city to walk in high heels. For a man amazed that they even make shoes like that, much less that anyone can strut in them, there is no better exhibition than the sidewalks of SoHo on late weekend nights. Whenever I see a woman walking steadily, I have to see what height shoes she can manage. I turned to check out this woman's footwear and when I looked back up, disappointed by the gentle slope of her heels, her boyfriend was glaring at me, hollering unintelligibly about, I suppose, keeping my eyes off his baby. A casual interest in insane footwear almost got me punched in the nose, and all because this simp's girlfriend keeps her feet so near her ass. I hope, Bwog readers, that you appreciate the risks I take for you. 
 Tucked away on the Upper East Side, deep within the recesses of the Neue Galerie, you'll find Cafe Sabarsky, an authentic Viennese pastry shop named for its founder. The brunch line stretches out the door of the Galerie onto 5th Ave., so if you go on a Sunday, arrive early with a book or friend in tow to keep you occupied. The interior is dark and wooden, the tables white marble. Lucky patrons get to dine in upholstered booths in front of bay windows with a view into Central Park. The menu is full of winter soups, exotic breads, and more variations on coffee that I thought were possible--I had the relatively simple steamed cream and espresso served on a tray with a tiny glass of water, presumably to clear my palate for the main course. The standard Journal and Times are accompanied by decor-appropriate German newspapers, all free to take to read with brunch. They actually come with old-fashioned newspaper page holders, which I never figured out how to use, but enjoyed just the same. The clientele is largely foreign, which I take as a good sign of the Cafe's purported authenticity. Comfort-brunchers hoping to stick with waffles/OJ/eggs should probably beware. The menu is delicious and eclectic (I chose avocado stuffed with crab meat and cherry tomatoes), but those who find 2:00 PM is a bit early for crab might want to stick with Deluxe. &nbsp; College students beware: it's pricey, but a true pleasantry. A good place to go with your parents, or your significant other and his or her parents. And though the foods are a bit heavy compared with usual M'side brunch fare, walk it off by heading down Museum Mile or wandering around the Neue. - JNW 
At approximately 4:30 AM last night, the students chosen to be in the 114th Annual Varsity Show's cast were inducted into Columbia's oldest theatrical tradition in the customary way - by getting hit in the face with pies. Around 70 people total auditioned, as opposed to 85 in '06. Fewer people auditioning didn't make the casting process any easier, though; producers Jeff Schwartz and Erin Byrne tell Bwog that "the creative team deliberated last night for almost 9 hours straight." Without further ado, here's the cast:&nbsp; CAST Kieron Cindric, CC '08 Sarah Dooley, BC '11 Lauren Glover, BC '09 Laura Kleinbaum, CC '08 Tobin Mitnick, CC '10 Will Snider, CC '09 Michael Snyder, CC' '10 CHORUS Zach Dyer, CC '11 Emily Fisch, BC '11 Allie Paddock, CC '10 Sophie Ragir, BC '10 Michael Seaman, SEAS '10 Jenny Vallancourt, BC '11 &nbsp; 
 Well, at least we had a better season than the Dolphins Latest controversy over; Columbians forced to direct frustration, sense of disenfranchisement, seething anger elsewhere Might we recommend the MTA? Revenge is yours,&nbsp;frustrated calculus students--Newton&nbsp;died a virgin Willie Nelson wins Rhodes Scholarship 
 It's been under construction for months, and the waiting is about to end: on January 22, CUArts will officially open the new Lerner Box Office, which Outreach coordinator Chad Miller says is meant to be the organization's "physical presence on campus." They'll have paid staffers to sell tickets for shows both at Columbia and in the city, freeing up student groups from organizing people to man the booth. Look out for the launch party as the week approaches.&nbsp; Meanwhile, check out Barnard's new-ish box office blog, which has opportunities for free and discount shows as tickets come up for grabs. Never pay full price for Broadway again! Use the extra dough to feed a stagehand. 
 Or so fear the Columbians behind StudentsPrepAmerica, a new website aimed at preparing you for a plague of Seventh Seal-like proportions. Yet death won't be privy to long, philosophical chess games on the beach this time around: according to the folks over at StudentsPrep (CC seniors Justin Kamen, Alex Diacou and Chris Baratta, for the curious), she'll come at you hard and fast: their meticulously footnoted homepage notes that "flu spreads incredibly quickly," and predicts, among other things, labor shortages, widespread chaos, and a disproportionate number of dead college-age kids. Who's to save us from the oncoming carnage? Why you, dear student--or as the STA folks put it, "..we, the young, educated students of the nation, who will inherit the future and have the most to lose, who must inform and prepare the nation." Of course it's very hard to conceive of events so catastrophic, and, at the present time, so hypothetical (yes, I just linked to my own article. Pandemic&nbsp;flu happens to be an interest of mine.&nbsp;Get over it). But Bwog is weirdly gratified to know that a few of our peers aren't taking any chances. And med students, epidemiologists and flu enthusiasts (enflusiasts?): feel free to give this the Bwog peer review. -ARR 
 Because they're sooooo similar, not in terms of theme and content mind you, but because we so love them both. Hugs all around. Firstly, Jester (with a cool new website!): "Constant, murderous raping" (page 8) Children: they're not that special! (page 9) The most useful thing Jester has ever published (page 14) National stereotyping, with guns! (page 20) Morton Williams ad not very funny (page 25) Y'know, I was wondering that myself. I mean, they really shouldn't be able to, should they? But then again, they wouldn't really be&nbsp;exploiting or causing pain to another living creature--quite the opposite, in most situations.&nbsp;What say you, vegans?&nbsp;(page 26) And lastly: It's the OxyClean that does it for me White people: a field guide The most useful thing the Fed has ever published Guns! Escorts! And enough general hilarity to brighten up a morbidly gray, late&nbsp;November afternoon! 
 We know this because they have alerted&nbsp;Bwog&nbsp;of their "free organic Thanksgiving dinner," and to the fact that&nbsp;they're a "special interest community that actually does something besides give itself sweet housing." Like feed you! So&nbsp;"stop by EC townhouse H604 at 8 pm for turkey, stuffing, potatoes, pie and all the other excellent Thanksgiving fare!" And do it guilt-free. This is the Health House, after all. 
 A review of yesterday's performance of Book I of the Iliad. Because Bwogger Kurt Kanazawa apparently didn't get enough Homer in Lit Hum. Yesterday in Low Library, The Aquila Theater Company, which was invited to Columbia by the Center for Core Curriculum and the CU Arts Initiative, presented a staged reading of the first book of the Iliad, and gave an innovative, dramatic interpretation of the book that has helped define Columbia College since the Core's inception. &nbsp;The realities of ancient Greek war were performed upon a bare stage with only seven actors, seven scripts, four empty bins, minimalist lighting, and a booming stereo system. &nbsp;The audience of Lit Hum and CC students and faculty encircled a large cloth mat in the center of the Rotunda – and while there were a few chairs at the periphery, students with pillows and cushions watched from the edge of the stage.&nbsp; While the actors held scripts for the entire performance, this didn't detract from the intense and gripping effect of the show.&nbsp; The first word of dialogue wasn't spoken until 5 minutes into the performance--as soon as the lights dimmed, 4 soldiers, symbolically dressed in World War II uniforms, marched in a slow-motion formation onto the stage, all while a low pitched battle horn sounded in the background. &nbsp;Four bins were set up to create a low doorway through which soldiers and civilians entered the space, crawling onto the "battlefield."&nbsp; A riveting charade--involving a burly Agamemnon, the Briseis and other Lit Hum faves--came to a climactic conclusion as the actors screamed "RAGE!"at the top of their lungs. They picked up their scripts at the edge of the stage, introducing Homer's verse to a World War II-era setting. The acting was excellent, and slow-motion sequences, as well as the physicality of the performers evoked the disturbing and harrowing atmosphere of war. &nbsp;In the Q &amp; A session that followed, Aquila Artistic Director Peter Meinick addressed this quality of the production.&nbsp; He acknowledged that film, more than any other genre, has shaped our generation, so it is appropriate to employ cinematic elements like dramatic slow-motion to convey the epic urgency of the story. &nbsp;He even speculated that if Homer were alive today, he would be making movies – Meinick believes that the mythic quality our culture associates with film helps achieve a modern-day equivalent of the effect that Homer created through his storytelling.&nbsp; This won't be Aquila's last attempt at making Homer's millenia-old epic relevant for a modern audience: The company plans to do a complete staging of an abridged Iliad sometime in 2008. 
 In this headline, the word "better" has three t's Food smuggling trade presumably unaffected Backstreet's back (?)... alright.&nbsp; NY Department of Education goes down a letter grade&nbsp; Yale at "Tolerance Rally" stage, while noose fad just hitting midwest&nbsp; Plus: Here's what the Brits are hearing about Manhattanville&nbsp; Coming up today on Bwog: Ask Bwog Holiday travel tips Dispatches from abroad &nbsp; 
In which Bwog correspondent Alex Weinberg survives to tell the tale. A few weeks ago, I found a small postcard on 114th Street. It read "No Dew, Nor Rain / No Pain, No Gain: A Three Year Boycott of Harlem," and it explained that the Honorable James David Manning PhD, head of ATLAH World Missionary Church on 123rd Street, is calling for a boycott of his own neighborhood in order to save it from gentrification. Suffocating Harlem's businesses and forcing its people into homelessness will prevent it from being destroyed, according to a leap of logic that could only be advocated by a true man of God.&nbsp; &nbsp; After perusing the website and watching some of his videos, I knew I had to witness the madness firsthand. Last Thursday night, I strolled to 123rd and Lenox for an open sermon about the boycott. &nbsp; Let it be known that there is nothing like the sight of armed Black Panthers to remind you of your completely irrational fear of armed Black Panthers, several of whom had attended the event for the specific purposes of standing and looking angry. As I approached them, I imagined my poor Ma receiving my corpse in the mail. She would insist that I have a gravestone that reads "Alex Weinberg: shot in the mouth because he is a damn moron." There would be nobody to write this article, and there would be nobody to change my Facebook status to "dead."&nbsp; &nbsp; Even as images of my imminent death accumulated in my mind, I kept walking toward the entrance along with the general flow of people. The door closed behind me, and now I was in the church vestibule. One thing you don't learn in SEAS is that when a Black Panther greets you with, "Peace", the correct way to respond is, "Peace," not, "Oh, um. Well hello, friend." After a tense moment, a black non-panther wordlessly took my coat and led me to a pew where I waited for the start of the sermon. &nbsp; &nbsp; A man came on stage and said a long and hearty prayer to open. I noticed the people all around me were saying their "amens" and "Hallelujahs" and the like. I had never been in a church ceremony in my life and I felt that it would be in everyone's best interest for me to fit in, so I began shouting and praying along with everyone else. It felt both phony and necessary, and it made me wonder if any those people who drank chloral hydrate flavored Kool-Aid in Jonestown were just doing it so that they wouldn't seem rude. &nbsp; &nbsp; Soon, The Honorable James David Manning PhD came on stage to lay out his plan for the boycott. "European invaders," he explained, have long envied Harlem for its stately brownstones, spacious sidewalks, low cost of living, and ample transportation. In recent years, local residents have been displaced as rising housing demand drives up rents. In order to halt this march of gentrification, Manning wants neighborhood residents to boycott all "white businesses" and spend money only at "righteous establishments." (He used the words "black" and "righteous" interchangeably.) People should only shop at black businesses, use black banks, and live in black-owned buildings. In doing so, the wealth created by Harlem would be kept strictly within Harlem, and outsiders would be economically starved out of the neighborhood. &nbsp; &nbsp; Though his preservationist intention is noble and his love of Harlem undeniable, Pastor Manning’s boycott is a terrible idea and thankfully it will never happen. Regardless, his speech left me wondering whether it was even a fair thing to ask: When I left the church that night and hustled back through the gaze of the Black Panthers, I knew that Pastor Manning was referring to me when he railed against the "invader." As a white person, I know better than to trust white people, but I still don't think it's wise to discount a race of people just because they happen to be the ones building condo towers. I love Harlem and I don't mean to invade the place. I just want to stroll around, eat pizza, buy my pomade, and get completely embarrassed in streetball.&nbsp;Deal? 
 Technologically-advanced changes are afoot for CUID holders and their card-swiping security guards. A new scanning system, (in which instead of a swipe, the security guard “hovers” the ID over a card-reading machine) is already in place in many of the libraries, and heading to Butler imminently. John Jay residents also may have noticed the phasing-out of the swipe. Recalls one such resident, “I noticed this morning that the student swiping cards in at the security desk had not been taking IDs but just looking at the IDs and letting students through.” Reports are circulating of a small (seemingly inactivated) machine sitting on the security desk in Jay—perhaps a tool of this new-fangled Hovercraft Access? The Hovercraft was installed in Claremont last night and is already in place in Woodbridge and naturally already causing problems. “It’s actually a problem because it doesn’t work and you need to swipe (now scan, I guess) to even get in the building.” Meanwhile, one Barnard student reports that when her ID was accidentally swiped by a Claremont security guard, she gained swipe/hover access to all of the Columbia dorms. "I hope I have SIPA access, too," she said. SIPA access: the Great Columbian Dream. - JNW 
Bwog wanted to know why winter break is an absurdly long (some might even argue unnecessarily long) 31 days this year. Bwog Webmaster and calendar analyst extraordinaire Zach van Schouwen points out several factors that contribute to augmentation of 2007's Winter Break—which is a seven day increase from last year’s reasonably-sized 24 day break. &nbsp; This year January 21st is MLK day, meaning that Martin Luther King’s birthday (observed) is six days later than Martin Luther King’s birthday (actual). Jesus’ birthday (observed) is on a Tuesday, which means an early exam week.&nbsp; This trend will continue next year as well. The combination of Martin Luther King’s and Jesus’ well-timed birthdays means 31 days of break—and that’s without accounting for the fact that many students leave well before the final exam day. It’s quite possible that if your only exams are on Friday the 14th (the first day of finals week), you will have 39 days of winter break this year. 
We brought you dispatches from Mongolia and Bolivia -- now it's back to South America, where a Bwog friend in Chile has some unvarnished tales of her time abroad.&nbsp; I'm sitting in the bar I go to every Friday, sipping extremely cheap wine and chatting with a friend and some new acquaintances. The bar is called The Library, and its walls are covered in a mural of a bookcase, posters of Alf and a giant portrait of Violeta Parra. The music alternates between Spice Girls, Andean folk music and reggaeton, which, combined with the jar of wine I've just managed, is making me feel a little schizophrenic. Or maybe it's that my friend keeps changing languages on me - he's learning English translation and keeps prodding me with phrases. I'm going to the toilet! he screams over the music, and leaves me with his buddies who I am meeting for the first time. So, um, why La Serena? is the first thing they ask me. During the first few months I would have told them that I chose to study here because of the beaches, the relative lack of foreign students, the small class sizes in the university, or the tranquil ambiance that hovers over the budding summer destination five hours north of Santiago. But now, after three months of getting to know this town, I tell them I have no fucking clue. This tends to produce a better reaction from my new acquaintances because disliking La Serena is something they can understand. For the majority of students in this town, Chile is the buttcrack of the world, of which La Serena is a concentrated representation. There is a strange sort of social oppression in this country. I've gradually realized that the hatred and frustration I feel towards many Chileans is cultural insensitivity on my part--the knowledge is hidden and sort of seeps in, in a way that's made me feel for months that I've been inflicting it on myself. I think it all started the night that I had a conversation about sexual orientation with my ex-host-dad, Otto, and the other student boarder in that house, Diego, a Chilean. The two key points of this conversation are as follows: 1. Otto, a 50-something who works on the administrative side of the Chilean park service, told me that he does not hire someone he suspects of being gay because it is a risk to the other workers, despite the illegality of this type of discrimination in Chile. 2. I refused to tell Diego and Otto my sexual orientation on principal because, I said, my bedroom practices and partners are none of their business. This bugged them for about a week, during which they asked me all sorts of questions to try to get the juicy information out of me - even telling me all of their sexual escapades in an effort to get me to open up. "Sex is out in the open here in Chile," Otto said to me one night. "Yeah, especially Lesbians!" Diego added. I started to hate their combination of homophobia and fascination with lesbians. Otto treated me like an idiot most of the time and Diego hit on me, asking me to have threesomes with his girlfriend and encouraging me to try anal sex. I didn't fall victim to the machismo behavior - I could keep up with them in a debate and did not tolerate Otto's attempts to lecture me like a child. But living with them drove me nuts. After two months of taking their shit, along with almost getting raped by Diego--an incident that the family chose to blame on the slutty American girl--I finally told Otto's wife that I couldn't stand to live with them anymore. She looked at me stupidly and said, "Otto's not machista. We women have to stick together in these things." "I guess I just have problems with men," I said. "Evade them!" I will never know whether she meant that I should evade the problems or the men, because that night she kicked me out of the house. Being roomless in La Serena is a great way to make friends. It's something most students here have experienced--a boy in one of my classes has lived in ten houses during the three years he's been going to school here. Everyone knows someone with a great story about having to change houses, and everyone wants you to live with them. It's a little bit like talking about apartments in New York, but more intense because most students move in with family units. For me, living in a family's home was an incredible situation to be in after four years of dorms. I was living with a catholic woman, her pig of a husband, their 13 year old daughter who wanted to know everything I would tell her about sex, and Diego, who refused to speak to me after that night when he fed me a half liter of vodka and then forced himself on me. I didn't know what to do with myself and I think this is mostly because of the strange duality of oppressiveness and openness about sex here - a duality that carries over into the whole culture in La Serena. Newspapers and magazines are full of topless women; sex is on TV in all its forms; young people have sex through their clothes in broad daylight in the plazas that dot the city. But Chile is just the opposite of a hedonistic love society. I think more than anything, there is a combination of religious conservativism and attempts at being modern that came after military dictatorship. Case in point: no one seems to know whether prostitution is legal in this country or not. The ads in newspapers for sexi university students and Otto tell me it is legal and the girls in my classes who will start teaching high school sex-ed in a few years say it's not. I finally had to ask a lawyer, who assured me that prostitution is legal - the government even has medical assistance for women who choose to work in that field. But people operate on the assumption that it is illegal. A strange state of affairs--and one that is disproportionately unfair to women. In an article on the increasing promiscuity in underage discotecas here, one 13-year-old interviewed summed it up nicely: a girl can touch and kiss lots of other boys in the clubs if she wants to, but she shouldn't do it too much, or guys will think she's a slut. And even though public places are host to all sorts of sordid practices (Chileans don't usually move out of the house until they get married, making motels, bars and public parks the sexual spaces), if a female is too open about sex she is looked down upon. That's why most women I've talked to say they would never request their partner to wear a condom or get tested for STDs. That's why Diego and Otto couldn't get enough of talking to me about sex, and why when an American friend of mine (male) was hooking up with a Chilean woman, she told him "We are not going to have sex," and then proceeded to make it happen. A senorita does not have sex, or at least she should pretend she doesn't, even though society today has gotten rid of most of the good reasons for this advice. I've managed to make myself into a rebel in this country because I'm not willing to let guys treat me like a sex object, but neither am I going to be covert about my sexual operations. I haven't dated anyone here yet, and when Chilean girls ask me why, I tell them that Chilean guys don't want me. This is a lie. As a Caucasian blonde, I am exactly what Chilean men want. But once they start to talk to me, hear me explain in low-toned Spanish that I miss English because I can't be perverted in Spanish, that back in New York I work for a Sex Education program, that my best friend and I email one another erotica by Anais Nin, and I want to be a gynecologist, yes a doctor, and no, I don't have a boyfriend back in the states, but we should go on a date some time - they've already started searching around the room for someone with a shorter skirt and longer hair. Which brings me back to The Library, where I've encountered a few bartenders who keep good company and don't treat me like a member of the inferior sex. I usually show up after midnight and stay till five, set up at the bar next to the Dominican immigrant who happens to dance like a dream, order cheese empanadas or a hot dog with avocado, and chat with these relaxed 20-something gentlemen. I haven't really figured out yet what makes them different. Perhaps it's because they aren't allowed to hit on someone while on the job, or maybe it's because they're not originally from La Serena - a place they call ugly and empty, a tourist city that dies in the winter months. Or maybe it has something to do with their openness about sex in general. I'm still a virgin, one of them, age 23, told me, and I'm not really interested in having sex - it's just not on my agenda yet. I tell him I don't know many men like him. He shrugs and we move on to something else - education, poetry, broken hearts, ghosts, sadness - those universal things that everyone seems to talk about in solidarity, late at night. 
 As campus is slowly emptying out for Thanksgiving, Penn Station and JFK are filling up. Bwog has asked some experienced travelers for advice on having a safe, cheap and relatively painless journey home. Bon voyage! How to decide upon the lesser of the three evils: train, bus or car? "I'm going to Western Massachusetts, and booked a train two weeks ago to get there (already most days were filled up) and am booking a Greyhound bus today to get back. I figure the roads will be worse on Thursday—making Amtrak convenient—but not so bad in the middle of the day on Sunday, making the bus more flexible and economical." "If you live in Philly or its environs, any Chinatown bus during holiday season will be packed with everyone you went to high school with.&nbsp; NJ Transit, though a foul, foul beast, is a less awkward experience.&nbsp; I plan to take a very early (7:14) train on Thurs. morning, which will get me into 30th Street at 9:30 am.&nbsp; I hear Thurs. morning NJ Transit trains are pretty empty." "If your parents are visiting tell them to avoid the LIE at all costs." "Penn Station is a ghost town past 1:30 in the morning." "Triboro Bridge to Columbia all the way. And the secret best route to all points north (holidays only) is to take 155th St to the Harlem River Drive to the GW Bridge to the Palisades Parkway. Even to Connecticut. Even to Iceland." &nbsp; So you've chosen to ride the bus: "If you're taking a bus, get a bus that leaves from Penn Station rather than Chinatown, you save a lot of time in transit on the Subway." "I typically go to my uncle's farmhouse outside of Hagerstown, Pennsylvania; it always takes a ride on Beiber Bus, which leaves from the Port Authority Bus Terminal in a stink, invariably. It would probably be intelligent to bring potourri or patchouli along with, just in case. Or, if you don't have to go to small-town Pennsylvania, to take Fung Wah for better-smelling buses. Additionally, one must make a point of purchasing tickets at the counter, rather than at the electronic machine: Nobody can explain it, but there are no monitors showing bus departure gates at the PABT. Only the ticket ladies know; that is how they maintain their power." "The secret of taking Chinatown buses is that the ones that leave from Flushing are less crowded (and harder to plan)." "The secret of the Port Authority is that while the bathrooms claim that there are 'Plainclothes cops on duty', after 8 PM it's strictly crack addicts. The real secret of the Port Authority is that the pizza place on the mezzanine level has garlic knots and free ice water." "Fung Wah = death." LIRR "I've always taken the train home to Long Island from Penn on Wednesdays, usually in the later afternoon, and it is always packed. Always. They run more trains, but still every year I've ended up having to stand the whole way home." NJ Transit "There are a few days during the year (around the 4th of July, Thanksgiving, etc.) in which the car is as full as it could get. Literally. Avoid NJ Transit the day before a holiday. If you live that close, your parents should give you a ride (goddamn them)!" Metro North "Full of Wall Street types going to Greenwich, Westport, Fairfield, etc., but nice and empty by the time it gets to New Haven! As a side note: the last time I took the train home, at rush hour, a 60-something-year-old very well dressed and professional looking man actually punched me because I accidentally nudged him with my rolling suitcase. I was so shocked I didn't even say anything, just gaped and rolled on." "It took me a really long time to realize that if you're taking metro north anywhere (Westchester or CT), it makes much more sense to take the M60 or a cab up to 125th street station than to go all the way to Grand Central, unless traffic is really bad, which it can be." Amtrak "The secret of departing from Penn Station via Amtrak is to hang around the Red Cap counter, so you know what gate your train is departing on in advance. If you sneak around the NJ Transit level, you can sometimes get to the track before anybody else does (including the train)." "Take late-night Amtraks from Penn Station; if you take it late enough, you don't lose a night out, and the fare is much cheaper.&nbsp; Then, you get to walk through an empty Penn Station, and if you live in a city that's the center of a metropolitan area, you get to see the commuters taking the morning train to work. Of course, you can't get express, but if it works out for your schedule it's pretty good, and you can have a bench to yourself to sleep until you get to the commuters." "Don’t wait until the last minute! Slack just a couple of hours (i.e. buy your ticket less than like, 6 hours in advance) and a $60 bargain turns into a $92 rip-off. Granted, this is, $30 cheaper than usual, but still." Airports and Planes "If you're flying out LaGuardia, take that M60 for 2 dollars. It's a nice ride, too, visually speaking."&nbsp; "Use Mobissimo to find discounted flights, but then go to the airline's website and book the flight directly through the airline. Those services usually just search for cheap flights that are offered by the airline, so you can bypass their convenience charge that way." "Don’t take a taxi to the airport, whatever you do." "I hear it's much faster to fly out of Newark than out of JFK if home is out West.&nbsp; Like it's one stop away from Penn Station on NJ Transit, which is much more palatable than the epic subway ride on the A out to the hinterlands of Queens." "For the flyers, JetBlue is cheap out of New York, and as far as I've been able to find out, not listed at all on the sites most people use to scan for cheap tickets. And if you want to go to Europe, you can still go round trip for under $550 with only twenty-four hours to go: book on Air India to London and then get RyanAir or EasyJet from there." "Don’t take the A to JFK. It's much better to switch for Times Square, hop onto the E, and take it out to Jamaica Center, which only takes like 22 minutes. (This is also the airport's recommended route from all uptown points). The A is an endless slog to hell, and you don't even get to ride the one good part: the two-mile causeway across Jamaica Bay." 
If you've got a question about Manhattanville, and you're looking for an answer that won't make Columbia look great, talk to Andrew Lyubarsky. The CC junior led the talks with Executive Vice President Maxine Griffith over six "points of compromise" on expansion that, in a Spec op-ed, he characterized as "completely unproductive." Bwog sat down with Lyubarsky to ask a few questions about how it all happened. Refer to our Manhattanville Decoder for help with the jargon. Bwog: The strike obviously began a long time before two weeks ago, laying the groundwork for what you would demand from Columbia. What went into formulating the six points that you eventually presented to Maxine Griffith? Andrew: The six points were come up with by the negotiators in conjunction with community members, some of whom were on the community board, some of which were on the local development corporation. Students on the expansion issue at least were never acting autonomously of the community’s desires. The original demands on the expansion basically came up both through the Student Coalition on Expansion and Gentrification and its work with the community, as well as the series of town halls that occurred this semester and last semester in response to the race incidents on campus. Expansion was an issue that was constantly brought up in those forums. The original plan, that the only way to be representative of the community is to pull the 197c plan, came out of the community board’s 32-2 vote in August. It rejected Columbia’s plan unless it met the 10 conditions of the 197a plan. Throughout this entire movement, we wanted to make sure we were representative of the community’s desires and didn’t go off on our own thing. So then I’m puzzled, because of the e-mail Jordi Reyes-Montblanc sent out on November 7, asking you not to strike. How is that being representative of the community? Well, the first thing—and this is what I told Jordi—is that the strike wasn’t purely about the expansion, that there were curricular issues involved, and that the strike would go on without the expansion. And the second thing is that basically we didn’t have a tactical agreement with the chairman of the community board, there were other community members that were supportive of us, there were activist groups that were supportive of us, there were members of the LDC that were supportive of us, and even Jordi in his e-mail said he was supportive of our goals. So you’re saying he was not being representative of the community board’s decision in asking you to withdraw your demand. There was no community board meeting on the strike, this was his personal opinion. So he was going against what his community board wanted by doing that. There was no discussion of the strike with the community board, but we consulted with community board members in formulating our demands and our points of compromise. But there was no formal meeting or formal decision made by the community board, so community board members are free to make their own decisions, including the chairman. Did you inform them that you were intending to use these tactics to achieve these demands that you’d agreed on? Once again, there was no formal meeting of the community board, but we informed members of the community board, including obviously Jordi, because he sent us that e-mail. We informed all the relevant community leaders that this was going on, and some were supportive, and some believed it wasn’t the right tactic. One thing I’m curious about is a lack of an environmental point in what you asked for, since I do think it’s a large concern of some students on this campus, how the development is going to look in terms of energy and sustainability. Was that every thought about? Well, the original demand is to withdraw the 197c plan and revise it along the 10 points presented by Community Board 9, some of which deal with environmental issues, such as the biotech lab. The points of compromise were basically what we believed the administration would compromise on within the limited time frame of the hunger strike. We basically thought that the administration had committed so many resources to the project that trying to get them to say up their buildings from LEEDs silver to LEEDs platinum would be something that could not heave been achievable. What we didn’t understand was how recalcitrant the university would be—they literally would not yield on any single one of our points. But our fundamental position, and we let the administration know in every meeting, even where we presented our points of compromise, is that they really should withdraw their plan and revise it with the assumptions of the 197a plan and the ten points presented in August, which do have environmental components. Considering that the University has at several points made conscious decisions to go ahead with this plan, and not conform it to the community’s delineated points, what made you think that students and five people going hungry could make that happen? Was that a realistic assumption? Did you consider that an achievable goal from the start? We had reasons to not have good faith in the administration, but basically we were aware that a hunger strike was a dramatic escalation of prior tactics, and we hoped that there would be some leverage with the expansion administrators. Basically they drew a Chinese wall between expansion and the academic administrators, and while the academic administrators did engage in the process—that could be described as a negotiation process—and were receptive to the concerns we were bringing forth, the expansion team was simply not. This doesn’t end with the hunger strike, this continues, and we’ll have to see where we go from here. One of the things I heard during the negotiations is how Maxine Griffith is bound by the process, she can’t make concessions to an outside group, when these things are being negotiated currently with the LDC. Would you have expected the administration to go outside of these legal restrictions? No, no, we’re fully aware of what the LDC process is and we respect that, but we also feel that students are constituents of the university, through its expansion process, and we feel that as constituents of the university, we can demand that they bring certain things to the table. If you look carefully at the points we presented that had to do with the LDC, only a couple, the ones dealing with education and housing, we were demanding that the university come to the table with certain things. We weren’t demanding that the negotiations be public, we were simply demanding that the university represent our position in these negotiations , which is certainly within the legal process. You speak of students as a constituency. I know this question was asked by Nina Bell and answered by Bryan Mercer , but how can you lay claim to representing the entire school, or even a significant percentage of the students, when there was no vote taken, and I know there were town halls, which maybe 50 people showed up to— We don’t really claim to represent a majority of the school, but I feel that no organization can. Honestly, I think that I’d prefer to refer you to Bryan’s e-mail, I think he explained it very well. The Manhattanville issue is such a technical issue, it basically requires a specialized and specialist knowledge for students to be active and involved. And as such, it’s not an issue that you can really get a deep level of involvement from vast sectors of the campus unless they’re mobilized by a smaller group. So specifically on the Manhattanville issue, but also in general, there is no group that can claim to represent all students. Not even an elected student council? I don’t feel even a student council necessarily can do that. But at least a student council is something that’s set up to represent the students, right? I mean yes, but— Do you feel that it doesn’t? If so, why? I don’t want to get into this discussion. OK. Was the student council ever reached out to, in terms of getting buy-in on this? Yes, of course, CCSC supported us in most of our demands. On, like, the eighth day of the strike. And they didn’t take a position on expansion. That’s true, that’s their own internal decision, but they were reached out to from the very first day. In what way? Conversations with CCSC members. Were they not receptive to specifically the expansion element? We allowed them to make their own decision. They have their own committee on the expansion, they’re allowed to make their own decisions. Some of the things that were asked—were you aware of them being in the works already? Things like students in the community having access to Columbia resources—hasn’t the university already been working on that? Anything out of that demand would have required a lot more negotiation, and basically the administration’s position is that they wouldn’t commit to anything, that they would just go through the LDC process. One of the things that we were asking for in the education demand is that there be a specialized program set up for students in the community that would be able to access course auditing privileges and library access and things of that nature. We were hoping that would go beyond Columbia-administered schools and Columbia-administered programs to something broader. But again, negotiations on that didn’t really happen. She basically said she didn’t have the power to commit to that in this meeting. She basically said that negotiations on that were ongoing with the LDC and that it was not her place to negotiate with students, even though as constituents of the university we have a role in determining what the University should bring to the table in such negotiations. What power do you think that Griffith actually has in granting these requests? She has rather significant power. She’s not the only one; she correctly characterized that there was a team involving herself, Robert Kasdin, and Lee Bollinger, but I believe she is a full member of that team with power. We would&nbsp; have liked to have other people at the table, like Robert Kasdin, as well, but Maxine Griffith has legitimate power in this University, or at least she has direct access to those that do. So you’ve characterized the negotiations as being entirely unproductive. Was there anything good that came out of them? An understanding of how recalcitrant the university is on this issue, despite the fact that the university was in a situation of heightened tension, they were still unwilling to negotiate with students. They treated it like an information session. Is there perhaps merit to the argument that the planning process is so far advanced that it would be backtracking to change the elements of that? If you look at the six points of compromise, they’re filly accomodatable within the process. Our whole argument is not that Columbia shouldn’t expand, it’s that Columbia should be receptive and considerate of the local concerns of the expansion. Housing was part of the six points, wasn’t it? Yes, basically we argued that the dollar amount of the housing set up in their separate agreement with Scott Stringer set a ridiculously low floor for what should be negotiated with the Local Development Corporation, I’ve heard that out of the mouths of people involved in the process. So one of our points was that the floor should be set a lot higher. So what about news coverage that says the number is getting a lot higher? The argument is that separate agreements cut with politicians such as Scott Stringer undermin the LDC’s bargaining position, that was one of our points, that Columbia should not seek such agreements in the future, but rather should negotiate directly with the LDC.&nbsp; The fact that they’re able to reach this agreement with Stringer set an artificially low floor to begin with. We’re not under the impression that that is necessarily the number that will stand in the end, but we think that the base point of negotiations should be a lot higher than that. Do you think that Griffith or anyone else would have been willing to make it more of a negotiation had there been some sort of demonstration of broader student support? Based on my experience, there actually is a broad level of support for demands surrounding Manhattanville. I say this out of canvassing dorms with the Student Coalition on Expansion and Gentrification, and finding that if you actually talk to students about the problems with the plan, they’re generally supportive. So I really think the University is really entrenched in its mindset, and it would take a lot to change that. So where from here? That’s not an answer that I have. We’re going to debrief and decide that later. What I do know is that we’re not going to just go quietly and forget about all this, but where from here, I can’t speculate. Cool. Anything else that needs to be said? Well I think that one of the most important things that came out of this was a sense of really strong social cohesion and solidarity among the people that were planning these. People really came together, and I think that no matter what happens in the future, that’s one of the most positive things that will come out of this. The sense of frustration that we saw in the Town Halls coalesced, and I think that we can keep that going after the strike. Do you feel like the general student body is pretty up on these issue? I think we need to do a lot more outreach, and we plan to do that. We don’t want to close off anyone from conversation, and I don’t believe we’ve ever willingly demonized anyone who disagrees with us as a racist or anything like that. Why do you think people get that impression? I think there was a backlash that among strike organizers at a lot of the insensitive comments that occurred on the Bwog and other publications, which I think that could legitimately be characterized as racist, and our frustration with those comments was overplayed to reflect a frustration with the broader student body that simply wasn’t there…but we want to remain open to conversation, and we want students to be up on this issue. Interview by Lydia DePillis Photos courtesy of David Zhou 
The day the strike ended, a motley group of students put together a list of questions for the strike team to answer. Avi Alpert, CC '06, and Bryan Mercer, CC '07, have now done so, posted below unedited by Bwog. Alpert, responding to questions posed earlier by Nina Bell, emphasizes that while he was not a hunger striker and does not speak for them, he supported their efforts. Mercer was a striker from the start. Get comfy, kids, it's a long one. From Alpert: 1) (On whether the strikers have general support from the student body) To answer the question honestly, we do not believe that any such data exists, or could be compiled accurately and scientifically by undergraduate students without advanced training in statistics. (Certainly the numbers of a Facebook group do not constitute such a study.) More importantly, however, we are not sure that this is in fact the real question at the heart of the matter. It is not clear, within the confines of the university, that Centers for the study of gender, African-American studies or human rights would have been created based on majority student interest. Quite frankly, it's not clear that less popular majors (such as statistics, Slavic languages or dance) would exist either if this were the sole criterion. Columbia, as a self-proclaimed "global university," supports research not just because of universal student demand, but also because of an intellectual responsibility to the expansion of knowledge. Thus, in making these demands, the students speak not only to their personal experiences and desires, but, equally, to the demands that scholarship be accountable to an ever expanding and complicated world. We might also answer this question historically, noting that movements for marginalized groups (Women's Suffrage, Civil Rights, etc.), are, by definition, unpopular at first, and must be fought for without majority influence. The question of general support should no more be put to these students in asking for their demands than it should have been put to blacks in the South. (Of course, rapacious bloggers, these are vastly different situations, but the analogy of a group on the margins remains the same.) This is, in turn, an answer to another part of the question regarding the right of these protestors to "impose" their views. We will not say simply that they have a right to free speech, but, more forcefully, that they have a duty to bring these issues to light. Issues discussed in ethnic studies, from colonialism to race to gender, are fundamental to how we live. These issues do not disappear when we ignore them. There is a lack of knowledge for students to address questions of race and colonialism. The angered reactions that the strikers have faced prove their very point: Columbia is failing to train students who understand the complex political issues of the modern world. Suffice it to say that there are extreme gaps in your knowledge of the modern world that a course in "contemporary civilization" should have put on all our radar screen's. We should know, at the very least, that racism is not only epithets and actions, but is also symbolic and often unconscious.&nbsp; The hunger strikers have been working with this knowledge to combat racism across the spheres of its appearance in society. Finally, it must be remembered that these demands are a response. As Malcolm X said, "We didn't land on Plymouth Rock, Plymouth Rock landed on us." This hunger strike began most directly because a noose was placed on the door of a black professor. The fact that some people do not understand how pervasive lynching was in the twentieth-century and do not comprehend how traumatic and disgusting such an act is, is again reason for a required course in race alone. This brings us to question 2. 2) (On the addition to the Core Curriculum) These are crucial and important questions which would have to be discussed with faculty and students. There are a variety of models available which one could consider. One might argue, for example, that questions about race, gender and colonialism are direct outgrowths of the core. Feminist philosophers like Judith Butler, for example, engage closely with works by Hegel, Freud and Foucault. African-American philosophers like DuBois also speak directly to Hegel, and Cornel West's first book was on Marx. There are also important ways that these questions are always present within the current core texts themselves. Aristotle, for example wrote about the place of slaves and women in politics, and Rousseau, Hobbes and Locke wrote at length on colonialism. There is, further, an important question about why we speak of a distinct "Western tradition" when there is ample historical evidence to suggest constant intellectual commerce with Northern Africa, the Middle East, East Asia and South Asia. Egypt had a profound influence on Ancient Greece, the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures were written in the Middle East, and German philosophers from the 17th century on were fascinated by Buddhist and Hindu texts in translation. All of these issues, on the cutting edge of scholarship, are ignored in the core and render it intellectually insufficient. To truly understand the development of sovereignty, the institution of democracy, and so forth, a global perspective must be taken. This is increasingly recognized by scholars the world over and the Core ought to be responsive to this new and developing understanding of global history. Other institutions have added a general race requirement to their Core Curriculum. Every student at Temple University in Philadelphia, for example, is required to take a course on "Studies in Race." The Temple Bulletin notes, "The knowledge and the communication skills gained in these courses help students better understand a critical aspect of their society and their own experience. Such understanding is essential for living and working in our racially-diverse world." Besides changes to the Core, Columbia could consider the importance of such a course. More than a Major Cultures course, this would force students to critically reflect on their attitudes and beliefs about those of other ethnicities, genders and so forth. The comments on this discussion board lead me to believe such a course would be greatly beneficial. Of course, just as importantly, other models and other courses considered. Nina's are important questions in thinking about how to form new courses and why such courses are central to a vibrant academic community. 2.5) One important thing is for the course to address general questions of how power relationships form and structure our lives. What, unconsciously, do we think about others, and what autonomy do we have in forming our beliefs? Core graduates should notice that I am referencing here Foucault, Freud, and Kant, to once again affirm how central these issues are to the expansion of the intellectual development begun in the core. In this way the course does not speak to any specific issue, so much as enables the critical thinking that should be developed in the core curriculum to spread to other realms of knowledge. In this sense, we would not yet begin to advocate specific texts, so much as general points to take into consideration. The following responses are written by Bryan Mercer, one of the hunger strikers. Any invocation of 'we' instead of "I" on my part is because I would find it impossible talk about the organizing around the demands responding to institutional racism at Columbia, or the hunger strike for those demands as if they were my doing alone. With that note, these thoughts do not speak for the whole of those who participated in last week's actions and shaping these demands, they are my own views that I offer up for this conversation. Also I would challenge the conception of discussion and debate presented in the introductory remarks to your questions. The reason being, the form of discussion you purpose is an attempt at an 'accountability' which I see as impractical and a hindrance to your own concerns for it relinquishes your own power to those you who question the legitimacy of. I participate however, in an attempt to meet you half way. Even still I hold the position that dialogue (and a collective working out of a position) is a more productive process than debate, and am always open to face to face conversation to that end. 5. Do you have evidence that your views are representative of the entire student body? 6. If not, why do you feel that you have the right to impose your vision of Columbia onto those who may not agree with it? 7. What gives you the right to negotiate with the administration on issues that will affect, at the very least, the entirety of Columbia College, if you are not certain that you have majority support? 8. In your statement, you say that you "strike to re-imagine the university as a more democratic place....where students have a deciding say in this university." If you have not taken steps to make sure that you are representing the opinion of the majority of students, this appears to be contradictory. How is your vision a democratic one if it is not representative? How do you respond to this apparent contradiction? 9. Do you not think that your demands should be channeled through a student organization that is democratically elected? (To the questions on democracy.) I do not believe my views, or the views of my fellow organizers represent the student body. In order to represent, and to claim participation there must first exist a relationship between people and structures of that participation. If we look at the participation of the Columbia College student body in the election of Columbia College Student Council reps or the nature of appointments for deciding council positions in the Engineering Student Council we see even these 'democratic' body are not based in the full or in the case of ESC even partial participation of the student body. Also, let us look at the governance structure of the university itself: there is a board of trustees, who appoint a president for executive affairs and a provost for academic affairs to serve at their wish, below them is a clearly demarcated hierarchy that does not even venture to include structures of faculty governance (see the Faculty Action Committee Letter). Once again we see the classic university structure follows a corporate model rather than a democratic one. There is the university Senate, the only body of students that have policy-making ability within the university, yet the Senate can only make policy for the whole of the University, and it too is limited in its purview and seemingly addressing fewer crucial issues as student involvement wanes and administrative direction dominates. Democratic structures must be built rather than assumed to be pre-existing in the university. Bwog comments or facebook joins aren't adequate tools to be the deciding factor in determining the direction of the university or the activism of students. Recognizing, however, that the democracy you speak of is not a question of democratic structures, but instead a question of whether small groups of students can speak on behalf of all students, it is important to make clear I share your concern. The university positions "student leaders" as representatives of entire communities as a semblance of participation, meanwhile most students are left out of the conversation. Why are there so few ways for students to participate directly in the shaping of their education and university life? Your criticism however clearly lies with 'us', that 'small' group of students that would take such 'extremist' acts to push an alienating agenda. I would not like to draw such an 'us' and 'them' distinction, but I would be amiss of the post-colonial critique that surrounds the greatest academics of this institution to forget that the question of the self and the other are always present. It is important then to mention this, what 'we' purpose is not our own agenda, but a space. And we believe this space would be beneficial for the whole of the student body to participate in. We purpose a space for students to participate in the shaping of the Core and Major Cultures, a space for the communities of West Harlem to participate in the development of West Harlem. I claim no representative voice other than recognizing a need, a need which I hope the actions I was a part of brought to the floor, and created between students and administrators ways to recognize and address these needs. In short, each of the proposals that were a part of this hunger strike was an attempt at the very things that concerns you, transparency, participation and representation. We did not force upon you a Major Cultures class, we assured a space for your participation. We have spoken on these things for some time and considering the blue ribbon oversight committee (a collection of faculty and students given the responsibility of monitoring the progress on the points of agreement) for the on campus/ academic victories you and I have won, for the next 5 years students can engage these concerns how they see fit. As a side note, I would question the ideal of the liberal individual (in the enlightenment sense). While I agree with your questions of representation I think there is some falsehood to the notion of a fully autonomous individual with 'one vote and one voice.' We are social beings, and as such though we may find it easy to invoke personal experience and some of us have the privileges in different situations to ensure this personal experience is recognized and validated, we may also speak as part of a group or from collective experiences even outside of our intentions to do so. Foucault has an important "Critique of the Liberal Individual," and this is the very question presented in studying social formations and race within most ethnic studies frameworks – how is the singular subject positioned in a social context permeated by collective categories of difference? To make that concrete, there are things outside of us, like our families, where we grew up, and our friends that frame the decisions we make all the time, and it is helpful to ask where what we think comes from. 10. Have you created an atmosphere where all students can participate in discussion of your demands, equally and without fear? Why or why not? 11. Have you marginalized students who may support some or all of your arguments but question your legitimacy and methods? 12. If so, what actions have you taken to reconcile your methods with those mutually-shared opinions, if any? (To the questions on discussion, atmosphere and marginalization) The idea of discussion and dialogue and how students participate in building community with each other has been a central issue to this debate. The question of the 'atmosphere', to participate in conversation with the strikers/supporters, and how our ideas may 'marginalize' is an attempt to address the very foundation of how that dialogue and community building takes place. I appreciate the question, and think it is important to first address the 'atmosphere' and 'marginalization' you point to. My own questions for you would be how are we all part of creating an atmosphere and what 'center' are we all in relationship to? It seems to me your questions around the 'atmosphere' created by the action of a hunger strike for demands to address institutionalized marginalization comes from a concern for the comfort of students to carry out their normal life. This atmosphere made many people uncomfortable - perhaps from the visceral reaction of knowing others are abstaining from food, or that the demands probe at racism in the structures of Columbia, or that there were tents on south lawn proving to be very visible - the atmosphere was one where hard to talk about subjects like race and class and student activism/apathy were brought up. Your discomfort may also refer the to nightly vigils of dozens of supporters, the solidarity statements from student groups, the letters of support from faculty, the well timed coincidence of the Faculty Action Committee letter, the discussions of the Core or university displacement of West Harlem residents that may have come up in your classes. Perhaps even this atmosphere is about the snarky bwog articles, the consistently snarkier and less informed bwog comments, or the 30 people gathering only a half hour before our vigil to reaffirm their unwillingness to have a conversation. Whatever atmosphere you are bringing up it does not seem to me an atmosphere of fear, nooses in front of professor's doors and displacement plans create an atmosphere of fear. It may be an atmosphere in which you feel discomfort, but discomfort can teach us something. Even considering the critiques of the tactic of a hunger strike, I think the strike and these demands created an atmosphere of engagement when that discomfort was recognized, people at the very least had to deal with their gut reaction to hearing there was a hunger strike. People may have gone far enough to ask why students would go on a fast. Some students saw this and turned around to take their own actions on these four concerns of the Core, administrative response, Ethnic Studies and expansion – even if that action was not in support. I think the forming of a facebook group where 700 people would join to state they did not support the hunger strike is one of the most important things about this atmosphere. Not because it says: Columbia must be a racist place because so many students would stand against anti-racist ideals. I think it is important because it says that 700 people at least engaged, looking to find discussions about these things in their classroom, or on the front page of the campus paper. I also think for a lot of those people simple clarification of some of our demands, their history, and what lead up to this point would have swayed them in other directions, but that aside, the most important part of this atmosphere may be people realizing they are a part of it. But then again, most critics seem to take issue with the tactics and not the issues or demands. Now is this atmosphere marginalizing? I think you should tell me; I wouldn't want to displace your own experience of marginalization with my own opinion. I would push this question though – what is marginalization? As I see it the margin implies a center, and neither the margin nor the center is outside of power, just in different positions within a relationships of power. For the Bwog to easily represent your own views in its articles, or the Spectator to ignore the statements of students to take the 'official' position of the university speaks to some of the centers of power in any given situation on this campus. From my perspective, it is the institution, dominant ideals of either 'love Columbia or go to another school,' and a public opinion that legislates 'legitimate protest,' which are at the center in this situation, all things I think you could easily find yourself on the margins of. But you also imply with your question that the strikers and supporters have created a marginalizing atmosphere by creating some new center to the university, a center defined in creativity, collective and decentralized action, solidarity and critical discussion. What's worse (as your questions imply) is through creating that center, creating an 'other' form of power on Butler lawn, we pushed the general feeling of apathy on campus to the margins. On that issue you would be hard pressed to find me arguing that social justice, anti-racism, critical thought and dialogue are bad ideals to place at the center of a university, but to resist sounding self-righteous, I do not think these things have become the center of the university from a 10 day hunger strike, and I doubt you feel this way either. Truth be told, this is a mission students have been fighting for within this university from its inception, and will continue to fight for. 13. Prior to the hunger strike, had you exhausted all other options for furthering your demands? If so, provide concrete evidence and demonstrate what attempts you made to engage the greater student body in these efforts. Did you make clear that non-participation would result in a hunger strike? A timeline is the best way to answer the first half of this question. At every step of the way in this timeline, including the events of this past semester there were meetings with administrators where the same concerns presented through this hunger strike were raised. APRIL 1, 1996 -- Four students pitch a tent in the center of campus and begin a hunger strike, demanding that Columbia University establish a department of Ethnic Studies and reorganize its Western-oriented core curriculum. These protest led to the creation of the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, housing programs in Asian American, Latino, more funding for African American studies and the list C Major Cultures option. SPRING 2004 -- A comic strip, "Blacky Fun Whitey" released in the Fed during Black Heritage Month sparks a week of protest against racism on campus. The Columbia Concerned Students of Color demand what becomes the Office of Multicultural Affairs. SPRING 2006 -- A student returned to her dorm in Ruggles to anti-homophobic, racist and anti-semitic graffiti. Students organized a response under the adhoc group Stop Hate on Columbia's Campus, with demands for the university's response to hate crimes, funding for intercultural programming, and university advisors for the queer community. April 15 2007: After 12 years spent advocating for resources and autonomy for Ethnic Studies, a student-written report on state of Ethnic Studies at Columbia finds that CSER, &amp; IRAAS at Columbia along with Africana studies at Barnard do not match up to programs at our peer institutions. Report calls for more faculty and hiring power. Fall 2007: Sept 24 - The visit of President Ahmedinijad, and President Bollinger's remarks Sept 27 -Islamophobic and racist graffiti in SIPA Oct 1 - Students Mobilize around the Jena Six Oct 9 - Noose on professor's doors at Teacher's College. Oct 11 - Swastika found in bathroom in Lewisohn Hall Oct 31 - Swastika found on professor's door at Teacher's College Nov 7 – Five students begin a hunger strike promoting increased support for Ethnic Studies, an update to Major Cultures, responsible expansion, and increased administrative support around hate crimes and multicultural affairs. These events lead to a number of discussions, town halls and events in support of marginalized communities on campus, and the demands articulated by the hunger strikers grew out of these discussions. Fall 2007 Campus Discussions Leading Up to the Hunger Strike: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * ROOTEd discussion on President of Iran, safety and exclusion in our community (50 people) – Sept 24 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * Black Student Organization calls emergency meeting following SIPA graffiti (150 people) – Sept 27 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * USCC Town Hall on campus climate (100 people) – Oct 5 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * Concerned students call emergency town hall after a noose is found on a black professors door at TC (150 people) – Oct 9 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * Eid-ul-Fitr Dinner of the MSA where over 20 student groups read statements of solidarity with the MSA in light of the upcoming "Islamo-fascism Awareness Week" (200 people) - Oct 21 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * SGA Town Hall on campus climate– "Is Our Community Broken?" (100 people) – Oct. 23 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; USCC Town Hall on Demands and Actions (100 people) – Oct 24 The hunger strike was not organized as a threat against the student body. It was an act of pressuring the administration and creating visibility and space for student organizing. Thank you for your own organizing. It has helped bring forward the discussion of the issue, even if at times uninformed, misdirected or hostile. 14. At which meeting was the decision made to go on a hunger strike? How many were present and how did the debate over appropriate action reach this final result? (On the decision to strike) It was not a decision made by a student group, or representatives of a student group. The decision was made amongst friends who had been a part of these conversations, and presented to larger groups of people, some in campus organizations, some personally. I do apologize for not being able to notify everyone before hand, but direct actions are in part about the element of surprise. Your exclusion from the decision is only because to have posted flyers or emailed list serves about it would have meant the administration knowing before hand. Participating in these very conversations that are listed above may put you closer to what people are planning, but more importantly in spaces to develop your own actions around these issues in ways that you care about. 15. If concerned members of the Women's Studies Department or the Human Rights Program went on a hunger strike demanding the reallocation of the $50 million set aside for a Major Cultures Seminar to their respective under-funded causes, would you support them? Why or why not? (On solidarities with Women's studies and Human Rights) bell hooks is famous for often using the phrase "white supremacist capitalist heteropatriarchy" in her writings. What she implies is a fundamental connection to so called 'women's issues' and so called 'people of color issues' and the political economic organization as the fabric of our society. In that same vein to talk about Ethnic Studies is to not close ourselves to all other forms of difference and give primacy to race. It is to put forms of difference in conversation with each other. I have not taken a single Ethnic Studies class in which gender and sexuality were not important forms of difference in their own right or in intersection with race. The same stands for Human Rights. I hope that the new major cultures class uses a gender, sex and human rights framework in its study of cultures other than European cultures. In short yes, I support the struggles of Women's studies and Human Rights as academic disciplines and practical intellectual standpoints in our world. Further I do not believe there should be a need to choose between Major Cultures, Women and Gender studies, Human Rights or any other program in the Arts and Sciences in a university that is currently fund raising for a campus that will cost $7 billion over the next 25 years. Note: there has long been in the academy a conversation between feminism and ethnic studies/anti-racism. Patricia Hill Collins' collection Black Feminist Thought is a classic representation of that, also Gloria Anzaldua, et al in This Bridge Called My Back is another classic example. Another Note: The Center for the Study of Human Rights and the Institute for Research on Women and Gender are both programs, not departments. They face the same difficulties as Ethnic Studies in hiring and retaining faculty. IRWAG is often mentioned in our literature and we have received concessions on resources to strengthen the relationship between IRWAG, CSER and IRAAS. Human Rights is not far from that relationship, and with the work of the faculty and students their already existing ties can be strengthened. 16. Returning to your commitment to "a more democratic place" for students, if your demand to allow more student voices on the Core Curriculum is implemented, and the majority of students still do not share your visions for the Core, what will you do? 17. In a similar vein, you make the following demand: "Interested Ethnic Studies majors collectively, shown through a vote, must be given 1 or 2 votes (depending on committee size) which will be delivered by the current student positions on all hiring committees for junior and senior faculty to increase student presence and determination of CSER's direction." Is there any precedent for this in any other Columbia departments? 18. Should this be something that is enacted across the board, or just in the Ethnic studies area? Why or why not? There is no precedent for student representation in the hiring process in any Columbia department. And there still stands no precedent for this in any Columbia department. Ethnic Studies is not a department. It is a program, and has remained such since its inception, though students organize for a department. As such Ethnic Studies is always dependent on other departments in bringing in faculty, and the departments shape its direction, but this is another conversation. What is relevant to your question is that part of the victory for Ethnic Studies in 1996 was student presence in the hiring process. To reflect back on the struggle for Ethnic Studies then and the position of Ethnic Studies now it is crucial that students have this voice because of the many and often competing interest in shaping the direction of scholarship in the field. Students have a vote in Ethnic Studies because pedagogically Ethnic Studies is accountable to students. If you notice, with the Committee on the Core we ask that the positions be better publicized, and we will advocate for the Committee on the Core to hold its meetings in public. If student representatives on the Committee on the Core do not represent student views, transparency would make it more possible to hold them accountable. Participation should not fall to giving over your rights to representatives who do not have to 'lead by obeying' their constituency, but rather an engaged process of ensuring that representation. To your question about applying this across the board for other departments it is important to point out an enigma of the university, the departmental review process - where by the teaching and research missions of departments are reviewed as the basis of allocating additional and future resources. These reviews can and should be more inclusive of students and our learning experience. In the hiring process that is another story, and depends on the teaching commitments of faculty and the pedagogical commitments of a discipline and the sensibility for such involvement for students and faculty alike. 19. What kind of a precedent does a hunger strike set for those who have attempted to deal with these or similar issues in other ways? I would hope an inspiration, or perhaps a counter universalism, or even a re-centering of power. More concretely, that a hunger strike can create a space for other action and organizing and spark campus dialogue about issues that before the strike this past semester have only reached us as so called 'incidents of bias.' Photos by Lydia DePillis and David Zhou 
 What the editorial board is thankful for: the chance to make a wise-ass prayer Sprayregen swaps out Greedy humanitarians require more money Rage against the machine not being more machine-like (and wasn't it "sing"? maybe I remembered wrong) This article isn't about JDate? Plus, from the archives: We hope she makes it another year... 
 Quasi-frat ADP had their semi-exclusive Hot Jazz party cancelled last&nbsp; year, so this year they've taken their operation where the long arm of the law can't reach them: the high seas! Well, technically, the Hudson River is still under U.S. jurisdiction, but the booze cruise is outside of Public Safety's range. Their boat is apparently called the Temptress, the drink of the evening is champagne, and the music will be provided by some sort of "Zanzibar Scuf". If you're intent on living it up in high literary society on December 1, here's what they're requiring: $40 An invitation to come and spend $40. "Black tie. No sneakers" A card that will convince people you are 21 years old - DHI 
What WAS that last night?&nbsp; Now you know.&nbsp; &nbsp; Incidentally, Bwog loves videos. If you have original footage of Columbia life, send it on in. 
 Ah, Thanksgiving break, the time for turkey, family, pie, and untimely assigned papers. Surprisingly, Bwog has a family too, so posts may be a bit sparse for the next few days. But before we binge on pecan pie, in the vein of traditions, Bwog gives credit where it's due. Through a very long e-mail thread, Bwog has gathered a list of what our staffers are thankful for. It's a little long, at times convoluted, but it comes with all the best intentions. My tuition The extermination of the bedbugs on Schapiro 12 Claremont security guards Barnard shuttle Simon, the swipe desk guard in McBain Edibles and drinkables Vegan cupcakes Pinkberry Bars with free pizza CrackDel Spicy special M2M cheeseburger combo $2 cans of Red Bull from the 116th St. kiosk Sip's half off Mondays Westside market Free cheese samples at Westside Free coffee and cookies in Dodge and Lewisohn Tea and cookies in the Philosophy lounge Meredith's Bread (from the farmer's market) 99 cent cans of Arizona iced tea Pumpkin beer/soup/bread Trader Joe's Beer Robert's American Gourmet Potato Flyers with Balsamic Vinegar and Sea Salt Soy bacon Haagen Dazs' cake hotline 3.3 lb tubs of cookie dough from West Side for $7 Academia Peter Bearman David Yerkes Richard Bulliet Eric Foner Everything about Nicholas Dames Jstor Deadline extensions Bruce Robbins Bruce Robbins' academic scarves p/d/f Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Contemporary Civilization Beau, my hip-hop T.A. Ian, my 20th century comp lit T.A. &nbsp; The smaller things Almost being 21 Old high school friendships Roommates who let you slip a pair of pants into their load of laundry The little boy i saw last week on 114th who was holding his sister on a leash Swingsets Getting to see your pets during break Cowboy boots finally being over 6 year olds breakdancing Dollar stores No subway fare increases Parental largesse Bicycles My rice cooker Technology g-chat emoticons Credit card machines in taxis Google Maps/Reader/Alerts Mac geniuses Skype Non-controversial stem cell research oink (r.i.p) Super Mario Galaxy on wii Mac sticky notes Battery life Sirius satellite radio on the internet Clocks that automatically change themselves for daylight savings time Scrabulous Tab browsing The world beyond the gates The Manhattan Greenway BAM McCarren Park Pool The Williamsburg bridge Amtrak The D train Campus activists who go abroad in spring Vamoose bus Zipcar &nbsp; Culture Morton Feldman The Approval Matrix The Coen brothers In Rainbows Weeds Heroes Frank O'Hara poems Free concert tickets of various sorts People who understand Flight of the Conchords references Marcel Duchamp Miranda July Balkan folk music (and the boyish, floppy-haired hipstaaas who now make it) A Prairie Home Companion This American Life Slate Wendell Berry My Bloody Valentine reuniting Jakob and Julia Mary Oliver Ryan Adams/DJ Reggie McSweeney's lists Malcolm Gladwell resumes blogging Happy Thanksgiving from all of us at Bwog! 
In which three young gentlemen--NYU correspondent W.M. Akers and temporary Brits John Klopfer and Brendan Ballou--offer their tales of Thanksgiving out of sorts. Isolation within the 116th St. gates may be hard to take, but think of the NYU students. Not all are able to leave the city during Thanksgiving and Winter break, and although we have our ways of dealing, social barriers are less effective when winter combines with skyscrapers to allow us only a few minutes of sun a day. Your correspondent is safe in Tennessee, writing in sight of a full cooked turkey and two pies, but while I've been listening to family bicker about gravy, a few close friends are braving the holiday away from their home's tryptophantastic bosom. Several friends' families took the break as an excuse for a city vacation, and came up for a week of sightseeing and restaurant dining. One friend, a sophomore who lives in Green Point, hosted her mother for a lot of "walking around and cooking. We saw a movie, and tonight we went to see Rockefeller Center because really wanted to, but when we got there there wasn't really anything exciting to do. We were going to go to the parade but found out you have to get a ticket in advance." For Thanksgiving lunch her roommate made "some weird Japanese fish dish" and then slurped a bottle and a half of wine. Bungled maintenance on the floor above led to the collapse of their bathroom ceiling, but they had a nice night anyway. To pass holidays away from home seems unfortunate, but that's just turkey-lobby propaganda talking: it does have fringe benefits. A friend who couldn't get away from the cash register at the SoHo Apple store made two and a half times salary, and those I know who imported family got to enjoy several days of comped fine-dining. None of them will have to negotiate airports and subways on Sunday; none of them had to make small talk with forgettable cousins or high-school chums. To those not consoled by cash or food, I recommend Whole Foods stuffing and a fifth of Wild Turkey. A holiday could be worse. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - W. M. Akers Pennying is a fine and noble tradition at Cambridge, as old as the university's 800-year history and a lot more fun. Here's the basic idea: every night each college has a dinner in its formal hall - one of those rooms with enormous oil portraits, classical plaster molding, long oak tables and real candles (as a side note, whenever I describe this to other foreigners they go, "oh, it's just like Hogwarts!"). Around 7:30, everyone files in with their suits and dresses and academic gowns, then stand as the fellows come in to sit at the front table. The head waiter strikes a gong, one of the older fellows reads a latin prayer, we all say amen and dinner begins. Maybe it’s just a way to cope with all the tradition and beauty of the event, but once dinner starts, most everyone aims to get plastered. The rule of pennying is that if you can drop a penny into someone's wine without them noticing, then they have to down the entire glass. This discourages you from turning your head to talk to your neighbor and encourages you to trick your friend into passing the butter so that you can take advantage of his helpfulness and penny him. If you are serious about the sport, then formal dinner is a little bit like a war in which there are no winners, just confused and incoherent kids in suits. Anyways, last night Pete and I pennied fast and hard, going through a bottle of red in 10 minutes before switching to white. At the end we got each other's full glasses at nearly the same time. Recognizing that these were the killer cups, we raised them in a toast: "Good-bye sober Pete." "Good-bye sober Brendan." We downed our glasses in one go. That night I fell into bed thankful that I was in England, that I was with good friends, that break was just around the corner, and that a bottle of aspirin was waiting on my desk for the morning. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - Brendan Ballou If there is one great thing about celebrating important holidays away from home, it's that nobody will be the wiser when you celebrate them twice. It's like juggling girlfriends: The less they know about each other, the more fun each is, and the less guilt for you. I didn't actually mean that part—I'm all about tradition. So much about tradition, in fact, that I just celebrated Thanksgiving twice. Once in Oxford in a charming dining room in a charming college, and once in London, in a charming pub in a charming neighborhood. Nobody would have been the wiser at the end of it, but for my mildly pregnant aspect. Thanksgiving number one, in Oxford, was like your college girlfriend, beginning with the Pledge of Allegiance and a pheasant inserted face-first into a turkey, and ending with fine port, rye, and a discussion of how to marketize room selection. Fittingly, it was hosted by students. Thanksgiving number two, in Hampsted, was like that pleasant postgraduate you just met, beginning with talk of how everybody's late from work and an amuse-bouche, and ending with wine, world politics, and a discussion of how to mock the muppets at airport security. Fittingly, it was hosted by the alumni of the Columbia University Club of London; all students should join the university clubs, they're all grown up! To pretend that one has only gorged oneself once is to preserve one's dignity; to let one's belly hang out under the weight of two meals is to add poise to one's bearing, because anything other than poise is pain. I recommend sharing America's traditions with foreigners on every occasion that presents itself, and on others. Nothing demonstrates the American dream better than our tradition of excess. Lay it on thick—it's your holiday! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - John Klopfer 
In which faith correspondent Lucy Sun finds tradition, and updates it. The Shabbat service at B'nai Jeshurun has already begun. "Shabbat is the place where we dare to dream," the rabbi says of the Jewish day of rest. "We meet the angels halfway." The music begins with a motley mix of instruments--cello, bongos, acoustic guitar and flute. The sound is a blend of the earthy and the ethereal--grounded, yet striving towards heaven, going to meet the angels halfway. During the very first song, members of the congregation are leaving their seats, running to hold hands with one another and dance in a circle. The rabbi keeps the rhythm with his palm beating the lectern. The song ends and the congregation sits down, the room still full of joy. It's a conservative service, composed almost entirely of music in Hebrew. A regular at B'nai Jeshurun tells me that ï¿½the services are conservative, but the politics are reform.ï¿½ As the service comes to an end, the smells of Shabbat dinner drift into the room. The rabbi asks, "How many of you are smelling the food from downstairs?" The congregation grins. "As I am smelling the food, I think, this must be how homeless people feel all the time," says the rabbi. After the service, I wander the streets with a group of Columbia Jews, looking for supplies for the traditional Shabbat blessings over food and wine. We walk eight blocks, expecting to find challah bread at Zabarï¿½s, but the place is closed. There's an H&amp;H next door. "I feel like bagels are made with Jews in mind," someone suggests, but the group isn't having it. (For the record, we finally got our challah at Westside). Eventually, everyone's chipped in for the bread and a bottle of pinot grigio, and we're settling into a room in Carman, feeling sketchy and pious at the same time. The blessing is performed, and we eat and drink. "I feel kind of alcoholic, drinking wine out of a plastic cup," someone says. Yet tradition lives on. Is your place of worship worth a hop? Tell us! bwog@columbia.edu. 
We weren't quite sure what to think when the Varsity Show C-team came calling with a request to ask you, dear readers, to tell them how to write this year's show. Do they really want to expose themselves to netizen ridicule? What good could come of a thread full of ad hominem attacks? But since everyone else seems to be going democratic these days, we thought, might as well foster the effort. Here's the pitch--try to play nice. Dear Bwog Commenters, Since many of you whom we may never meet put intelligent thought into criticism and analysis of the Varsity Show, we'd like to solicit your feedback on it for constructive purposes. We feel that there have been Bwog comments in the past that have been good at summating problems with shows succinctly; for example, here's one from the KCST thread last year that we thought was quite valid. This is the kind of feedback that interests and affects us. So, having said that: which Varsity Show of the ones you have seen has been your favorite? Why? What do you like to see in a Varsity Show? What don't you like to see? What specific things attempted do you think have worked and not worked?&nbsp; We're listening, er...reading. Sincerely, The 114th Annual Varsity Show Creative Team UPDATE, 10:40 PM: Varsity Show doesn't actually want you to tell them how to write this year's show. They sent the following clarification: "Perhaps we worded this too broadly. We're looking somewhat more for reactions to things in past years--what people have liked and disliked, specifically in general--than we're looking for suggestions for this year's show." 
 Warm up the bulldozers... Fruit flies infest LGBTQ lounge. We're not making this up Hunger strike nostalgia! Bwog forced to replace its wardrobe Spec reviewer knows something is happening, attempts to explain what it is. Doesn't he...Mr Jones? And from the outside: The return of Ahmadineblog (kinda)! Where commenters of near-Bwoggian viciousness "praise Ahmadinejad for his performance in September at Columbia University." 
 So to speak. "After these long, lonely months without a Columbia soap opera," writes CTV producer totally independent operator Katie Simon, "we decided it was time for a change. Prepare yourself for Exclusion Suite, Columbia's SECOND original soap opera, coming this January to an internet connection near you." Get involved in what's sure to be a classic piece of Columbiana by auditioning "Sunday 12/2 and Monday 12/3 from 7:30 to 9:30pm at a location TBD." Of course you'll never live it down, and our lives have enough real awkwardness as it is--y'know, without the fake, CTV-produced awkwardness that'll end up on YouTube and turn you into a laughingstock on IvyGate. But in Bwog's opinion, this is but a pitifully small price to pay for immortality. But wait: the real, CTV-produced "Gates" is also coming back this Spring, says director Davide Barillari! Word has it that Season 2 of won't disappoint fans of college-budget, student-produced camp. CAVA, coke, drunken violence, endearingly cheap, on-location shots...been there, done that. An Afghan opium ring operating out of the archeology department? Now you're talkin'! We aren't ones for wild speculation, but we're anticipating plotlines involving drugs, awkward romance, angst, booze, an asshole CC professor...and also sperm banks, genetic diseases, gang warfare, an intractable moral dilemma or two, and the discovery of chilling secrets buried deep in the bowels of Low Library. We can hardly wait. - ARR 
 The cruel cycle of nature continues--right in front of Lewisohn! Writes a tipster: "Just at noon (right now!) I saw a GIANT hawk in front of the sculpture facing Lewisohn, chowing down on some small animal. &nbsp;It's neat to see real wild life in the city." And it's neat to see such fitting metaphors for our transient, fragile and ever-so-vulnerable state of existence unfolding before our very eyes. Have a nice day everyone! 
In a rather embarrassing miscommunication, Bwog has realized that its special guest, The New Yorker's Lauren Collins, is actually scheduled to come NEXT Monday, not tonight. You are all still very much welcome to come say hi though (at our regularly scheduled time of 9:30 PM) and now you have a whole week to get excited for Ms. Collins' visit. Sweet!
 Class councils are usually&nbsp;content with spamming our inboxes and springing for the occasional platter of Dino BBQ. And God bless 'em for it--free food and the electronically-reinforced illusion of class unity are the two pillars upon which successful student government stand. But the CC 2011 class council is taking this time-honored formula to its next logical--albeit deeply terrifying--stage. Bored with the usual, culinary instruments of age/school-based tribalism, the 2011ers are throwing a "blacklight dance party." From the email: "What: The Highlight, a blacklight dance party. (Yes, we will have blacklights and techno music.) Where: Lerner Party Space When: Monday, December 10th, THE LAST DAY OF CLASSES!" There is a lot to be said here (a blacklight party? Wash your hands, guys!) that it is simply below a publication as dignified as Bwog to say--ecstasy jokes and the like. All we'll say is off your high horses, freshies: you can't just give your party a name. The Highlight just strikes us as so, so...so obnoxious, go-to-be-seen, $12 cocktail,&nbsp;West&nbsp;Village club "scene." So&nbsp;NYU. Elsewhere in Fair Alma's orbit: In honor of his work as a pro-Palestinian activist, and, assumedly, in recognition of the fact that you can't go through four years of college without reading (or at least pretending to have read) Orientalism, San Francisco State University has dedicated a mural to Edward Said, the late University Professor and postcolonial theorist. Although we're miffed at having to concede the mural round of the "which University loves Edward Said the most" contest, Bwog is still pleased to see that a successful career in Morningside can get you painted on the side of a building 4,000 miles away. -ARR 
 Filmmaker wins award for documentary, is kind of an asshole about it This article is like our collective id—thoughts of humiliating nature usually repressed by censors barring them from entering conscious thought. Something... went amiss here. Wrestling tournament—in complete seriousness—is called Mat-Town USA Open Premeds take a break from mutually assured sabotage to address scathing accusations of flagrant competitiveness ...while their future colleagues uptown conclude: skin is the new stem. &nbsp; &nbsp; Coming up today on Bwog: AskBwog How to Recognize and Complete Good Deeds Rain Boots: A Bad Weather Retrospective 
 Anonymous passerby wants to know why there's a tent filled with blankets in front of Barnard's Lehman library. This morning, Bwog inquired about the painted, comforter-filled tent. Three girls manning the table behind the tent explained that the tent was symbolic of a call for discourse about academic issues concerning Barnard to take place on Barnard's actual campus, as opposed to across the street. On the table at which the three girls sat, there were post-its written by passersby responding to issues such as Barnard activism, gentrification/expansion, and the reassessment of the 9 Ways of Knowing. Some post-its were more serious than others--as the proportion of exclamation points to words is always a fine signifier of seriousness. In Bwog's ten minutes observing the tent city and table environs, no student actually went inside the tent, though a few stopped to glance at the post-its scattered across the table. The set-up is only lasting the rest of the for the rest of the day, "Unless it goes well! Then it will be here tomorrow," explained one of the three girls. 
 With Thanksgiving a distant memory and our 39 day winter break on the horizon, the holiday season is officially upon us. No matter your non-secular celebration of choice come December, campus groups are affording everyone the opportunity to do good deeds. Karma: the gift that keeps on giving.&nbsp; Today in Lerner there is a veritable buffet of opportunity to do something generous for the human race. Starting from up the ramp going down, The Clothesline Project has set up a public display of hanging t-shirts designed to raise awareness of sexual violence. (The set-up is also adverti sing a workshop tonight in Hamilton for all those interested.) Further down the 1st floor ramp are three girls selling baked goods in order to benefit cyclone victims. "They're all baked!" explained one. Indeed. Cupcakes and cookies were plentiful, as was were what Bwog believes to have been apple cider. Autumnal! Following the bake sale was a mysterious display of Hershey's brand candy bars (Reeses, chocolate bars, Snickers) and one Special K bar. No explanation as to where the proceeds from the candy bar sale would go, but numerous Clip Art smiley faces convinced Bwog that where ever the dollar we paid for a Special K bar was going, it was a good place. In addition to Lerner's offerings today, Barnard sent out an email last week encouraging students to donate food or time to local soup kitchens and attached a document making it easier to do so. Even future the Masters of the Universes at SEAS are organizing a toy drive, inviting you to drop off gifts for kids in Botwinick Lab in Mudd. So get to it, kids. 'Tis the season. 
 It seems Havana Central has gotten their hands on the email addresses of several Columbia student groups! Lately they’ve been spamming inboxes with invitations to celebrate New Years Eve with the good folks at the wholly unpopular M'side watering hole. The flyer advertises “strong Cuban drinks PLUS New Years party favors” (emphasis ours). But wait! There’s más. For just $195 (a bargain given that they’re providing the New Years party favors!), you can purchase one ticket to party during the 10pm shift at Havana Central’s Times Sq. branch--what we’re calling Havana Central Central. But worry not, cheapskates and early-birds: If you plan to ring in 2008 at 6pm, seating at Havana Central Central is just $125. And thus concludes Havana Central (Central)'s completely brilliant plan to attract Columbia patrons by throwing a $200-per-ticket party in the middle of the University's 39-day winter break. See you there, comrades! 
 Bwog has recently been made privy to Grand Central, a Google-owned program that allows users to sign up for one number that will make all your phones ring when called (both landlines and cellphones).&nbsp;Grand Central also has&nbsp;numerous creepy/cool features like requiring people&nbsp;to state the reason for their call before getting to speak with you and&nbsp;allowing you to record calls at a moment's notice (without the other person's knowledge, natch.) But like any cool toy, this one comes with a warning: "Note: If you choose to record, be sure to check your local laws regarding call recordings. Most states only require one party's consent (yours), but others require both parties to consent. There are significant penalties for recording a call without the other party's consent in these states so to be safe you should let your callers know you are recording the call. It's the nice thing to do regardless. " Orwellian! We like! Bwog Arts Editor Justin Goncalves explains that you can actually&nbsp;switch the number from your cell to your room's ROLM phone (the thing you unplugged and stored under your bed on move-in day), and use the phone to make outgoing calls. Says Justin: "I realize I'm way too excited about this, but&nbsp;I feel like others should know. Save your cell phone bills!" ...meanwhile, Google nerds across the world sit and wait...their imminent reign&nbsp;quietly yet&nbsp;unmistakably&nbsp;approaching. 
Who gave the College Libertarians chalk?! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; UPDATE 12:24 PM: Bwog daily editor David Iscoe spotted the chalky Libertarian and/or ironist last night. Says David: "I saw him drawing another one ("Ron Paul cured my apathy") on the sidewalk near (I think) Kim's, the guy was a somewhat short, hairy character with sideburns and a beard, a real Bolshevik-looking type. At least, pretty sure it's the same guy, I didn't see the one on the gates." 
 So the U.S has been fighting this war for the past few years-- you may have heard of it. It's taken a lot of lives, cost a lot of money, and generally spiraled into a mess of civil war, religious strife, torture, and global disapproval. Listening to Ambassador Hamid Al Bayati recite his government's policy on Tuesday night during an International Relations Forum (formerly Towards Reconciliation) event, however, I felt blissful waves of revisionism washing over my mind as he allayed our concerns with his Panglossian assertions. The U.S. had no motives but human rights in going to war, he told us. There was a direct link between 9/11 and Saddam Hussein, who was scheming the take over the world by invading oil-rich states one by one. Saddam either destroyed his WMDs while the UN was investigating or covertly smuggled them out of the country. The majority of Iraqis love America's actions. Violent insurgents and terrorists are from outside of the country. "It's a transition period." Don't worry-- things are better than ever, and "eventually Iraq will be stable and secure." Was I the crazy one for believing all the dreadful things I'd heard about the Iraq fiasco? Here was the ambassador himself, telling us that no matter what the United States has done "we're all human, we make mistakes." Because Abu Ghraib is kind of like that time I forgot my sister's birthday. Of course, Bayati is not in control of his phrases and memorized statements, as anyone would be quick to point out. A Google search reveals that the ambassador himself was formerly associated with the Shiite Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (Sciri) and a die-hard anti-Saddam agitator, which may explain his repeated exhortations against the deposed despot and also why he skirted questions about U.S. criticism of Iranian interventions in the conflict, given that Sciri has an armed guard funded by Iran. No matter! Bayati toed the line, and toed it well, giving us all new insight into what a puppet regime looks like. -KER Lecture Hop: William Kristol Speaks at Lerner Oh wait--that was actually Hamid al Bayati, Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations? Had me fooled for a second there. After all, there were times during the event, hosted by the International Relations Forum Speakers Series, when if you'd closed your eyes, ignored the accent, and imagined Kristol's self-satisfied muttering in place of Bayati's dispassionate, tediously diplomatic drawl, you might as well have been listening to the arch neocon and "Daily Show" regular (y'know, from back when there was a "Daily Show"). The ambassador began his talk by blaming the media for giving the impression that Iraq is on the short rout to hell, and reviewed atrocities committed by Saddam Hussein's regime. Desipite these, Bayati said that he opposed the invasion from the beginning, although he emphasized that American soldiers are "fighting a noble mission" and deserve our unquestioning support. He cited improvements in the security situation and predicted that 2008 would be Iraq's year for "reconciliation" before opening the floor to questions. Your reporter kicked things off by asking him whether the Iraqi government had a long-term plan for diffusing the insurgency; the question went virtually untouched, as it did about a half an hour later when a different questioner asked how the government planned on disarming Moqtada al Sadr's Mahdi Army. Twice the ambassador categorically rejected the idea that the Americans invaded in order to control Iraq's oil wealth, and at several points he downplayed the significance of ethnic conflict between the Shii'te, Sunnis and Kurds. You could accuse him of sugar-coating his country's abysmal situation, or worse, of being wilfully ignorant to the realities on the ground (which he might be: the ambassador is still wondering what happened to Saddam's WMDs). But really--what's a poor diplomat to do? If you had to represent the world's foremost basket case, you wouldn't spend an awful lot of time looking up from your talking points either. Indeed, it would be absurd to slam Bayati for hewing to a strict, George Bush-style party line. As one questioner pointed out, Bayati's endorsement/carefully worded non-endorsement of American involvement in Iraq (which, if I followed it right, goes a little like this: we never should have invaded although our reasons for invading were more than legitimate, and now that we're there we should pretty much be able to stay stay as long as we want) implies that the US should be sending troops to every despotic hellhole on Earth. But American policy is really besides the point--in the end, Bayati is answerable only to his war-ravaged constituency, his thoughts on the implementation of American power notwithstanding. So the only relevant question--and a question that was never addressed or answered--is whether American power and the strict accommodation of our political and military agenda is actually helpful to anyone, never mind the 25 million Iraqis Bayati represents. Although moderator David Eisenbach unsuccessfully pressured Bayati on some of these issues by, for instance, asking him whether or not he thought America's military presence was actually doing anything to discourage terrorism and instability, one missing piece of context reveals that the ambassador's aggravating spin didn't indicate simple obliviousness: Bayati was active in Indict, a British-based organization that was committed to brining Iraqi leaders to justice through the existing international legal framework. Bayati actually did oppose the invasion and the occupation of 2003-04--he isn't a shill for American militarism, but an advocate for what's in the best interests of the Iraqi people. Somehow I doubt he likes being able to fill both roles simultaneously. -Armin Rosen &nbsp; 
 Hate3 Students Fight Law, Law Wins "Are women human?"&nbsp; "Green Cakes" Not As Bad as They Sound Courteous, Professional, Racist?&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 For those who need a refresher on Columbia's new philosophy magazine, here's an interview from earlier this year. Their current issue is available now and here's some of what's in it (page numbers are by the number in the pdf): An Explanation of What the Hell a "Work" Issue is About (p.3)&nbsp; Columbia Undergraduate Philosophy Course Review (p. 4) How to Live With Yourself&nbsp; (p. 9) Finding Work as a Philosophy Major (p. 26) Poems About Mankind's Real "Work" (p. 32) 
Several Bwog editors retrieved the passwords of their middle school AIM screen names and entered a chatroom to discuss Todd Haynes' new Dylan "biopic" I'm Not There. Heath Ledger was taken down a notch, David Cross was lauded, and Yorkie avatars were chosen.&nbsp; Today's Yorkie Roundtable features: Armin Rosen&nbsp; Andrew Flynn&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Maryam Parhizkar Lucy Tang&nbsp; &nbsp; Juli Weiner So... let's begin. Who was everyone's favorite Dylan? Cate Blanchett followed by Ben Wishaw Well I'm gonna be the iconoclast here and say Richard Gere Totally disagree. Couldn't disagree more. I hated his whole segment. It was really pretty but so out of place. It's a masturbatory reference. It was just a live Dylan song. It was such a lazy Fellini rip-off It summed up the whole movie in my mind—exactly because it was awkward, out of place and utterly masturbatory Wasn't the spider a Fellini rip-off? Probably. Or a Spiderman 2 rip-off. I kind of liked the Richard Gere segment But it had shitty writing. Like the kind of writing Dylan does when he writes long form But if you're trying to make a self-consciously self-indulgent movie that lures Dylan maniacs like myself into a false sense of security... I think the film wasn't critical enough of Dylan Was that the point though? It could still be critical and objective and still look cool Dylan is one of those artists that people really obsess about and I think the movie was a study in obsession, in a lot of ways But critical of what? His politics? His general douchiness? I have to agree on that actually, it did portray him as that sort of enigmatic legend of folk music Like the reviewer from NY Press said, it's more about Todd Haynes that it is about Dylan Right, so wouldn't it be cool to present him in a different way, and not just a fawning fan-boy way. Like, wow, he was kind of an asshole to his wife But how critical of Dylan can you really be? Even his bad traits have been mythologized. Slow Train Coming has even gone down as a half-decent album. Oh man, I think the 80s is not given enough credit at all My kids’ll probably be listening to Under the Red Sun, which sucked. Like there's nothing off of Oh Mercy? C'mon Todd Haynes Slow Train Coming is great I'm glad they include the weird shit about his foray into Pentecostal choirs Yeah, but it wasn't done right I mean, he really got into this ridiculous idiom, where if you hear his songs played now, without Dylan, the sound entirely organic to the tradition This rambly, not making any fucking sense idiom That Dylan though, didn't even get a separate actor Are you actually arguing for more Dylans? There should have been less Dylan. 12 year old Dylan didn't need to be there I don't know, I kind of appreciated 12-year old Dylan I loved him. That velvet voice… I feel like the novelty wore off after about 3 seconds Except the part where Richie Havens was dubbed really poorly Richie Havens! High point of the movie. Oh wait take that back David Cross as Allen Ginsberg. Yes David Cross was great I love the part with him and Cate just going nuts That was very Renaldo and Clara The whole movie was very Renaldo and Clara. I thought that the Heath Ledger part went nowhere In fact, every remotely romantic part was strange It was worth it for Charlotte Gainsbourg It was worth it for the brief glimpse of the scornful, Blood on the Tracks-era Dylan. That was another of the film's strengths/weaknesses: soooooo many references I read somewhere about a reporter asking Jacob Dyaln if he ever listened to his father and he said every album except for Blood on the Tracks Christian Bale: friend or enemy? Frenemy? I'd have to say he was my least favorite He just seemed like he was doing an SNL-esque impersonation of Dylan the whole time It was still possible to enjoy it without being a Dylan-connoisseur But it might leave a viewer confused if he/she didn't know much about Dylan That's only if you get caught up with trying to understand every single reference The point was that Dylan was really just a figment of our collective, popular imagination &nbsp; But what is it, other than a sick whirlwind vanity tour through Dylan references? It seemed like 2 1/2 hours of fan fiction at times, which is extremely masturbatory if the end message is that we'll project whatever we want onto some abstract "Dylan. Yeah. If the message is that celebrity is what the mob makes of it, then that's as good as there being no end message. But fuck it, the music was great. 
Feel better--you could be getting waterboarded! So says Amnesty International, the group responsible for that brightly attired fellow out on Low Plaza, also putting on a panel this evening on torture. Don't worry, they rotate out every few minutes (not quite as hardcore as this, but we get the message). In other social justicy news you may have missed, besides being U.S. Sponsored Torture Week, it's also the CPU's Anti-Apathy week, and New York City's Anti-Hate week, which will involve collaging, a speakout, and a vigil tomorrow on campus. Bwog's feeling more loving and passionate already. &nbsp; 
 Activists disagree with something? You don't say! For ten cents a day, you too can have your very own Iraqi refugee. So Day Out Against Hate is bad, because there won't be any hate acts committed on that day. Right... And another bizarre scientific study proves that smiling is harmful. Canada, eh? 
 Gartenfeld- editor, IP tracker, headhunter. The eternal dilemma for Barnard students. No not, tampons vs. pads. Carrie Bradshaw vs. Judith Butler. Rhodes Scholars- they're really really modest. I hear pitchfork gave Wolf Shirt Lesbians a 8.7. It's okay if you never leave campus, the rest of New York isn't much compared to Morningside Heights 
 Israel is one of few countries on earth with two independence days: sure, you could celebrate the Jewish state's independence on May 14th (or on the 5th of Iyar, if you prefer), in recognition of David Ben Gurion's declaration of the state of Israel after the termination of the British mandate.&nbsp;But if one independence day just&nbsp;isn't enough, you could&nbsp;also celebrate on November 29th, the anniversary of the UN's 1947 approval of the Partition Plan--effectively, the international community's official&nbsp;recognition of a Jewish state in Palestine. And celebrate they did at JTS, where a lunchtime reenactment of the pivotal vote helped distract cafeteria patrons from their usual stale tofu and last-minute Talmud translations. Instead, the seminarians put on their best accents as the vote was called from a podium in the center of the cafeteria: "Australia votes in favor of partition. Crikey!," one shouted. "Costa Rica votes si!" "Luxembourg votes yes for particion." Boos went up when His Majesty's government offered a demure abstention, but the cafeteria erupted in cheers moments later when the Soviets registered a historic vote of support. Excitement built as South American and former British commonwealth nations carried the Zionists to a 33-13 victory--with Cuba being, as the moderator noted, "the only nation the Arabs were able to convince by force of argument." Of course the partition vote is one of&nbsp;the most controversial and commented upon&nbsp;events in modern history. No matter--that, (as well as the fact that this was, afer all, a reenactment) didn't&nbsp;take away from&nbsp;the post-vote singing of Hatikva, in recognition of "the hope that was realized 60 years ago." Agonizing over socio-historical complexities is what the other 364 days of the years are for: in that vein, it was announced that this weekend marks the beginning of Conservative Judaism's year-long effort to explore and discuss the implications of Jewish statehood in, recognition of the country's 60th anniversary. Cake now, grueling&nbsp;self-examination later!&nbsp; Speaking of which, Bwog suspects there wasn't an Israeli flag cake at the real U.N. vote, but we'll let it slide. -ARR 
 What are those big black panels out on Low Plaza? In keeping with the new trend of self-expression, they're collages created at the events at Teachers College in the last couple of days focused on homophobia, racism, anti-semitism, and Islamophobia. In case you still feel left out, there's a whole wall for you just to write on as well. Although today's events come in conjunction with the City's Day Out Against Hate, Calvin Sun wanted Bwog to know that it's a completely student-driven effort, leading us all around the imposing structure, for all the world like a proud father showing off his large, multi-dimensional child. Sun also took issue with the Spec's editorial "Hating on Hate," which he had heard from "multiple sources" had been composed while editorial board members were drunkenly celebrating the turning over of the board's membership. Spec soon-to-be-lame-duck Editor-in-Chief John Davisson denied the allegation, saying that one board member had written the editorial before a small holiday party celebrating the deadline for turkey shoot proposals (NOT the turnover of the board, which happens next week) that involved a small amount of eggnog, brandy, and beer. The rest of the board weighed in before the party, "stone cold sober." Bwog, for the record, thinks drunken editorializing at Spectator would be a great addition. - LBD 
 Remember Richard Bulliet? Remember the whole Ahmadinejad fiasco? Well history professor Bulliet was the one who extended the invite. Though for most people the drama has died down, some grudges remain. The site Richard W. Bulliet -- Ratfink pretty much says it all. It's even listed on Wikipedia as the "Unauthorized Richard W. Bulliet Homepage," emphasis on the unauthorized. Bulliet better be careful, someone actually spent money on a domain name to slander him. That means business. 
 Boredatbutler is back, but it's not just for Butlerites anymore. A while ago, founder Jonathan Pappas, CC '06, relaunched the site as BoredatColumbia, in conjunction with duplicate sites at a whole host of not-quite-as-bored schools across the country. Recently, he added listings, which may just fill the void of Dogears and supplement Facebook and Craigslist for your random shit/spontaneous hookup needs.&nbsp; Bwog had a few questions for the man behind Columbia's id, posed and answered via e-mail. How and why was boredatbutler originally shut down? What have you been doing in the interim? &nbsp; Boredatbutler was never actually shut down. Last January, Columbia approached me and asked me to discontinue using the Columbia Crown for the site’s logo after someone complained to the administration. It was not a problem and I made the change accordingly. After I graduated, I continued to run the site out of my tiny Harlem apartment until Silicon Valley dragged me from NYC. I spent the whole summer out there building and playing around with the concept of anonymity, meeting some really cool people in the industry, and evolving the site into what it is today: boredatcolumbia.net. I noticed the network page--why did BoredAt catch on so strongly at Harvard? How have you been reaching out to the other schools?&nbsp; That’s a really good question and I still can’t really say for certain. But yeah, it’s really popular there… over 330,000 posts. It might have something to do with the fact that the curriculum is so demanding while there are only a few outlets to de-stress or safely express what’s really on students’ minds. Anonymity is a powerful thing and Harvard seems to really get that. I haven’t done any reaching out to students per se, it’s still very word-of-mouth and students seem to just find it. &nbsp; Are you hoping to make a profit off the operation of these sites? Do you have a staff, or is it just you? &nbsp; The sites don’t make any money right now. Money has never really been a priority for me, otherwise I would have created a social network that collects and sells personal information, but that’s lame. Sure, I’d like it to make money someday but it’s not the focus right now. I’m just having fun and seeing where it takes me. It’s not just me anymore; I have small team of professionals and independents in California who love the project and the philosophy and have helped me build it into what it is today. &nbsp; Why would a CU student use these listings, rather than Craigslist?&nbsp; Craigslist is very broad and available to anyone who wants to post.&nbsp; However, Boredat Listings is just for Columbia students: only Columbia students can post or reply. This creates a safer environment to post anonymous personals, rants and raves, missed connections… all that fun stuff, and you wont have to worry about a sketchball NYer interfering. Really, the only other option is Facebook’s marketplace, but your name and your identity are always attached to your activity, and everyone you know is alerted when you post something. This sucks. What if I want to sell my dirty old mattress? Does everyone I know really need to know that? What if I wanted to post a help wanted ad for a tutor for my intro-level calc class? Do I really have to tell all my friends I'm an idiot? What if I want to post a personal looking for a cute girl to grab some coffee? Well, that’s just impossible. You get the picture.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;
 Oh Manhattanville! My Manhattanville, rise beyond the eminent domain! Barackin' it at the Apollo Spectator interviews...Radiohead???&nbsp; Quigs, you've got some explaining to do Welcome back to fourth grade. &nbsp; 
Too old for fairly tales, eh? The Columbia Musical Theatre Society presents Into the Woods' long, jaunty ride through Mother Goose's canon. Bwog's theatre correspondent Ginia Sweeney reviews the play and wonders how much shorter it could've been. I’m going to try to keep this review short because I’ve just had to sit through an absurdly long musical and I don’t want to subject you to the same tedium. Someone should have told Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine that a mash-up of classic fairytales with a few extra plot twists can only sustain an audience’s attention for so long. I’m not sure how long that is, but it’s something less that two hours and forty-five minutes. Perhaps I’m being too harsh. The Columbia Musical Theatre Society has pulled together a rather impressive and large scale production of Into the Woods, and Thursday night’s performance will be followed by two more—at 3 and 8 p.m.—on Friday, in Roone Arledge Auditorium. I have few complaints besides the sheer length of the show. Into the Woods intertwines four fairytales—Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood, Jack and the Beanstalk, and Rapunzel—into one winding story where characters are constantly venturing “into the woods” for one reason or another. A narrator (Thomas Anawalt CC’09) is there to help the audience and, frequently, increase the meta-factor of the show with asides like, “as is often the way in these tales…” To lend coherency to the tale, a baker (played by Michael Snyder CC’10) and his wife (Gilli Messer BC’10) are thrown into the mix. They desire a child but are unable to conceive due to a long standing curse cast by the bitter witch living next door (Jamie Rubenstein BC’10). If they want the curse lifted, the witch says, they must fetch her four artifacts, one from each of the fairytales. So, the two set out into the eponymous woods with their mission. In the meantime, revisionist fairytales are going on everywhere. Jack, recast as a half-dolt (aptly portrayed by Benjamin Velez CC’10) and his horribly irritating, screechy mother (Becky Greenstein BC’10) are without food and must resort to selling their dry cow—also Jack’s best (and only) friend. Cinderella goes to her mother’s grave rather than her fairy godmother in search of a way into the prince’s festival, and it is her own shame at her social position rather than a midnight time limit that makes her flee from the prince. Rapunzel sings from the top of her tower, and seems to be satisfied with washing and combing her hair all day. Little Red Riding Hood gorges herself on the food she is delivering to her grandmother, and finds herself “scared and excited” about the wolf, in a thinly veiled deflowering scene. Fortunately, the stories used here preserve the Grimm Brothers’ original gore, so you can look forward to a fair amount of blinding by various disgusting methods. Although the cast is generally talented, the standout performance was by Austin Smith CC’10. As Little Red’s wolf, he prances about the stage in a rather sloppily made costume, simultaneously creepy and seductive. As Cinderella’s prince, he is regal and charming; as he says at the end of the show, “I was raised to be charming, not sincere.” Undoubtedly some of the best scenes in the whole show are between the two princes, Smith and Kieron Cindric CC’08, singing of their lust for various princesses. Smith’s voice is velvety and resonant , and he is utterly comfortable in his role. There is not enough plot to carry the 1.5 hour first act, which ends with a conclusive happily-ever-after ending, only for the story to be continued—and rather preposterously, at that—with a second, darker act. Into the Woods is an impressive production for college students with only a few technical glitches. (Poor Jack had to sing a whole song unmiced!) If it had been half the length, I think I would have thoroughly enjoyed it. Performances at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. in Roone Arledge Auditorium. Tickets available at Lerner Box Office. 
 David Eisenbach has done it again--one more polarizing political figure to enlighten campus discourse. This Wednesday, December 5th, faux White House correspondent-cum-boy toy Jeff Gannon will speak at Faculty House&nbsp; about his new book, The Great Media War, which promises to "take aim at liberal media bias."&nbsp; You fight that media bias, Jeff (or should we say James?)&nbsp; If you can't wait, click on over to his blog, where preview pearls of wisdom await! 
This Saturday, the New Museum of Contemporary Art will officially open its new building on the Bowery between Stanton and Rivington.&nbsp; If you’ve been around the area you may have noticed the rising stack of icy white boxes—designed by Tokyo-based architects Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa/SANAA—that seem as if they’re about to topple over into Nolita.&nbsp; You may have even confused them for condos and shaken your head at the imminent Soho-ifying of the Lower East Side. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Instead, the New Museum exhibits contemporary artwork from all around the world.&nbsp; On Saturday, the opening exhibits include a performance piece by New York artist Sharon Hayes about communication, as well as an expansive thirty artist exhibit called Unmonumental: The Object in the 21st Century, which examines new methods of sculpture and creation.&nbsp; The Seoul collective Young-Hae Chang Heavy Industries has also created Black on White, Gray Ascending, a complex, multi-faceted film noir narrative combining text, animation, and music. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In celebration of its opening, the New Museum will be open for 30 free hours starting at noon, meaning that you can walk in at 11:30 p.m from a bar—the New Museum may seriously regret this.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tickets can be found on the New Museum website, but they are close to being (if not already) sold out.&nbsp; In any case, you should head downtown Saturday and try to get your hands on unused or extra tickets, or pry them from someone’s unwitting, skinny little fist.&nbsp; Nighttime may be the best time to go; even if you can’t get a ticket you’ll be within walking distance to bars in the area like Max Fish or Good World, which will probably be packed with New Museum refugees. - James DeWille 
 Columbia’s medical researchers are provoking helpless panic across the country today, but word is, it’s good for your cardiovascular health. Scientists here have upended some traditionally accepted wisdom and are now arguing (in some cases) against CT scans and abstinence. Just one more thing to worry about for two of the most lamentable at-risk populations: people who are sick but can’t figure out why and 23-year-old virgins! And in news related to Columbia only through the related post list on the second page linked above: for all you kids who were thinking of giving up sex because you could only think of 236 reasons to keep at it! 
In the realm of the internets, it seems that WikiCU has come to a crossroads --&nbsp; with the site's owner graduating in May and most of its editors being Columbia alumni, the future of WikiCU will depend on&nbsp; either a "marketing strategy" of some some sort, or on someone else taking the reigns. While Columbia itself wants nothing to do with the site for liability reasons, the site's most dedicated editors are considering&nbsp; handing it over to some hopefully interested organization, or possibly recruiting moderators from campus, CULPA style. Bwog, meanwhile, is honored to have some mention in the open dialogue (which somehow becomes more amusing with each new rebuttal, if you'd like to read for yourself). On a similar note, Collegewikis has been around for awhile, but the Columbia Wiki seems to be the place to bring pressing questions (all seventeen of them) such as, "Any recommendations for quiet restaurants where one can take one's mother?" or cheesy surveys regarding everyone's favorite professor.&nbsp; Granted, users have to go through a somewhat annoying registration-and-confirmation process before being able to see any of the pages, and the scope of articles doesn't come close to WikiCU, which has been around since spring of 2007. While discussing the not-so-rivaling Wiki pages on the Bwog email threads, however, one staffer brought to our attention that College Wikis is in fact a "New Business Concept" entry into a Pace University entrepreneurship contest, and belongs to Harvard/Stanford Business School graduate Joe DiPasquale. His site rivals a couple of other Columbia-connected projects, including "the first truly environmental superstore" and a payment-receiving service for business owners. Somehow, those two (or the "Beer Pong Cooling Rack," even) seem more useful/destined for success than a flimsy Wiki site, but hey, we just might be biased.
 A motley band representing Philolexian Society cell CRUSHP (a one-syllable shortening of the Committee for Rectifying the Unphilolexian Sneaky Hipster Problem) has gathered on the Sundial and is hurling insults at passing hipsters. Hipsters, thus far, have not been too affected, because the catcalls are still quieter than the Norwegian middle school-themed songs blasting on their iPods. For all the hipster-haters out there seeking oneliners, CRUSHP’s finer slogans include “no label, no talent!” and “their new album is better than their first!” Manhattanville expansion opponents might appropriate the chant, “What do we want? Sincerity! When do we want it? Now!” And they would surely ask CRUSHP’s permission before taking it for themselves. In the interest of honest journalism, Bwog has been debating among itself all morning whether it has been infiltrated by too many hipsters to cover this story without bias. Indeed, Bwog may have been the target of a CRUSHPer hollering “skinny jeans reduce your sperm count.” Bwog was only semi-hurt, as this correspondent would prefer to keep her sperm count low. - ACM More photos after the jump Top photo, from left: "Try listening to music that is actually listenable" and "Having a bike with no brakes does not make you a badass.&nbsp; It makes you a tool.&nbsp; And an organ donor." Bottom photo, from left: "No, their new album is way better than their first" and "Buy CDs! not LPs!" &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
You heard her! Feel free to sing along! &nbsp; 
Bwog guest&nbsp; Coogan Brennan, a Campus Character in these pages many months ago, was CC 02008. &nbsp; &nbsp; Let me say, first, it’s an absolute honor and pleasure to be here on Bwog. I never thought I would reach the echelon of being an actual poster on Bwog. It just goes to show the saying is true: reach for the stars—even if you miss, you’ll be floating off into space like those bad dudes at the end of Superman II. &nbsp; The staff here has been kind of enough to let me jot down a few thoughts here about life after being a Columbia undergrad. Most people will tell you about the benefits of going to Columbia or they’ll commiserate with you about the troubles inflicted by Columbia, and may even help you find a life after Columbia. Few, however, will tell you about the glory awaiting you as a Columbia dropout.&nbsp; Better Loan Rates: Anyone watching the American economy closely knows a successful business start-up today needs to be able to play the market for a low-interest-rate loan. For example, I’m trying to start up a non-profit organization called The Manhattan Project. When I sit down with people to discuss the idea, everyone says, “What a hair-brained idea! Who on earth would possibly go for that sort of thing?” I then casually mention that I had heard a similar thing before, during my college years (Them: “Where did you go to school?” Me: “In New York City…Columbia? Have you heard of it?”). I had dropped out, ostentatiously finding the curriculum “personally unsatisfactory.” To the naïve bystander, I instantly achieve a reputation smorgasbord of Bill Gates, Steve Jobs,&nbsp; Ted Turner, Michael Dell and Nina Totenberg. In short, an unstoppable speaking machine. Dropping out of college definitely gives you the upper hand in some respects.&nbsp; Numerous luminaries have quite publicly moved on to better things instead of receiving a college diploma. So you’re in good company. Also, if you have any brilliant idea you’ve thought out comprehensively, it’s merely a matter of time before you find an investor with whom you can properly express your earnest enthusiasm for a project, possibly scoring a big-ole check to help you continue living and making trouble in The Real World.&nbsp; Cooler Stories: Let’s just saying that you’re taking a Real Break from The Real World (“Fall Break” to your collegiate compadres). The fact that you dropped out of college instantly transforms any environment. For instance, I was in a bar with friends, striking up some casual conversation with the other patrons. I was working the scene with the classic Core cocktail conversation (a little Bernard de Mandeville here, a Foucault reference there: Me: “Oh, you’ve read the Bible AND the Qur’an too?” Them: “Actually, I dropped out of grad school before I could…” Me: “Bummer—So, anyway, like I was Fatima—not Padma—was Muhammad’s youngest daughter.”). I’m totally in control. It becomes apparent something’s up, people are uncomfortably forced to ask what my field of study was in college. At this point, I lower my eyes—kind of sheepishly—pretend to be searching for something in my jacket pocket real distracted-like and turn to them—somber eyes—and say to them, “Actually, I just dropped out.” The atmosphere totally changes. People start slapping me on the back and buying me drinks. It gets wild. I can’t mention everything that happened because Bwog strictly regulates comments concerning CTV. I can probably say that if Bradley Blackburn and his camera crew people were there, academic censorship would be the last thing you’d have to worry about (right, Brad? *wink).&nbsp; Enjoying the best parts of Columbia without having to endure the worst parts: A good friend of mine, who graduated a year early, expressed her dislike thusly: “I love the people, I just hate the school.” I couldn’t agree more. I keep in contact with my Columbian friends and I am extremely proud of my Columbian accomplishments, both academic and extracurricular. However, I felt totally uncomfortable transferring over $25,000 of somebody’s money to structure a bureaucratic corporate system. I couldn’t reconcile the feeling that very few teachers actually cared about me as an individual. I can hear the naysayer retort, “Quit crying, you privileged snob, what did you expect?” Well, I guess I expected a little more personal respect from the Columbia faculty, staff and administrators who are supported, at least in part, by my tuition. I felt as though many people just wanted to make sure I passed my classes, didn’t fuck-up real bad and would I please hand over a government-issued license to properly sign in my anarchistic friend I met at Critical Mass? No use in holding a grudge, though, right? What’s the saying? What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger? That’s funny, because it seems to have made me jaded and cantankerous. Anyhow, I still have Columbia’s name on my resume. If someone wants to look at my transcript, it’ll be on Columbia stationary (thanks for the complementary copies, Student Services!). I routinely check books out of the Columbia library, access JSTOR and other online databases through Columbia portals (crucial for self-education) and use Cubmail—old school Cubmail, not this tepid-alternative-to-Gmail gimmick (CUIT needs to clean up the “Do NOT match” search feature in this version, btw).&nbsp; Most importantly, I know I’ve met some of the brightest, most creative people of my generation, not to mention a few instructors (Prof. Andrew Delbanco and Heather Samples, to name two) wishing to produce truly independent minds. Columbia taught me to think for my self by fighting for my self. Sometimes I wonder if the actual, teleological end of the Core Curriculum is to foment dropouts. I mean, do you think Nietzsche would have taken a swim test before writing Genealogy of Morals? Hell no! One of my favorite Columbia dropouts, Mortimer J. Adler, came close to finishing the Core but eventually, after repeated attempts to fulfill the gym requirement, left. I can sympathize, as I personally came dangerously close to flunking a Yoga class in my last semester. &nbsp; There’s no sense in pushing yourself to be another Kerouac, or any other dropout society views misty-eyed. If you are considering dropping out of undergrad, let’s just say you’re in good company. And if you do decide to follow that dream and enter the sacred realm of college dropouts? Let me know, I’ll buy you a drink. Mr. Brennan blogs in Oakland, California. 
 Word has it a man was shot and killed at Radio Perfecto earlier this evening. Some serious shit definitely transpired: as Bwog passed the bar at 118th and Amsterdam at around 3:45 AM it spotted about a half-dozen police cars, an ambulance, and a camera crew; the block had been cordoned off with police tape and the victim's body had been taken outside. As the restaurant is across the street from Schermerhorn and only two blocks from Plimpton, Bwog is pretty rattled--sources at the crime scene said that this was a shooting death, but we'll have more details as they emerge. Eyewitness account after the jump. Sent to Bwog at 5:07 AM: There was (what sounded like) a shooting last night in front of Radio Perfecto, on 119th and amsterdam. I was walking down Amsterdam, and saw a crowd (25+ people) of decidedly non-columbia looking people in front of the bar, (they seemed older than college/grad students, dressed differently, and the crowd was predominantly black, I think). There was a tussle/fight going on which I could hear from 116th street onwards (I was walking up Amsterdam). A bit after, two shots were fired (sounded like a loud, muted 'pop', like a tire bursting) and I saw everyone scatter; everyone around immediately started running. I sprinted home, and after a minute (literally) saw ambulances and police cars speeding by with sirens on. 

All month, Bwog has been waiting with bated breath while the Speccie population at Columbia has feverishly shadowed for their desired positions, written long proposals, and faced the firing squad of this year's board. At the end of it all, campus news deputy Tom Faure came out on top for Editor-in-Chief in what was originally a six-person race, following in the illustrious footsteps of his predecessor John Davisson who made a similarly broad leap from News Associate editor to EIC. Welcome to you all! EIC: Tom Faure Eye EIC: Alexandria Symonds Managing Editor: Amanda Sebba Eye Managing Editor Features: Hayley Negrin Eye Managing Editor A&amp;E: Alison Bumke Campus News: Jacob Schneider City News: Melissa Repko: Sports: Kavitha Davidson and Matt Velazquez Opinion: Miriam Krule Copy Editor: Jordan Fraade Production Editors: Haley Vecchiarelli and Madeleine Lopeman Photo Editor: Linda Carrion Publisher: Manal Alam Business Manager: Grace Chan Finance: Darrow Merton Sales: Michael Topol Alumni: Julia Feldberg Online Editor: Lara Chelak &nbsp; 
W. M. Akers is at it again, this time telling us why our downtown rivals are just as tired as we are - even if they work much less. In my film class this week we watched a three-and-a-half hour black-and-white movie, in Russian, that took place around 1400 AD. It was lovely, sure, but not thrilling, and 70 percent of the class slept for part of it. (Your correspondent, model of scholarship that he is, restricted himself to a modest ten-minute cat nap.) A boy to my left, who had perhaps just finished a government sponsored sleep deprivation experiment, was out for 175 of those 205 minutes, splayed in various poses across his desk and the two next to him. He shrouded his head with a sweatshirt for most of his Van Winkling, prompting the questions, "Why sign up for a class you can sleep through? What were you doing on a Tuesday night that left you in this state?" and "Can I come with you next Tuesday?" But it also made me wonder how students at a "selective" university can stand to doze so. As my Columbian friends often remind me, you up at 116th work hard. Very, very hard, with the fervor of someone whose parents pay $50,000 a year for you to have the privilege. It's charming really, your work ethic, and even if it makes you unhappy now, somewhere down the line--when you make partner, secure tenure, or overthrow the government of Guatemala--you'll be satisfied that at 20 you worked yourself to exhaustion. Graduates of NYU's College of Arts and Sciences will, in between bowls of soup at the Bowery Mission, look back on Tuesday nights spent drinking down the street. CAS asks little besides a regular paycheck. Our core is easily finished in a few semesters, as it demands little more than that all students buy a copy of the bible and skim the Symposium. Take ten classes in a department and you get a major; take four and you get a minor. This leaves plenty of room for part time jobs, Condé Nast internships, and trolling museum mile. NYU charges us $2,000 extra for taking five classes, deterring anyone from giving themselves enough work to be busy on Saturday nights. Columbia may be greedy too, but NYU's pettiness is unmatched. Students in our other schools work like they care. The actors in Tisch spend three days a week in studio, grinding towards orchestrated nervous breakdowns, and students at our business school dress for class like it's a job interview. But CAS students are paying to live in the city--$1,350 a month, for what it's worth--and NYU throws in a vanilla liberal arts education as a makeweight. The college has some superb faculty and course offerings, but so many competing for classes that it's not until junior and senior year that you're assured a place in advanced classes. If everyone were taking five classes, you'd be hard pressed to find a spot in something more challenging than a survey. Intellectualism requires a bit of elbow room, and CAS can't spare it. That's why we go to the movies on Tuesday nights, why we're able to work a register 20 hours a week and tend bar on Thursdays, why it's unheard of to spend Saturday in the library. There are 21,000 undergraduates and enrollment is increasing. As even Columbia has noticed, it's tricky finding space to build in Manhattan, so by 2031 the University wants 10,000 of us abroad at a time, like Mormon missionaries, but with a different sense of dress. CAS wants to be an international brand, which means there will soon be settled populations of NYU goldbricks as far away as Singapore. Relaxation, dear Columbians, is an unstoppable force. 
Looking for an intellectually rigorous way to procrastinate during reading week? Scrabulous isn't doing it for you? Bwog film expert Christian Kamongi shares his picks for the Pasolini, Ophuls, and Sembene retrospectives. Heretical Epiphanies: The Cinematic Pilgrimages of Pier Paolo Pasolini Marxist, poet, homosexual, pious Catholic, and renowned intellectual Pier Paolo Pasolini is one of the landmark figures of postwar European cinema. Whether it's his adaptations of classical texts (Canterbury Tales, Decameron, Arabian Nights), an extraordinarily orthodox depiction of Jesus, or neo-realist influenced explorations of the Roman underworld his films share spontaneity and intellectual virtuosity. Lincoln Center will be presenting a retrospective which will include Salo, one of the most controversial works in cinematic history as well as one of the most difficult to retain (don't bother trying for the Criterion version of it, it's literally out of print). Must See: The Gospel According to St. Matthew November 28th-December 4th, Walter Reade Theater, 65th St. and Lincoln Center (Above Alice Tully Hall) The Cinema of Max Ophuls The limited access to Ophuls' oeuvre on DVD and VHS makes this retrospective a must-see, BAM Cinematek is presenting 12 of his features as well as a new print of Letters from an Unknown Women. If any of you viewed the lustrous print of The Earrings of Madame de… at Film Forum earlier this year you'll be able to fully comprehend the necessity of a theatrical encounter with Ophuls. Every scene comes across like a celluloid canvas, a world that when filtered through Ophuls borderline absurd sophistication leads to what Jonathan Rosenbaum referred to as an evolution of the screen into "watery silk". Must See: La Ronde November 28th-December 18th, BAM Cinematek Theater, Peter Jay Sharp Building, 30 Lafayette Avenue, Brooklyn, NY Ousmane Sembene Retrospective For those interested in the neo-colonial experience this retrospective is heaven-sent, a fully comprehensive display of the work of the African continent's late auteur laureate. A title that considering the variety of African national experiences provides you with a clue to the authority of his work in capturing class, gender, nationality, and religion. His sophisticated yet essential usage of narrative (he was after all considered Senegal's foremost novelist) and honesty for characterization may make him the least pretentious master since Ozu. From Black Girl to Moolaadé his films were motivated by an untarnished reputation for social progress as well as a deep understanding that such a progress was based in unflinching documentations of the plight of the underprivileged. Through his deceptively simple tales there lies a perfectly harnessed counter-hegemonic subversion that provide his work with a complex majesty that makes them grow more and more universal with every viewing. Must See: Moolaadé November 30th- December 13th, Film Forum, 209 W Houston Street, Manhattan 
Monday night at 9 p.m., Talk of the Town writer, general New Yorker feature contributor, and Bwog super-fan&nbsp;Lauren Collins will be stopping by our weekly meeting in the basement of St. Paul's chapel to chat about writing, life, etc. Please come, we'll look more popular if you do! (This time, we're serious.) 
These seniors may be worried about the future, but we foresee romance in their immediate present. All interested parties should contact Bwog via email and we'll provide the $5 for the date. And as always, nominate your friends (or yourself) for a personal by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. GUY FOR GUY Name:&nbsp; Jonathan Mason Year:&nbsp; Senior School:&nbsp; CC Major:&nbsp; History Hometown:&nbsp; Columbus, MS Best Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp; Homage to Catalonia by Orwell Worst Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp; I read a lot of reviews on JSTOR, which allows me ample time for... Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Facebook-stalking people I've never met.&nbsp; This is ongoing. Beverage of choice:&nbsp; unlimited soda What are your most played songs on iTunes? You're so Gangsta, Chromeo John Wayne Gacy, Jr., Sufjan Stevens It 5, Architecture in Helsinki What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? Just a Song about Ping Pong, Operator Please New York, I Love You, LCD Soundsystem I Got Love, Nate Dogg Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: any of the Indian burritos at Roti Roll The title of your memoir:&nbsp; 2 Girls, 1 Cup Dream date, 5 words or fewer:&nbsp; breakfast Thing you're looking forward to most this year:&nbsp; homework-free weekends and moving out of Morningside Heights Thing you're looking forward to least this year:&nbsp; supporting myself financially GUY FOR GIRL &nbsp; Name: Christian Enrique Piña Year: 2008 School: Columbia College Major: Hispanic Studies; Biology Concentration Hometown: Queens, New York City Best Book You've Read for Class: Rousseau'ss The Social Contract, John Lockhart's Nahuatl As Written, Mariano Azuela's Los De Abajo, Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet Worst Book You've Read for Class: The Hatchet in junior high. And then its equally horrible sequel, The River. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Consecutively watch too many cheesey 80s montage videos on YouTube to get 'psyched,' then switch to EVERY single 'Top 10 moments of The Office (US).' Beverage of choice: Red wine, yerba mate, apple juice What are your most played songs on iTunes? If I Ever Leave This World Alive, Flogging Molly Us Placers, Child Rebel Soldiers Darshas, B21 Roll it Gal, J-Status Nothing Even Matters, Lauryn Hill What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? The Circle of Life, from the Lion King Si Somos Americanos, Victor Jara One More Chance (Remix), The Notorious B.I.G. S.O.S. (Bush Babies), Mos Def All songs from Mile Davis' Birth Of Cool album Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Carne asada burrito from Tacqueria y Fonda with a side plate of limes, and a Jarrito, then pick up a beef pattie and some grape drink on the way home from the bodega. The title of your memoir: The Tropicality and Serendipitous Wanderings of a Pineapple in the Rotten Apple: The Christian PIÑA Story Dream date, 5 words or fewer: So, dancing after this sundae? Thing you're looking forward to most this year: Thailand! Also, sadly enough, my first spring break trip - Jamaica maybe? Mo Fire Mon! Thing you're looking forward to least this year: Applications, interviews, general anxiety about post-graduation life. 
 Ahmadinejad, Horowitz, racism, hunger strikes, really ugly tenure battles...and now&nbsp;murder. Don't fret, 2011s: it (hopefully) gets a lot less exciting from here. What's that you say? Visualizing the RP murder isn't enough for you? Very well. Click here. Men's basketball still 0-0 in Ivy League play Think of the children! ...or think of the pigeons? And the award for best Spectator headline of the year goes to... Late-in-the day-addition: "Renegade Sports Columnist Rants On Race Theory" Also: Cabinet-level Bush administration visitor of the day: UN Ambassador&nbsp;Zalmay Khalilzad! In the Satow Room! In like, 20 minutes! 
 CCSC is back from break and fulfilling campaign promises left and right.&nbsp; Everyone's favorite student council is on a fact-finding mission to discover when you the student use the mighty convenience mart.&nbsp; Should it be open on weekends?&nbsp; At non-nocturnal hours?&nbsp; Let your voice be heard here.&nbsp; Anyone can take the survey, so get on those public computers!
 If you go to Barnard and you have an RA, you're eligible for a $50 iTunes gift certificate by filling out this survey. Hurry though, as the deadline is tomorrow.&nbsp; Besides, there are only so many times you can listen to Judith Shapiro and the Don't Quit Your Day Job Duet. 
 It had been a while since they met, so there was much to propose and resolve last night.&nbsp; Warning: the following post may contain graphic Lerner 6 discussion and adult off-campus flex dialogue.&nbsp; Reader discretion is advised. Proposal Regarding Academic Advising Center Problem: Lerner 6 was never finished and the Center for Student Advising has offices all over the place from Broadway to Lerner.&nbsp; Solution: Finish Lerner 6 and relocate Center for Student Advising in Lerner 6. Resolution to implement payment through Columbia University Flex Accounts at Book Culture Problem: Book Culture does not take Flex.&nbsp; Flex is convenient for students and sometimes part of their financial aid package. &nbsp;Solution: Columbia should give Book Culture money and technology to join the Flex system. Resolution to formalize departmental advising and strengthen individual faculty and student advising Problem: Departmental advising is important for careers.&nbsp; Students do not have adequate departmental advising.&nbsp; Solution: Each student should have a faculty advisor within their major. -JJV Full text of proposals and resolution after the jump.&nbsp; Proposal Regarding Academic Advising Center: Background: The undergraduate student body at Columbia must have a dependable advising system. Life at an academically rigorous institution in an urban setting necessitates resources to support students. Over the last year, both the Columbia College Student Council and Engineering Student Council have expressed their belief that the improvement of advising is one of the top priorities for undergraduate students. Fortunately, positive steps have been made such as the creation of the unified Center for Student Advising. However, more can and must be done. As it stands, advising offices are spread throughout different parts of the campus from Lerner Hall to the Broadway residence hall. This spatial decentralization is problematic and it is an inefficient use of space that could be better utilized for other purposes. As the advising resources are spread all around campus, there remains a large undeveloped space. When the construction of Lerner Hall was completed in 1999, the sixth floor was never completed. For nearly a decade, this space has been left untouched. There has been much controversy about how to best use this space. &nbsp; Proposal: The Columbia College Student Council believes that the vacant and undeveloped space of the sixth floor of Lerner must be put to efficient use. Specifically, this space should be utilized to allow for the creation of a centralized Center for Student Advising. Rationale: First, the spatial division of the advising offices is detrimental to the creation of a unified office which is the ultimate vision of the Center for Student Advising. With the old system of separate underclassmen and upperclassmen advising it made sense for the offices to be in different parts of the campus. But this is no longer the case. For an office to have a unified mission it must not be divided as it currently is Second, one of the central goals of the advising reforms was to reduce the ratio of advisors to advisees. To do this additional space is required to accommodate more advisors. Third, leaving Lerner Hall empty does not make any sense for a campus as short on square footage as Columbia. The councils often receive complaints from student groups who have difficulty reserving space for their activities. This limitation on space often discourages students from putting on events and activities that would help create a greater sense of community on campus. By developing the sixth floor and moving advising offices there, additional space from the old locations of the advising offices can be made available for student life purposes thereby helping relieve some of the difficulties students face with space constraints. Fourth, Lerner was designed to be an undergraduate student center. The graduate schools have Uris, the Law Library, SIPA and several other buildings to house space for graduate students. The entire gift portion of Lerner was donated by College alumni with the understanding that Lerner would be reserved for undergraduates. Authors, Michelle Diamond, President Alidad Damooei, V.P. Policy Jennifer Choi, V.P. Finance Lindsey Lazopolous, V.P. Campus Life Glenn Thompson, VP Communications &nbsp; RESOLUTION TO IMPLEMENT PAYMENT THROUGH COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY FLEX ACCOUNTS AT BOOK CULTURE&nbsp; WHEREAS, Columbia College Student Council seeks to provide as many services for its students as possible; WHEREAS, students currently are unable to use University Flex Accounts for payment at Book Culture WHEREAS, Book Culture serves as a comparable vendor to the Columbia University Bookstore as a result of student and faculty use; WHEREAS, the University Flex Point system is comparable to cash dollar for dollar; WHEREAS, payment through flex accounts would bring greater convenience to Columbia students, by alleviating traffic in times of great need and reducing the necessity of cash; WHEREAS, many peer institutions have already implemented similar programs across a number of different types of vendors, including: NYU, Harvard, Cornell, and University of Pennsylvania; WHEREAS, a number of Columbia College’s financial aid and scholarship students are given a portion of their allotment through the University Flex Accounts; WHEREAS, the Columbia College Student Council recognizes the need to ensure that all students will have equal access to the books they need regardless of financial ability; BE IT RESOLVED, that Columbia College Student Council urges University Student Services and administrators to provide the necessary funding, technology, and support in a timely fashion to establish a program for payment though the University Flex Point system.&nbsp; Authors, Donna D. Desilus Academic Affairs Representative Columbia College Student Council&nbsp; Glenn Thompson Vice President of Communications Columbia College Student Council &nbsp; RESOLUTION TO FORMALIZE DEPARTMENTAL ADVISING AND STRENGTHEN INDIVIDUAL FACULTY AND STUDENT ADVISING&nbsp; WHEREAS, Columbia University is the leading institution in a number of fields of study and departments; WHEREAS, Columbia College Student Council recognizes the student need for both reliable and knowledge-based information; WHEREAS, Columbia College Student Council recognizes the importance of departmental advising in curricular development and in pre-professional planning; WHEREAS, the advising system across each department is varied; WHEREAS, not all students in Columbia College have a faculty advisor; WHEREAS, a number of our peer institutions, including University of Pennsylvania, Princeton, and Dartmouth, have formalized major advising so that each student may have a faculty advisor; WHEREAS, Columbia College is making a concerted effort to improve advising in a number of areas; BE IT RESOLVED that the Columbia College Student Council calls for Academic Services to formalize departmental advising, so that every student would have an advisor who is a member of the faculty in their major. BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Columbia College Student Council gives its full support to the Columbia College Administration in pursuing this endeavor. &nbsp; Respectfully Submitted, Donna D. Desilus Academic Affairs Representative Columbia College Student Council &nbsp; Tiffany Davis University Senator Columbia College Student Council 
 Remember like, a month ago when art ran amok? Well its reign of terror continues, this time in the Piano Lounge, where last week's wall against prejudice has taken up temporary residence. It's worth a walk-around, and the fact that the piece dominates the once-roomy lounge is probably symbolic, or something--Bwog finds it a bit incongruous, but maybe that's the point. And at 120th and Broadway, Columbia's most prominent dental fetishist has debuted his latest work--a vertically-oriented and vaguely primitive composition that signals a break from his earlier smattering of Bob Dylan lyrics and introverted cries for help. One could speculate endlessly as to what the figures in the painting are supposed to represent--about, for instan ce, the significance of the apparent opposition between the white-outlined man in the bowler hat, and the humanoid black splotch directly above him. There's undoubtedly an element of social commentary here, which could add much-needed context to the still-enigmatic tooth symbol. But y'know what's even more interesting than tiresome and probably pointless exercises in art theory? The fact that this one is signed, or at least named: the word "MAINLINE" is written on the bottom left of the piece, although Bwog suggests that the broken-off dental mold on its opposite side is the real signature. The mystery continues! -ARR 
In which Bwog staffer Armin Rosen sits in on a peaceful disagreement over peace.&nbsp; If you thought Ahmadinemania offered Columbians the best oratorical fireworks of the year, then you, dear reader, clearly weren't at the Satow room for today's Peace in Darfur conference. A mid-afternoon speech by anthro professor Mahmood Mamdani (whose Major Debates in the Study of Africa is building a well-deserved reputation as one of the best undergraduate classes out there--even though it's only been offered twice) managed to overshadow an early-morning showdown between UN Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad and Econ professor-to-the-stars Jeffery Sachs. Disagreeing over whether to put $2.6 billion into peacekeepers or sustainable development projects is one thing. Inflicting a disbelieving sense of shock upon a room of Save Darfur activists, Darfuri expats and human rights scholars…well that's why you come to Columbia, right? Of the many provocative claims the African studies czar made during a 20-minute, almost totally extemporaneous speech, two would prove particularly contentious. Firstly, he argued that the security situation had stabilized in Darfur and that advocacy groups like Save Darfur were spreading a "fiction" of an increasingly intense genocide. "Why was this fiction continuing?" he asked. "Did these groups want more donations…was it part of a political agenda? I don't know." And secondly, he argued that the international legal framework presented an illegitimate form of prosecuting war crimes in Africa, and that the international community's concept of "justice as retribution" prioritized revenge over peace. For Paul Van Zyl, the one-time executive secretary of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa (a country whose justice-free model of conflict resolution Mamdani had just held up as an example for Darfur) and speaker on an earlier panel, this postulation of a peace-justice binary couldn't be allowed to slide. In the popular parlance, shit was about to escalate. "The conclusions Mahmood Mamdani draws are profoundly wrong," he said before he cautioned the attendees against "creating an atmosphere of impunity" through downplaying the significance of punishing the guilty parties in Darfur. After Mamdani offered a shrewd response in which he talked about the necessity of "demanding justice fairly," it seemed like this sparring match of intellectual heavyweights was over. But conference organizer and SIPA visiting scholar David Philips had a parting shot of his own: "I would never impugn the advocates," he said. "Without them nobody would in the room." When the session adjourned, the room was in a mild uproar, and Columbia's most iconoclastic Africa scholar was mobbed--"I was profoundly offended by what you said," said one Darfuri expat, claiming that the security situation had not improved in 2005 as Mamdani had claimed; finding the Herbert Lehman Professor of Political Science to be nonplused by his criticism, he took his case up with a satisfied-looking Jeffrey Sachs, who was stationed only a few feet away. Bwog jostled between some slightly peeved gentlemen brandishing Save Darfur Coaltion business cards in an attempt to overhear a different offended Darfuri plead his case with Mamdani; meanwhile on the 5 th-floor ramps, an odd mix of think-tankers, activists and scholars--still shocked by the professors impassioned and at times incendiary lecture--carried on heatedly in English and Arabic. It was an electrifying back-and-forth, and the kind of thrilling exchange that you'd be lucky to see once or twice a semester. Bwog's advice: today's probably not the day to skip Major Debates. 
 If you read Bwog, you hopefully read the Blue and White. If you read that, you may read the New Yorker. If you read that, you probably read the Talk of the Town, which means you've definitely read the writing of Lauren Collins, who is stopping by St. Paul's Chapel at 9 p.m. this evening to chat with us, take questions, and so on. All are invited; there will be light refreshments. 
 Oh Academy Hardware, we hardly knew ye (really) ULURP slurps Yes, I will eschew activism in favor of writing about 17th-century biologists Another week, another Columbia Coalition You know it's bad when your malnourished body thrills at any mention of broccoli&nbsp; OF PARTICULAR NOTE: Spectator wants to hear from you! And one of their questions concerns Bwog, so we want to hear from you too! Plus that mother of all incentives, an iPod! &nbsp; 
 Big news in the case for transparency in academia: Starting in the spring, CC students may be able to view the results of their course evaluations online—specifically colorful bar graphs illustrating the section in which students rank the class and the professor from 1-5. CCSC has been working on the project since last year, but ESC has already been doing this for quite some time with a program called Oracle. “Knowledge is power,” proclaims Oracle. Indeed! Daily reminder e-mails make it pretty hard to forget that it's course evaluation season, but CCSC Policy dude Alidad Damooei says that the spiffy new system will only become reality if you actually fill them out: “I am pretty confident that the project will come to fruition but the ONLY possible threat is a low response rate,” Damooei explained in an email. TAs, meanwhile, have been sweetly suggesting that their students do their academic duty and fill out the evaluations, especially if they've had a good time in the class. According to one source, the instructions they were given pronounce that "personal encouragement" is the best way to ensure a high participation rate. 
 Is Barnard sophomore secretly a Baby Boomer sent into the future from 1968 to guilt us for our self-awareness? Is keeping Lehman Library open 24/7 a wonderful idea that's simply a fiscal impossibility unable to be rectified by an op-ed?&nbsp; Is a barbaric Thanksgiving in which diners hunt their own food and fend for themselves antithetical to the holiday spirit? Did the pressure of taking itself so seriously finally cause The Eye to implode and subsequently unleash its content across cyberspace, eventually resulting in this article's publication in the Bulletin? Seriously?&nbsp; 
 Tonight marks the first night of Chanukah. We have the Maccabees and their defeat of Seleucid Empire to thank for 8 nights of presents, gelt and latkes beginning in 25 minutes. (And our friends in states with agriculture-based economies to thank for sunset at 4:28pm tonight.) Chabad house is celebrating by lighting an outlandishly-sized menorah (the press release claims "8ft!!") on the steps of Low every night of Chanukah. Chabad's combating the bitter, freezing cold with promises of free hot cider and donuts.&nbsp; A happy Chanukah to all! Meanwhile, the cycle of life and death continues to play out in front of Furnald. Reports are circulating of large bird ("hawk/falcon," says a source) perched in front of the dorm and causing a disturbance within Furnald lawn's regular crow population.&nbsp; Perhaps the "8ft!!" menorah will frighten the hawk/falcon back to the wilds and rectify the unbalance in Morningside Height's ecosystem. It would be a Chanukah miracle. UPDATE 5:14PM: Bird expert and Bwog tipster Courtney identifies the hawk/falcon as a juvenile red-tail hawk. And in the grand tradition of Maccabees vs. Antiochus IV and other battles of Chanukahs past, thus commences 8ft!! Menorah vs. Red-Tail Hawk. 
 Bwogger Armin Rosen admits that this brief survey of people with the same name as other people who happen to be Columbia professors is random as hell, but bear with him. I've never read Dostoevsky's The Double, but I assume the story goes a little something like this: a successful English professor is wrongfully accused of his wife's murder, only to wake up in the body of a mid-decade, D-list sitcom actor, who finishes his PhD in English only to be wrongfully accused of his wife‘s murder and wake up in the body of a mid-decade, D-list movie actor. What’s that, commenter: what I’m actually describing is a thinly-veiled cross between Lost Highway and Groundhog Day? Read a book, my friend: with this whole “postmodernism” thing, anybody can be anything, ever. Everything is relative! The author is dead! And Columbia professors lead strange double-lives within the bodies of other people! Sound like a Spike Jonze movie? Well maybe it should be--“Being Jeffrey Sachs” sounds like the surprise hit of 2008. David Helfand The man who introduced a generation of Columbia undergrads to the wonders of science (and a PhD student to the horrors of…well, the horrors of err, dancing with the man who introduced a generation of Columbia undergrads to the wonders of science) might not believe in God, but he sure believes in making great television. Proud owner of Columbia’s most accomplished doppelganger, Helfand went from producing overrated network garbage (sorry, "Friends" fans), to editing underrated, subscription-only works of television genius. Were his two sides merged, Helfand would be the only untenured senior faculty member ever to win a CableACE award. Bruce Robbins Back in the early 90s, when everyone thought the hot-shot Rutgers professor was writing catchily-titled theoretical harangues like "From Epistemology to Society" and "Death and Vocation: Narrativizing Narrative Theory," Brucie was up to a little narrativizing of his own—remember Darnell from "The Hat Squad?" Y'know, the character that kept on…well, I actually have no idea what that character kept on doing, only that this apparently bifurcated identity operating on multiple levels of physicality and temporality in a trans-historical socio-cultural sphere, is proof that Robbins knows how to get down with his bad, postmodern self. Wen Jin The whole Lit-Hum "cheating" thing doesn't seem that important in retrospect, and after this semester's raft of controversy, last spring's kafuffle over "academic 'integrity'" feels wholesome in that end-of-the-year, tempest-in-a-teacup sort of way. Far more important is Wen Jin's past life as a prolific Taiwanese cinematographer, during which the Asian American Studies professor worked on such films as "Errant Love," "A Love Seed," "Love Under a Rosy Sky" and "Orchids and My Love." Alas, her one foray into the world of directing was so unspeakably bad that its name has been blotted from the cinematographic record Andrew Delbanco According to the almighty source of all information ever, Abraham Lincoln was given to abstract, proto-Lynchian dreams about an imaginary double. And who's to say Lincoln hagiographer Andrew Delbanco doesn't dream about his double, who by an unfortunate classificatory quirk is listed as playing himself in a documentary called "Faces of Evil?" Bad luck, DeWitt Clinton Professor of the Humanities and one-time Time Magazine social critic of the year! Except upon closer examination, this is, unfortunately, the same Andrew Delbanco that teaches at Columbia. But its nevertheless worth bringing attention to his remarkably low golf score (at a 7,000 yard course, no less), and to the fact that somebody at IMDB knows about his remarkably low golf score. I’m personally glad to see that one of Columbia's top scholars of educational inequality is playing the public course. 
 Dear techie Columbians,&nbsp; Bwog, since its birth, has been managed by one web master--and now he's moving on to bigger and more monetarily rewarding things. Meanwhile, we're planning a rather large and exciting expansion, and are looking to hire a good web designer and computer programmer in his place! Besides a love for Bwog and a genial character, the job requires: Web Designers HTML (of course) CSS PHP would be nice Programmers PHP MySQL Linux Subversion Light server administration Send samples to bwog@columbia.edu, and we'll talk. Love, Bwog Staff 
 SURPRISE! Engineer a way for SEAS students to get time off The wintertime is coming, the windows are filled with frost&nbsp; Late night snack joint might be open on weekends To me?&nbsp; Plus: The Voice sensationalizes, calls Manhattanville a "sweaty scrum" while AMNew York calls Columbia the Big Bad Wolf (not really, but you get the picture) 
Beautiful beaded earrings for sale in the 6th floor SIPA lobby, complete with a man in a sombrero! &nbsp; 
 'Tis the season to be jolly, and what makes people jollier than politics? The Democrats and Republicans are getting their fix these next few days before finals set in. Tonight, the Democrats are running a Maucus, a mock version of the Iowa caucus. Centuries ago, Roman emperor and CC author Maucus Aurelius was named one of the "Five Good Emperors" by fellow CC author Nikolai Machiavelli. Tonight, the Dems will choose their candidate to be the next U.S. president. They will also serve dinner. This will all go down at The James Room in Barnard Hall. Tomorrow, however, the Democrats will not be giving things away, but instead will be on College Walk soliciting signatures for a petition. The goal is to repeal a bill passed earlier this year that has resulted in rising birth control rates. In order to illustrate what they need to control, the Dems will be scaring passersby with a "huge baby doll." And what better way to wake up Friday morning than "breakfast with John Bolton"? At 10:00 am, the recent US Ambassador to the UN will be in Lerner 555. Bolton will be giving a talk and signing his book, Surrender is Not an Option. It's 34% off on Amazon, and could make a great Christmas present. 
A band of revelers led by a wildly gesticulating Santa Claus made waves across Columbia this afternoon, prompting several tipsters to ask "wtf?". The possibly drunk, underweight Saint Nicholas and his six disciples marched across campus twice today, interrupting classes, being mistaken for CUMB, and playing, among other things, a rousing rendition of It Don't Mean A Thing (If It Ain't Got That Swing). We may never be intended to understand their full purpose, but we do know that they are part of the Bread &amp; Puppet theater group, based in Vermont and currently on tour in New York for three weeks. They just started their second week of performances, all of which are at 8:00 pm at the Theater for the New City downtown. &nbsp; - DHI, photo by ZVS 
 Barnard--always two steps ahead of the curve. A choir of ten girls would pique most man's interest. This week in absurdity, The Eye recommends you drop $259 on a humidifier.&nbsp; When so-called (recent) indie films range from Napoleon Dynamite to Brick, the term "indie-itis" is devoid of any meaning. The new New Museum. 
 Coming soon to Fox News- True Life: I was a male escort. Creepy crawlers. Another attempt to ameliorate Manhattanville-guilt. It's not that I'm not smart, it's that I go to Columbia. Another day, another diatribe on racism.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Tipster Alex Port says... "Walked into uris to find two tables lined with hundreds of free jelly donuts in honor of the festival of lights. As revenge for not being able to swipe DD$ at uris, we should eat all their donuts, get the word out." Word has it that CCSC reps are also outside of Lerner with candy canes bribing passersby to show up to tonight's trees lighting. Go get 'em! 
OK, not forever, but for the semester at least, and Professor Jackson's concluding session contained a bonanza of "editorials" for the gathered masses in 417 IAB. On why people aren't moving to the suburbs to get away from Jews, Italians, and black people any more because of 9/11: “I think Americans are simpleminded. We can only hate one people at a time.” On why a later average age of marriage draws people to the cities: “When I was your age, you got married. Partly for sex, but partly to play house…Once you’ve gotten gotten married and had sex, you’ve got a baby, and the suburbs are starting to look a lot better.” “If you’re not married, you don’t want to stay home and take care of the stuff, you want to be like Carrie or Samantha.” The class clapped for a long time after he finished the lecture. What a charmer!
 Hey all you former Deaniacs--Howard's coming to campus! The College Dems have landed a speaking engagement with the presidential-candidate-turned- party boss for "January or February." Speakers coordinator Nate Morgante, CC '09, wasn't sure exactly when Dean would be rolling in, but a go-ahead from the DNC made him confident enough to spill the beans anyway.&nbsp; Meanwhile, the Dems' birth control plaza campout (conveniently timed this week's Eye cover story) went off smoothly, but for one small hitch: the baby lovingly cradled in Alma's outstretched hand was ripped from her grasp by security sometime midway through the event, restoring the pristine backdrop for Japanese tourist snapshots. Plus, everyone knows that Alma doesn't go in for that sort of thing. - LBD, photo courtesy of Nancy Huemer 
 College Walk is crammed with merrymakers for the annual tree-lighting ceremony.&nbsp; All in all, it is a very Columbia Christmas: the Kingsmen modified "I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus" with a verse on lovebirds PrezBo and Ahmadinejad and Eric Foner gave a Bush-bashing speech about critical thinking in the new year.&nbsp; An unfortunate elderly gentlemen picked this hour to drive across College Walk and was greeted by Manhattan-centric cries of "Jersey plates!&nbsp; Oh, shameful!"&nbsp; Best of all were the tables and tables of cookies (store bought) and hot beverages (a fine, tart cider and a very chocolatey, smooth cocoa).&nbsp; Spread among the free food were jingle bells, an informal poll (sample size 6) of which revealed one-third to be jingleless decoys.&nbsp; Make sure to grab a ringing one and join the procession from Low to John Jay lounge, where the Yule Log ceremony will start around 7. - ACM &nbsp; 
 Bwog correspondent and masthead editor Justin Vlasits spoke to Robert Maschio, CC '88 and The Todd on Scrubs, about "The Todd Song", the Writers' Guild strike, his days at Columbia and In Rainbows. Let's start with the big news of the day.&nbsp; You're debuting "The Todd Song" on your website and it seems to be the definitive statement on your character. (See below - Ed.) This character that I've created is a total parody, the whole thing is a big gag. I came up with this larger than life character who thinks he's God's gift to women and the life of the party wherever he goes and he really just has no understanding of how people see him. That's the funniest character for me to be, so I just keep trying to push that as far as I can and this song is the latest example of that. Sometimes when I listen to rap I listen to Will Smith sing about Will Smith or Queen Latifah or Diddy, they write songs about themselves. It's so egocentric to me that I think that the Todd should have a song and it's basically the Todd's song about his penis, more or less. I think that your audience would really get that I, Robert, am just perpetuating this gag and that's what "The Todd Song" is. But you also seem to be creating a different kind of sexuality.&nbsp; It's not homosexual or heterosexual. I'm definitely trying to establish that because there was this whole running gag during the first four or five seasons of the show, "Is he straight or is he gay?" because I was constantly talking about women but you never saw me with a woman on the show. And then there was this episode called "My Lunch" in Season 5 where The Todd came out, so to speak but he really, in the end, used it as a way to get more women. But then we had a great little at the end of the episode the Janitor says to The Todd, "Well, what are you?&nbsp; Are you straight, are you gay?" And he just says, "I'm the Todd". And you're right, it is like his own thing, omnisexual. Anything that moves, ATM.&nbsp; So why do you have all of those other people dressed up as The Todd in the video? The last couple Halloweens, people emailed me saying "My friend dressed up as you for Halloween," and I would see all these pictures, more and more, because it's an easy character, an easy costume I guess.&nbsp; So I have dozens of these pictures of people dressed up as The Todd, I thought, "I'm writing this song for fans, I can't use my likeness in the video because they own the character, so fuck 'em, I'll just use every fan who dressed up as the Todd."&nbsp; I thought that was a good way to get fans, people involved.&nbsp; I just said, "The Todd is bigger than me, it's just a character.&nbsp; But people laugh at it, so why not use that in the actual video?" How did your Columbia education prepare you for your acting career? Week one I had to read The Iliad-- I'll never forget this freshman year-- and week two I had to read The Odyssey so by week three I was already two books behind. Although I don't know how directly it affected me although I feel like from time to time, even though I play a fairly dumb character on TV, I'm doing some stuff that the more discerning audience might pick up on. I know when I was at Columbia I met some really talented people who have done very well in the entertainment business, which you wouldn't expect. I took an Eliot, Joyce and Pound class at the time with my buddy Danny Futterman, who wrote Capote, the screenplay, and he's done really well as an actor-- and Lauren Graham from Gilmore Girls, we were friends in college. Some of the more talented people weren't from drama school or from pounding the pavement in New York, they're from my days at Columbia. Do you think that this is an untold story of a lot of Columbia students, that everyone doesn't just become an investment banker but tries to do something different with their lives? I think that if you try to pursue happiness in some way that you'll be rewarded. When I was at Columbia at the time, I was an American Politics major, I concentrated in American Literature and I was studying all these different things but I really was searching for what I was really, genuinely interested in. At the time we were there, my twin brother Patrick and I (he went to Columbia as well), the Columbia Film School was starting and it was getting momentum and we would borrow film equipment on the weekends and make these short films and we just fell into something that we really enjoyed doing and I thought that I could make a living out of this. In retrospect, having known what I know now, I most probably wouldn't have pursued it just because it's not a rational, sensible thing to do. So much of this business is luck, but, having said that, I'm glad I .&nbsp; Now when I walk down the street, fifteen-year olds come up to me, shyly, and they high-five me. And I went surfing yesterday with my brother and as I came out of the water, these three high school kids literally came up to me. And it was so crazy, they recognized me and it's just weird to me because I've developed a specific comedic point of view with this character and there's a really specific type of people, really like teenage guys. Do you take some credit for the comeback of the high five? &nbsp; Definitely, I'm totally going to take claim for it.&nbsp; Because not only did we do the high fives-- the creator came up with that, me being the high five guy-- but at the end of it I'd snap it and make it a ritual and then somewhere in the beginning of season two I started naming my high fives.&nbsp; Nobody wanted to high five me anymore I remember one scene so I had the Self Five, the next thing I had the Air Five and then Mental Five, Euphemism-- and every time I got a high five thereafter I started naming them, which I thought was a nice variation on the high five. But I'll tell you where I stole the high five from because I thought it was so funny: the character of Puddy on Seinfeld. There was a great Seinfeld episode where he would always makes jokes to say Elaine, his girlfriend, and he would always make these jokes and then be like, "high five."&nbsp; And he would just do that to the nth degree. You mentioned your relationship with Bill Lawrence. I understand that you guys are close and since he does a lot of the writing, how does that affect your character? He knows me better than anybody. When I first came out to LA in my first incarnation, I was doing stand-up and I was like "I have to do a play" and I auditioned for this play and got the lead in this four character play and it was a play that he wrote. I knew him even before Scrubs started. We've known each other for a long time and as a writer, I would think, that when you know somebody, it's easy to write for them because you know all their strengths and all their weaknesses and he developed this specific role for me to play on this show. If a scene needs a joke, he sticks me right in there.&nbsp; How has the writing staff been affected by the WGA strikes? The strike has shut down TV in this town completely. It's so depressing. We are completely shut down right now. We shot 11 full episodes, five of which have aired so far. And we started shooting the first half of episode 12 and then we got shut down because the second half wasn't done and once the strike started, the writers couldn't keep rewriting. And we're supposed to make 18 episodes this year, so we owe six and a half and this is like our final season of the show, it's kind of like a goodbye, a final swan song, so to speak, end storylines and it's really like the rug has been pulled out from under us a little bit. We knew it was coming, the strike, because the issues are major and there's a lot of money at stake, and nobody can really figure out how to monetize the internet. It's very hard, I think they need some accountants in the negotiating room, not lawyers, but it's really frustrating because we really want to finish. It's like a good book: it has a good beginning, the middle pages go fast, and you want a good ending. I feel like we're getting robbed a little bit right now and the longer the strike goes on, the more worried I am about finishing those last six episodes.&nbsp; Would it be possible to push back the show until next season if you can't finish it this year? I don't think that would be an option. I think the strike needs to end before Christmas because a contract has to be ratified by the Writers Guild and then production could start up in January and we could have like two months to finish the show. But if this thing goes into January, and it could because I don't think people understand, when you go on to the Internet, it's a different way, people are making money off it in a different way than you do on network TV. And I don't know how they are going to figure out that formula. And I know "The Todd Song" because I'm promoting the song on the Internet and basically the way that a lot of people get paid on the Internet is by how many hits your website gets.&nbsp; And based on those hits, you can get advertising dollars but historically, networks haven't paid writers based on the ratings or advertising.&nbsp; They never get a percentage that way.&nbsp; So it's a whole new template that they have to figure out and I don't think they can figure it out and I don't think that they want to share that kind of money. So anyway, I don't think that Scrubs will get pushed back for a final season, I just think everyone will say, "Alright, we had a good run, next project".&nbsp; I understand you have campaign to become the 2008 commencement speaker? I fully intend to be the class speaker at Columbia for the Class of '08 and I want them to reignite the Campaign to Enlist Robert Maschio as Class Speaker.&nbsp; But my one caveat is that I have to do the commencement speech as The Todd. That's the only way. I'm going to wear old scrubs and at the end I'm going to high five all of the faculty. I'm going to make a lot of sexually inappropriate jokes, again directed towards faculty and of course on underclassmen. And at the end, when it's all over, I am going to literally take it down to the banana hammock. I'm going to strip so it's just going to be my cap and my hammock.&nbsp; And that's the way I'd like the Class of '08 to go out into the world. So I'm hoping somebody picks up on that and starts a letter or petition on my behalf. The internet seems to completely changing the entertainment industry.&nbsp; All of these major issues have been based on what the Internet has done to network TV. Absolutely, I know there is going to be a time when network TV is completely superfluous, completely done. Those guys who are trying not to give the writers money now, they're going to be out of the loop. There's no need for them. At some point I won't need NBC to reach an audience and they're middlemen, they're the distributors, they want to control all of the content and when they let it go, they're not bringing anything to the table now that the Internet is here. And it's a great democratizer, the internet, where you can just reach people, and it's going to be the new delivery platform. The only thing they have to figure out is how do you link your computer to your TV. If it comes right up through your TV, all of these companies are out of business. So that's why they're fighting so hard to hold on. But I just want to go straight to the people, you know? If they think the Todd is almost too dirty for TV, I'll just say "Fuck it."&nbsp; If you lawyers don't want to use it, there are millions of people out there that would love this song. And it's just like the greatest thing in the world and it's exciting for me and this song was just like a trial run for me in terms of how to connect to people and deliver stuff directly to them but this spring we're going to let out another CD and its going to be like a saga of ten songs and we're just going to do kind of like what Radiohead did and just put it on the website and let people come to it and pay what they want and there's no TV company, no recording company, just you create something and you give it right to the audience.&nbsp; So it's going to be the In Rainbows of situation comedy? Yeah, why not? Comedy rap. Comedy rap, that's my new thing, comedy rap. I'm going to sing a song about my penis, about anal sex-- givin' it to her from behind, I'm just going to do total, all sex stuff, innuendos. I'm just going to put out a CD that the dudes would love.&nbsp; "Baby, baby, please, you gotta let me give it to you from behind." But anyway, I'm excited about the song tonight and I'm excited about the show tonight's episode. Maybe they will decide at the last minute to put a link on thetoddtime to promote the song. We'll see. 
 ...breaking gender barriers! ....the soon-approaching death of CULPA??? &nbsp;...fancy foodstuffs (yum yum yum)! ...reminiscence of things that have actually "worked" on campus&nbsp; ...columnists' Obama plugs? &nbsp; 
 In spite of this busy time of year, Bwog did manage to get away for a few moments and witness Chowdah and Sweeps' self-proclaimed "Very Special Holiday Special" in Furnald Lounge tonight. Sweeps performed a domino chain of improv skits complete with reference to broken families, broken chia pets, peanut butter blasphemy, and linear references that would have put The Geometer in fits. Hilarity also ensued in Chowdah's performance, which joyously embraced the arrival of Comikkah season. While the show included an array of candy-addict rabbits, Bad News Bears and partial nudity, in the end the troop proved that no holiday sketch is complete without the arrival of Charlton Heston in his magic sleigh -- quite possibly in the likeness of Moses from The Ten Commandments. And you thought everyone at Columbia was Jewish! &nbsp;More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Zahra Khimji and Bwog editor Maryam Parhizkar write about a very long cycling trip with a very noble mission. While in the United States people are constantly striving for ways to save the environment and stop global warming, Iranians too are striving for ways to promote peace environmental awareness.&nbsp; Somayeh Yousefi and Jafar Edrisi, an athletic couple who first met on a mountain peak near Tehran in 1998, are just such people -- this year, the Iranian cyclists began their journey to promote peace and environmental conservation, one country at a time. Professor Dennis Dalton, well-known in the last few months for taking part in the recent hunger strike, introduced the event. "This word, peace -- that matters most to me," Professor Dalton said, while physically pointing to the word on the large banner hung on the table in front of the room.&nbsp; Dalton warmly welcomed the cyclists, stating that although we must work to resolve conflict that we had gotten into with Iran, "violence spreads like a cancer . . . we are plagued with that cancer now, and we must cure it." Yousefi and Edrisi then proceeded to explain their mission, which involves cycling around the world and creating a "green line" of newly planted trees along the way to promote peace and environmental awareness. "No one will be living in a peaceful world without the environment," Yousefi, the English speaker of the two, said. Yousefi and Edrisi have been tracking every step of their trip and blogging whenever they have the chance. Starting from Iran, they have cycled through major parts of Europe such as Greece, Italy, France, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands and have crossed the Atlantic ocean (by flight, of course!). As of today, the couple has planted a total of 14 trees, with 2 in New York State. According to senior Shirin Soufiyan, one of the organizers of the event, Somayeh and Jafar's were invited by an individual group of Iranian students on campus, who had heard about the cyclists' journey through a news article. The students were able to reserve space for the event thanks to the Sephardic Club at Hillel. "They sold their car, everything, and decided one day to go on this trip to promote peace,' Maryam Fereydoun, another organizer said. The couple has often stayed economical by cooking their own food pitching their tent in public areas to rest. However, since gaining attention from the media, they've received hundreds of emails from people all over the globe, inviting them to be their guests. "We have a lot , " Yousefi said, "and now we have to choose to go to their houses!" Yousefi and Edrisi noted that the process of organization for them was tedious in that they have had to ask for visas and special permission to travel from country to country and cross borders legally. There have been other problems, inevitably -- in the first week of being in New York the couple had suffered flat tires and gotten lost, but have always managed to find help along the way."The place that gave us the easiest time with our visas was the US," Yousoufi said. "In fact, we were touched by the hospitality of the people that we first met." Yousoufi went on to describe the couple's interaction with an American woman that had housed them on their first night in the United States, whilst showing a slideshow of their travels and the different lands they have crossed. After they had finished speaking, the pair took questions from the crowd, including concerns about environmental activist groups in Iran. The couple made note that after the Gulf War with Iraq, Iran had lost many of its animals and natural attractions; recently government groups there have been working to rehabilitate natural habitats, and the Iranian Cultural Heritage Organization has begun teaching courses on Iran's environment to proactive citizens. While images of Tehran floated across the screen, one woman in the audience expressed her concerns about the couples' invitation to visit their country. "What do you feel about the present situation as Iranians? . . . How is it to live in Iran? Why should I go there?" she asked. The couple answered the question to the best of their abilities. "It is not , we cannot make decisions for 17 million people... in Iran I am just like this," Yousefi said, making reference to her colorful headscarf and sleeve-covered arms. "I am a normal citizen, but I don't know about politicians." "It is very natural to fear the unknown," Edrisi, translated by a student, said, "but once immersed in the culture you learn to appreciate very different perspectives. Go to the right people and the right places; there are places there of course, like anywhere, that are unfit for foreigners.' &nbsp;By the end of the discussion, the couple invited the audience to sign their "Cycling the World for Peace" banner, filled with positive inscriptions from those they have met. In polite Iranian gesture, they invited the entire audience to stand behind them with the banner in front for photographs. In good nature and smiles, everyone took part. Yousefi and Edrisi hope to complete their journey within the next two years, with a coast-to-coast tour of the US in coming months. You can find out more and track this couple as they continue to tour the USA, by going to www.rmc4peace.com. 
 Or so says 95-year-old philanthropist John Templeton, who, among his billionaire chums, must endow the most mystical foundation. The John Templeton Foundation has power-given millions of dollars to scientists researching questions of God, ethics, and spirituality. One of their projects, buried within their labyrinthine website, is a ranking of the colleges most committed to building character. Does Columbia, with its lessons in Western philosophical history, place? Of course not – but Columbia Colleges of South Carolina and Illinois do! Could it be our friendliness with Ahmadinejad and our enmity with the Minutemen that caused us to miss making the list? A link on the front page to an application for the 2002 edition of the ranking suggests otherwise. Still, it’s a small comfort to remember that accusations of spineless liberal-fascist asshole elitism have been flung at Columbia for ages. If John Templeton doesn’t recognize us as inheritors of the noble tradition of ethical reasoning, there’s always that noble tradition to fall back on, right? 
A few snippets from the Bwog blog family.&nbsp; Wang: Barbie, don’t! Sex and the Ivy: Typical Harvard Snobbery Cu Eco Reps: I'll maintain that a fish isn't too polluted to eat until it has three eyes Overheard in New York: Now there's something you could put on a T-shirt Light Reading: Bwog's inferiority complex is leading it to believe it's being bashed &nbsp; 
 
 Today, Jake Shapiro, son of J-School professor Michael Shapiro and New York Times foreign editor Susan Chira, became a man. Bwog found Jake playing air hockey on the fifth floor of Lerner. Jake, a student at School at Columbia, had arrived minutes earlier from his Torah reading, for which he explained he was "troubled by disturbing suspense."&nbsp; Easily defeating his opponent from a second game of air hockey, Jake stepped away from the table and reported that he was having a lot of fun. Though he "didn't have a favorite present" and says he hasn't opened them all yet, he spoke excitedly about the Mac (with Leopard!) his parents had given him for his 13th birthday. It was four years ago that Jake's sister, Eliza, a 17-year-old who hopes to go to Columbia (welcome to CC '12, Eliza!), also held her Bat Mitzvah reception in Lerner. Jake isn't sure whether or not he plans on applying here, but hopes to become a scientist. "Well, a scientists who teaches," he clarified. Jake's ten-year-old cousin, Luke, son of Columbia Shakespeare professor James Shapiro, was also in attendance. Luke looked positively dapper in a red power-tie and crisp white oxford. Though Luke played basketball for the entirety of the interview, he categorized the foosball table as his "favorite game here." Luke, ever a gentleman and a scholar, diplomatically explained that he didn't have a favorite Shakespeare play, but he's "seen a lot of plays and likes them all." Suddenly, a man came bounding down the Lerner ramps. "Hi, Jake?" he asked, joining the conversation with a furrowed brow. "Hi, Dad!" Jake replied, cheerily. Journalism professor Michael Shapiro introduced himself to a sheepish Bwog. He eyed Bwog's reporter's notebook and digital camera. Jake scurried to greet guests, Luke returned to his electronic indoor basketball. -- JNW 
Overheard in Butler: Woman A, shaking an empty Red Bull can, to random stranger at our table: "Excuse me, how many of these can I drink before I die?" Woman B: "I don't know, three or four?" Woman A, still holding Red Bull can, to man next to woman B "Hey, how many of these can I drink?" Man: "Umm, there's no limit, it's just like coffee…your hands may start shaking and your heart will beat a little faster…" Woman A: "It's not working!" Man: "So drink more." Man, after Woman A's departure to buy another can, to Woman B: "Alternatively you could go home and sleep…" 
NYU Correspondent W. M. Akers is back, with an explication of his school's own real estate woes, and why nobody cares. Among the many hardships of the New York University student is a scarcity of abominations. We have no Manhattanville, no nooses, no Islamic tyrants, and while Columbia students get to moan about northward expansion like it's the new rape of Belgium, the best NYU gives us is the partial-dismantling of a holy building on 12th Street. The dorm we're building there will incorporate the facade of the architecturally insignificant old church, letting residents taste absolution as they step out to class. Tearing down handsome buildings to erect another gray pile is unfortunate, but not evil. NYU simply lacks Columbia's muscle, meaning that we are acted upon as often as we act.&nbsp; Since 2003, community groups have raged against the Department of Parks and Recreation's proposed renovation of Washington Square Park, and NYU students have grinned blithely at their indignation. This week, the city approved the Department's plan, meaning that construction could begin as early as the new year.&nbsp; Because being a liberal in Manhattan requires opposing anything constructed since the Empire State Building, I was confused to find that the plan is strangely sound. They have removed the cruel elements of the proposal—which included fencing out the homeless and smoothing down the three concrete nubs that are the only hills below 55th Street—meaning that the construction will amount to little more than tidying up. Even the city councilman who has led the opposition to the plan has come around, saying that the compromises are unprecedented. Remaining unchanged, unfortunately, is the scheme to renovate and relocate the fountain, which is to be pushed, like a stray end-table, 23 feet, in order to bring it into line with the arch. Even in warm months sitting in the fountain can be unpleasant--the surface is hard, the spray is unpredictable, and the spectacle of toddlers tumbling into the water distracts from homework--but no one, student or real person, seems to mind it not being in line with the arch. Moving the fountain and renovating the rest of the park will mean half the park will be blocked off and ugly for the next two to three years, forcing us to eat lunch indoors and graduate at Yankee Stadium. The plan for the park is irritating but tired. It's even less important than other failed controversies, like last year's hilarious election scandal and Young Republican racism, and the administration's ongoing refusal to release financial records. Perhaps there's nothing worth shouting about down here, but that shouldn't matter. If NYU wants to maintain its place as a top-tier time-wasting institution, its students need to practice silly disobedience. We need people capable of making fools of themselves and their college—is there any chance we could borrow your hunger-strikers? Ah, and to those bothered by my byline, I'd like to briefly explain myself. My father is a screenwriter; he and I have the same name so I print as W.M. to distinguish my work from his. If that's unacceptable please continue mocking me for it, but I would prefer you restrict your attacks to my writing, personality, or character. Thank you for reading—I'll&nbsp; be back next week with something new for you to abuse. 
 The CCSC passed a resolution last night (pasted after the jump) that would require all professors to use Courseworks and make their syllabi available, via the no-bells-and-whistles system, to students not enrolled in the course. That way, you can more easily see how much the course is going to cost you in textbooks and reading time--did you really want to buy that 400-page philosophy tome that might just stay on your shelf all semester? Word is Dean Yatrakis is on board, so professorial days of simple e-mail may be numbered.&nbsp; PROPOSAL TO OPEN COURSE SYLLABI ACCESS TO ALL COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY STUDENTS&nbsp; BACKGROUND&nbsp; Columbia University students register for courses the semester before and readjust their schedules during the first two weeks of the new semester.&nbsp; They choose courses based on limited information through the Columbia University Directory of Classes and the opinions of past students. Many peer institutions, including Harvard University, already allow all university students access to course syllabi sans registration.&nbsp; PROPOSAL &nbsp; To boost efficiency, improve classroom climate, and share reliable information, we propose that:&nbsp; (1) University administration require all faculty to use Courseworks as an information center for all classes.&nbsp; (2) University administration allocate all necessary resources towards ensuring that all faculty know how to use Courseworks.&nbsp; (3) Instructors make all course syllabi available to Columbia University students by opening Coursework access to non-course members.&nbsp; ARGUMENT&nbsp; Columbia University prides itself on having a robust Core Curriculum that also allows for great exploration and personalization.&nbsp; Providing all Columbia University students with full accessibility to all course syllabi would bolster this strongpoint in the following ways:&nbsp; Curriculum Customization: Students will be able to truly explore course options before registration and tailor their schedules according to personal learning habits and goals. Informed and Efficient Registration:&nbsp; Students will be less inclined to over-register for courses if they understand the course load and topics covered.&nbsp; At present, students rely heavily on subjective and often extreme opinions on CULPA in their course selections.&nbsp; Access to course syllabi will provide students objective and factual information that would lead to better decisions. Enhanced Class Climate: Students can match their course expectations with those of the instructor.&nbsp; A class of primed and engrossed students will drive a dynamic class climate. Maximization of Courseworks as a Tool:&nbsp; Increasing functionality of the existing Courseworks structure to meet student need is a simple solution.&nbsp; Students and faculty are comfortable with this system and would use it even more if its utility increased. We realize faculty may have concerns about open accessibility to what some construe as intellectual property.&nbsp; However, Courseworks already features a secure login that only permits access by registered Columbia University students. We assert that opening access to course syllabi will enhance the experience of the University both for the students and the faculty. &nbsp; Authors,&nbsp; Donna Desilus Academic Affairs Representative Alidad Damooei Vice President of Policy Sue Yang Vice President, Class of 2010 
 Can Columbia do anything wrong?: Expansion edition Can Columbia do anything wrong?: Ahmadinejad, racism edition It's official: hunger strike opponents aren't racists! Basketball team yet to play a meaningful game Please, don't insert Barnard insult here. We know it's tempting and all, but it's kinda immature and doesn't reflect too well on you. So control yourselves. There. Lecture over. Heh. Idiots. 
 And a top of the Monday to you, Bwogophiles. We begin today's headcount with a pictorial&nbsp;update on one of Fair Alma's proudest and most rankling traditions: making sure South Lawn is closed all the time, no matter what, virtually year-round. Indeed, nothing says "long, depressing winter" quite like the antiseptic layer of tarp that carpets the south end of campus three months out of the year, exiling off-season frisbee-ers to Riverside Park, and heralding&nbsp;endless weeks of&nbsp;general gloom. But cheer up,&nbsp;Columbians! According to the mobile isolation chamber currently parked outside of Broadway Pres., it's like, 75 degrees in the Carribbean! And American Airlines can fly you there ! The habitat-on-wheels--replete with plastic santa, cardboard travel guitar, mosquito torch and&nbsp;digital newscrawl&nbsp;advertising fares from JFK to San Juan--strikes Bwog as a pretty desperate cry for attention, what with JetBlue's recent attempts at making itself Columbia's airline of choice. Their marketing approach is heavy on the free shit and short on the kitsch; on top of which, the American Airlines traveling Carribbean whatever-the-fuck-it-is looks like a set piece for the weirdest psych experiment EVER. And in the world of legitimate journalism: you might have read something in the Spec the other day about a New York Civil Liberties Union complaint on behalf of a Columbia grad student of South Asian descent who was detained by the NYPD for taking pictures in a subway station. Important to be sure, but you wouldn't think that it deserves a staff edit in the New York Post, would you? Well, you, reader, are wrong. Further proof that the 'bloids just can't resist the combination of Columbia, liberals, and&nbsp;protest, or, in this case, just can't resist the combination of Columbia with, well...anything. -ARR 
 Right this minute, on the lawn in front of John Jay, the hawk that's been spotted near Lewisohn and the LLC is lunching on a pigeon.&nbsp; It swooped down and snatched it in dramatic fashion.&nbsp; Onlookers, please send in your photos and stories.&nbsp; Bored studiers, please suggest names for our hawk.&nbsp; Apparently, they're territorial, so he/she may be around for a while. - ACM 
There are tipsters, and then, readers, there are tipsters: in a brazen and heretofore unequaled act of guerilla reporting (at least around here), a student in economics prof Xavier Sala-i-Martin's class found himself a seat in the front of the motley Catalan's lecture hall and let the cell phone camera roll. What he captured is almost too unspeakable to describe; an arcane ceremony consisting of endearingly misfired wisecracks (just what was the James Bond bit about?) and a rather unfortunate pink robe. We've been told that this has something to do with Sala-i-Martin's legendary M&amp;M Peanut Minute competition, in which "brave" students are recognized for being able to answer his "M&amp;M Peanut Minute" econ&nbsp;question of the day. It's as good a theory as any. Judge for yourselves. -ARR 
 We love the Columbia Political Union, we really do--but would it have killed them to have made their election guide read a little less like an obituary? It is comprehensive; all the candidates are there, in sensible Times New Roman--even Mike "Who do you want to nuke?" Gravel has his own page. The Columbia Dems and Republicans got their obligatory space up front, in which the Dems urged us all to "think deeply" about the candidates and the GOP, in an essay entitled "Why you should vote Republican in 2008," didn't even try to convince us.&nbsp; The Columbia Libertarians, who've gotten the better press of both of them, were conspicuously absent.&nbsp; Nonetheless, there is a place in the world for blandness. We have no doubt that the CPU at least takes its objectivity seriously, and that they must have learned a lot putting this together. The FEC, we've heard, has decent job security. - LBD 
 PrezBo's infamous Ahmadinejad opener has gotten bad press before, but never quite this bad: he beat out David Hasselhoff, David Vitter, Rosie, Paris, Miss Teen South Carolina, Caroline Giuliani, and (wait for it) BRITNEY SPEARS for most awkward moment of 2007, according to TIME's top 10 list.&nbsp; Maybe he should stick to hair extensions and a sparkling lingerie ensemble next time?&nbsp; 
 Yeah, they've been working on off-campus flex forever, but after the whole social security number thing got resolved this year, maybe filling out a survey will help it actually happen before you graduate. Want to spend your parents' money at HamDel? Pinkberry? Card-o-mat? Let Student Services know here, any time before Christmas (and probably after you finally get around to those course evals).&nbsp; NYU kids have it. Why shouldn't you?&nbsp; 
Bwog wishes all a happy end of classes and a grudging welcome to reading week! While writing a paper this weekend, one B&amp;W editor wondered aloud whether there was any way to highlight text in Word and change the case of the selected text. As per usual, Master of Word Zach van Schouwen was standing by with solution on hand. A short illustrated tutorial: 1 .&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 2.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
You don't need a New York City budget to enjoy a New York City Christmas. Every year, department stores create fantastic window displays to lure in the out-of-towners, and Angela Velez braved the tourists and shuffled along a block behind railings to bring you this report--Christmas cheer is optional, but recommended. First stop was Macy’s, where this year’s theme was “Miracle on 34th Street.”&nbsp; Macy’s had pretty standard window displays, featuring the always classic yet slightly creepy moving figurine dolls.&nbsp; The windows included one of Susan Walker waving to Santa from her living room window and Kris Kringle as a mall Santa in “Macy’s Santa Land.”&nbsp; The best of this set was the last window, which mimicked the court scene from the movie, complete with moving paparazzi figures and tense looks on all the plastic people. Next came Lord and Taylor’s, which offered a glimpse at different holiday celebrations of the world, including those of the wealthy and vaguely ethnic.&nbsp; Viewers could stand behind gold railings and watch 5th Avenue figurines celebrate the holidays from their mansion, complete with a view of the Met or observe two Hispanic-ish characters gather hay with their burro in front of a spectacularly glittery waterfall.&nbsp; Lord and Taylor wins for the railings and “international” elements--but it looked like a slapdash shopfront compared to Bloomingdale’s. While significantly less creepy than last year’s displays, which featured synchronized dancing American girl dolls, this year’s windows at The American Girl Place had the politically correct figurines trapped inside revolving snow globes, caroling and playing in the plastic flakes.&nbsp;&nbsp; These were not nearly as elaborate as the department stores, but head and shoulders above Disney’s lame displays.&nbsp; Also, this was the only store out of the bunch that made people wait in line just to go inside. The theme behind Saks Fifth Avenue’s displays was “Snow People,” a children’s book “available exclusively at Saks.”&nbsp; Smiling snowpeople glided over hills and rode taxis through a snowperson-populated New York City (including a snowwoman Statue of Liberty!).&nbsp; This display was much more whimsical and cheerful than the other displays, plus the snowpeople’s outfits (bow ties and blazers) were amazing. Next came the visually stunning but Christmas cheer-less displays at Bergdorf Goodman.&nbsp; Regal mannequins dressed in shimmer and gold posed, one in an elephant carriage, another caught in a dance with a reptile (?) skeleton, while a third sang.&nbsp; Poor Santa would feel out of place in his boring red suit and black boots. Finally, 5th Avenue’s piece de resistance:&nbsp; Bloomingdale’s, the best by far.&nbsp; Based on the stories and characters created by children ages 6-12, Bloomingdale’s had artists work with the children to realize their vision.&nbsp; Each scene was bright and eye catching and had obviously originated from the fantastic imagination of a child.&nbsp; In one window, a five-eyed alien queen with a courtly frog battled an alligator for a golden leaf, while in another, a candy robot, with a “human heart” grinned and waved.&nbsp; The best part of this window display was seeing the kids’ original entries for the displays, and comparing them to the finished windows. 
While you were celebrating the last day of classes in Butler or 1020, Bwog theatre critic Ginia Sweeney attended the late viewing of XMAS 2: The Secular Spectacular. Although the show's run began and ended last night, Ginia shares her thoughts. Photos by Lydia DePillis. I’ve been so wrapped up in the end of the semester that I almost forgot how quickly Christmas is creeping up on us. You can bet that the cast and crew of XMAS 2: The Secular Spectacular, which showed twice last night in Roone Arledge Auditorium, haven’t forgotten. The student-written, directed, and produced musical seeks to reveal the origins of that blockbuster holiday, as Judy Maccabee (Madeleine Stokes C’08) tells her children the story of a shake-up back in her teen years at Polar High School. I went to the later showing and considering it was 11pm on the day classes ended, it was unsurprising that much of the audience members had already commenced their Monday night drinking. This would explain the loud guffaws at almost every attempted joke. Some amount of kitsch is always appreciated, but XMAS was campy to a fault. It was filled with too many lackluster performance and musical numbers. It’s clear a lot of work went into this production, and some of it paid off: there were several hilarious lines and well performed characters. Overall, though, the show was no where near as clever as it thought it was, and was irritating and uneven. There’s something about high school that makes it the perfect setting for almost any story—so goes the never-flawed wisdom of Hollywood and the XMAS writers. All the familiar characters are there: the overly confident “popular” kids, the oblivious dorks, the wise guys who are too busy being sarcastic to admit they really want to be part of everything. The story is roughly that Menorah (Laura Kleinbaum C’08) and Dreidle (Mike Molina C’10) are throwing their annual Hannukah bash for only the hip, Jewish kids. Kris Kringle (Josh Breslow C’08) wants an invitation, but, failing to obtain one, decides instead to throw a big, all-inclusive birthday bash for his buddy Jesus (Austin Mitchell SEAS’08). Joseph and Mary (Michael Snyder C’10 and Alessandra Hirsch B’08), both teachers at Polar High, have (again) forgotten their son’s birthday, which they remember in a pretty fantastic Home Alone reference. One thing leads to another, and suddenly the biggest, most commercial holiday of the western world is created. Some of the high school stereotypes are over the top. Molina, as Dreidle, is mostly amusing and overshadows his female counterpart in playing the obnoxious popular kid we all hate to remember. Caley Bulinski C’08 plays Clara of The Nutcracker fame, who is made into a bubbly and completely empty shell, a cardboard character like the rest of the lineup. Granted, the writers probably weren’t trying to flush out the characters into literary masterpieces, but they really could have done more with Clara in particular. The performance is as empty as the writing which inspired it. Clara’s sister, on the other hand, is fantastic. Danny Robin B’10 plays Heather “Nutcracker” Claus, whose ball-smashing days are melted away when Kris Kringle reaches out to her. Granted, some characters were both well-written and performed. Michael Seaman SEAS’10 played the adolescent Ebenezer Scrooge; like much of the cast, he is to appear in the Varsity Show this spring. If this performance is any indication, we should all look forward to a chuckle-inspiring showing by Seaman. Nessa Norich B’08 plays Principal Peppermint Schnapps. It’s hard to believe that the pint-sized Norich isn’t actually middle-aged and perpetually tipsy. Benjamin Velez C’10 did double-time as the Gingerbread man, who sings an anthemic number about not really being a man, tastelessly sprinkled with '90s pop vocal embellishments.&nbsp; The opening lines of music, sung by Velez as Clark Maccabee, reveal a lot about the music to come with their unending Backstreet Boys-esque arpeggios. So much of the music in XMAS is tuneless that it sometimes seems the writers added these Christina-Aguilera vocal stunts to make up for the lack of substance. Velez can sing, certainly, but gave both the Gingerbread man and the Maccabee boy identical vocal inflections. Watching him recalled—and precisely so—his performance of just a few weeks ago as Jack in Into the Woods. Am I the only one who wonders if this is the only character he can play? The set and costumes are simple and straight-forward; both worked for the production. A huge bow hangs above the high school, but XMAS is not a present I would like to find beneath my holiday tree. During the curtain call, the first few rows of the audience—stuffed with the friends and colleagues of those involved with the show— stood up like so many Jack-in-the-Boxes. As no one behind them could see, this prompted a chain reaction wherein almost everyone tentatively stood up to applaud. I can’t speak for everyone else, but I did not intentionally give the performance a standing ovation. It had its funny moments, but I wish I had been able to laugh more and groan a little less. &nbsp; 
 Maybe they were just there for the latkes and cider, or the Columbia Marching Band playing Chanukah songs, but the promise of a Prezbo appearance may have drawn the substantial crowd at tonight's concluding menorah lighting. Rabbi Yonah Blum greeted Lee C. with praise and a Chanukah gift, and after Prezbo said a few words about religious tolerance and mounted the ladder with his lantern-lighting blowtorch, the ceremony concluded. The strains of Hava Nagila followed this Gentile bwogger back to her labors, Hershey's kiss gelt in hand. - LBD 
If Butler's claustrophobia and competitiveness isn't your idea of a great study atmosphere, CQA informs us that the LGBT lounge in the Furnald Basement will be open from three to midnight for Tuesday through Thursday of reading week. To those of you whose idea of studying doesn't involve reading—and really, who even has that kind of time?—tune in to CTV's Core Review series. A CU Players production of Agamemnon is scheduled for 4pm, followed by Lit Hum at 5pm both tomorrow and Thursday.&nbsp; And for the lucky ones heading home already (or longingly dreaming of the day), visit the ESC-sponsored CarSplit and save yourself $20 en route to JFK. Northeasterners braving the train should sit tight, Bwog will re-run its travel tips post later in the week. In the meantime, we invite you to send more travel advice our way at bwog@columbia.edu. 
 Though applicants are not notified until the fifteenth, at least 47 of 2012's damndest have gained Early Early Admission acceptance. Congratulations? Naturally, the sneaky 47 have already made a Facebook group, thereby getting a healthy head start on the path from (best!) Facebook friends (forever!) to avoiding eye contact during the Blaze. UPDATE 9:51 PM: 2012 begins defending themselves on Bwog. Also, the ED notices were apparently posted online today at 5 PM. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Bwog has received several e-mails about a violent incident outside McBain at about 4:30 AM this morning. Calls to Public Safety have so far proved fruitless, so we thought we'd at least print the eyewitness accounts until more information becomes available: "I was sleeping peacefully in my room above Nussbaum last night when at around 4:30 in the morning, I woke to blood-curdling screams, next thing I knew, two men (both who looked young from my window) were being arrested with no less than 5 cop cars and 8 NYPD on the job, and one sobbing girl standing out in front of the entrance to McBain." "At about 4 am there was some drunken shouting between someone in McBain and some drunk guy on the street. Not sure if it was connected with what happened 30 minutes later, but it's 4:34 am right now and I heard a woman screaming loudly and crying. I had no idea what was going on but I knew it wasn't just drunk screaming anymore. She was LOUD. I jumped out of bed, rushed downstairs, and told the security guard, who said it was nothing - that it was from 112th street, but I told him no I heard it coming from 113th. Then he flips on his security cam and I saw the WHOLE THING go down. There was struggling, fighting, and a woman in a white coat screaming. Then the cops pulled up and BAM tackled one of the guys (not sure how many there were)." What's going on? If you know anything, let us know at bwog@columbia.edu. 
 Congratulations to Vikram Pandit, who is about to go from exceedingly loaded to unbelievably loaded. Pandit is a triple Columbia alumnus, having earned both bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering in the 70s before selling out to get a PhD in finance in 1986. Yesterday, he was named CEO of Citigroup, a company worth approximately a shitmegaton of cash. Earlier this year Pandit sold Citigroup a hedge fund, Old Lane Partners, for a cool $800 million; now he is once again is in control of his old company, along with a laundry list of unbelievably huge assets including the bank inside Lerner. And he's still on Columbia's Board of Trustees. Tao Tan has a long way to go. In other news, Harvard is making sure the fairly well-off can keep up with the truly moneyed. For families making between $120,000 and $180,000, costs will be hewed in twain! Other "elite institutions" are expected to jump on the bandwagon. Will Columbia put its money where its mouth is? Whether or not it does, you can still pretend to be elite on New Year's eve. The Columbia Club is offering tickets to a veritable swankfest at the classy Opus 22 lounge downtown. According to Newsday, it's where to go if you're looking for "smart, young energy," and for only $135 a ticket if you buy by Friday, it's practically a steal. Alumni from Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn, and Brown will also be there, so you can get your inter-Ivy network on along with your party. 
 Speaking of swankfests, Bwog's eyes widened at the shindig Columbia is putting on for its employees in Roone Arledge right about now. It's invite only, so we can't tell you what's inside except to say that it involves bright neon lights and bouncy Christmas music. If you manage to beg, barter, or sneak your way in, eat a canape for us.&nbsp; Meanwhile, we missed the send-off party, but a cadre of SCEG-types are downtown as we speak, presumably having their say at the last foregone conclusion of a&nbsp; City Council meeting on Manhattanville.&nbsp; More info to follow. 
According to Wikipedia, a phlog is a "type of daybook, similar to a blog, but run off a Gopher protocol server," although&nbsp; the word may also refer to a photoblog. According to Columbia's Philolexian Society, the phlog&nbsp; is a "blog of awesometude" on which various philolexians post poems, essays, and random thoughts. It's run through Blogspot&nbsp; rather than Gopher, and it doesn't have many photos, but we'll forgive them. Welcome to the bwogroll, Phlog! 
 Gothamist reports that Cotton Club will stay open! It'll be an alternative to 1020/The Heights/O'Connells whenever the scanners come into play. Or you can go tonight to relieve some finals and papers stress. 
 A Bwog daily editor reports on a distressing development in the world of tunneling: A year ago, your correspondent made a bid for tunneling immortality. With sharpie in hand, I went in search of the Columbia tunnel system's holy grail--a Manhattan Project-era cyclotron rumored to be somewhere in the upper campus tunnel system. It turns out that while the 'tron was in fact accessible from the tunnels (by way of an unnecessarily complicated although perhaps more adventurous process where you have to follow a tunnel under Mudd and hop over a wall...there was a great description on the old CU tunnels Wiki, which has mysteriously been taken offline), the thing itself resided on the first floor of Pupin--which is totally locked, unless you feel like going to the Pupin 1 men's room and negotiating the crawlspace between this heating duct and the ceiling. So negotiate it I did. And what I found, readers, after squeezing myself between a couple of water conduits and dropping into a dank and long-abandoned janitor’s closet, was a dungeon-like hallway of empty offices and industrial apparata--interesting, but hardly worth the Mission Impossible-like maneuver it took to get there. But an early-decade cleanup of rooms that had gone virtually untouched since the Manhattan project thankfully spared the building's main attraction (for tunnelers, at least): a single room containing a scattered mess of papers and scientific instruments, in the back left-hand corner of which sat a true piece of Columbia lore: the hulking, oblong outer shell of the cyclotron. But this adventure is now all but impossible. On a recent visit to Pupin 1 (to use the men's room, actually), I found that a construction company had moved into the once-abandoned hallway; painting over the generations of tunneler grafitto, and occupying an empty office adjacent to the cyclotron room. It's hard to say if this is a short-term headquarters for the new science building at 120th and Broadway, or if the first floor is to be completely gutted and converted into usable space. From the looks of it, Turner hasn't moved in on the cyclotron‘s territory, but that's likely not important to adventurous Columbians: with people now working in Pupin 1, it looks like the 'tron is off-limits, and that a uniquely Columbian tradition will have to be put on hold. 
The December issue is getting printed somewhere, and meanwhile, a little feature to keep your spirits up.&nbsp; Emilie Rosenblatt, CC’ 08, is of average height and build, unassumingly pretty with straight brown hair and fair skin. In her daily uniform of jeans, a hoodie, and a tank top, at first glance she could be in the admissions brochure of any East Coast private college. But those jeans? They’re Baby Phat. And the tank top says “Latina is Beautiful” in rhinestones. When she opens her mouth, it is clearer still that she doesn’t fit the mold: she uses a distinctly urban dialect—sounding more like a hip-hop artist than an Ivy League academic—readily admitting that she’s not too concerned with colloquial grammar. And then there’s her resume. At one point during our interview, Rosenblatt used the word “myselves.” Though it was an accident and she laughed and corrected herself, it was a fitting Freudian slip: her incredibly busy schedule requires a few extra limbs, if not personalities. As an English and African-American Studies double major, Rosenblatt balances an ambitious course load—last semester she took 24 credits. As if that weren’t enough to keep her occupied, at only 21 she’s already held more jobs than most retirees. As a first-year she worked full-time at Duane Reade—the four P.M. to midnight shift—to compensate for “lousy” financial aid. She’s held countless internships, including stints at Grove Atlantic Press, Crotona Park in the Bronx, the Working Families Party and Sean John, and she used to copy-edit for an economics professor specializing in contract law. She also participates in America Reads, takes dance classes at Barnard “just for fun,” and performs with the Black Theater Ensemble. She played a major role in a production of Ntozake Shange’s (BC’ 70) For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow is Enuf, which was written for an all-black cast. “I called and said, ‘I’m white, is it OK if I show up?’” As a resident of the Intercultural Resource Center, she helped found Freedom School, a program designed as an “answer” to the Core Curriculum: a recent alternative-Art Hum field trip took students to 5 Pointz, a graffiti mecca in Queens. She’s devoted past spring breaks to working for social justice in Nicaragua (with Hillel) and New Orleans (with the Office of Multicultural Affairs). “I’m indecisive to the point of, well, I’ll just do everything,” she said.&nbsp;&nbsp; And then there’s her life story, which she is hesitant to share and careful about relaying. She was born into a Jewish family on the Southside of Chicago—a specific I had to coax out of her because she is wary of being pegged as the token white kid from a poor black neighborhood. That said, she is something of anomaly, though she moved to Minneapolis by the time she entered (a mostly white) high school. The environment of her early years, coupled with her activist-type father, might help explain the particular bent of her resume, her reasons for participating in last month’s hunger strike, and why she is “often the only white person in the room.” It wouldn’t be fair to accuse Rosenblatt of denying the fact that she is white. She maintains a connection to Judaism, attending Temple on the High Holy Days and Passover—though she doesn’t quite see eye-to-eye with one of her older brothers, who is Hasidic and has seven children. And she considers criticism of her lifestyle to be valid, explaining that a lot of white people appropriate black and Latino culture in a manner that is not respectful. “There’s a tendency to go into it ignorantly,” she said. “I’m not saying that I don’t, but I try to do it in a way that’s conscious of power and race and privilege.” In the end, Rosenblatt isn’t too preoccupied with defining herself—any of her selves—and she shrugs off the question of her own identity. Said one of her friends: “After years of failed attempts to place her into a category, I've decided that she's just Emilie: a sum of different experiences, different social groups, different ideals. She throws her entire self in every situation of importance to her. &nbsp;She's so real, and I admire her for being that.” - Hannah Goldfield &nbsp; 
Bwog took a frightening walk around Butler. The only thing outnumbering Redbull cans and Facebook page views were the dirty looks directed at our camera flash. Nonetheless, Bwog emerged unscathed and camera intact with a photo essay of Butler's temporary residents. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Seen better? Submit your own photo or let us know at bwog@columbia.edu 
It's not Prangstgrup, but it'll do. Watch those chem grad students run! 
It takes a certain degree of intellectual comfort to decide you've conceived a brilliant new direction for a century-old course. Writing it up and sending it to the entire roster of CC praeceptors, the Committee on the Core, and Deans Yatrakis and Quigley, on the other hand, takes an almost suicidal hubris. One sophomore did, and a bemused recipient passed the e-mail on to Bwog: From: Date: 11 December 2007 16:17:23 EST To: Subject: Columbia's Core To whom it may concern, &nbsp;&nbsp; You are receiving my email because you are on the Core Committee or are a preceptor for a Contemporary Civilization class.&nbsp; In my final essay for Contemporary Civilization, the material of the essay required that I either deny my own words or take some form of action.&nbsp; Attached you will find the essay that has propelled me, headlong, to this email.&nbsp; I think you will find that it embodies the essence of the Core Curriculum, especially CC, and is an example of what I consider to be the true power of the Core: the push to a critical evaluation and re-evaluation of the world in which we live and to action to change that world for the better.&nbsp; I hope that you will take the short amount of time necessary to read the document (and perhaps a little longer to consider the way it could affect your own reality). Thank you for your time, CC '10 The attached 12-page paper put Paulo Freire's Pedagogy of the Oppressed in dialogue with the Leviathan, and pronounces that "CC still maintains remnants of the authoritarian view of education found in Hobbes," with suggestions for non-canonical texts that might be introduced to introduce an alternate perspective. The conclusion reads as follows: "This essay is my reflection on my current situation.&nbsp; However, my realization of the structure in which I reside is not enough to achieve “liberation”, which can only be the result of a collective effort.&nbsp; Thus, I appeal to you to take into consideration the implications of my praxis and form your own.&nbsp; The syllabus need not be discarded immediately, it is comprised of wonderful books, but perhaps the inclusion of another source, or a class decision regarding the optional choices in the syllabus would constitute a step in the right direction." Ah, the brash naivete of youth! 
 Despite nearing the last of their reserves of sanity, a healthy several hundred out of Butler’s suffering hordes turned out for this semester’s edition of Orgo Night (see others here and here). Those not in the loop as 209 filled up might be excused this time around; the Band doesn’t seem to have done much in the way of flyering. The crotchety individual who uttered a loud SSHHHH at around 11:50, however, was rightfully greeted with derisive laughter. The marchers arrived right on time and put on a lively but shorter-than-average show (in this bwogger’s recollection). A few highs and lows: LOW: In mocking the Day Against Hate, the band suggested it was kind of like oil, in which the day following a boycott would see doubled sales—“probably explaining what happened at Radio Perfecto two days later!” Everyone chucked at the murder of the young man.&nbsp; HIGH: In the obligatory Ahmadinejad segment, the band suggested that the Iranian leader wasted time checking BoredinTehran.com before he discovered Facebook and joined the World Dictators network. Pervez Musharraf showed up on the feed one day, as his relationship status with Pakistan had gone from “committed” to “it’s complicated.” SO-SO: The 2008 presidential race got air time as well, with a fair amount of hating on evangelical conservatives, Yale, and Obama’s Columbia amnesia. His time here, they reasoned, must have been truly harrowing. “Maybe he didn’t have enough ethnic studies!”&nbsp; KIND OF OVER THE LINE: Aaaaand on the hunger strikers…CUMB ran with the public figure-ness of the strikers themselves, role playing one making Bryan Mercer hit himself with his hand, shouting “Why are you Othering me?” and making tasteless jokes about anorexia. Absent this year: Barnard jokes, PrezBo, the West End, alcohol.&nbsp; Present this year: former CUMBers Marcus Johnson and Joe Anzalone, rocking out on a table. Bwog filed out with the rest of the visitors, only to be greeted again when the Band swung by Wien for a reprise. Hi Nancy! - LBD 
 The December issue will be here soon, hopefully before you all scatter for the holidays. For now, a little teaser while you wait. Margot at the Wedding Directed by Noah Baumbach 93 minutes Now playing &nbsp; It’s hard to miss the academic snobbery of Noah Baumbach’s characters in Margot at the Wedding. In his follow-up to The Squid and the Whale, a group of forty-something writers, whose clique centers around the talented and loathsome Margot (Nicole Kidman), drop their intellectual credentials shamelessly. To wit: Margot’s husband and lover studied together at Stanford, and her husband teaches at NYU. Her flaky sister spent time at Bennington. And the neighborhood temptress is headed to Harvard, prompting Margot to muse that plenty of “stupid people” get accepted there. And where did Margot study?&nbsp; She issues an answer in two clipped syllables: &nbsp; “Barnard.” &nbsp; At the screening on the Upper West Side, this line earned gratified chuckles. For the subset of moviegoers who know Columbia, the revelation that Margot went to Barnard grants a new insight into her character. For a moment, we understand Margot’s blithe meanness because we—the sophisticated Manhattan intellectuals that we are—see her traits in ourselves, or at least in some of the English majors who walk among us. She is simultaneously overeducated and ill-equipped for human interaction – it makes perfect sense that she is a creature of an insular school on a small island.&nbsp; Margot has a number of Manhattanite neuroses; she nags her son incessantly about seemingly insignificant problems while indulging all manner of nervous tics.&nbsp; She has used her commercially successful short stories to reveal closely kept family secrets.&nbsp; She is insecure in her career despite having published several books, and feels inadequate in the shadow of the men in her life—her professor husband and novelist lover. She also betrays her sister with astonishing ease: the two have a relationship anchored in a mutual acknowledgment of their rivalry. &nbsp; Margot is clearly miserable visiting her family and spending time in nature, referring constantly to her home in “Manhattan,” the site of anecdotes both glamorized and damning. Even the film’s conclusion, as Margot runs to escape on a bus to Vermont, is disheartening. We know that eventually, she’ll need to go back to Manhattan, to return to the pettiness, social circles, and sarcastic jibes that sustain self destructive tendencies. While Columbia students may pity Margot in her failings, we leave the theater for the gated-in campus that can act as a crucible for our own elitism and narcissism. &nbsp; Margot is a woman from the city, but not of it—she is perpetually reassuring herself of her New Yorker credentials by violently rejecting her own family’s.&nbsp; Sound familiar? It’s easy to imagine Margot in a Columbia English seminar, knitting her brow as she plans out both her literary rise and the ever-so-cosmopolitan ways to spend her post-published weekends. Baumbach’s sketching of the New York-Ivy League intellectual sort is brilliant. Margot is stymied by simple tasks – climbing a tree, playing croquet – and by any expression of genuine emotion. &nbsp; As it continues, the film transcends mere character study and becomes a cautionary tale for Columbia and Barnard literature majors who are already well on their way to Margot’s neuroses and ennui. How many of the Columbians in the audience of this film have considered writing a roman à clef, or using their families as a caustic punchline rather than a support system? And after the rejection letters come in, how many see Harvard (Yale, really) as the haven of idiots, or at least not true intellectuals like themselves? &nbsp; Noah Baumbach shows how destructive the twin forces of New York and academia can be: His heroine is a neurasthenic malcontent struggling to relate to the world around her. Her writing is acclaimed but not fulfilling. No one should be shocked to discover that Baumbach’s father earned a Ph.D. at Columbia, and the Baumbach family has been immersed in the New York intellectual scene for decades. Maybe Margot isn’t the only one writing from life. - Daniel D'Addario Illustrated by Jenny Lam 
 &nbsp;Plato is rooting for you! (and warns you that cheating is dumb) 
 A semi-thorough interpretation on the meaning of various colored holiday lights in your neighbors' windows Even The Fed likes a little meta! (includes demonstrative photographs) Just say "no" to MSG Pick-up lines that really hurt An analysis of procrastination, in graph form 
 Overheard in the But: Boy: So where do you want to eat? Girl: I don't know. I don't have any cash on me. Boy: I could pay for you. Girl: Well... that would make it a date... Boy: So 212? 
B&amp;W Literary Editor Hannah Goldfield had a free ticket to I Am Legend a couple nights ago, and recommends the experience. You need a break. Seriously, there's only so much information your brain can absorb in a day, only so many sentences it can formulate (or so I like to tell myself), and giving it a rest will surely improve its performance. So put aside those textbooks, sign out of Facebook, and take just a few hours to zone out. &nbsp; I recommend heading down to Loews 84th Street (it's really not far!) to catch the next screening of I Am Legend, the latest post-apocalyptic thriller starring everyone's favorite alien-killer, Will Smith, appearing here as the only living boy (OK, man) in New York, and perhaps the planet. There is absolutely nothing to think about in this movie. Once the mind-numbingly simple premise has been explained, there's really nothing to do but sit back, relax, and succumb to the thrilling images of Manhattan sans people, of Smith glistening with sweat as he does pull-ups in his gorgeous, ENORMOUS townhouse on Washington Square, and of the most ill-conceived zombies I have ever seen. But Legend is more than just action-packed escapism--it's also a comedy, the best kind of comedy: unintentional comedy. As the movie unfolds, it makes less and less sense, until the absurdities have piled so high it's impossible not to laugh. How could you fall 20 feet, land on your back, and walk away unscathed? Why would anyone have a laboratory in his basement? Where did those lions come from?&nbsp; We pointed out ridiculous flaws all the way to the subway, chuckling merrily, and by the time we got back to campus, life seemed a little less serious. Remember, it's just school. 
It's coming! We promise! Meanwhile, one more teaser, from our Parisian correspondent Sumaiya Ahmed.&nbsp; I keep thinking about the hot pink curtains Benoite puts up for wintertime, how she changes them to white for spring. The pink matches the flowers on her balcony, the cyclamens I brought her from a marché the other day. The red, mint greens, and creams in the living room chatter with the colors in her paintings on the walls. The white sunlight falls softly on the wooden floors. On days like this, you say the sunlight is “plat” or flat, Benoite tells me and I repeat it, like everything I hear on the streets or on the metro, in whispers to myself, “plat soleil, plat….”&nbsp; &nbsp; There is a string of glass beads on every door handle, notes tucked into the edges of a mirror, an evil eye amulet hanging over the toilet paper, a chart tracing the origins of alphabets to ancient Syrian underneath the sink. The apartment is on the fifth floor, sixth to an American, and there is no elevator. On the door outside of the apartment, Benoite has posted a note: “Vous êtes arrivé. C’est bien ici.” You have arrived. It’s good here.&nbsp; &nbsp; I am in Lyon for a week on a home stay trip that Columbia’s Reid Hall program organizes to give students a glimpse of French culture outside of Paris, and I don’t want to leave. I want to sit on the steps by the river Rhône and watch skateboarders twist under the brilliant sunlight all day, the waters scintillating. Children will fold paper boats and watch them float at the bottom of the steps, where grey concrete encloses a flat surface of water about one inch deep. On a hot day you can dip your feet. That spot makes me miss Low steps so badly.&nbsp; &nbsp; It was Benoite who spotted me at Gare de Lyon. She is petite with short, silver blond hair and hazel eyes that droop a little at the sides, wearing a string of silver beads around her neck and earrings to match. She is 59 years old, lives in this apartment in the Algerian quarter of Lyon, a city just two hours south of Paris by le train à grande vitesse. I can still see, looking into this memory seven weeks later, the rural landscapes fleeting outside the windows, me trying to get it down: two lines for a telephone pole, a line for the horizon.&nbsp; &nbsp; This has happened many times before. I have to take pictures of the apartment because I fear my memory won’t retain my mental notes, the big blow-up plastic globe in the living room, her lavender soap. I have already forgotten so many of the French words that Benoite taught me.&nbsp; &nbsp; The memories that I will no doubt retain are culinary: melon with salt (try it!); her zucchini soup, so creamy; small apples we pick from the countryside, where her daughter Caroline resides; the wine grapes we eat off the vine; slim glasses steaming with thé à la menthe.&nbsp; In the ten minutes we have to spare before a movie, Benoite makes pasta in cream sauce with salmon from the marché. “We’ll add a little bit of lime juice,” she says. “Though I know not what the cream will say…we’ll see!”&nbsp; &nbsp; The Paris I love, the marché along rue Mouffetard, the bread, the butter, is not unique. C’est typique. Lyon, however, Lyon I love in terms of Benoite. 
Best lampshades ever. Do you have favorite decked out neighborhood establishments? Bring us joy: bwog@columbia.edu 
 A friend of Bwog just passed on this revolutionary URL: a CUIT project, currently in beta form, that tells you the status of every public printer on campus! Updated by the second! Never wait in line again! 
 In the interest of keeping tabs: we missed the news from last Tuesday, but because most of you have been in holes for the whole week anyway, it's worth re-mentioning that&nbsp; Minutemen founder and Columbia bogeyman Jim Gilchrist (who is now being gender-neutral!) has endorsed GOP golden boy Mike Huckabee for president. Apparently, Gilchrist's support shows that Huckabee won't be soft on immigration. Just like people with AIDS.&nbsp; - LBD 
 What do you know--more homophobic messages. All Carman residents received an e-mail this morning from Cristen Kromm, Director of Residential Programs, about a nasty remark scrawled on a dry erase board.&nbsp; Kromm's email noted that the "private joke" had "unintended consequences." The scrawler has fessed up, and hopefully that's the end of that. Full e-mail posted after the jump. From: Cristen Kromm &lt;cs867@columbia.edu&gt; Date: Dec 16, 2007 11:58 AM Subject: Important Carman Community Message To: Multiple recipients &lt;LISTSERV@cuvmc.ais.columbia.edu&gt; Dear residents of Carman Hall: A homophobic statement was found on a dry erase board in Carman early Friday morning. &nbsp;The incident was reported to residential programs staff, who reported it to Public Safety according to our protocol. The Division of Student Affairs staff investigated the matter and contacted all of the parties involved. &nbsp;One of the owner's of the dry erase board has taken responsibility for the remarks. &nbsp;In this instance,&nbsp; we have learned this was intended as a joke between friends, yet, as the remarks were written in a public space open to the hall community, the private joke became a public matter. Although the remarks did not target someone specifically, there were unintended consequences, and others in the community were impacted. This incident serves as a reminder to us all that comments, spoken or written, intentional or unintentional, can create an unwelcoming environment and disrupt your educational experience. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to contact me via the information provided below or contact your RA for additional resources. Best of luck to each of you as you finish your semester. Sincerely, Dean Cristen Kromm Cristen Scully Kromm Assistant Dean for Community Development/ Director of Residential Programs 
Did you need a reason to come back to school? Look no further--R&amp;B rock star John Legend will be playing Alfred Lerner Hall at 6:00 PM on Monday, January 28, as part of Show Me: The Poverty Action Tour. Never one to miss a party, sustainability guru Jeff Sachs will be joining Mr. Legend onstage, presumably getting lifted with the rest of us. Student group leaders found out about the booking first, but a tipster tells Bwog that the undergraduate councils aren't allowed to send out e-mails until Tuesday, which one day after registration officially opens at noon tomorrow. The grad schools apparently already know--stand by your computers!
2012’s Facebook half-life began with Simon H.’s creation of “Columbia – Class of 2012.” Early decision applicants were notified online of their acceptance at 5pm, and by 7pm, the group’s ranks had reached 50. Mere days later, the Facebook group is brimming with 276 members—including one confused Brown 2012 pre-frosh who is “not sure if we are rivals or not.” Proud papa Simon H. has even provided a chronological history of the group’s membership: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dec 11. 6 members &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dec 12. 84 members &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dec 13. 170 members &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dec 14. 216 members &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dec 16. 271 members Hot topics like senioritis (“B’s are the new A’s,” insists Kyle M.) and the swim test—Harrison S. prefers doggie paddle and prefers that you know it—fill the group’s Wall. Discussions about dorms and drinking are good places to spot the group’s early alpha males and females. Natassia M. states that “Carman sounds like a plan” and is echoed with rallying cries of agreement and disbelief: “Carman sucks, theres throwup and shit everywhere, all the girls and ugly and the ra’s are the biggest assholes everywher,” maintained Dhruv V., who himself is actually CC ’11. Dhruv, a wizened elder and Furnald devotee is a major presence amongst 2012’s blossoming (and depressing) cyber-society. Marginal topics like “dorms” and “academics” aside, one group of 12s wants to know: “Who says Ivy Leaguers don’t party hard?!?!?” Probably the same people who say Ivy Leaguers can punctuate!!11!eleventyone!1 The “The Columbia University Class of 2012 is Ready to Party” has a predictable agenda. “We should all meet up sometime before august… and party :) “ suggests Carolyn M.&nbsp;&nbsp; But no one could accuse the hard-partying 12s of not being efficient: To wit, they have an email address of the most official capacity: readytoparty@2012.com. You know, to fake arrange the fake partying electronically. UPDATE 12/17: The end... it's near! - JNW 
BWOG IS STRESSED SHOUT IT FROM THE ROOFTOPS 12:00 MIDNIGHT ANIMAL NOISES WELCOME 
You can stop now.
Bwog noticed a nifty multi-purpose bin in the Lerner lobby that looks like it can handle some the stuff you don't want to take home and might just never use again. Plus, look for the EcoReps near your dorms to get rid of all those out-of-fashion closet clogging garments. &nbsp; 
Looks like they've been hitting the chemicals a little too hard recently. &nbsp; &nbsp; Plus, orgo prof tenure battle of the century! 
 The New York Post &nbsp;has picked up a story in which Brian Baxter, who graduated from Columbia in 1990, is suing the University, claiming he’s being subjected to “modern-day slavery” in the form of high student loan rates. Citibank—Columbia’s partner in crime and “preferred lender”—is also involved in the suit. Baxter, who likens himself to a “mouse on a treadmill”—which to Bwog’s understanding is not actually at all the same thing as a slave—is riling against the inflated rates of his student loan. Columbia and Citibank—who are, just to clarify, the treadmills of the "mouse on the treadmill" analogy—could not be reached for comment, though one could presumably characterize their retorts as something along the lines of: “Let them eat cheese.” - JNW 
In Rainbows--a frequenter on this year's top ten lists--is now complete with the release of Disc 2 about a week ago. Bwog's newest music critic Michael Molina provides his assessment. As of December 10th, Radiohead’s In Rainbows is no longer available to download online, but will be sold on CD and vinyl starting January 1st - a good way to spend all of your holiday Barnes &amp; Nobles gift cards. However, you might also want to consider buying the discbox from the w.a.s.t.e. site or just illegally downloading the two discs online (a second disc comes in the box set). Whatever you do, just be sure to get both albums. Disc 2, leaked onto the internet after the discbox was delivered to honest shoppers on December 4th, is a collection of eight songs that are either completely new or have only been played in concerts. Because the first song, “MK 1”, begins with the final chords of “Videotape” (the last track off of the first CD), it’s hard not to separate the two albums from each other. The choice to create a second CD that is more of a continuation of the first raises the question of why Radiohead chose the songs they did for either album. The 10 tracks of the first disc seem to be the best rep-resentation of the idea behind In Rainbows whereas the eight tracks of the other are songs that fit into the style of the album as well but are not necessary for a collective understanding of the album. None of these songs are stylistically unsuitable for the album, different/mediocre versions, live versions, covers nor any other type of song that tends to appear on the B-side of an album. If anything, the eight songs on disc 2 are the complete opposite. Though comparisons can be made of certain songs to earlier albums, all of the songs on the disc represent a user-friendly and simply beautiful orchestration that both innovates and calls forth the classic style of Radiohead. “Down is the New Up” exemplifies the simple yet chilling lyrics of previous albums while warming the listener up with the frequencies of Thom Yorke’s unique voice. Although the majority of the CD invokes a slow-moving somber tone, “Up on the Ladder” introduces a gripping pulse that mostly carries through to the fanatic guitar riffs of “Bangers &amp; Mash.” The entire disc, if not the album as whole, seems to be leading up to this angry and cut-ting song, with the majority of disc 2 behaving as an ominous prelude to this explosion of emotion and raw instrumentals. Unfortunately, the song does not completely deliver and the only place for In Rainbows to conclude has at least been perfectly chosen with “4 Minute Warning,” an allusion to the 4-minute warning the British government would sound during World War II bomb raids. Interestingly enough, the song cuts off “Bangers &amp; Mash” as if to imply In Rain-bows never truly finished but was purposefully stopped in mid-ecstasy by the harrowing melodies and message of this closing song. Still, the second disc cannot exist without the first, which presents the album fully and clearly while the second disc just reiterates the various themes and compositions. Just as the discbox contains other artwork for the In Rainbows album, so too is the second disc an additional form of art of In Rainbows. But, whether you are a die hard Radiohead fan or have only recently placed the Kid A bear logo on the top of your MacBook, obtaining the second disc is a smart choice for anyone who wants to get the full experience of the masterfully composed In Rainbows album. 
 Barnard Facilities is going to be sanitizing and scraping the interior of the water tanks that supply many of BC's dorms and buildings with water. While Bwog still can't quite get past a few burning questions (Was the water unsanitary before? Scraping what off the tank? GUNK?) the real news is that Barnard isn't going have running water during&nbsp; certain designated times over winter break. But who's showered anyway in the past week? And who's sat down with a glass of unsanitary, gunky water—who even has that kind of time? Not Bwog, and certainly not the students who chose to live at Barnard over break to work on their senior theses, or hold a job or internship. - JNW 
The magazine will be posted online later tonight, but for those brave enough to emerge from Butler, the print version is already scattered around campus. Emmy and Pulitzer winning playwright Tony Kushner, CC ‘78, had to cancel our first interview when the Writers Guild of America strike called him to the picket lines. When we finally corralled him at the Hungarian Pastry Shop, the Angels in America author arrived on a little folding bike to regale us with tales of activism, experimentation, and a room near and dear to his heart (residents of 1013 Furnald, you’ve been warned). THE BLUE AND WHITE: How involved have you been in the strike? Tony Kushner: Well, I’ve been on the picket line pretty much every day there’s been a picket line. I’ve been a responsible member. I’m not writing a screenplay that I was in the middle of writing when this started.&nbsp; B&amp;W: What’s that been like for you? To completely step away from something you’re immersed in? TK: It’s been tough because it’s a script for Steven Spielberg and I’d been working on it for a year before the strike happened. I think it’s important that it’s in basically the same shape that it was in when the strike started, so that people running things in Hollywood understand that it’s not like a lot of work is secretly getting done while we’re on strike.&nbsp;&nbsp; B&amp;W: One of the things you mentioned in your 2004 Class Day speech is that you wouldn’t have been there unless the grad students were taking a rest from their strike. Were you involved in activism as a student? TK: Yeah, that’s one of the reasons why I came. I had a fantasy that I would walk on campus and May ‘68 would still be going on, and I had really powerful romantic feelings about Columbia’s history of student unrest. This was 1974, so I was somewhat surprised by what I found when I got here. But there was still actually a lot going on, and I think about a month after I arrived, Abe Beame, the mayor of New York, announced that they were closing all the branch libraries in the public library system, because this was at a point when the city was completely bankrupt. And a bunch of old people who were all 1930s radicals who used the library as a place to sit on cold days announced that they were going to sit in and not allow the libraries to close. And then somebody, I don’t know who, put up posters saying, “Let’s go support the old people.” And so it became, every day, this amazing gathering of 80-year-old communists who still lived in rent-controlled apartments on the Upper West Side and student radicals who had occupied Grayson Kirk’s office in ‘68 and one guy who claimed to have put acid in the water cooler in Low Library—and people like me who were interested in being part of that tradition at Columbia. B&amp;W: Would you say that the activism was one of the more formative parts of your experience? TK: No, because I had done political stuff in Louisiana when I was growing up, and I learned certain things about activism from my days at Columbia, but I certainly learned a lot more about activism when I left school and came out of the closet and got involved in various gay political issues. I wasn’t out when I was on campus—I could have been, there were dances at Earl Hall, but I was just trying to become a straight person, so I sort of missed that.&nbsp; The most important thing to me was the education. The Core Curriculum and all of those classes did what they were supposed to do, they laid a firm foundation for me, both knowledge and also analytic skills. And a few other classes I took at Columbia, like Edward Tayler’s Shakespeare class, Kenneth Coates’ 20th Century American poetry class. They were transformative. I wasn’t a particularly diligent student, but I got an enormous amount from my education here, and I feel a deep gratitude to the place. There were no arts majors at Columbia at that point, which unfortunately is no longer the case, right?&nbsp; B&amp;W: Yeah, I think you can major in music, and dance… TK: I think there should be no undergraduate arts majors, except maybe if you’re a dancer or instrumentalist, then I think you sort of have to train at a very early age. But I feel very strongly that arts training is vocational training. Acting classes in undergraduate colleges are ridiculous; you don’t actually have the emotional capacity in your first four years away from home to do acting training, which is really a very painful and difficult thing. So thank God people who teach acting to undergraduates don’t go near any of that, and instead just teach them bad habits, which if they’re really talented they’ll unlearn.&nbsp; B&amp;W: Was the Varsity Show a big deal when you were in school? &nbsp; TK: It wasn’t. I think the Varsity Show existed, but I certainly never saw one. We were very into Artaud and Peter Brook, and were very serious—there was a lot of interesting experimentation of various kinds going on. It was the golden age of American experimental theater, really. There really was just astonishing stuff going on downtown, and we were all in awe of it, reading a lot of high modernist theory and figuring out what we wanted to do. So things like the Varsity Show were beneath us. B&amp;W: Do you mind if I probe a little more into why coming out was difficult for you, and why it only happened towards the end of your college years? TK: Well, I came here from a small town in Louisiana, and I was very close to both of my parents, my father especially. My father had sort of known that I was gay, but was very eager to believe that I could do something about it, and fix it. In Lake Charles there were no analysts, and so at Columbia I went to Health Services my second week here, and said “I need to talk to somebody, I have a terrible problem.” And I certainly had never had sex with anyone, but I knew that I wanted to have sex with men. I got very lucky—because in 1974, it was sort of hit and miss, you could easily end up with some wizened old homophobe—and instead I got a guy who was a very gifted analyst. After about a year that we’d worked together, he said “I’m not sure the real problem is your homosexuality, I think the real problem might be your relationship with your father.” And I was reassured to hear that, but I still found the idea terrifying. I didn’t want to be a member of a marginal group. I’m sure ultimately it was all rooted in my father’s disapproval. I remember walking in Central Park at one point when I was a student at Columbia and there was a march of gay people, and I sort of watched them go by, and I was very moved by the thought that they were marching, and I thought to myself, “Well, when I work all this out and I become straight, I will be very nice to them.”&nbsp; The very first thing I did in terms of theater at Columbia was I went to an audition for Marat/Sade, which Columbia Players was doing a production of. And there were two guys, students, I later came to know them both very well. And they were sitting next to each other holding hands, and they kissed, and I was shocked. I was really frightened. I avoided making friends with gay men, which is weird because most of my friends were in theater at Columbia. I wasn’t sexually active in any way. And then I finally had sex with somebody about a week before graduating.&nbsp; B&amp;W: A lot of people do that.&nbsp; TK: 1013 Furnald.&nbsp; B&amp;W: OK. Wow. You said that the ‘70s were definitely the age of experimental theater in New York. Do you feel like there’s any sort of age that we’re living in now?&nbsp; TK: I certainly think there’s a lot of very interesting experimentation that’s going on now. It seems to me that at some point—and people disagree about what point this was—when I was starting out in theater, The New York Times simply didn’t review anything below 14th Street. They weren’t interested in it. It wasn’t what everyone aspired to as much. The city was so much cheaper to live in. You could find places to do theater for nothing. So as a result you had people who were sort of middle aged and who had arrived at a maturity of vision and were still doing downtown experimental work. And that’s changed to a certain extent. I think it’s mostly now people who are really willing to put up with the deprivation that comes with not being commercially successful— it’s primarily young people. And there’s an automatic, well-laid and well-trodden path from doing experimental work downtown to something like commercial success.&nbsp; B&amp;W: I think it’s interesting that you didn’t say anything negative about the theatergoer. Do you think young people are still interested? TK: I think a lot of the not-so-young people in their 20s and 30s who were sort of trained by their parents . Like my partner, who’s 44, subscribes to, like, six different theaters. My aunts and uncles who lived in New York, his parents, bought tickets for the whole season, and went to see what they had to offer. Some of it was shit (a lot of it was shit), but some of it was great, and you knew that you were giving your money to fund not just your own entertainment but also a cultural milieu from which your society would derive benefit. Now, the mentality has shifted much more towards consumer expectation and criticism written from that point of view. The New York Times— it’s an appalling sort of rag now—there’s no sense of history, no sense of antecedents. I’m a little bit afraid there’s a generation passing from this earth of people who have a connection to culture as being an absolutely essential part of life. Those people are going away, and I worry a little bit whether we’re worthy successors to that generation. These were people who really believed that the point of civilization is getting a cheap theater seat and going to see something good and difficult. I don’t know how you have a civilization without people like that.&nbsp; B&amp;W: You’ve also made a shift recently in starting to work on screenplays. What drew you to that? TK: Mostly I was just interested in what I was asked to write about. I’ve found over the course of working with Spielberg and Mike Nichols that I really enjoy film, not as much as plays, but I really do like to be on a film set, and I find the difference to be both frustrating but also really exhilarating. B&amp;W: You recently became the subject of a film yourself, a documentary that came out in October 2006. The reviews around it suggest that you hadn’t seen it. Have you seen it yet? TK: I haven’t seen it. I promised Freda Mock, who made it, that I would watch it before we have to do one big interview together the day before it airs. The idea of staring at myself and watching myself talk… It’s hard to watch how much you don’t resemble what you look like and sound like.&nbsp; B&amp;W: I think that’s interesting, because as a writer, you have to see your work. TK: But it’s writing, it’s not you. It’s sometimes very hard to listen to your writing— it sounds stupid and you can’t believe you did that— but you’re still not watching yourself. To a certain extent when you read what you’ve written, you start to rewrite it, and the impulse to do that is a kind of progress.&nbsp; B&amp;W: You mentioned politics and speaking a lot about the war. Do you think your writing is going to get more political? TK: I have no idea. There are some times when the world is so horrible that it is impossible to write overtly political things, and there are times when suddenly your rage becomes organized, and very clear, and you feel compelled to create something that’s very overtly political. I give myself permission to go with the times. I’d like the work that I do to be useful to those who are struggling for progress or political change, but my main job is always when I come up with a situation that I want to write about, to tell the truth about it. The truth is almost always, among other things, political. B&amp;W: Are you excited to get back involved with campaigns this year? Do you have a favorite? TK: I’m not going to say. I just saw John Edwards speaking downtown for the WGA—Hillary and Barack both sent telegrams. Any one of them, including Mike Gravel and Dennis Kucinich, would be such a vast improvement over what we have, or any of the monstrous people who are running for the Republican ticket. I’ve liked a lot of what Edwards has said. I think the choice to go towards a really fierce populism and a Left Democrat approach was admirable, and sort of forced Hillary and Obama away from their centrism a little bit. I wish I was a little bit happier with Obama. I don’t like his whole line about being the non-political politician. I think that’s garbage— it’s sort of a page from the Reagan playbook. There’s nothing wrong with politics, and there’s nothing wrong with being partisan. It’s very clear now that the Republican Party is not going to play along with rectifying the horrendous mess that they’ve sunk the world in. I wish that Obama, who I think in many ways is a very admirable man, would drop this whole fantasy of finding common ground to talk about. As a gay man, I find this deeply offensive. There is no common ground.&nbsp; B&amp;W: Well thank you so much for meeting us here, Mr. Kushner.&nbsp; TK: I’m excited being back in the Hungarian Pastry Shop. I used to live here, and it looks like it hasn’t been cleaned since. —Lydia DePillis Drawing by Julia Butareva &nbsp; 
 Is Morningside Heights doomed to the depths of hipsterdom? All signs point to yes. Hipster overlord Todd P's Showpaper, a Brooklyn-based DIY zine focusing on upcoming independent concerts, is coming to Morningside, specifically Kim’s. (In other news, writing the phrase “Brooklyn-based DIY zine focusing on upcoming independent concerts” is something like a crime against humanity, or a sign of the impending apocalypse. Or maybe both!) “Previously the sheet could only be found in the lower east side, Chelsea, Bushwick, Williamsburg, and Green Point,” explains an email announcing Showpaper’s arrival. And so Morningside Heights joins the ranks of Bushwick and the Lower East Side as the latest area to experience the chilling aftermath of American Apparel’s manifest destiny. Godspeed, irony, godspeed. - JNW 
For those of you who celebrate Christmas and for those of you who just like asking for stuff, here's what BwGossipers want for the holidays, material and otherwise. Is anyone up there listening? a time machine Pinkberry for life the secession of New York City dinner with Katherine Boo a bean bag chair more presents under my fb christmas tree Noah Feldman's babies a sewing machine and the time to use it Matilda's powers (for cooking, cleaning, mischief) a massage the end of the WGA strike An internship at Entertainment Weekly Snow A spot in Karl Kroeber's Children's Literature lecture Dinner at Masa, paid for by someone else A racing bike (pink touches, with full winter outfit to go with it) More humidity in the city A fully stocked professional kitchen Friends in high places The boy A beat-up turn of the century house Six consecutive hours of free time A working command of Portuguese Fresh rhubarb A new bike a spirited (but not necessarily talented) kindergarten class to sing me "Birdhouse in Your Soul" by They Might Be Giants A not-so-shitty fake ID Magnetic fields tickets A paying journalism internship (hah!) The end of the WGA strike Functioning wifi The following 33 1/3rds: Pet Sounds, Loveless, Trout Mask Replica, Another Green World Pastrami Supreme A Crack Deli giftcard Swipe access to JTS/Barnard (emphasis on the former) Judge, deluxe, with curly fries NFL Sunday ticket The secession of Staten Island The spontaneous smiting (perhaps by lightning?) of Mike Huckabee Love A massive blizzard (but not so massive my sister's flight gets diverted) A snowmobile to rock said blizzard Provisions A cozy fire Houseguests who bring fancy cheese A computer, the battery of which lasts more than ten minutes A dog, which does not pee itself all the time A good, short book or two A pair of jeans that fits when purchased A replacement camera, computer cord Assurance I won't perish on a mountain this break Unlimited well-bound notebooks A thick Oriental dorm-room rug, the Orientaler the better Some plants Fruitcake a personal library Jeanette Winterson's babies fluency to travel the world without ever taking a plane a really sweet bike (who doesn't want a new bike?) Johnnie Walker Blue Label A nice apartment so I can get the fuck outta Schapiro (bet you WIEN residents feel the same) The conviction of Sean Taylor's killers Some money for ABC so everybody can be happy. My dog to be alive a butler exodus to fall asleep on the beach la cerveza de costa rica: imperial a giant sea turtle Golden Gate Park a scotch and soda with Woody Allen the $2000 truffle from Cirque Domenico Demarco to not die so he can come make pizza for me in CA at my house's wood fired pizza oven table for two with Lauren Collins Harvard's financial aid system A 2nd bout with Kaavya Viswanathan A calendar with the best pictures from http://icanhascheezburger.com/ A research grant for this summer The construction of a nearby Trader Joes A hippopotamus anything from the jcrew holiday gift giving guide new scripted tv plane tickets getting off the waitlist into american lit since 1945 in January the pony IÃ¯Â¿Â½ve been asking for since I was six 
 Remember Manhattanville? The Renzo Piano campus Columbia is planning to drop onto a 17 acre swath of West Harlem? Well, the City Council vote, the final step in the relay race that is the Uniform Land Use Review Procedure, (which will only decide the fate of the entire project) is rumored to be later today. The timing was a little sneaky -- the City Council technically has until January 15 to make its decision -- but the Community Benefits Agreement listing what Harlem gets out of the deal, is well on its way even if not everyone is agreeing. Traditionally CBAs are finalized just hours before the final vote. (Also see the Observer's speculations about some of the back room dealing.) Even if you think today's a foregone conclusion (or that it won't actually happen), protest (or counter protest) on the steps of City Hall at 1:00 pm.&nbsp; 
 As you sit there drinking coffee to study for finals or liquor to forget them, New York City is deciding the fate of Manhattanville and the Alma Mater.&nbsp; Bwog webmaster Zach van Schouwen is down at City Hall, sending us waves (particles?) of information&nbsp; via the miracle of technology. Columbia needs the approval of the following three committees, and then the City Council. Planning, Disposition, and Concessions:&nbsp; Passed 5-0. Zoning and Franchises: Passed 7-1-2, with committee chair Tony Avella opposing. Land Use: Apparently, there's quite a showdown. Charles Barron (a former Black Panther who's planning to run for Brooklyn Borough President and who's firmly against the plan) has moved to delay the vote. The Barron has been shut down 18-6. The committee wants a decision. And, passed 18-3-3, with Avella, Barron and Vincent Ignizio opposing, and Eric Gioia, Albert Vann, and Rosie Mendez abstaining. &nbsp;Now that both the 197-c (Columbia's plan) and the 197-a (Community Board 9's plan) have been approved, the full City Council will vote on them later today. Full write-up to come! 
 Near fisticuffs! Veritas vs. Tarantino Double Backwards Meta: Bwog links to a Blue and White article about a blog devoted to the The New Yorker.&nbsp; The 20th Century: A Blue and White Retrospective of... The 1920s and today: Drinking liberally The 1950s and today: Worshipping liberally The 1950s: Still drinking liberally 
Zach van Schouwen reports on all the hooplah down at City Hall, as the Land Use Committee voted on Columbia's Manhattanville plan. At City Hall, the room is only about half-full for the first 20 minutes of the committee votes on the proposed expansion into Manhattanville. It could be because the temperature in the Council Room is a modest two hundred and fifty degrees, even with all the curtains shut. The more likely reason, though, is that this event is calendared, helpfully, as “Stated Council Meeting,” without any further explanation. “Can I get into the meeting?” I asked a security guard when I arrived – “No,” he said, “but you can probably take photos of everybody leaving.” I walk upstairs, where the chamber doors are wide open, and take one of dozens of available seats. Of course, all this confusion hasn’t stopped Nick Sprayregen from rounding up the usual suspects, who can be seen circulating angry flyers and putting their bags through the metal detector in order to be allowed to shout slogans to a couple of straggler reporters on the steps. When they try to enter Council fifteen minuets later, a few security guards round up everyone with a sign, a “No Eminent Domain Abuse” button, or blond dreadlocks, and shunt them up to the secluded upstairs balcony. Sprayregen manages to evade them and makes it to a chair, where he reads the New York Times through the whole hearing. After that, though, we’re off. In subcommittee, the measure is fairly quickly referred to the full Land Use committee vote. That’s when the show begins. &nbsp; Robert Jackson and Inez Dickens, the two council members representing West Harlem, start off on the high road, with platitudes about the committee’s hard work—and plenty about themselves. Jackson praises his own leadership in giving Community Board 9 $200,000 to develop the 197(a) plan, which (apparently meaninglessly) passes unanimously in a vote that’s held at the same time as the one for 197(c). Even a confused Melinda Katz--chair of the Land Use committee--concedes that it doesn’t make sense to vote on both (a) and (c), since one supersedes the other. As it happens, the average Columbia student should take heart in the fact that they know more about this issue than the average City Council member seems to, if you don’t count the handful who include their position on Manhattanville among the planks of their re-election platform. Incisive questions asked by councilors throughout the meeting include “Wait, which way did Community Board 9 vote?” and “What’s a 197(a) plan? The stern hand of Katz discourages the hecklers from openly shouting, as they did in the first few minutes of the meeting. The determined few fall into coughing fits at key moments of the speeches – Katz sarcastically recommends a cough drop. Thirty minutes in, she looks fed up with the whole proceeding, and Charles Barron hasn’t even said anything yet. But say something he does!&nbsp; If you don’t know Barron, he’s a long-winded rabble-rouser who refers to himself during the meeting as “not down with the Founding Fathers.” He gets into shouting matches with multiple council members – to tremendous laughter, Councilman Felder demands that Barron be disciplined for interrupting his speech.&nbsp; Barron: “Oh, sorry, I was talking to myself with the mic on.” If we must sum up Felder, we can do so in one quote: he says, “Columbia allows racism and anti-Semitism to flourish”, going on to add “But we should not punish the West Harlem community just because Columbia is horrible!” Barron then proceeds to derail the entire meeting by moving to “not vote.” After a grey-haired parliamentarian clarifies the procedure, an hour of vitriolic speeches ensues; by now, the room is packed with shouting critics and more than a few familiar faces from CU. Inez Dickens makes a veiled snipe at Barron by referring to critics that “don’t live in the borough”, and mentions “faces coming out of the woodwork, who in fifty years in the West Harlem community, never seen before.” Another council member points out that she’s only 39, and an audience member yells, “You cut a deal!” The security guys make the universal gesture for “I’m watching you,” and the other council members say their piece. Barron’s delaying motion eventually fails with only six aye votes, but the audience is sweaty and jittery. Despite all of this, the final Land Use committee vote is a tame affair, and speeches are kept to a minimum. The result is 18-3, with 3 abstentions. The full council vote is later today--a press person tells Bwog it'll go down sometime in the next five hours.&nbsp; ZvS bows out, Lydia DePillis steps up.&nbsp; Bwog will keep you posted. —ZvS 
 Word from Bwog's City Hall correspondent has it that Columbia's proposed expansion plan has been approved by the city council by a vote of 35-5-6.&nbsp; Community Board 9's plan (the 197-a) was approved unanimously, just for the hell of it. (Actually, what this means is that Columbia's plan will apply to its expansion area and CB9's plan will apply to the rest of the district.) Still no speculation on why the Council moved the vote up from January--the Municipal Art Society issued a release earlier today urging more time for consideration. Both plans will now go to Mayor Bloomberg, who will have five days to approve or veto them.&nbsp; In the unlikely event of a veto, a 2/3 supermajority of city council members will have 10 days to override it. There goes the neighborhood.&nbsp; For further reading: City Room's got the story and a nice recap for those who've never read anything on the subject. &nbsp; 
 Bwog arrived at City Hall for the second time as the last members of the full group were making their floor speeches and the votes were being tallied. Lacking a press pass and Zach's good timing, your correspondent hiked upstairs to the balcony to find everyone in the administration who has anything to do with expansion arrayed on one side, and the war-weary Coalition to Preserve Community members sitting dejectedly on the other. "I'm waiting," Senior Executive Vice President Robert Kasdin (pictured) said to a colleague before the final count was announced. "I've been waiting for five years." After the numbers were called and Speaker Christine Quinn reminded everyone that the holiday party would be starting in 15 minutes, security herded the crowd out of the balcony area. "Merry Christmas Robert Jackson! You just sold out Harlem!" a protester shouted. "You will never be mayor of New York City!" another followed up. Familiar strains of "Har-lem, not for sale!" trailed them weakly down the steps. &nbsp; On the way out, Bwog was handed a press release with PrezBo's response to the vote that had happened minutes before. "As a result," it read, "not only will our universities continue to attract creative minds with the determination to advance knowledge in the service of humankind; they will remain a vibrant source of good, middle-income jobs for a diversity of people seeking to improve their lives there."&nbsp; A merrier Christmas to you, President Bollinger. - LBD 
 Christmas shopping in New York is a bitch--there's so much, and it's so expensive, and expectations of wonderful gifts from the Big City are so high that it's tempting just to throw in the towel altogether. Christmas shops, then, can furnish a partial solution to the problem of finding ten things for ten people in the waning hours before your plane/train/parent's Subaru departs. And even if you're not out to buy, the seasonal clusters of small businesses that set up shop at Columbus Circle, Bryant Park, and Union Square every December are worth a gander for their wondrous wares.&nbsp; Columbus Circle - 59th and Central Park West This open-air smorgasord of jewelry, apparel, and other sundries may be overpriced, but it's a bargain compared to the sticker shockers across the street in Time Warner Center. With the Park next door and the narrow, curved aisles, it feels a bit like a labyrinthine mountain village. This year there is a disappointing lack of food samples. Bryant Park - 42nd and 6th Avenue&nbsp; Moving south, you might choose instead to visit the shops at Bryant Park, a collection of little glass houses that make the Central Park bazaar look comparatively bohemian. Making no concessions to the season, these semi-permanent structures will keep you warm while you browse their semi-precious (and fully precious) offerings. Bryant Park, however, may be worth the trip just for the sideshow: a crowded skating rink, complete with an on-ice putting contest sponsored by the great nation of Canada, with a 20-carat diamond as the prize. Not to mention the excellent bathroom facilities, and the Darth Vader made of gadgets.&nbsp; Union Square - 14th and Broadway If the shops at Union Square are your third stop, you’ll have noticed by now that the New York Christmas fairs actually have all the same stuff. But here, you can also register to vote, sign a petition, and load up on organic veggies at the year-round greenmarket while you fill your stockings. - LBD 
The rare finals week procrastinator may have noticed changes afoot at Facebook in the form of Friends lists. Explains The Facebook Blog: "The new Friends page lets you create named lists of friends that you can use to organize your relationships whichever way works best for you." Differentiate, categorize, control. Finding your HS Crushes' current addresses and phone numbers has never been easier. Don't sulk, stalk! Also: "Weird Peeps"? Redundant, no? - JNW
NYU correspondent W.M. Akers signs off for the semester and reflects on a fall of frequenting coffee shops. Loving Bwog, Your correspondent writes today from miles above the earth, a better vantage than usual, but there's nothing to see worth recording. All I hear is the window seat droning of two passengers making friends behind me. They have declared that the antics of Lindsey Lohan are sickening and that teenagers shouldn't get pregnant or be having sex at all. I am going home, but my thoughts are with those of you still at work. (They're not charitable thoughts, exactly, but you're on my mind.) NYU is keeping some of my colleagues until Friday, and I suspect they are as I saw them last, hunched and thirsty in the clear light of Think Coffee. Think, which is the most popular coffee shop around but has nothing special to recommend it. Joe, a few blocks west, has superb cappucino, while Mud has the best drip coffee known in the city. The century old Caffe Reggio plays host to most undergraduate coffee dates, since its low-light and uncomfortable chairs make one eager to slip into someone else's long-twin bed. Think is popular because it's popular. People play Scrabble there, and go to chat when it's too cold for the Square. Because the lights are bright and the coffee isn't worth the price of over-consuming, it's also a popular place to work. I sat there for a half hour yesterday, eating a sandwich purchased elsewhere while I rebuilt my customary haze of self-satisfaction, which I'd had to repress until turning in my final final papers a few minutes before. Think was bustling to the same Four Tet record I'd heard in Bloomingdale's earlier, which means that either the coffee shop is lame or the department store is cool, I'm not sure. A frame of curtains around the back room gave a look of theater to the steady typing and dance of scooting tables, but Four Tet has a dangerous way of lending gravity to the trivial, so I resisted the metaphor. With its neat lines of white walls and dark wood it was more like an old train station, everyone methodically on their own course. It was like a better-lit version of your Hungarian pastry shop as I've seen it during midterms. Students––mostly upperclassmen and grad students, since first-years stick to Starbucks––had packed the small tables with notes, papers and MacBooks, and most looked like they'd been there for some time. I ate from my lap, feeling lucky to get a chair, and watched a woman typing like a court reporter, dragging her hands across the keys with apparently useless speed, since she deleted it all at her first pause. An eldery eastern European man flirted with the girl next to me, whom he recognized as a barista from a different coffeeshop. She had to sit and listen or lose her spot, but I didn't, and left. The stenographer, who had been staring at her words like her ship was sinking and they were life-boats sailing away, stepped out for a cigarette. I walked uptown, eager for a lazy month free of stimulants. I'll report back then, scholars. Enjoy your time off, whenever it comes. 
 Judith Shapiro's holiday greeting, with its fancy Roger Rabbit-style animation over actual photographs, has seemingly one-upped&nbsp; Columbia's card, which only shows people drawing lions. Are the lions not able to leap off the page and slowly fade into a photograph of Roree? And if they are, what's the hold up? In terms of music, accolades to Columbia for modeling itself in the vein of Vince Guaraldi's Charlie Brown Christmas. Classy and understated—while still economically avoiding to pay Guaraldi royalties. In addition, Bwog awards Barnard's card Points for Trying, because it must have taken a long time to record a chorus of "Morningside Heights is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful" without anyone laughing. 
 But we had to take a double take when we read the release about a robbery just sent out by Public Safety chief Jim McShane, which contained the following description: Male/white/30's/6'/medium build/clean shaven, wearing a dark sweater with horizontal stripes, khaki pants. Kind of a preppy robber, no? He must have been carrying a gun; otherwise she would have just punched him in the face. &nbsp; 
 A bit of belated news (as Bwog staff members also must make journeys to their respective motherlands), but it seems that there has been an accident! As for the "details to follow," as far as we know they haven't quite followed yet, although such incidents on the last day of finals do create potential imagined scenarios for themselves... &nbsp;From: "McShane, James" Date: December 21, 2007 8:15:29 AM EST To: many recipients:; Cc: "Deans of Students" Subject: Student Hurt in East Campus Fall Dear Team, At about 5:30 A.M.,&nbsp; SEAS student at EC was found lying in the grass in the back of the bldg.&nbsp; He apparently jumped or fell out of his window.&nbsp;Broken left leg appears to be only injury.&nbsp; Taken to St. Luke's&nbsp;Hospital where&nbsp; he is in stable condition. Details to follow. James F. McShane Associate Vice President for Public Safety Columbia University &nbsp; 
Sent from Lerner two hours ago, from Bwog correspondent Alex Weinberg: I was sitting in a Lerner computer lab when a slightly-past-middle-aged lady with thick reading glasses came in and stood in a corner pensively for several minutes. She approached my terminal. Lady: Are you going to be using this computer for a while? Me: I don't know, I think so. Lady: Oh, it's just because this one is my favorite. Me: These computers are all the same. Lady: Mmmmm, no... I like this one the best. (said as if I should have known better) Me: (looks around the room at the completely identical and unoccupied Dell Optiplexes) Lady: So are you going to get up? Me: No. She then stood over me awkwardly and passively for the next few minutes, watching what I was doing on the computer. I stopped reading web comics and opened up Microsoft Word to begin typing a fake paper because I felt intimidated in that "I just handed in a library book way past its due date" way. 
2007 was a great year for music, but it was an even better year for stand-up comedy albums. I can’t blame anyone for not wanting to follow modern stand-up, since Dane Cook’s ability to sell millions of albums by telling zero jokes is frustrating not only comedically, but also mathematically. (How much money per joke does he make? Calculator error!) But if you can manage to look past such injustice, the year redeems itself in fine fashion. The year's top five follow, courtesy of Rob Trump. 5. Michael Ian Black – I Am a Wonderful Man &nbsp; Michael Ian Black is one of two Stella/The State members to release a debut stand-up album this year, and despite Michael Showalter’s superior musical ode to sandwiches, Black’s album is more consistent and an overall better effort. Both albums come somewhat closer to traditional stand-up than one might expect from members of two exceedingly strange sketch troupes, but Black does a great job of adapting his deadpan unpredictability to the format. He’s also surprisingly intelligent when he brings sarcasm to race issues. If you’re familiar with his vocal inflections from either show or from his many VH1 talking head appearances, imagine him saying this line: “The ‘white power’ crowd tend to be the disenfranchised whites, the people who don’t necessarily have all the power. So who do they blame? The rich and the powerful. In other words, the blacks and Hispanics.” It’s smart sarcastic race humor, and he does it in a much more intelligent, aware way than, say, Sarah Silverman. 4. Jen Kirkman – Self Help &nbsp; Hey, speaking of Sarah Silverman, let’s hear it for the female comics today who are able to step out of her “Isn’t it funny that I’m a girl and saying this?” shadow and do comedy that isn’t as one-note and unfunny as a rape whistle. That is, let’s hear it for both Maria Bamford, whose album just missed my cut, and Jen Kirkman, who has a voice and style not predicated on her gender and not quite like any other comic I’ve listened to. She’s neurotic, but she parlays this into derisive jokes that are half making fun of other people and half making fun of herself for having such a mean defense mechanism. In possibly her best bit, Kirkman can’t stop thinking about easy it would be to kill some of her friends and then gets very upset at how similar she may be to an actual serial killer. I can’t capture the same effect of her rapid speech in print, but her performance deconstructing that particular neurosis is comedic gold. 3. Patton Oswalt – Werewolves and Lollipops &nbsp; David Cross has occupied Bill Hicks’ throne as the best filthy, vitriolic, liberal comic of this generation for a while now. For me, though, Cross has always been a little too obvious and lazy with word choice to be a great stand-up comedian. Ratatouille's Oswalt, by contrast, on his second and best album, is an aggressive and articulate performer who swoops from science to cultural minutiae to absurdity so quickly that when he runs head-on into politics, it’s unexpected and completely hilarious. His best bit starts as a Seinfeld-but-fouler examination of the number of birthdays people should have, then degenerates into a description of the proclamations of a hypothetical 120-year-old president: “‘Starting today, everybody has to marry a pelican!’ ‘You heard the president, son. At least you’re not in the desert dying on a fucking lie. God bless our president. Give your new mom a fish and let’s go to the White House and give thanks.’” Any other comic doing political humor, take notes. 2. Steven Wright – I Still Have a Pony This release alone would make 2007 a notable year for stand-up comedy, as the only other album Wright has ever released, 1985’s I Have a Pony, has become a genre classic. Wright took stand-up in a completely different direction than anyone else at the time; he focused on word economy and deadpan delivery, distilling all of his comedic ideas to a monotone one- or two-liner. Now, due his to obvious influence on comics like Mitch Hedberg and Zack Galifianakis, Wright’s comedy doesn’t seem quite as novel, but it’s still impossible to imagine any other comic getting as big a laugh out of three words as Wright does when he says, “Imagine Pulitzer prizefighting.” This kind of wordplay with common phrases continues when Wright picks up a guitar. “This next song doesn’t go something like this," he says at one point. “It goes exactly like this.” Nobody, not even Hedberg, is as good at stuff like this as Wright. 1. Paul F. Tompkins – Impersonal If you know Paul F. Tompkins, you probably recognize him from the aforementioned Cross’ Mr. Show, maybe the best sketch comedy show ever. A lot of comedians associated with the show, such as Cross and Brian Posehn, are pointedly “newer-generation” comics, so it’s strange how old-fashioned Tompkins’ stand-up feels. He rarely swears, dissects topics slowly, and generally avoids political or personal issues (hence the title, I suppose). He has also recorded one of the most consistently hilarious stand-up albums I’ve ever heard. In interviews, Tompkins often cites Bob Newhart as an influence, which makes a lot of sense—they both tend to mine a central topic to the extreme before moving onto the next. As Newhart, and maybe Seinfeld as well, Tompkins shows that when that idea is good enough, it can sustain for quite a while. He spends a good minute and a half making fun of people who are “thrown off” by daylight savings time (“Is this milk still good? Who is the president? Do I have a great bushy beard?”), mocks jazz better than I’ve heard anyone savage any genre of music, and eventually builds to a six-minute, pervasively sarcastic discussion of that gag peanut-brittle-in-a-can that is secretly filled with spring-loaded snakes. In an impression of the type of person who would fall for the gag, Tompkins says, “I think I like it so much because I’m just so used to eating it. Peanut brittle out of the can.” HONORABLE MENTION: Flight of the Conchords’ The Distant Future EP, which is absolutely hilarious but neither strictly stand-up nor a full-length album. 
With all the ballots in and the numbers thoroughly crunched, Bwog proudly presents its second annual Music Critics(ish) Poll. Like last year, we've collected lists of favorite albums and singles from various on campus critics, musicians, and radio programmers. Unlike last year, we've devised a formula (not a very complicated one) in order to create a composite list, awarding 100 points to the first album or song on the list, 90 to the second, 85 to the third, 80 to fourth, etc. It sounds simple, but it took a while, believe you me. Thanks to all those who submitted lists (all of which can be read and thoroughly criticized after the jump).&nbsp; UPDATE: After it was brought to my attention that a certain Bwogger's list was not posted and thus not included in the composite album listing, we have a new number one album. It was close, but Radiohead wins. My sincerest apologies to Armin Rosen, whose list is now visible after the jump. Critics’ Choice: Albums 1. Radiohead—In Rainbows 2. M.I.A.—Kala 3. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam 4. Battles—Mirrored 5. The Field—From Here We Go Sublime 6. Kanye West—Graduation 6. Panda Bear—Person Pitch 8. The National—Boxer 9. Justice—Cross 10. Liars—Liars 11. Deerhoof—Friend Opportunity 12. Dirty Projectors—Rise Above 13. Om—Pilgrimage 14. Of Montreal—Hissing Fauna, Are You The Destroyer? 15. LCD Soundsystem—Sound of Silver Singles 1. Rihanna feat. Jay-Z—"Umbrella" 2. LCD Soundsystem—"All My Friends" 3. UGK feat. Outkast—"Int’l Players Anthem (I Choose You) " 4. M.I.A.— "Paper Planes" 5. Sean Kingston—"Beautiful Girls" 6. DJ Khaled feat. Akon, T.I., Fat Joe, Rick Ross, Birdman, and Lil Wayne—"We Takin' Over" 7. Fabolous feat. Ne-Yo—"Make Me Better" 8. Kanye West—"Stronger" 9. Panda Bear—"Bros." 10. Swizz Beatz—"Money in the Bank" Jacob Brunner Music Blogger Vice's VLES/Musician Albums 1. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam 2. Panda Bear—Person Pitch 3. Battles—Mirrored 4. Of Montreal—Hissing Fauna, Are You The Destroyer? 5. Deerhoof—Friend Opportunity 6. Dirty Projectors—Rise Above 7. Radiohead—In Rainbows 8. The Field—From Here We Go Sublime 9. Om—Pilgrimage 10. White Williams—Smoke Singles 1. UGK feat. Outkast—"International Players Anthem" 2. Swizz Beatz—"Money in the Bank" 3. Fabolous feat. Ne-Yo—"You Make Me Better" 4. Sean Kingston—"Beautiful Girls" 5. Animal Collective—"Fireworks" 6. Panda Bear—"Bros" 7. Cool Kids—"Black Mags" 8. Caribou—"She's The One" 9. J. Holiday—"Bed" 10. Vampire Weekend—"Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa" --- Chas Carey WBAR College Rock/Fed EIC Albums 1. Magik Markers—Boss 2. Dirty Projectors—Rise Above 3. Deerhoof—Friend Opportunity 4. M.I.A.—Kala 5. Parts &amp; Labor—Mapmaker 6. Ghostface Killah—The Big Doe Rehab 7. Von Sudenfed—Tromatic Reflexxions 8. Black Dice—Load Blown 9. Times New Viking—Present The Paisley Reich 10. Love Of Diagrams—Mosaic Singles 1. PK14—"00000000001" 2. Electrelane—"To The East" 3. Wu-Tang Clan—"Wolves" 4. LCD Soundsystem— "All My Friends" 5. No Age—"My Life's Alright Without You" 6. Shy Child—"Summer" (2007 single version) 7. This Free Field—"6000 Salad Bowls" 8. Dinosaur Jr. —"Been There All The Time" 9. Future Of The Left — "Plague Of Onces" 10. Galaxie 500 —"Ceremony" (even though it came out in 1989, this is really just for Sam Roberts since he's been the unfortunate person next door to me who's heard me play it at least twice a day for awhile) As the Replacements once said, "I hate music, it's got too many notes." --- Milano Chowkwanyun WBAR Co-Promotions Director This year I enjoyed the revivalism of stoner rock and continued my habit of listening to post-punk reissues and questionably mysogynistic punk bands. Albums 1. Electric wizard—Witchcult Today 2. Circle—Katapult 3. Pissed Jeans—Hope For Men 4. Young Marble Giants—Colossal Youth and Pylon (Gyrate reissues) 5. Clockcleaner—Babylon Rules 6. Wooden Shjips—Wooden Shjips 7. Health—Health 8. Om—Pilgrimage 9. Mika Miko—666 EP 10. v/a—I Hate CDs: Norton Records Singles Collection Singles 1. Magic Lantern—"At the Mountains of Madness" 2. Jay Reatard—"Night of Broken Glass" 3. Jay Reatard—"I Know a Place” 4. Pocahaunted/Robedoor—"Hunted Gathering" 5. Wooden Shjips—"Loose Lips" 6. Black Lips—"Veni Vidi Vici" 7. Live Fast Die—"Got Nintendo" 8. Abe Vigoda—"Animal Ghosts" 9. High Places—"Head Spins" 10. Bat for Lashes—"What's a Girl to Do" (guilty pleasure) --- Parker Fishel WKCR Business Manager/Host of Tennesse Border Show Albums 1. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam Beauty and spastic happiness 2. The White Stripes—Icky Thump Despite the bagpipes misstep, pure guitar heroics 3. The Arcade Fire—Neon Bible 4. Nick Lowe—At My Age 5. Kings of Leon—Because of the Times 6. Neil Young—Live At Massey Hall 1971 Haunting 7. Liars—Liars 8. Betty Lavette—The Scene of the Crime Back from the dead with a vengeance. 9. Willy Mason—If the Ocean Gets Rough 10. Arctic Monkeys—Favourite Worst Nightmare They hate the hype more than you do. Singles 1. Kate Nash—"Foundations" 2. Amy Winehouse—"Rehab" 3. Deerhunter—"Fluorescent Grey E.P." Where the eye meets the pyramid on the $1 bill. 4. Les Savy Fav—"What Would Wolves Do?" This rocks!? 5. Grinderman—"No Pussy Blues" 6. Mount Eerie—"Mt. Eerie Pts. 6 &amp; 7" 7. Josh Turner—"Long Black Train" 8. Babyshambles—"Delivery" 9. The Academy Is?—"We’ve Got A Big Mess On Our Hands" Stadium rock that embraces the title 10. Tie! Ryan Adams—"Two"/"Halloweenhead" and DJ Reggie—"I Like You (You Rock)" 11. Alex Silva—"Aesthetic Sense" (www.myspace.com/alexsilvamusic) --- Alex Gartenfeld Former Eye Editor 1. Sally Shapiro—"He Keeps Me Alive" The only woman in my world this year was Sally, and she's from Sweden and it's not even her real name... 2. Sally Shapiro—"I'll Be By Your Side" Re-issued from 2006. ALSO FROM SWEDEN. 3. Tough Alliance—"First Class Riots" Re-issued from 2005. Swedish + v. cute! 4. Lissy Trullie &amp; the Fibs—"Hold Your Head Child" The only song on here that is not, quoth my more discerning friends, "disco shit." They have a broad definition of "disco shit" 5. MIA—"Paper Planes" I LIKE THIS SONG TOO! 6. Crystal Castles—"Crimewave" "Thrash/Thrash/Thrash" 7. Teenagers—"Homecoming" This song is about gender roles! 8. Au Revoir Simone—"Fallen Snow" &nbsp;Before this remix, this band was on snooze control. Now I might lose control! 9. Cougarfuck—"Poppers" 10. Dan Deacon—"The Crystal Cat" I have a cat! I couldn't really get it together to listen to that many albums this year, but in any case, this is the only one that matters… Young Marble Giants, Colossal Youth --- Justin Goncalves Bwog Arts Editor/WKCR New Music Dept. Head Albums 1. Radiohead—In Rainbows 2. Kanye West—Graduation 3. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam 4. Battles—Mirrored 5. Lil Wayne—Da Drought 3 6. Of Montreal—Hissing Fauna, Are You the Destroyer? 7. Dirty Projectors—Rise Above 8. The National—Boxer 9.&nbsp; Deerhunter—Cryptograms 10. Wilco—Sky Blue Sky Singles 1. UGK feat. Outkast—"Int'l Playas Anthem (I Choose You)" 2. Kanye West feat. T-Pain—"The Good Life" 3. Playaz Circle feat. Lil Wayne—"Duffle Bag Boy" 4. J. Holiday—"Bed" 5. DJ Khaled feat. Akon, T.I., Rick Ross, Fat Joe, Birdman, and Lil Wayne—"We Takin' Over" 6. Sean Kingston—"Beautiful Girls" 7. Fabolous feat. Ne-Yo—"Make Me Better" 8. Rihanna feat. Jay-Z—"Umbrella" 9. Cool Kids—"Black Mags" 10. Swizz Beatz—"Money in the Bank" --- Jennie Rose Halperin Spec Music Editor 1.&nbsp; Animal Collective— Strawberry Jam 2.&nbsp; Yoko Ono—Yes, I’m a Witch I had so much fun with this album.&nbsp; It’s a complete surprise from Ono, not terribly experimental and completely dance-able.&nbsp; I loved the collaborations with Peaches and Le Tigre, as well as with Antony and the Johnsons.&nbsp; Ono is in top form here, and this album is fantastic. 3.&nbsp; Radiohead—In Rainbows This one’s obvious.&nbsp; They’re consistently incredible, and this much-hyped album definitely lived up to expectations.&nbsp; I don’t think that there’s much more to say about it.&nbsp; 4.&nbsp; Amy Winehouse—Back to Black 5.&nbsp; M.I.A.—Kala 6.&nbsp; Panda Bear—Person Pitch 7.&nbsp; Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band—Live in Dublin This is Springsteen at his best.&nbsp; I feel like as an artist, he is only really good when he surrounds himself with the best musicians of his generation.&nbsp; So this, with fantastic artistry and good songs (my obsession with Pete Seeger is way too encompassing to leave this out!) is a great example of what Springsteen can do. 8.&nbsp; Okkervil River—The Stage Names 9.&nbsp; Bjork—Volta Fantastic.&nbsp; She is always good, but particularly here, she’s on top.&nbsp; Bjork has completely solidified herself as the most talented musician of our time with this album.&nbsp; It’s listenable and transcendent. 10.&nbsp; Justice—Cross Singles 1.&nbsp; Justice—"D.A.N.C.E. " Self-explanatory.&nbsp; Infectious, dance-able, amazing. 2. M.I.A.— "Jimmy (or XR2) " See above. 3.&nbsp; Sean Kingston—"Beautiful Girls" 4.&nbsp; Devendra Banhart—"Lover" If you’ve ever heard this, you know why it belongs.&nbsp; I was listening to the new Devendra and all of a sudden, out of no where, he turned into Marc Bolan.&nbsp; I don’t know where it came from, but it’s totally fantastic. 5.&nbsp; Flight of the Conchords—"If That’s What You’re Into" 6.&nbsp; LCD Soundsystem—"North American Scum" 7.&nbsp; Blitzen Trapper—"Wild Mountain Nation" 8.&nbsp; Menomena—"Muscle’n Flo" 9.&nbsp; Grizzly Bear—"He Hit Me (and It Felt Like a Kiss)" Sublimely creepy.&nbsp; This was originally written about Little Eva’s abuse by her boyfriend as a protest, but was seen as an endorsement for spousal abuse, strangely. 10.&nbsp; Wilco—"Hate It Here" --- Isla Hansen WBAR DJ Albums (and where we are when we listen) 1. Om—Pilgrimage &nbsp;&nbsp; (A-Sleep in a dark dark forest) 2. Tomahawk—Anonymous &nbsp;&nbsp; (away from home on the range, hangin' with Runs With Horses) 3. Mammatus—The Coast Explodes &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (final battle: sea creatures vs. amps) 4. Radiohead—In Rainbows &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (bubbles of meaningful memories in our bathtub) 5. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (the backyard mini plastic pool turns into an ocean, we all go a-raftin' and a-venturin') 6. Battles—Mirrored &nbsp;&nbsp; (workin' on the assembly line in a water pipe factory, pay day, on speed) 7. (The) Grails—Burning Off Impurities &nbsp;&nbsp; (rolled up in an oriental rug in the forest, hiding from Om and Tomahawk) 8. M.I.A.—Kala &nbsp;&nbsp; (checkin' out the world from one hoppin' hot air balloon) 9. Black Moth Super Rainbow—Falling Through a Field &nbsp; (in our childhood closet playing with a tape recorder) 10. Jose Gonzalez—In Our Nature &nbsp; (on our Argentine Grandpa's front porch in October) --- Jamie Johns WBAR DJ &amp; Community Affairs/Bwog 1. Battles–Mirrored Progressive (but not in a prog-rock sense, eww), mindblowing, experimental etc... I love this record more than I will probably ever love any children I give birth to. 2. Marnie Stern – In Advance of the Broken Arm Marnie Stern sounds like Mick Barr if he stopped smoking a shitload of weed and started chugging red bulls. In short, she shreds. However, she takes this shredding and creates ballistic pop songs about Plato. 3. The Field – From Here We Go Sublime 4. Times New Viking – Present the Paisley Reich These Ohioans brought back Siltbreeze Records, and also created a lo-fi, noise pop gem that evokes the best of the legendary label’s back catalog. Mmmm. 5. No Age – Weirdo Rippers 6. Boris with Michio Kurihara – Rainbow Also awesome: Boris with Merzbow – Rock Dream. 7. Magik Markers – Boss I loved when lead singer Elisa Ambrogio mock-masturbated with her guitar but spooky drones and bad trips make this record a breakthrough for this former noise duo. 8. The Studio – West Coast/Yearbook 1 9. REISSUES: Pylon – Gyrate+, Young Marble Giants – Colossal Youth, Fire Engines – Hungry Beat Post-punk is the greatest subgenre of music…ever. 10. Pissed Jeans – Hope for Men A lot of people attempt to evoke the Jesus Lizard and fail. Pissed Jeans do not. Records I will probably love next year when it is too late: Burial – Untrue, Robert Wyatt – Comicopera, Throbbing Gristle – Part Two: The Endless Not Singles 1. Battles—"Atlas" Incomprehensible lyrics, loops, exaggerated keyboard tones, a really high cymbal, all in a hall of mirrors – and people can mosh to it? 2. LCD Soundsystem—"All My Friends" This song is a tear jerker. 3. Fucked Up—"Year of the Pig" An 18 minute punk song based on the Chinese Zodiac but really about corruption 4. Grinderman—"No Pussy Blues" I thought Nick Cave was the biggest tool ever until I heard this song. 5. Kathy Diamond—"All Woman" Maurice Fulton, I thank you for this but please make another Mu record 6. Sian Alice Group—"Nightsong 7" " A haunting 7" released on the Social Registry label 7. Von Sudenfed—"Flederamus Can’t Get Enough" Mark E. Smith + Mouse on Mars + transvestites 8. Deerhunter—"Strange Lights" Let’s forget the bro-job, the shit/porn blog etc…and remember the straight up Guided by Voices-esque goodness of this song 9. Bjork—"Declare Independence" 10. Panda Bear—"Take Pills" --- Christian Kamongi Bwog 1. Liars—Liars&nbsp; 2. P.J. Harvey—White Chalk A haunting addition to Harvey’s oeuvre of exquisitely painful biblical soundscapes. 3. Justice—Cross No matter how much I’ve listened to these tracks their final packaging as an album represents a stunning amalgamation of masculinity, distortion, and Michael Jackson. 4. Calvin Harris—I Created Disco Cheesy and repetitive? So what. The most fun I’ve had all year? No doubt. 5. New Young Pony Club—Fantastic Playroom 6. Von Sudenfed— Tromatic Reflexxions 7. Battles—Mirrored We need a new definition for music. 8. The Yeah Yeah Yeahs— Is Is EP It sounds like a jungle queen’s vengeful oratorio. 9. Digitalism—Idealism 10. Simian Mobile Disco—Attack Decay Sustain, Release Silliness and sexiness joined in holy matrimony. --- Caitlin Lynch WKCR Latin Music Department Head Albums 1. Gui Boratto— Chromophobia 2. M.I.A. — Kala 3. Panda Bear— Person Pitch 4. The Field— From Here We Go Sublime 5. Studio— West Coast 6. Radiohead— In Rainbows 7. Justice— Cross 8. Kanye West—Graduation 9. Electrelane— No Shouts No Calls 10. Caribou— Andorra Singles 1. Studio— "Out There" 2. Junior Boys— "In the Morning" (Hot Chip remix) 3. M.I.A.— "$20" 4. Panda Bear— "Bros." 5. The Field— "A Paw in my Face" 6. Cut Copy— "Hearts on Fire" (Joakim remix) 7. Klanguage— "All This Time" (Yuksek v. Invaders remix) 8. Electrelane— "To the East" 9. Devin the Dude ft. Snoop Dogg and Andre 3000— "What a Job" 10. Seabear— "Arms" --- Andrew Martin Former Spec A&amp;E Editor Albums&nbsp; 1. Panda Bear—Person Pitch 2. Wu-Tang Clan—8 Diagrams Method Man isn't having any fun, and he's never sounded better. 3. Dinosaur Jr.—Beyond J Mascis is God- this record melts indie pop. 4. Lil Wayne—Da Drought 3/ Assorted verses and tracks All I want for Christmas is The Carter III. 5. The&nbsp; Black Lips—Los Valientes Del Mundo Nuevo 6. The National—Boxer Slow burn of the year—seems overrated until you've heard it about 30 times. 7. Spoon—GaGaGaGaGa 8. Robert Pollard/GBV/The Takeovers—Coast to Coast Carpet of Love/Live in Austin/Crickets/Standard Gargoyle Decisions/Bad Football 9. Menomena—Friend or Foe 10.&nbsp;&nbsp; Holy Fuck—LP Worst band name ever. Singles 1. LCD Soundsystem—"All My Friends" The "Stairway" or whatever stupid song you like of our generation. 2. Spoon—"The Underdog" Official campaign song of Bob Martin for Senate '07 —pick it up Obama! 3. DJ Khaled feat. Akon, T.I., Rick Ross, Fat Joe, Birdman, and Lil Wayne—"We Takin' Over" He is the beast—feed him rappers or feed him beats. 4. Against Me!—"New Wave" 5. The White Stripes—"Rag and Bones" They're so cute! 6. Jay-Z and Nas—"Success" The rivals unite- put it on your mixtape after "Ether" and have fun. 7. Black Lips—"Bad Kids" 8. Kanye West— "Can't Tell Me Nothin'" Kanye takes a break from loving himself and releases it as a single. 9. MIA—"Paper Planes" Best use of gunshot percussion since the glory days of Master P. 10. Devendra Banhart—"Seahorse" --- Coleman Moore Up in Ultra Records and KCR and BAR, active musician Albums 1. M.I.A.—Kala M.I.A. and Switch, with the help of a few others, combine rhythms from the American South, South Asia, South Beach, Africa, Detroit, and the Caribbean to produce some of the most original and shockingly effective dance music of 2007. 2. !!!—Myth Takes 3. Rich Boy—Rich Boy The mediocre rhyming skills of Rich Boy are not important, because this album's producers, particularly Polow da Don and Brian Kidd, fuse various musical styles into a cohesive sound evoking the swamp, the tropics, and the gutter at once. 4. Jay-Z—American Gangster 5. 8 Ball and MJG—Ridin’ High Respectable southern underdogs fall short of their previous collection but come through with a record laced with aces, not without help from a list of excellent contributing MC's and producers. 6. Kanye West—Graduation 7. The Field—From Here We Go Sublime 8. Rihanna—Good Girl Gone Bad 9. Justice—Cross While many of its tracks risk sounding kitschy after the novelty wears off, Justice' debut LP invents a whole new aesthetic for club music and forcefully gives the genre the "kick in the balls" that the French duo claim it needs. 10. UGK—Underground Kingz Singles 1. R. Kelly feat. T.I. and T-Pain—"I'm A Flirt (Remix)" Catchier and groovier than any other single of 2007 and includes possibly T.I.'s best verse of the year, despite his 18-track album. 2. Justin Timberlake—"What Goes Around..." 3. Rihanna feat. Jay-Z—"Umbrella" So famous for some good reasons: gray-skied echo-drenched melody, fresh drum tracking, and the three (or four?) most quoted syllables of the year. 4. Beyonce—"Irreplaceable" 5. Timbaland feat. Nelly Furtado and Justin Timberlake—"Give It To Me" 6. Jay-Z—"Blue Magic" 7. Fabolous feat. Ne-Yo—"Make Me Better" Fabolous ices the cake with swag and elegance, but the bread here is Ne-Yo's soulful hooks, spitting his chorus and verse in tight tandem with Timbaland's beat. 8. Justin Timberlake—"Summer Love" by 9. UGK feat. Outkast—"International Players' Anthem" 10. Rich Boy—"Boy Looka Here" --- Alex Silva WKCR DOE/Jazz programmer Albums&nbsp; 1. Radiohead—In Rainbows Of course. 2. Les Savy Fav— Let's Stay Friends 3. The Field— From Here We Go Sublime 4. M.I.A.— Kala She's really, really hot. 5. LCD Soundsystem— Sound of Silver I dance when James Murphy tells me to.&nbsp; 6. Deerhoof— Friend Opportunity 7. Battles— Mirrored&nbsp; Get out your calculators. 8. Bad Plus— Prog 9. Miles Davis—The Complete On the Corner Sessions 10. Charles Mingus— Cornell 1964 This forgotten, excellent recording resurfaced this year and features Mingus' sextet in prime form just a few weeks before the Town Hall concert and Dolphy's sudden death.&nbsp;&nbsp; Singles 1. R. Kelly vs. Broken Social Scene—"I'm a Flirt (Shoreline)" 2. The Twilight Sad—"And She Would Darken The Memory" 3. Flight of the Conchords—"Business Time" 4. Arcade Fire—"Keep the Car Running" 5. White Stripes—"Icky Thump" 6. Andrew Bird—"Heretics" 7. The Klaxons—"Golden Skans" 8. DJ Khaled feat. T.I., Akon, Rick Ross, Fat Joe, Birdman, and Lil Wayne—"We Takin' Over" 9. Animal Collective—"Peacebone" 10. The National—"Fake Empire" --- Alex Symonds Eye EIC Albums 1. The National—Boxer 2. LCD Soundsystem—Sound of Silver 3. Radiohead—In Rainbows 4. Kanye West—Graduation 5. Patrick Wolf—The Magic Position 6. M.I.A.—Kala 7. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam 8. El-P—I'll Sleep When You're Dead 9. Battles—Mirrored 10. The Field—From Here We Go Sublime Honorary mentions: Feist's The Reminder, which was cute when it came out but just got so old so fucking fast. (Did you need to sell "1 2 3 4" to every retail chain, Leslie? Did you really?); Spoon's Ga Ga Ga Ga Ga; PJ Harvey's White Chalk; Eisley's Combinations; every album that every one of the below songs came from Singles 1. Rihanna—"Umbrella" If you disagree, you have no heart and no tolerance for the mainstream. Also, to paraphrase YLT, Rihanna is not afraid of you and she will beat your ass. Seriously, have you seen her thigh muscles? 2. Panda Bear—"Good Girl/Carrots" 3. Menomena—"Muscle 'n Flo" 4. Malcolm McLaren—"Love Will Keep Us Together/Tear Us Apart" 5. Ryan Adams—"Oh My God, Whatever, Etc." 6. Wilco—"Side With the Seeds" 7. Blonde Redhead—"23" I put this on the mix I made for my retail job this summer. I discovered that the affluent soccer moms who shop at United Colors of Benetton are maybe not ready for Blonde Redhead. 8. Deerhoof—"Believe E.S.P." It has enough attitude not to devolve into preciousness... thank goodness. 9. Bishop Allen—"Click, Click, Click, Click" 10. Seabear— "I Sing I Swim" It's smart and sincere and basically begging to be "discovered" by whatever the Garden State of 2008 ends up being. Guess it's too late for Juno. --- Lucy Tang Bwog Albums 1. Miracle Fortress—Five Roses If Person Pitch hadn't been released this year, Five Roses would have received much more recognition. Oh well, never enough of a good thing. 2. Blonde Redhead— 23 So 23 is a bit derivative of the Cocteau Twins, but that comparison in itself is pretty high praise. It is also impossible to not fall in love with Kazu Makino after seeing Blonde Redhead live. 3. The Tough Alliance—A New Chance The band name is such a misnomer. The songs are all absolute pop gems, all of them, really! 4. A-Trak—Dirty South Dance The Girl Talk comparison is inevitable, like Night Ripper only with more recent top 40 hip hop (which makes it that much more fun). 5. Matthew Dear—Asa Breed 6. Liars— Liars 7. Panda Bear—Person Pitch 8. Menomena—Friend and Foe 9. Holy Fuck—LP 10. Jens Lekman— Night Falls Over Kortedala Swoon! Singles 1. LCD Soundsystem— "All My Friends" If I were fifteen years old, listening to this song, I would have totally quoted the lyrics of this song in my AIM profile. 2. Rihanna feat. Jay-Z— "Umbrella" 3. Kanye West— "Stronger" 4. Fergie— "Glamorous" "The flossy flossy" is an apposition for glamorous. Bonus points for mentioning Taco Bell. 5. Gwen Stefani feat. Akon— "The Sweet Escape" 6. The Teenagers— "Homecoming" 7. The Tough Alliance vs. Taken by Trees— Taken Too Young 8. Animal Collective— "Chores" 9. M.I.A.— "Paper Planes" --- Jon Tanners Producer/CEO Invent Horizons Albums 1. CunninLynguists—Dirty Acres Best Hip-Hop album in years. Rich, melodic production and deeply reflective lyrics give us a reminder that accompanying dances are not necessary for great music. What would happen if Outkast and Kanye’s old beats had a child. 2. Nine Inch Nails—Year Zero 3. Jens Lekman—Night Falls Over Kortedala Beautiful cut and paste pop album. Every second of music is shimmering. Lekman’s lyrics are everyday without being boring. Simply put, a beautiful album. 4. Kanye West—Graduation A bit of a spotty album, but the highlights are bigger and better than almost anything else this year. 5. Jay-Z—American Gangster 6. Justice—Cross 7. Pharoahe Monch—Desire I like Lil Wayne, but Monch is the real best rapper alive. 8. Ghostface Killah—Big Doe Rehab 9. UGK—Underground Kingz 10. Supastition—Leave of Absence The best rapper you’ve never heard of delivering a fiery nine-song EP. Focused, hard-hitting Hip-Hop. Singles 1. UGK feat. Outkast—"Int’l Players (I Choose You)" Even before Pimp C died this was the best song of the year. Proof that Outkast can still rap, UGK are still the kings of the south, and the Three 6 Mafia is one hell of a production team. 2. Rihanna feat. Jay-Z—"Umbrella" 3. Kanye West—"Stronger" 4. Mark Ronson feat. Daniel Merriweather—"Stop Me" Ronson tuns awhiney Smiths song into a polished, beautiful slice of neo-Motown soul. 5. Young Buck—"Get Buck" The sound of the South punching the North in the face. Polow the Don's relentless marching band beat makes Young Buck sound like Godzilla. 6. DJ Khaled feat. Young Jeezy, Juelz Santana, Rick Ross, Fat Joe, Lil Wayne, Dre—"Brown Paper Bag" 7. Battles—"Atlas" 8. Master P—"Gutta Time" 9. Ghostface Killah feat. Beanie Sigel—"Barrel Brothers a.k.a. Tony Sigel" Fight music. 10. Common ft. DJ Premier—"The Game" Kanye’s best beat of the year matched with an inspired performance from Common. A glimpse of Hip-Hop if the world had stopped turning in 1994. --- Zach van Schouwen Bwog/14th Street Busker Albums 1. The National—Boxer 2. M.I.A.—Kala Yummy terrorism hip-hop insanity. 3. Tokyo Police Club—A Lesson in Crime 4. Of Montreal—Hissing Fauna Are You The Destroyer? 5. Fountains of Wayne—Traffic and Weather A dangerously underrated album by a band I don't usually like. 6. The Twilight Sad—Fourteen Autumns and Fifteen Winters 7. Okkervil River—The Stage Names 8. The Clientele—God Save The Clientele 9. The Shins—Wincing the Night Away Overrated, underrated, whatever, it's another Shins album. 10. Kanye West—Graduation C'mon, admit it, you love this. Singles 1. Wyclef Jean—"Sweetest Girl (Dollar Bill)" 2. The National—"Apartment Story" 3. Emmy the Great—"Secret Circus" London anti-folk that you'll wish you'd heard of in a year. You can still go to the shows for free on the Lower East Side. 4. Page France—"The Ruby Ring Man" 5. Immaculate Machine—"Dear Confessor" 6. M.I.A.—"Paper Planes" It's the dumbest song on the album, but it's catchy... 7. St. Vincent—"Marry Me" 8. Consequence—"Don't Forget 'Em" A great song from a lousy album, with fantastic Kanye production. Actually, there are a few good Kanye guest singles on here that make it worth listening to. 9. Fountains of Wayne—"Someone to Love" 10. Avril Lavigne—"Girlfriend" --- Armin Rosen Bwog/Spec Opinion/the L Albums 1. Balkan Beatbox—Nu Med How do describe BBB...are they acid-klezmer? Gypsy afropop? Middle-Eastern punk? I have no idea, and thanks to the Box's ability to channel&nbsp; Balkan, Jewish, Caribbean and Middle Eastern beats into an infectious and staggeringly original sound, I've been grasping for some catchy shorthand for the better part of the past year. Forget the genre distinctions--"best band/album of the year" should do. 2. Radiohead—In Rainbows 3. Jens Lekman—Night Falls Over Kortedala, 4. Oakley Hall— I'll Follow You 5. Jay-Z—American Gangster 6. The Black Lips— Good Bad Not Evil As an acquaintance of mine once put this album on and started drinking as fast as he could. I think it's the best idea I've ever heard--see if you can quick six a pack of Natty before barroom brawler "Bad Kids" wraps up. 7. Arcade Fire—Neon Bible 8. Animal Collective—Strawberry Jam 9. Fiery Furnaces—Widow City 10. The Modern Lovers—The Modern Lovers I know it's a copout to rank a reissue this high, but the return of this masterpiece of early-70s minimalism (starring Magnet Fields forerunner John Richman and future Talking Heads guitarist Jerry Harrison) definitely deserves some recognition. Songs 1. A Sunny Day in Glasgow—"5:15 Train" 2. Feist—"1, 2, 3, 4" It's too bad that this is probably going to go down as "that one song in that iPod commercial that everybody got really tired of." It should go down as a work of undeniable genius, if only because Feist has such an unreal singing voice. I'm also a huge fan of that banjo riff. 3. The Black Lips—"How Do You Tell a Child that Someone Has Died" 4. Balkan Beatbox—"Pachima" If life were fair, this would have been the biggest dance track of 2007 instead of that one overrated song by Justice. Oh well. At least somebody's giving the best track from the best album of the year the respect it deserves. 5. Okkervil River—"Unless It's Kicks" 6. Elk City, New Believers—"Cherries in the Snow" 7.&nbsp; Lily Allen—"Shame for You" 8.&nbsp; Vampire Weekend—"The Kids Don't Stand a Chance" Although I've never been much of a Vampire Weekend partisan, "Kids" is the one VW song that makes me think that the critics and rock nerds could be on to something. Patient and self-reflective, the VW's longest and most mature track is not as grating as "Walcott," or as pretentious as "Boston" or as infuriating as&nbsp; "Oxford Comma." If they keep moving in this direction, VW will do more than just stand a chance, even in a music scene where the hype cycle is getting shorter and shorter. 9. Bishop Allen —"The Chinatown Bus" 10. M.I.A.—"Paper Planes" 
 Dear readers, &nbsp; One quick announcement before we take you on a whirlwind tour through your last four months: as of January, Juli Weiner will be taking over as Bwog editor, with support from B&amp;W Managing Editor Katie Reedy. In the coming year, please route all your cares, complaints, praise, and sensitive information through them. &nbsp; Thank you all for sticking with us. It's been a pleasure.&nbsp; Love, Lydia DePillis&nbsp; 2007 began with optimism, in the form of the class of 2011's arrival on a newly refurbished College Walk, with Clipse to usher them in. In search of the ultimate bonding event, NSOP swapped The BlaZe for "Take One: Ultimate Team Challenge." And 2011 missed the Labyrinth era by mere days. No sooner had first-years postered their dorm rooms did the year's first Major Controversy arise. The news broke that part-time blogger and full-time Holacaust-denier Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad would touch down later that month, with a little help from Richard Bulliet. With Jim Gilchrist a not-so-distant memory, campus exploded in a sea of mass emails, opining, protests and flyering. The old gang at Fox News stormed the gates, and Chris Kulawik emerged to welcome them back. Spectator forayed into blogging, while Bwog did the best it could with text messages and a dying laptop battery. Ultimately, the event was tame by Columbia Major Controversy standards, though Bollinger's chastising introduction of Ahmadinejad did earn the #1 spot in Time magazineï¿½s Most Awkward Moments of 2007 List. Mazel Tov, Lee and Mahmoud! Next in a semester of sturm und drang came David Horowitz and the near-return of Jim Gilchrist--although Columbia weathered these without too much kerfuffle. Horowitz, in observance of Islamo-fascism Awareness Week, dropped by Lerner and calmly spoke to a crowd of College Republicans and disappointed reporters. As for Gilchrist, even the GOP admitted that a second Columbia honeymoon might not have been the greatest idea. Meanwhile, other nuisances persevered--lice invaded the heads of Barnard first-years while bedbugs took up residence in Schapiro. Then came the late-blooming (but flourishing!) hate-crime crop. The spate commenced with the discovery of a noose pinned to the door of an African-American professor at Teachers College, followed by anti-Semitic graffiti drawn in a Lewisohn bathroom, sparking a stampede northward and more town-hall meetings than we could keep track of. More recently, a Carman dry-erase board found itself defaced by homophobic graffiti. But the award for Most Major Major Controversy must go to the hunger strike. Six students--armed with only Gatorade, a hungry octopus, Barnard professor Dennis Dalton and a blog--released a lengthy list of demands. In addition, nearly 70 CU professors signed a "statement of concern" critiquing Bollinger's handling of Ahmadinejad's visit and the tenure process, which the New York Sun, in its as role as Columbiaï¿½s outsourced conservative watchdog, dutifully published. Camped out on College Walk for nearly two weeks, the Hunger Strikers (whose ranks dropped from six to four) made questionable progress on the Ethnic Studies front. They got nothing on Manhattanville, however, which has since been rubber stamped by the City Planning Commission and the full City Council.&nbsp; At this point, CU's expansion plan may be beyond protest. In tenuous tenure news, Barnard anthropology associate Nadia Abu El-Haj made it through alive and New Republic figurehead-editor Martin Peretz, himself a Harvard man, railed against Bollinger from the recesses of his paranoid blog. Joseph Massad may not have been so lucky. Rare pockets of non-politicized academia brought more cheery news. The new Pass/D/Fail policy brightened our joy-starved hearts, and 2007's crop of Rhodes Scholars included two Columbia men: Jason Bello and hamburglar George Olive. To get our minds out of Butler and off to exotic lands, we heard from Mongolia, Bolivia, Chile, Paris, and NYU. Coming off a curious write-up in The New Yorker, the College Libertarians stole the spotlight from the GOP's first-semester monopoly long enough to buy some chalk and express their undying enthusiasm for smallish Texan Ron Paul. The College Democrats retreated to Kentucky, where they campaigned heartily and successfully for Steve Beshear in the Governor's race. Oh, earlier in the semester, some freshmen won too. Back in Morningside, a deadly fight erupted outside Radio Perfecto. A few blocks south, in front of Furnald and on College Walk, a hawk--newly christened Hawkmadinejad--roamed campus, preying on pigeons and eyeing Chabadï¿½s 8ft!! tall menorah. And finally, the semester ends as it began: with a new crop of admitted students. They're calling themselves 2012 and they're ready to party--or at least they've got a Facebook group saying as much. &nbsp; Comings Foodstuffs: Pinkberry, West Side Market, Community Food and Juice, JJ's Spicy chicken, The New Blue Java Web-logs: Barnard Bulletin website, The Blaaag, The Phlog, Meghan McCain Publications: The Proxy, El Participante, n+1 pamphlet &nbsp; Goings Foodstuffs: The Night CafÃ©, Blue Java, JJ's spicy chicken Real Estate: Academy Hardware, Mac 
Merry Christmas and happy holidays from all of us at Bwog! Were your presents not intellectually-stimulating enough? No worries! As our gift to you, we give you Bwog film connoisseur Christian Kamongi's cinematic picks of 2007, just a little something something to casually reference in 2008. 10. The Wayward Cloud Tsai-Ming Liang’s visceral sing-along porno was not just a moralistic polemic against a sex-ravaged culture, but also a lustrously beautiful collage of post-modern romance. 9. Zodiac Harris Savides’ camerawork and David Fincher’s showmanship combine to illustrate an era and provide a narrative that perfectly mirrors the film’s incapacitation of traditional filmic indexicality in favor of digital analog. Unarguably the most important and influential film of the year. 8. The Boss of It All On the outside Lars von Trier produces an office comedy filled with peculiar and off-putting Scandinavian humor. However, a closer analysis reveals a stunning testament to subjectivity even in the unfriendly realms of genre, predatory capitalism, and automatic digital editing. 7. There Will Be Blood In a sweeping tale of American ethos, P.T. Anderson reveals--with unforeseen radicalism--the dubious if not incompatible relationship between capitalism and religious zealotry. There Will Be Blood proves to be both a stunning classic historical epic and somber commentary on the fate of contemporary America. 6. Death Proof Quentin Tarantino subdues and brilliantly refines his structualist bombast to weave one of the most entertaining films of the year. With Death Proof Tarantino has transcended his Hawksian heroines and created something all his own. This film continues to affirm his status as possibly the finest active screenwriter in the English language. 5. Redacted At this point one can almost measure the correlation between the brilliance of a Brian De Palma film and its negative critical reception. Yet those who felt unenthused (or more appropriately, uncomfortable) were conditioned for a piece with a modicum of respectful national sentiment. Instead they received an enraged meditation on occupation that was fearless in its condemnation of it's subjects and viewers. 4. Daratt An orphan seeks revenge only to discover a spiritual proximity to his target. Ali Barkai and Youssouf Djaoro’s heartbreaking performances only increase the allure and darkness of this bizarre relationship. Daratt is the finest work to come out of the African continent this year. From one of the decade’s foremost new directorial talents, Mahamat-Saleh Haroun, Daratt is a sublime narrative woven with the mythical restraint expected of a master storyteller. 3. The Wind That Shakes the Barley The loathsomely inadequate praise for Ken Loach’s latest achievement only legitimizes his mastery, which is designated by a lack of effort and easy access to achievement. Without a remote ounce of effort or aesthetic adventurism, Loach created the most comprehensive historical tale of the year. Scooping deep into the nature of hegemony, the film uncompromisingly explored resistance with detail paid to every issue, from prosecution to humiliation (and most courageously) to economic liberation. 2. No Country for Old Men Viewing No Country for Old Men felt like a traumatic aging experience. Its sweat-drenched pace and haunting performances are carried out with breathtaking stamina on the part of the Coen Brothers. McCarthy’s famed terse prose finds its companion in Roger Deakin’s bare yet ravishing camerawork; while Bardem and Brolin have better chemistry than a Hollywood Golden Era couple, without their characters ever meeting. With the general violent impetus unrevealed, the film’s difficulty reflects its uncanny ability to tap into contemporary horror. And it is the same horrific unease that allows the film to transcend ambiguity and reach metaphysical heights. 1. I Don’t Want to Sleep Alone No other film this year or possibly this decade has so ingeniously coupled carefree ardor with impending doom. Tsai-Ming Liang’s silence fulfills an otherworldly purpose as the film propels towards a minimalist ground zero that the filmmaker’s oeuvre has been desperately trying to reach. Liang’s ability to convey ritualistic connotations in everyday moments provides the film with a peculiar profundity. The plotline is juggled with a subplot of a mysterious haze that starts to take over Kuala Lumpur with smoke infiltrating every urban nook and cranny. And yet the subplot fails to exert the disastrous climate we’ve expected from the movies, instead Liang utilizes it as a context to evoke the insolubility of the need for affection even in the face of disaster. The final image of the film’s characters floating on a bed fixated not on their perplexing surroundings, but each other, is easily the finest scene of the year. Top Five Honorable Mentions: Flanders, I’m Not There, Offside, Planet Terror, and The Postmodern Life of My Aunt Director of the Year: Tsai Ming-Liang for I Don’t Want to Sleep Alone and The Wayward Cloud Cast of the Year: Year of the Dog featuring Molly Shannon, Regina King, Josh Pais, Laura Dern, Thomas McCarthy, John C. Reilly, and Peter Sarsgaard Female Performer: Patrice van Houten for Black Book Male Performer: Daniel Day-Lewis for There Will Be Blood Screenplay: Paul Laverty for The Wind That Shakes the Barley Cinematography: Harry Savides for Zodiac Documentary: Lake of Fire 
 Sure, to a certain extent you're at the mercy of the textbook companies (a.k.a. Fun Killers). But at least you can avoid being gouged too badly by shopping around, plus avoid lines in late January: the Columbia Bookstore and Labyrinth both have course listings online, and although they're not complete, in all likelihood your calc class will have its syllabus on there. If those prices are still too high to stomach, check out campusI.com, which will compare prices at university bookstores all over the country.&nbsp; Harness the power of the internet! Because you might as well do something useful while sitting on the couch surfing the net.&nbsp; 
 Thought you had enough 1968 invocation this fall? Get ready for the blitz--May will bring the 40th anniversary of those heady weeks, and '68 veterans are not going to let you forget. On April 24-27, a group of them will put on a four-day bonanza of talks, discussions, and parties in conjunction with individual faculty members and academic institutes to both commemorate and demystify the uprising. The organizers have been coordinating with the Columbia administration, which will put on its own academic conference on May 2 or 3 (probably a bit too close to finals for most of us to stomach), and Barnard, which has invited Stanford professor and strike participant&nbsp; Estelle Freedman to give the annual Gildersleeve lecture on what 1968 meant to her at the end of March. In any case, they’ve already set up the tools of modern organizing—Yahoo groups (one for alumni and one for everyone) and a blog. Can the flower power generation handle Facebook? UPDATE: More information here! - LBD 
Bwog freelancer Stephanie Quan isn't a classical music buff, but she got interested in virtuoso violinist Joshua Bell when she heard about this experiment in a D.C. metro station. Eight months later, she snagged a phone interview with the Strad-playing celebrity, and quizzed him on childhood habits and favorite dead people. Bwog: Hi. &nbsp; Joshua Bell: Hi! This is Joshua Bell here. Hi, this is Stephanie. Shall we start? I've got a lot of questions written down here. I got answers.&nbsp; So you first began violin after your parents found you playing with rubberbands on your dresser. What inspired you to do that?&nbsp; Well I grew up with a lot of music around me. So I'm sure that I was stimulated by hearing my mother play the piano and my father, loved music. had a violin himself. Although he was sorta self-taught. But there was just a lot of music going around. All my cousins, my siblings played music. So I suppose hearing all that made me want to make music and my first sort of homemade instruments were those rubberbands on my dresser drawer. Then my parents got me a violin and it was just a very natural thing. It was like learning to speak, you know, playing music. I can't even really remember not playing the violin.&nbsp; So I've actually had to try this myself... and it's not easy! How does it exactly work? Where do the rubberbands go?&nbsp; Well I haven't repeated the experiment myself in the last thirty years. I had a set of nine little dresser drawers and I used to string these rubberbands across from one to the next and open up the drawers to different lengths to get different pitches. So I know a lot of people, myself included, began instruments as well when we were young but sort of threw our hands up at a certain point and gave up. What kept you going? Were there teachers that inspired you along the way? Yes, probably. I happen to have very good teachers. I think that's true of anything in life, you know? Whether it's physics class or people who say they hate math, they probably didn't have very good teachers. Of course being very good at it when I was little, took to it very quickly, was able to learn it very quickly and just, it felt right. That certainly helps to stick with something. Playing the violin may not be for everybody. I know I never really took to the piano and didn't think I was particularly good at it. But the violin, somehow it just clicked with me. So that kept me interested, and I didn't always want to practice. I'm not the most disciplined person in the world, I've got a lot of other interests and sports and other things. But somehow it was never really an option for me, I never thought of it as an option to quit, to quit playing.&nbsp; I think I do attribute that to my teachers. &nbsp; Do you ever get tired of playing by yourself and wish to just play music in an informal group, sort of like a jam session with some friends? Well, you know, pretty much every time I play, I'm playing with other people. Whether it's soloist with an orchestra behind me or if it's a solo recital tour, I have a pianist with me like Jeremy Denk. I'm doing a tour with him, just starting in January. And I love chamber music. I love playing chamber music for work or for pleasure. I do invite friends over to play and actually one of my goals with my new apartment which I've been building in New York for the last two years (It's almost finished) to have house concerts or sort of informal concerts where I invite people over to listen and friends over to play and people over to read chamber music together, which is a wonderful way to play music--for fun in the living room. Sounds like you're building a sort of New Yorker garage for a classical band.&nbsp; Yeah. Well, you know a lot of this music was written precisely for that. In the 19th century, that's what people did. Of course they had concerts. But people also... it was a little more pervasive I think. Music in general. What we call classical music now was what people played in their homes. It was very common to have people over and play music, similar to the way guys or whatever get together in their garage bands. I think a lot of the music, like Schubert's, was written to be played in the home as a sort of salon environment and it's really a fun way to listen to music--to be in an intimate atmosphere of someone's home. It's really visceral to be that close and also to play that way instead of playing in big halls or Hollywood Bowl miked out to 18,000 people or whatever. That's fun . You recently released an album in September '06 called Voice of the Violin, which consisted of pieces written for voice reworked into violin pieces. What was it like to begin choosing pieces for such an album? How do you decide what is workable and what's not?&nbsp; Voice of the Violin was a follow up to Romance of the Violin, which was a series of new transcriptions for the violin of famous melodies that weren't originally written for the violin. Voice of the Violin followed up with that but did arrangements of all vocal music and famous arias and opera tunes and that sort of thing. I enjoy that sort of new arrangement and then most recently with the Red Violin Concerto, is the last sort of most recent incarnation of music written for the film The Red Violin. Which was about 10 years ago...&nbsp; Yep, almost ten years ago. It won the Oscar for musical score. I was very deeply involved in that project back then. Since then he's created this violin concerto which is very serious, wonderful work for violin and orchestra that I perform on stage--you don't need the film to enjoy it and it's an amazing forty minute violin concerto which I think will make it a standard in the violinists'&nbsp; repertoire in this coming century. &nbsp; Speaking of music for the coming century. Where do you see violin or classical music going as a whole? Would you like to collaborate with more experimental composers? &nbsp; It's hard to define what classical music is exactly. I try not to think of boundaries exactly because I'm not exactly sure where they are myself. I've collaborated with James Taylor on a Gershwin song together (with some arrangements for violin). Is that classical music? I don't know. It's just music. I've played with bluegrass musicians music written by Edgar Meyer who is an amazing double bass player that sort of straddles the bluegrass/classical worlds and creates music that is hard to define. So I'm always open to collaborating with interesting musicians. Being a classical musician, from one moment to the next you're playing Bach to the next minute you're playing Corigliano and next Gershwin or Bernstein or avant garde classical and yet it's all considered classical music. I like not to think of the traditional boundaries.&nbsp; Uh huh. &nbsp; I think we've got not very much time. They're giving me signals. Maybe one last question?&nbsp; Okay...hm...we'll make it a quick one. Name five dead people you'd like to meet.&nbsp; Five dead people. Wow. Let's see, but they would be alive when I met them right?&nbsp; Right, and no language barriers.&nbsp; And they wouldn't smell? Okay. Um. Boy that's a hard one. I would say maybe Einstein? And uhï¿½ Mozart. Paganini the great violinist... maybe the greatest of all time, but we don't have any CDs because he was sadly born too soon. Who else?&nbsp; Goshï¿½ maybe Heifetz, though I might be disappointed because I hear he wasn't such a nice guy, although he was my hero growing up. Maybe my grandfather, whom I never met. apparently loved the violin. &nbsp; Great. That sounds like a good list. Thank you for taking the time to talk with me to today. &nbsp; No, thank you. Nice talking to you. Hopefully meet you in person someday. &nbsp; 
 ...to be Bwog's Senior Year Correspondent. Hello Early Deciders, we're interested in having you write for us as our first ever Senior Year Correspondent. Bwog, always partial to nostalgia and the goings-on of prefrosh, would like to run a series of posts about the life and times of a second-semester high school senior. All interested parties should write a 300-400 word post on the subject of what it was like to find out you were accepted Early Decision. Email it to bwog@columbia.edu by January 6th, 2008. &nbsp; 
The new year is here, and with it, some resolutions of Bwgossipers. Cheers to optimism! Create a filter to send all career center e-mails directly to Spam Fill four HamDel cards, topping this semester's three Never mention to anyone how much I sleep Spend more time on Spectator-subversion related tasks Doodle more, transcribe less Chalk some sidewalks Get to know Brooklyn Spend less time in Butler, more time at the New York Public Library Gain knowledge in minute detail of something no one else knows about Pick a writer and read everything he/she has ever written See J. Joseph Vlasits make it from one end of campus to another on a bike Walk the perimeter of Central Park over a day Learn Greek Record a full-length album with only original songs Find a perfect macchiato in m-side Watch the sun set over the Hudson once a week Stay in NYC over the summer Make it from one end of campus to another on a bike with the help of Lydia DePillis Just say no to small talk Eat fish and eggs Live outside of New York City for longer than two weeks Master online banking Run a Cee-lo ring at Columbia Keep a journal Less coffee, more tea Buy and use chapstick Help "Honest Mitt" Romney become the first non-hellbound U.S President Figure out how to and subsequently remove my Facebook toolbar on Firefox Memorize a poem to recite Find decent bread in New York City Finish all my course readings from last semester Lose those last 368 pounds Read and return the book I checked out of Butler in December 2006 Win an athletic contest on behalf of Columbia Throw a picnic in Central Park Make a humorous snowman Make use of Restaurant Week without getting ripped off Repair my bike so it is capable of making it from one end of campus to the other Build a giant robotic golden eagle that eats humans and other large mammals Take a token fun class Get paid for something—anything (it's about time!) Cook dinner three nights a week Help ABC save publications from insufficient funds Hand-feed campus critters Get Money '08! Get a&nbsp;bit closer&nbsp;to figuring out what to do with myself after my undergrad career Make music in Central Park Less&nbsp;fear of&nbsp;look people in the eye during dialogue Less&nbsp;dorm room&nbsp;pack-rat habits Get Pimp C buried at Arlington Cemetery More non-digital photos More free concerts Figure out social dancing&nbsp;in hopes of becoming&nbsp;more socially charming Go to one of those honky tonks I've heard so much about Berlin by December 2008! &nbsp; 
