 Meet Graciela Chichilnisky, an econ professor who was just awarded a $200,000 settlement from Columbia, which is roughly the amount of your tuition or any one product from Nussbaum &amp; Wu. She has been suing Columbia on and off since 1990 (back when some of you Terrible 12s weren't even born!), claiming gender discrimination and unequal pay, claims that were also previously settled in 1995 for $500,000. As a result of the earlier suit, Chichilnisky's salary was raised from $60,000 to $110,000. So then, in 2000, Chichilnisky stopped teaching math and started working exclusively in the econ. department because Columbia was terminating the United Nations Educational and Cultural Organization, which she had chaired. She found that her office in the Mathemetics building was hers no longer. "It's almost impossible to believe this is happening," she told Spec. "The destruction and removal of one's office space, without notice is like a violation of one's physical space." Columbia repsponded that the school is crunched for space and that Chichilnisky wasn't making full use of her math office. She filed another lawsuit claiming that her pay was less than that of her male counterparts, and that in dismantling her office, Columbia "has retaliated against her by breaching the terms of the settlement." In turn, Columbia filed counterclaims, charging that Chichilnisky had a secret second job -- she was the founder and CEO of a multimillion dollar corporation -- and that she never disclosed that to anyone in Low. According to CU, this was a breach of the previous settlement agreement. Anyway, she circulated something called the "Columbia Injustice Petition," which expressed outrage that Chichilnisky's office was taken away from her, and also said that Columbia's proposed solution of setting her up with an office in the Interchurch Center was a no-go. It was signed by 72 of her students and peers. Which pretty much brings us up to speed to this June, when Chichilnisky sued Columbia for 11 million for breaching the terms of the previous settlement by denying her equal pay and the aforementioned office space. Of the ruling, the plaintiff said: "The exact number isn't as important as the principle that it was a substantial amount of money that the university had to pay. And that has to do with who is right and who is wrong." 
You might recall that awhile back a famed street artist drew Hillary Clinton's face on the sidewalk in front of Citibank. She looked stupendous, and our artist left in his wake promises of two additional portraits to come, namely those of Barack Obama and John McCain. Well Columbia, we are thrilled to report that for Mr. Obama, that time has come.&nbsp; Well, nearly -- the forehead might need some shading in. But oh, he is a masterpiece and a fine addition to sidewalk in front of the Citibank. &nbsp; 
 Today, the Village Voice ran the first part of a billion part article that's something like the definitive account of everything that happened surrounding Madonna Constantine. You might recall October's noose-hanging incident and the whole multiple charges of plagiarism thing, for example. Anyway, we've distilled everything that's new and important in the article in easy-to-digest bullet points below (Spoiler Alert: She plagiarized.)&nbsp; "As many as 10 people complained about Constantine over several years, and these sources say the college did little to intervene." "Constantine attempted to silence her accusers in the spring of 2007 by sending them letters threatening to sue unless they dropped their claims. She used college stationery and the college mailing account." "Despite accusation , Constantine never pursued official sanctions. Instead, as punishment, she ordered Cort to cancel plans for the January break and come to her office. Constantine had her mark each book in her office with the professor's stamp. The shelves in the office held hundreds of books. The job took several days to complete." This particular plagiarized text was a second-year research paper written by the aforementioned former student, Karen Cort. Constantine told Cort to list Constantine's name as the primary researcher, despite Cort actually writing and researching the paper. For whatever reason, Cort agreed. " Yeh was contacted by the editors of an academic journal, who were reviewing a paper she'd submitted for publication. There was a problem, they said: Yeh's paper had already been published in another academic journal about six months earlier under Constantine's byline." Constantine decided to take a leave of absence, and while her replacement, Suniya Luthar, was going through Constantine's old office, she noticed some suspicious plagiarism paraphernalia and was approached by other people whose work Constantine stole. Luthar reported her findings to VP of Academic Affairs Darlyne Bailey, who was a friend of Constantine and spearheaded the movement to bring Constantine from Ohio State to CU. Bailey reported that Luthar was trying to "undermine the the reputation of the department" and hired a consultant to investiagate Luthar. "Constantine, meanwhile, showed up at Luthar's office and accused her of 'gossiping.' She threatened to sue Luthar. Someone had apparently tipped her off to the complaints, which were supposed to be confidential." "A Federal Express package containing a letter from Constantine arrived at Cort's home. The letter was written on Teachers College stationery and paid for via a college mailing account. 'She wrote that she knew I was about to graduate, and she said she had heard rumors that I had alleged plagiarism against her,' Cort says. 'She vehemently denied it and said if I continued to defame her, she would take steps against me. It was a threat.'" ...which brings our story to October, the month of the noose-hanging controversy. But it's a cliffhanger -- you'll have to hang on until next week to read the continuation of the story, excitingly titled "Part II: VIDEO CAMERAS, CRIES OF RACISM, AND A PROFESSOR ON THE DEFENSIVE." 
 This weekend, America is turning 232, making it just slightly older than the Columbia College website. Traditionally, Americans celebrate their country's birthday by cooking meat on grills outdoors and then watching fireworks. For this week's Guide to the Weekend, we've consolidated a few events that will give you the opportunity to do just that. Macy's Fourth of July Fireworks Spectacular; 9PM Prime Viewing Spots: Manhattan: East River Park, South Street Seaport, FDR Drive between 14th and 42nd Streets; Brooklyn: Greenpoint, Empire Fulton Derry State Park (in DUMBO), Brooklyn Heights Promenade Brooklyn Independence Day Parade; Between 66th and 86th Streets on 13th Ave in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn Head to 66th Street in Dyker Height's for the 103rd Annual Independence Day Parade! Who knew Brooklyn had a 66th Street?&nbsp; Featuring classic parade staples like floats and veteran marching bands. Nathan's Annual Hot Dog Eating Contest Noon; Nathan's on Coney Island Water Taxi Beach Party; the grill gets lit at noon; Optimal firework viewing and BBQ buffet including wine, beer and patriotic tropical drinks. Hunter's Point, Long Island City at 2nd Street and Borden Avenue The Great 4th of July Festival; 10AM -- 6PM Water Street from Fulton to Broad Streets Nothing says festival like fried food. &nbsp;Nothing says America like foreign street vendors. Candlelight Walking Tour of Revolutionary War New York; 2AM to 6 AM Betcha can't think of a better way to spend your day off than traipsing from one downtown historic site to the next with a bunch of geriatrics in black socks and sandals. This has Columbia history major written all over it. Meet at Fraunces Tavern at 54 Pearl Street. And for our friends in Washington, D.C.: 4th of July is going to the Mall by the Washington Monument and the Capital from 9:10 - 9:30 p.m.&nbsp; DO NOT DRIVE unless you have a death wish, take the Metro's Blue/Orange Line to Smithsonian. UPDATE: That subway stop is closed for the 4th, you must walk from afar. There's also a parade starting at 11:45 along Constitution Ave. moving west between 7th and 17th Streets, NW. All 4th of July celebrations take place tomorrow, the 4th of July. 
 Though this weekend many of your fellow Americans will be doing such celebratory things as eating hamburgers in an outdoors setting and watching fireworks, we know that 1. it is hot out, 2. many of you are vegetarians, and 3. there's an argument to be made that if you've seen one firework, you've seen 'em all. With that in mind, here's an alternative Movie Rental Guide to the Weekend that is both indoors and firework-free. And as always, feel free to leave your own suggestions in the comments. For the History Buffs: John Adams (2008)&nbsp; If your perfect Fourth of July includes journeying back to the time when our founding fathers debated and eventually decided to declare independence from Great Britain, HBO’s miniseries John Adams, which aired earlier this year and is now available on DVD, is for you. Starring Paul Giamatti as the title character and Laura Linney as Abigail, the miniseries is a very serious look at one of the most important, but largely unknown, founding fathers. The series begins with the Massachusetts native’s decision to represent the British soldiers who were tried for their involvement in the Boston Massacre and spans all the way to his death on the Fourth of July, 1826. With in-depth scenes that delve into the issues that faced Adams and other early American leaders, John Adams explores how this day became a holiday in the first place. For the American Studies Major: American Beauty (1999) For those whose ideal Fourth of July is spent critically examining modern day America, look no further than American Beauty. Winner of five Academy Awards including Best Picture, the film centers on the Burnhams, a family of three that has achieved the American Dream. Beginning with Lester (Kevin Spacey), however, the Burnhams come to find the ideal American mold is too confining, that they want something other a nice life in suburbia. Therefore, they slowly but cautiously step beyond typical social boundaries in pursuit of their own desires. With exceptional acting, especially by Annette Bening (Mrs. Burnham) and Chris Cooper (the next-door neighbor), and the careful realization of a very deep story, American Beauty is an intellectual exploration for those who want to do more than just accept our independence. Again, this one's for the Sorkophiles: The American President (1995)&nbsp; Written by Aaron Sorkin and directed by Rob Reiner, the film tells the story of a widowed president (Michael Douglas) who falls in love with a high-powered environmental lobbyist (Annette Bening). Though their affection for one another is strong, the president struggles to simultaneously fulfill both his personal responsibilities and his political needs, while his Republican opponent (Richard Dreyfuss) -- who looks and talks like Dick Cheney -- continues to gain political momentum. Sorkin’s script and Reiner’s direction meld nicely in a film that is more than just a typical romantic comedy. Plus, if you’re a West Wing fan, you’ll notice a some recycled dialogue. -- Brandon Hammer 
 For those of you who shied away from the fireworks and the humidity, here's Bwogger Lydia DePillis' dispatch from Washington DC's 4th of July. Washington DC on the fourth of July is the hothouse of American patriotism (in more ways than one). Having avoided it last year, this time around I thought I'd try immersing myself -- kind of like seeing how long you can hold your breath underwater. I didn't actually end up doing the whole shebang. I only saw a section of the parade, and I skipped out on the Capitol Lawn extravaganza (complete with Taylor Hicks!). Perhaps that was why the whole thing never actually felt repellent: I hadn't stuck around long enough for it to really sink in. The parade, however, had a different twist than I was expecting. Sure, it had the blaring brass bands, the self-declared country western stars, West Virginia dairy princesses (okay, there was only one of those). But a good chunk was actually composed of immigrant groups asserting their love of America. "We love Freedom, we thank America" read a banner for the Vietnamese American Community, trailed by marchers in traditional garb as well as a red-white-and-blue birthday cake float. Their patriotic pop-rock standards contrasted strangely with the woozy strains of the Falun Gong float that had preceded it, and the drums and cymbals of the Hare Krishna one bringing up the rear, lending the whole affair a feeling of pageantry that you won't find on Main Street U.S.A.. Meanwhile, on a stage not far from the mall, a Latin band&nbsp; blasted salsa, cha-cha, rumba, surrounded by dancers dripping with sweat but beaming smiles. The singer gave a shout-out to all the Latin Americans in the crowd, calling out Puerto Rico, Peru, Panama, to isolated cheers. It was cheesy and scripted, but it helped something click in my head: rather than feeling like a foreigner in my own country, I was a foreigner just like everyone else. That was tourist DC. Real DC late at night on the fourth feels like a warzone, with roadside bombs going off all over the place. The volume of explosives detonated in my neighborhood in the hours after the mall fireworks show had ended probably could have destroyed an Afghan warlord's compound, their smoke mixing eerily with the steamy summer mist. In the morning, shells scattered on the sidewalk were my only reminder of the party to which everyone is invited. 
 Gather round Columbia, we heard a harrowing tale from SSN breach survivor John Davisson. It seems the free credit monitoring service that your administration has provided is giving identity thieves one more shot to steal your personal information if they were busy from February 2007 to May 2008. "I&nbsp;called Identity Guard to activate my&nbsp;Columbia-bought-and-paid-for "CREDITPROTECTX®" service. After&nbsp;I gave&nbsp;the operator some basic info, she said she'd&nbsp;transfer me to their 'Identity Verification Unit.' I waited on hold for a couple of minutes, until I was suddenly&nbsp;patched through to two or three simultaneous conversations between other customers and operators. All but one dropped&nbsp;out quickly,&nbsp;allowing me to overhear the voice&nbsp;of another CREDITPROTECTX® prospect. I couldn't make out what the operator was telling her, but within a few seconds,&nbsp;the caller&nbsp;rattled off her full name, phone number, home address, email address, and social security number. Then the line when dead. Sadly, I am not making this up." Oh, dear. 
 The New York Times is reporting some big news for Marcus Brauchli, the positively dapper gentleman pictured to your right. Brauchli, CC '83 and Spec alum, is on the brink of being named the executive editor of the Washington Post. He was formerly the managing editor of the Wall Street Journal but resigned in April. In other masthead turnover news, fellow Spec alum Andrew Martin, CC '08, and some other kid from Brown are the next up in IvyGate's roster of rotating summer editors. Martin and Kid From Brown are replacing Nina Shield and Kid From Harvard. 
 Bwog's dreams of a Columbia presidential matchup died with the candidacy of Mike Gravel -- we thought. Now a new challenger, while falling short of the Alaska senator’s genius in television advertising, may actually take the 2008 cycle’s stranger-than-fiction cake: self-proclaimed “King of Vegas” Wayne Allyn Root, CC ’83 and classmate of Sen. Barack Obama (and Marcus Brauchli!), is running as the Libertarian Party’s nominee for vice president. Root is not your average Columbia success story. After being pushed through college by his father, the political science major ran unsuccessfully for Congress, and then turned to his true passion: sports handicapping. As founder, president, and CEO of WinningEdge, he made something of a name for himself in the world of professional gambling, which he leveraged this year into a run at the Libertarian presidential nomination (described in hilarious detail here). He made it onto the ticket through a last-minute deal with former U.S. Rep. Bob Barr, who was trailing in delegates at the convention, making for a somewhat awkward pairing (in classic libertarian form, however, Root still maintains a separate website). Will the Ron Paulites come out to support a proud alum? Will Root's erstwhile mullet prove an asset or a liability? Who knows! Anything can happen in this race, folks! - LBD 
 Maybe you made some new friends at your internship or job over the summer, how nice for you. Professor to the Stars Jeffrey Sachs has made some new best friends and oh, they are awesome. Here's our Jeff Sachs (right) with famous people John Mayer (he of smoldering stare on the left), and Jennifer Aniston (center), hanging out and probably talking about sustainable development and Brad Pitt and the like. Scholarly journal Us Weekly reports that the photo was taken at dinner for Sachs' Millennium Promise project.&nbsp; Oh, and just for good measure there's a photo thrown in of Sachs with old friend Angelina Jolie, who is neither famous nor good-looking enough to merit a larger photo. 
 The New York Daily News is reporting that Toby Cohen, a 25 year old student at the College of Dental Medicine, has been missing for two days. He hasn't been seen since Sunday, when he left his girlfriend's apartment, went to the ATM, and made his way home towards his apartment in Washington Heights. According to the Daily News, " are especially worried because he left his wallet and the medication he takes to control a life-threatening medical condition in his apartment. Anyone with information should call the 33rd Precinct, (212) 927-3200." UPDATE: Happy ending! Toby Cohen is no longer a missing person. 
 A quick look at the calendar has reminded us that today is 7/11, a date identical to the name of wonderful convenience store 7 Eleven. In honor of this extraordinary annual coincidence, 7 Eleven is giving away free 11 oz. Slurpees, all day, to you. The easiest 7 Eleven to get to is probably on 48th and 8th, though there are also a couple on the Upper East Side. (See the map after the jump or the store locator for further investigation.) All Slurpees come with a free iPhone 3G. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 In honor of the Yankee Stadium’s final season, this year’s MLB all-star game will take place in the Bronx on Tuesday. To remember some of baseball’s most interesting historical moments, Bwog Film Rental Analyst Brandon Hammer suggests you check out one (or two or three) of the following movies.&nbsp; The Pride of the Yankees (1942): &nbsp; Those who yearn for the glory days of the Bronx Bombers will find comfort in this 1942 film. Starring Gary Cooper in the lead role, The Pride of the Yankees is a beautiful biopic about Columbia’s own Lou Gehrig, whose endurance to last 2,130 consecutive games (the equivalent of more than 13 baseball seasons) brought him the nickname the “Iron Horse.” Cooper’s performance is powerful; he captures the essence of a man who was known for his kindness and humility, a man who, though his life and career were cut short by a terrible disease, considered himself “the luckiest man on the face of the earth.” The film also features and intriguing performance by Babe Ruth as himself, as well as a reenactment of Gehrig’s famous speech of July 4, 1939.&nbsp; 61* (2001):&nbsp; 61* is an analysis of the more controversial elements of baseball’s past. Directed by Billy Crystal, 61* focuses on the drive to break what used to be one of the most hallowed records in baseball, the single-season home run record, which was set at 60 by Babe Ruth in 1927. The main characters are two Yankees, Roger Maris (Barry Pepper), a relative newcomer from North Dakota, and Mickey Mantle (Thomas Jane), an all-star and heartthrob. While the players’ friendship withstands their rivalry to break the Babe’s record in 1961, both the baseball establishment and Yankee fans give Maris an incredible amount of grief to deter him from reaching 61 home runs. As the commissioner looks for technical ways to discount his runs, the fans go so far as to send hate mail and death threats to someone they perceive as an outsider. The film is very well directed by Crystal, as it's not only a thoughtful exploration of this momentous and controversial time in baseball history, it sheds light on the modern state of the game and our current perceptions of records.&nbsp; &nbsp; A League of Their Own (1992):&nbsp; Starring Tom Hanks, Geena Davis, Madonna, and Rosie O’Donnell, the film tells the story of the origin of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, which was founded by Phillip Wrigley during World War II for the purpose of maintaining ticket revenues while the male players were overseas. Through their experience, the women face a contradictory scenario, as they are expected to play just like the men, but do so while wearing a skirt and appearing graceful. Extremely well-written and beautifully acted, especially by Hanks and Davis. 
 A bunch of you have sent us this Jezebel-by-way-of-other-blog post about how old-timey folks conducted surverys that assumed Barnard was full of hussies -- just like you kids today joke about! The newspaper clipping tells the story of how one time, probably in the 20s, the Jester published a "Purity Survey", in which the gals of Barnard were asked sordid, old-timey things like if they've "soul kissed" and "Have you ever been tight?" With respect to that latter question, there were 38 nays and 32 yeas, and "of those answering in the affirmative, 14 said they had been tight once, 14 said they had been tight often, and four said that they were 'usually tight.'"&nbsp; Eww. Wait, what? Anyway, it was apparently "too hot to print" and was banned and then unbanned, and afterwards no one ever implied anything about the promiscuity of Barnard students ever again. 
 We've gotten like 1,000 emails this morning (Columbia, you're quite partial to the Weddings Section!) about the New York Times marriage announcement of PrezBo's son, who is also named Lee C. Bollinger and looks exactly like him. (Speculates one friend of Bwog, "Obviously PrezBo has really powerful genes.") Lee C. Bollinger the younger, or Young Bo, was married on Friday to a one Ms. Jennifer Ellis. Ellis teaches elementary school in Illinois and attended Western Michigan Univeristy and then DePaul University. Her parents have very nice and respectable-sounding jobs, but whatever, on to the bridegroom's family. Spawn of Bo is an intellectual property lawyer who attended UC Berkeley, University of Michigan, and Washington Sq.-based archenemy NYU. And oh look wow, his father is the president of Columbia University! His mother, the elusive Lady Bo (or "Jean Magnano Bollinger"), is an artist. UPDATE:&nbsp; Philosophy professors Philip and Patricia Kitcher's son Charles was also married this weekend to fellow Columbia law graduate Sue-Yun Ahn. The wedding was held at the Columbia Club. Charles is a law clerk but leaving his job to become a laywer in D.C., Sue-Yun Ahn is also a law clerk who's on the brink of starting to clerk for Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
 There's trouble afoot on the internet today, namely over at right-wing web blog/apparent Matthew Arnold fanzine Sweetness &amp; Light. It seems they've taken none too kindly to a certain magazine's Controversial cover image -- and it's not the cover image (or the magazine) you're thinking of! No, their bone to pick is with the Jester, specifically the cover of its "Tragedy" issue, which memorably features the Titanic crashing into the World Trade Center. Says S&amp;L: "Granted college humor is normally juvenile and often in bad taste. But this is somewhat beyond that." Commenters chime in with hilarious noose jokes, while others point out that the cover is obviously a reflection of Columbia's "socialist" and "pro-Islam" bias. UPDATE 6:32 PM: We receive an exclusive statement from Jester's press attaché: "The staff of the Jester would like to issue our sincerest apologies. We have no idea how this offensive image was not caught by our art staff, layout editors, publisher, editor in chief, printer, or distribution staff. As a token of our true regret, please accept one free humor magazine." 
 Apparently overjoyed with his previous New York sojourn, our overseas pal Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (we even remember how to spell that from the last go-around!) is returning to our fair city to attend the U.N.'s General Assembly in September. According to Mahmoud himself, he's coming around to "defend Iran's rights" and remedy the "unjust" Western way of administrating international organizations. 
 Tickets.com is showing that two titans of music will be sharing Miller Theater next March 27th. We were excited until classical scholars pointed out that Shostakovich (the Harry Potter-ish fellow on the left) is probably unavailable, since he's been dead since 1975. Perturbed by the mystery, and determined to prevent any music-related heart attacks, we consulted the fount of all knowledge to find Miller Theater's much fuller explanation: it's not Radiohead and Shostakovich, but some dude playing Shostakovich and Radiohead, in addition to several other classical composers and rock bands. More specifically, it's Christopher O'Riley, who already has released several albums along similar lines (the second one received a generally meaningless rating of 6.2 from Pitchfork.) He is also known for hosting the NPR show From the Top, where insufferably young and talented musicians show off how awesome they are. - JCD 
 Good morning, Columbia, hope you're all set for some more Madonna Constantine updates. Oh good, let's get started. First, according to last night's AP report, Constantine has decided to appeal her termination, claiming that she was fired because of the noose incident and that the plagiarism charges are "baseless."&nbsp; And speaking of nooses, it's finally time for the Village Voice's sequel to its exciting series on "Knotty Noose Problems". When we last left off, a bunch of people accussed Madonna Constantine of plagiarism, so she made one of them organize some stuff in her office over winter break, which was mean. Meanwhile, Darlene Bailey, VP of Academic Affairs at TC, launched counter-investigations against a women who wanted to look into the allegations against Constantine. So now that we're all caught up, on to this week's article, and we've once again distilled everything you need to know in reader-friendly bulletpoints. The College hired an outside firm to investigate the plagiarism and such, and as the results of the investigation were on the cusp of being announced, Constantine discovered a noose hanging on her door There was a protest on the steps against institutionalized racism, led by Constantine TC President Susan Fuhrman gave a conference in response to the incident in which she called MC "distinguished", but according to the Voice, Fuhrman would have definitely known about plagiarism investigation You'll remember from the last installment, a TC professor named Suniya Luthar came to Dean Bailey about investigation Constantine. Bailey responded by investigating Luthar. People suspected that Luthar might have had a grudge against Constantine and Co., so her name was initially tossed around as a possible suspect. Fuhrman publically defended Luthar, but it wasn't enough to stop rumors that she was the noose-hanger. Investigators issued a subpoena for the College to hand over the security tapes, but there weren't any cameras near MC's office anyway. Then in November, the Hate Crime Squad (NYPD's term, not ours) installed "secret" videocameras by Constantine's office, in attempts to catch the noose-hanger if he or she chose to strike again. The "secret" cameras turned out to be so obvious that they were distracting, and TC professors started complaining about their presence. Constantine sent out a faculty-wide email about the cameras, claiming that they were part of a "set-up." The plagiarism investigation was put on hold for four months after the noose incident, but when its results were finally released in February, it found Constantine had taken from the works of her former students. "The school hasn’t disclosed what that penalty might be, but sources say it was just a letter of reprimand." Constantine sent out another email in which she famously claimed, "I am left to wonder whether a White faculty member would have been treated in such a publicly disrespectful and disparaging manner." Suniya Luther sent an email responding to Constantine's charges of racism, saying that TC had given MC "inordinately high protection and support." "Fuhrman also told the faculty that she had offered Constantine a severance package, and asked her to 'take responsibility,' but she turned it down." 
 It's on to MIT for outgoing Dean of Student Affairs Chris Colombo, where he will serve as the Dean for Student Life. How excited is Colombo about the new position? He'll tell you how excited: "It is with very mixed emotions that I share with you that I have accepted the position of Dean for Student Life at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. " While sad Colombo is in Massachusetts, Associate Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger will take over as Interim Dean of Student Affairs. Full email after the jump Dear Colleagues, It is with very mixed emotions that I share with you that I have accepted the position of Dean for Student Life at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.&nbsp; Over the course of my 16 years here at Columbia, we have collectively built a Division of Student Affairs that has positively impacted the support and development of our students.&nbsp; The success of our students is ample testimony to the commitment of each and every one of the staff members I have had the pleasure of working with over the years. Choosing to leave Columbia has not been an easy decision to reach.&nbsp; However, I leave confident that the work that we do is greater than any one of us.&nbsp; Together, we have worked to increase the diversity and the quality of our student body, make financial aid more available to our students, and build a system of comprehensive advisement that supports the development of community among our students.&nbsp; This has been accomplished through countless staff who have demonstrated innovation, professionalism and dedication to our students. I am confident that the good work done by our division will continue to benefit our students individually and the two schools we serve. Kevin Shollenberger has agreed to assume the role of Interim Dean of Student Affairs for CC and SEAS. Kevin exemplifies the dedication to our student body that I feel is so characteristic of this Division.&nbsp; As the Senior Associate Dean, Kevin has been called upon to assume increasing levels of responsibility and leadership for Student Affairs and has successfully led the Community Development team for the past several years.&nbsp; I am certain that his leadership of this division will only further our good work. &nbsp; Over the course of the coming weeks, I will have more of an opportunity to thank each one of you for the contribution you make to our success. In the meantime, you have my thanks for your support and the support I know you will give to Kevin. &nbsp;Yours, Chris Colombo 
 So yesterday the Empire State Development Corp. voted to approve Columbia's $6.28 billion expansion expansion into Manhattanville.&nbsp; In doing so, the state designated the area as blighted, which is necessary in order to invoke eminent domain.&nbsp; The decision came as a result of a blight study by AKRF Inc., which found that Manhattanville consisted of "aging, poorly maintained and functionally obsolete industrial buildings with little indication of recent reinvestment to revive their generally deteriorated condition."&nbsp; Critics of the decision have pointed out that New York hired the same firm to conduct this assessment as Columbia hired to conduct a separate environmental analysis of the area. Governor David Paterson, CC '77, gave the expansion two Light Blue thumbs up, saying: “This project underscores Columbia’s commitment to its neighbors by providing benefits to many segments of the local community. Columbia, my alma matter, continues to be a vital part of this city and State.” 
 This past Monday, francophiles and French citizens celebrated Bastille Day. And since gossiping about President Sarkozy and his wife is no way to celebrate the holiday -- and Film Forum is no longer featuring its wonderful series on Godard -- here are a few suggestions for some French films worth renting. The Rules of the Game (1939): Directed by Jean Renoir, the son of the Impressionist painter Pierre-Auguste and a man regarded as one of the greatest directors of all time, the film is an incendiary satire of the self-absorption within France's bourgeoisie on the eve of World War II. The film only slowly reaches the point at which the viewer sees that the nation's elite are feuding with each other over sex while their country faces imminent war. The movie was so powerful that a man set fire to a newspaper at its premiere in an attempt to burn down the theater, while the French government (and later the occupying Nazi regime) banned the film. The Rules of the Game survived and remains both a cinematic achievement ad well as a relevant social critique. Breathless (1960): Jean-Luc Godard's first feature film heralded the French New Wave, in which French cinephiles who had spent years theorizing about the films of directors like Welles and Hitchcock began testing their theories and beliefs in practice, and in doing so, shook the world of cinema. Breathless, which tells the story of a man who considers himself a film noir hero, breaks the traditional laws of directing with jump cuts, natural lighting, and an nontraditional use of music. Even if film theory is not your idea of entertainment, Breathless is still a fun film that will open your eyes to how movies work. Amelie (2001): Starring Audrey Tautou in her most famous role, Amelie is a very fun and very French experience. The film centers on Amelie Polain, a young waitress in Montmartre who is trying to find meaning in her life. Eventually, she finds that small actions can make other people incredibly happy -- though locating her own means of happiness continues to elude her. With beautiful colors and shot in a style that feels joyous and free, plus an amazing performance by Tautou, Amelie is a great summer film that will make you wish you decided to go to study abroad after all. -- Brandon Hammer 
 Columbia's undergraduate monthly (and Bwog's benevolent guardian and namesake) The Blue and White is currently accepting applications for senior editorships. The application and information about the position are after the jump. And remember, both the magazine and Bwog are always looking for new writers, graphic designers, artists, editors, those with financial and technological know-how and generous folks with access to free food. Get in touch by sending an email to bweditors@columbia.edu (for the magazine) and bwog@columbia.edu (for Bwog). &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Thank you for your interest in The Blue and White! Although we will also consider your previous writing and our knowledge of your character, this application will weigh heavily in our selection process. If you have questions, please ask.&nbsp; Responsibilities: Senior editors are crucial to the magazine’s success and health; the style, the ideas, the prose, and the layout all depend on their work. The required time commitment is an editors meeting and a general meeting per week (two hours), plus one weekend a month for layout (Friday night, Saturday during the day, and Sunday morning until we’re done), as well as helping out with monthly (ish) parties and working with writers in between. The term is one year (eight issues). Senior editors are also invited (and expected) to pitch and write pieces on a regular basis. &nbsp; Qualifications: A good senior editor is creative and curious, able to be flexible and work well with others, take and give edits graciously. Often they have strange obsessions and obscure interests. Always, they are devoted to precise and stylish prose, as well as insightful and conscientious reporting. We will look favorably upon a history of commitment to the magazine, but it’s not required. The Application Please take roughly five pages, double spaced, to answer the following questions:&nbsp; What pieces have you written for the magazine to date? Have you written for other on- or off-campus publications?&nbsp; Evaluate the magazine in a holistic sense. What are its strengths and weaknesses? Feel free to use specific pieces to support your argument.&nbsp; Include a list of at least five feature pitches, a few campus characters, and some arts ideas.&nbsp; And any other relevant thoughts you might have. Please e-mail your completed prospectus to Anna Phillips (amp2133), Katie Reedy (ker2114), Juli Weiner (jw2484), and Lydia DePillis (lbd2102) no later than Monday, August 4.&nbsp; 
 Oh boy, the "New Facebook" that you've been hearing nothing about is here. What's different about New Facebook? Well, for one thing, it's certainly wider! And your wall posts are outlined in gray. But apparently there are other differences, and the madman behind this creation has explained them all in his Facebook blog: The Publisher lets you put content on your own Wall. Like writing on your own Wall, but now it's called The Publisher.&nbsp; Size matters: You can adjust the size of things on your profile, "to promote the things you care about most, and demote the stories you don't find as interesting."&nbsp; Your own Wall will stalk you.&nbsp; "The Wall now surfaces the most recent and relevant information—in the form of posts of stories—about you. We believe that having a constant stream of information, or 'feed' is the most effective way to learn about and keep up with friends." Facebook loyalists have been rallying to the defense of New Facebook, pointing out that the new photo browsing function is easier to use.&nbsp; But go see for yourself, and then choose a side, for the question of New Facebook allegiance is surely the defining one of our generation.&nbsp; UPDATE: More terror lies ahead after the jump. We also noticed New Facebook has a Top Friends feature, and you can designate as many Friends as you want as superior to all the others. What this means is that a preference of New Facebook is no longer a respectable option, for anyone, ever. As Bwog's New Haven-based Facebook Analyst pointed out: "At least is optional. But that won't really matter when everyone opts in." 
 Two happenings we brought to our attention today involving Columbia students past and present on the internet. First up, by way of tipster "um... anonymous", Torah Bontrager, GS '07, has told the Four Hour Workweek blog the story of her escape from the Amish.&nbsp; In the Q&amp;A, Bontrager spells out some "common misconceptions" about the Amish. For instance, according to Bontrager, it's untrue that "the Amish are 'peaceful gentle folk." Amish also speak Amish, which is different from English and actually more closely related to German. Who knew? She also describes community-wide child abuse, including her own experiences with her parents. (The blog is careful to note that this is one person's experience and is not intended to stereotype all Amish.) At 15, after a near-suicide attempt, she picked up in the middle of the night, leaving her parents and eleven siblings behind. Over at the New York Times food blog Bitten, famous (ex?)-vegetarian Laura Anderson, CC '09, has written about going back to her old meat-eating ways while abroad in Paris. "I love food. I would have regretted spending a year in France without ever fully experiencing the animal-based glory of French cuisine." But it turned out that eating meat makes her think of the moral implications of eating meat, which she finds troubling. Moral of the story: she's looking forward being a vegetarian again, now "fully aware of what given up." 
 Bwog's preferred Nantucket-based locally owned weekly newspaper The Nantucket Independent is reporting that religion professor Mark Lilla and adjunct associate professor of visual arts Diana Cooper are engaged to be married. Diana Cooper went to Harvard undergrad and got a masters in art from Hunter College. Mark Lilla went to the University of Michigan and the Kennedy School at Harvard, and despite Wikipedia's omission of his editorship, he did, for a time, edit conservative quarterly The Public Interest. Mazel Tov professors Cooper and Lilla, we look forward to the eventual New York Times wedding announcement. 
Bwog's suburban diarist Madeline L. is spending the summer away from the city -- and she's enjoying it. Here, our diarist disects the nature of the suburban summer, and why it beats Morningside anyday. Summer in the suburbs is built on a founding myth; an event within a circle of friends that becomes retold in different heights of enthusiasm, with different details added or subtracted. It becomes so recognizable that the difference of experience between people who lived it and those who heard about it is nonexistent. Collectiveness and camaraderie encapsulate&nbsp;the suburban summer -- that and a lot of weed.&nbsp; For me, the summer of 2007 was the summer of getting thrown in a pool -- completely clothed, mascara trickling down my face, contacts mangled in the white of my eye, shirt pulled down. The boy who playfully threw me in the chlorine perils argued after the fact that it was my own fault. I made myself fall in, he reasoned. “You just have really shitty balance,” he said. But the gods of the suburban summer must have had a sense of humor that year. My friend, who had become panicked once it looked like my fall was no laughing matter, ended up with a bloody nose. (I did not punch him in the face. In fact, as he extended his arm to pull me overboard, between gulps of pool water and air I kept telling him to let go, he was hurting me. He must have taken this as his cue to grasp harder, and I inadvertently dragged him closer and closer to the asphalt, until the flesh of his nose met the unforgiving cement.) It sounds like something out of Seventeen’s Most Embarrassing Teen Moments, where the stories are rated with blushing smiley faces. I give this one three and a half blushes. A year later, the kids who watched me fall into a pool -- or at least felt as if they had -- are looking for a different story to hold onto. It’s hard to come by the universal story when high school friends who so used to closely knit groups are dispersed throughout the country. Each of us returns home from college with different stories about hooking up, vomiting in an elevator, gulping down goldfish in the frat house. Amusing yes, but inclusive no. We weren’t all there. We didn’t taste the goldfish as it slid down your throat. So this summer needed something we could all latch onto.&nbsp; Summer 2008 was the summer of the berries. My friend (not the poolside villian) has a backyard. His backyard has a berry tree (taxonomic classification, though we collectively refer to it as "that fucking berry tree"). The berry tree has created problems. It disperses what seemingly endless supplies of sticky deep purple goo -- one could go as far as to call it black -- that settles on the grass and the rock slabs that lead up to his backyard and leaves irremovable stains on the bottom of one’s shoes. This is probably the biggest problem of all, as suburban kids have really nice sneakers. The smell and mess caused by the berries pales in comparison to the unmitigated power of my friend whose property the berry tree partially inhabits. Understandably, my friend will not let anyone in or out of his house without first inspecting his or her shoes; if they’re black, you must go back. And we all know not to set foot in his house if that foot has even a trace of berry mush on it. But then there is a third problem. When one wishes to go outside to smoke a cigarette or take in the night’s moist, thick air or escape the Berry Czar, the tree that gives the merciless czar his name rears its ugly head again; this time in the form of a plague. Mosquitoes, attracted to the berries, pepper the air and slowly suck away at the sweet young blood of yours truly and others. You may ask, why not just get the hell out of there? Find another house with a deck of cards (for poker) and sleeping parents? Suburban summers are about escaping the wrath of authority and reliving traditions. The berry tree combines both: My friend’s house has been a longstanding institution in our network of friends. It was where we would throw remnants of fast food into an outdoor clay fireplace and watch as burnt lettuce and charred tomato skins shot out from the top. We would play poker into the wee hours and listen to the mesmerizing click clacking of poker chips as they hit a marble table. (My friend happens to be a remarkable poker player, with professional earnings in the mid 5 figures.) And so the sound of poker chips and memories of vacations past make the drastic move to another house out of the question. Well, that and the fact that his parents are never around. It's impossible to enjoy—no, not enjoy—endure a summer in the suburbs without having a sappy place in your heart for tradition. None of my friends would admit to it, but everyone likes going back to something familiar. Even if the familiar is sticky, buggy, and smells like Franzia. &nbsp; Tradition aside, summer in the suburbs is a game of tug-of-war with authority. Unlike most cities where real crime and violence exist, the suburbs of Long Island of which I speak are home to minimal offenses. Police congregate in parking lots in unmarked cars waiting for a teenagers to emerge from a convenience store with a six pack of Mike’s Hard Lemonade. We curse the authority; blame them for not letting us have any fun. Yet our summers would not be as enjoyable without them on our case. Outsmarting them, analyzing them, and getting caught by them. This is what makes a summer in the suburbs. Exaggerating the details of what actually happened -- "the cops totally put hand cuffs on this kid, and not only that but they like made him spread his legs and started feeling him up; true story -- define the suburban summer. Here in Morningside Heights it’s a little harder to get excited. Columbia might have NSOP and its rootbeer pong, but something about city living just isn’t right. Maybe it’s the forced fun that makes you forget that you have a pulse, a personality.&nbsp; Sometimes it takes boredom to get enthused about something. You can have your museums, skinny jeans, and myriad of zero calorie frozen yogurts. Give me the suburbs and a berry tree any day. 
 Meet Nick Sprayregen -- that's him over there on the right, alongside anti-Columbia propaganda. For three years, he's upheld a solemn vow to rally against the University's expected use of eminent domain by holding onto his Manhattanville storage company, Tuck-It-Away Storage. He's also the subject of an Observer profile from earlier this week (and one from the Times earlier this year), which chronicles his Sisyphean battle against Columbia.&nbsp; Specifically, Sprayregen's opposed to the University's imminent use of eminent domain, and in the past has tried to make a deal with Columbia in hopes of convincing them to drop it from their game plan. But Bollinger and his Legal All Stars wooed Harlem politicians with promises of low-income housing and an increase of jobs, so Columbia's plan was approved by the state, Manhattanville was deemed "blighted", and Sprayregen's hopes of warding off eminent domain looked bleak. But the Observer notes that he's planning on challenging the "blighted" ruling, claiming that Columbia bought Manhattanville buildings and purposely neglected them.&nbsp; Sprayregen's already spent a million dollars on legal fees and expects to spend another million to take this thing to the Supreme Court. He explains: "Obviously, we now have a real legal fight on our hands." 
 (Hi Gawker!) Little known fact: Barack Obama attended Columbia University, the very same one that you do! While he was here, he wrote a thesis entitled Soviet Nuclear Disarmament, which is not actually a "thesis" (but more on that later). Anyway, the journalists have been trying to get their hands on the Lost Thesis but haven't been able to find it, and even Barack Obama himself claims he doesn't have it.&nbsp; Now the scholarly treasure hunters have turned to Obama's old professor Michael Baron, who now lives in Florida and runs a digital media business. It was in Baron's American Foreign Policy honors seminar that Obama wrote the Lost "Thesis." According to the professor, Obama was "one of the top one or two students in class." But Baron (over on the left) doesn't have the thesis either, apparently it was lost in a move or some such thing eight years ago. What he does have is all the juicy details: “My recollection is that the paper was an analysis of the evolution of the arms reduction negotiations between the Soviet Union and the United States. At that time, a hot topic in foreign policy circles was finding a way in which each country could safely reduce the large arsenal of nuclear weapons pointed at the other For U.S. policy makers in both political parties, the aim was not disarmament, but achieving deep reductions in the Soviet nuclear arsenal and keeping a substantial and permanent American advantage. As I remember it, the paper was about those negotiations, their tactics and chances for success. Barack got an A.” Meanwhile, Columbia has simply explained that no thesis exists because undergraduates didn't write theses in 1983. 
As I was without an Internet connection for the past week, I ended up watching a lot of television news. And while hearing about Barack Obama’s every move and every analyst’s baseless prediction of the day is fun for… well, really not all that long, here are some movies about the news are much more entertaining than trying to figure who among Olbermann, O’Reilly, and Lou Dobbs needs to shut up first.&nbsp;&nbsp; Broadcast News (1987): Nominated for seven Academy Awards, Broadcast News takes a look at the evolution of television journalism and its shift of focus from quality reporting to getting ratings. The vehicle through which writer/director/producer James L. Brooks presents this shift is a love triangle between Jane Craig (Holly Hunter), a passionate producer who cares deeply about the quality of her reporting; Aaron Altman (Albert Brooks), another devoted reporter who wants to be recognized for his hard work; and Tom Grunick (William Hurt), a good-looking new guy who is able to work his way up the ladder of promotion, despite his total lack of knowledge or journalistic skill. As significant changes happen at the network, the relationships between the three reach a climax, allowing the film to shed light on the way news media has shifted today.&nbsp; All the President’s Men (1976): Based on the book of the same name, the film tells the story of Washington Post reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein’s investigation into the Watergate scandal that eventually led to the resignation of Richard Nixon. Directed in manner that makes the audience feel like a journalist too, the film is both an exciting thriller and a history lesson. Topped off with perhaps two of the greatest performances by two amazing actors, Robert Redford as Woodward and Dustin Hoffman as Bernstein, the film is a great for those who like politics, history, the days when the president actually got in trouble for committing crimes. Sweet Smell of Success (1957): Though media moguls are powerful today, they might have been even bigger in the heyday of sensational journalism… or at least that’s how it appears in Sweet Smell of Success. This film noir focuses on Sidney Falco (Tony Curtis), a poor publicist who is intent on garnering the good graces J.J. Hunsecker, an all powerful gossip columnist who can make or break anyone in a single day. As J.J.’s favors become more sinister, they lead Falco into a position to do horrible things all for the pursuit of “success.” Though the film is more a noir thriller than story about journalism, the combination of the two creates an extremely entertaining film and a careful examination of the journalistic profession. - Brandon Hammer 
 So this article has been making the rounds for about a month, but even un-breaking news is sometimes worth a read. Writing in the American Scholar, William Deresiewicz argues that this "elite" education we're getting actually kind of sucks. Roughly, he posits: the Ivies a) make it impossible for you to talk to people who aren't like you; b) give you an inflated sense of your own self-worth; and c) narrow our definition of success to "achievement" and "leadership" rather than asking the "big questions." I guess you could characterize the piece as "controversial" -- it probably served as something of a parting shot when Deresiewicz left Yale this year (although his earlier defense of professor-student erotic tension had already raised some eyebrows). But it's nothing new. The complaints that ring true -- the collapse of solitude, the tyranny of specialization -- have been hashed over before, and this time come infused with the self-righteousness of a defector condemning his former regime. Besides, at Columbia -- where hating privilege is almost the only thing we have in common -- isn't the charge of anti-intellectualism already part of the canon? So, read the piece, have your creeping disenchantment explained at length, and then watch Ivygate flip out because some washed-up academic is indirectly shitting on their existence. - LBD 
Bwog Book Club is a "club" in which readers are encouraged to read modern works of literature, and then to read what we think about them. You can say what you think with the handy "post a comment" button. This time we're reading the articles in soft-core porno mags. &nbsp;&nbsp; For the next Bwog book club, you'll have to acquire a Playboy magazine - just like the old days. (If they don't have it in your local corner store or gas station, you can pick it up at Border's). &nbsp;You may be buying it for the breasts, but for the purpose of the book club we'll be discussing the Johnson that's inserted between them - all 263 inches of it.&nbsp; That's the length of the first sec tion of Nobody Move, the new Denis Johnson novel, which will run in the July, August, September, and October issues of the magazine.&nbsp; This book club is a pretty good deal - for about $20, you get a wide array of articles as well as a full novel, and an intellectually stimulating conversation as well as some visually stimulating imagery.&nbsp; &nbsp; Here's what Playboy has to say about Nobody Move: An Exclusive Noir Novel Written in Four Parts On Deadline! Publishing History Begins Now Here's what we have to say about it: It may not be "publishing history" but this is pretty cool - an accomplished author (fresh off winning the National Book Award for Tree of Smoke) writing a book in serial form, and in a magazine that shows he's probably taking it easy. The novel is a noir, which means that it's going to be pretty accessible and entertaining, and Johnson is so talented and poignant that anything he writes is worth reading. If you need further reason to get siced, read some of his pieces from the lesser-read New Yorker magazine or a few stories from Jesus' Son ; if you don't like them, we don't want you in the club anyway. We'll discuss the first section on Thursday, and then get on to the August installment. - DHI 
 Oh you kids today, with your New Facebook and AOL Instant Messager and such. The New York Times talked to a bunch of you who prefer going online to reading books that your parents bought for you. It seems that the standardized test scores of Kids Today have declined and plateaued, causing many older people to blame the Internet. But some others are saying that the Internet has created a "new kind of reading", claiming that even reading New Facebook is better than watching TV because at least there are words involved. We hear from a bunch of online readers like anime enthusiast Nadia, who counts among her favorite literature some nonsense entitled “My absolutely, perfect normal life ... ARE YOU CRAZY? NOT!” Bwog found this thing online and we can see why all the adults are so worried. To quote from Chapter 30: "I drop my hotdog! It just flew towards the end… uwahhhh!! Damn plane! Wait… is that? MY HOTDOG!? I MUST REACH OUT TO IT!! WAIT…" Another Internet Reader is Zachary, from Connecticut. Zachary loves The Fountainhead and will naturally be attending Columbia in the fall. (There he is up above on his computer, probably reading about someone donating to charity and cursing under his breath.) Philosophizes Zachary the Objectivist: "The Web is more about a conversation. Books are more one-way." And then there's Hunter, who likes the minimalism of things like Wikipedia. In fact, when researching a school project, Hunter scanned a Wikipedia entry to find out where someone went to college by looking for the word "college", which, the Times will have you know, is not how things were done in the olden days. 
 Terrible 12s, you haven't even set foot on campus yet and already the whole Internet is abuzz with your goings-on. In fairness, this latest outburst comes not from a Terrible 12 himself, but from his embarrassing mother, who (according to Craigstlist via Gawker) is looking hire a babysitter for him, for "support" -- "support" apparently meaning picking up his dry cleaning, fetching things for his apartment (Carman double?) and scheduling his doctors appointments (walking to health services?). Our new classmate will start Columbia in the fall, lives on 84th between Park and Lexington, has five brothers and sisters, and no nanny. All the job requires is "PERFECT English" and "SOME college," meaning that you could be making 60-75k/year babysitting your own classmate. 
 Bwog informant "please remove my name" forwarded us an email from one litigious young graduate who slipped and fell in front of the library a few years ago. Naturally, she's suing Columbia and currently in the midst of trying to amass other slip victims to stregnthen her case. It is, after all, the American way. However, she's having trouble finding and getting in touch with fellow accident veterans, but she's positive they exist -- she's even witnessed someone else slip in front of Butler as she was waiting for her own ambulance. "In our discovery claim against Columbia, they claimed there have been no previous reported complaints, falls, or injuries in that area, which I find very difficult to believe." Full letter (personal information redacted) after the jump.&nbsp; Dear fellow classmates, I am a Columbia grad (class of ‘07) and in December of 2004 I slipped and fell on Columbia's brick sidewalk right outside the Butler library, breaking my knee.&nbsp; I am involved in a lawsuit with Columbia right now, but my case would be stronger if I had records or reports of other students who have experienced a fall or injury in that area.&nbsp; I know for a fact that others have fallen in that area (someone else fell while I was waiting for my ambulance), and I have heard of, but been unable to locate, others who have injured themselves in that area and have had “sealed” settlements. In our discovery claim against Columbia, they claimed there have been no previous reported complaints, falls, or injuries in that area, which I find very difficult to believe.&nbsp; If you or someone you know has previously filed a complaint about the safety of the sidewalks outside of Butler, or if you know of anyone who has been involved in a similar suit (even if their case has been sealed as a condition of settlement), it would be extremely helpful to me to have any information you can provide. I am to have a settlement offer conference soon, so this is time sensitive.&nbsp; I am not looking to press a frivolous lawsuit, I will have ongoing pain and complications related to my knee injury, and I find it infuriating that Columbia refuses to even acknowledge that there is a problem, let alone take action to prevent future classmates from being injured. If you know of anyone who may have helpful information, please contact me at . My UNI was .&nbsp; Even if you don't contact me, if you ever should fall at the campus, please take the time to file a complaint so that there is a record of the incident.&nbsp; As long as the problem goes unreported, the situation will not change. Thank you for taking the time to read this. 
 It has been a while since Bwog writers Pierce Stanley and Lucy Tang called to session a recent incarnation of the Bwog Book Club.&nbsp; For those short of memory or perhaps for whom the summer has worn on maybe a bit too long, the Bwog Book Club kicked off several weeks ago with a reading of Nathaniel Rich's debut novel The Mayor's Tongue. Bwog was fortunate enough to sit down recently with Mr. Rich for an interview to discuss the challenges of writing a debut novel.&nbsp; Lucky for Bwog, the discussion took place in the comfort of The Paris Review's famed TriBeCa offices. Bwog is grateful to Mr. Rich (and The Paris Review) for hosting us so hospitably and for dedicating time for discussion of The Mayor's Tongue.&nbsp; Bwog: We'll start the interview with the book, The Mayor's Tongue. It was a great debut. Nathaniel Rich: Thanks -- it took a long time to write, about five or six years. I worked on it in total secrecy for most of that period, and while I was working on it I always had other jobs, and was living in different places. There was never a sustained period where I sat down and wrote the whole novel. It was something like a process of accretion. That said, nothing in the book came about in a haphazard way -- for the first two years I worked on the book, much of what I was doing was writing an outline, and planning the novel's structure. At the beginning there was way too much planning -- not enough writing. I blame it on nerves. Bwog: Is that why there is a parallel structure to the work? It is sort of bizarre how the parallel stories never meet. Which came first? How did it all come about? NR: There are a couple reasons why I decided to have two storylines that paralleled each other but did not intersect directly. I'm certainly not the first person to use that device, by the way. A lot of books that I love do it. I wanted two different characters to confront a similar problem from totally different stages in their lives. I felt that the two perspectives would allow me to explore the book's central themes -- which have to do with failures of language and communication -- in a deeper, more intimate way. I decided early on that I didn't want the characters themselves to meet. The idea of Mr. Schmitz and Eugene, say, hanging out in Trieste, seemed preposterous to me, a cop-out. I worried that a contrivance like this might distract readers from thinking about why there were two narratives in the first place. My hope is that the two stories interact in a more meaningful way than simply on the level of plot. Bwog: Constance Eakins seems like a real writer.&nbsp; When you read the book you don't get the sense that he is a creation of your imagination.&nbsp; How did it seem to be writing in such a voice? NR: I wanted there to be an Oz-like character lurking in the background, someone like Kurtz in Heart of Darkness, who is at the center of the novel and influences its characters in a profound way but doesn't actually show his face until the end -- and then is only something of an afterthought. I imagined a magnetic, huge, intimidating, frightening, exciting force. A dark energy that exerts a pull on all the novel's other characters. Because of the subject of this novel, this character had to be a writer. So Eakins is a pastiche of every terrifying and great author of the 20th century. I combined all of the most horrifying and absurd attributes of people like Salinger, Pynchon, Nabokov, Hemingway, Faulkner, and Mailer, also Orson Welles and Werner Herzog. Constance Eakins is the monstrous lovechild of all these maniacs. Bwog: The Mayor's Tongue is as much about cities and the energy between really different places as much as it is about the energy between two different characters of two different stories.&nbsp; What are the challenges of comparing cities as opposed to characters? NR: It's true, a big part of the book is about the relationship between the individual and the city. The novel moves from New York City to Milan and Trieste, and finally to the mysterious mountainous region of the Carso. There is a reason for that. Growing up in New York, I've always associated the city with order and rationality. I knew that I wanted the book to move gradually away from those things. In order to do that, I needed the characters to leave the city. So they move from the real neighborhoods of Inwood, Midtown, and the Upper West Side to cities or towns of the imagination. They discover Idaville, for instance, a village ruled by a despotic and ravenously hungry Mayor. Bwog: Authors who are both your peers and much older than you are saying that your book is well beyond your years, something well beyond what they expect someone your age to produce.&nbsp; What challenges does that kind of praise for your work mean for you and for your career as a novelist? NR: I just tried to write the best, most honest book I could write.&nbsp; There may be fantastical elements along the way, but the characters' emotions and relationships seem, to me at least, extremely real. I've always been a student of first novels, especially first novels by writers I admire. There are certain conventions that you see cropping up again and again in these books. I knew what they were going into this process, and I tried hard to resist them. But I realized pretty quickly that one of the characters was going to have to be a young man living in New York. No matter how had I tried, I couldn't get rid of him. What I could do, though, was to resist convention whenever possible and focus on the larger themes and issues of the story I wanted to tell. I wanted to avoid writing a hyper-realistic, controlled, clean, respectable novel. I wanted to do something strange. I'm sure I've got a long way to go to mature as a writer and to mature as a person. But I'd much rather be over-ambitious than conventional, and that's something that I am proud of with this book.&nbsp; Maybe that's a mark of youth, but I hope not. I hope that anything I write in the future will live up to the quality of the books that mean the most to me. 
 Did you know that other people associated with Columbia besides the Terrible 12s have been doing things (exciting things, in fact) this summer? It's true! Here, we'll prove it to you: -- Columbia law professor (and subject of a 2007 Blue and White profile) Tim Wu wrote an op-ed for the New York Times about bandwidth, in which he warns of a bandwidth cartel and suggests alternate technologies with which to move information. --&nbsp; Fun fact: Terrible war criminal Radovan Karadzic (the only person to ever be indicted on genocide charges at the Hague) is a proud graduate attendee of the Columbia med school. -- Today is Sunil Gulati's 49th birthday! Bwog has now wished Gulati a happy birthday three years in a row.&nbsp; -- In other alum news, Eric Holder (currently of Obama's VP vetting committee and formerly deputy attorney general under Clinton) is also a Columbia alum. And while you can't friend him on Facebook, you can keep in touch with him via the GOP's horrible and embarrassing "Barackbook." -- Steve Cohen, executive director of the Earth Institute, wrote in the Observer about his hopes for the Hudson, namely that one day we will be able to all happily swim in it. Hat tips all around to Josh Mathew, Sara Vogel, "anonymous obviously", Kazim Panjwani. 
 Remember when famous prefrosh/Internet savant "Stephan" invited everyone in school to his Carman dorm on the first night of Orientation for a party? No? Well it turns out the party's been relocated -- to an undisclosed location! "Why go 2 a small dorm party, or a frat. party, when you can go to the biggest Party in the city?" asks our Stephan, we believe rhetorically. Nearly 1200 people (four guests are pictured above) have been invited to the fete, which takes place in "N.Y.C." -- that's "Now Your Coming." &nbsp; Anyway, we'll see you all on August 28th, at An Undisclosed Location, for the PARTY so hot it must be capitalized. We'll meet you by the alcohol-free open bar. "The city is really strict about that, but can you say Pre-Game lol." 
 Bwogger Sara Vogel points us in the direction of the Housing website, where there is a list of all summer dorm renovations. "We cannot guarantee projects or timing," it warns. Anyway, we are excited! Three lucky apartments in Woodbridge (right) are getting an environmentally-conscious makeover, complete with Energy Star appliances and lighting and Forest Stewardship Council-certified furniture and flooring.  McBain's getting a new elevator and it -- along with the existing elevator -- is going to be remodeled after the "sleek" new elevators in Hartley. Oh, and remember last summer when the north side of Ruggles was renovated? Kind of? Oh good, because the south side is currently undergoing the same renovations "to replicate the same look and feel as the rest of the building." All Schapiro lounges were renovated and decked out with new furniture, carpet, paint, appliances and flat screen TVs. And perhaps the grand prize winner of all this is Broadway, which is now 100% wireless. Plus the bedrooms in floors 10-13 were stripped of their carpeting and given handsome hardwood floors. Wien received new lighting fixtures and a pat on the back. 
 You know what we haven't thought about in awhile? Mona. The bar. It closed last year after a crackdown or some such and then everyone headed to 1020 and pretty much forgot the whole thing. Anyway, Spec reported last year that it will be replaced by Pourhouse, a downtown beer and sports bar that caters to Washington Sq.-based archenemy New York University (right).&nbsp; Real estate insider Joe Meyers has learned that it should be opening up in a matter of weeks. Reports Meyers: "14 flat screen TVs, two (really big) bars, late night food, tons of beer on tap." Rumors are also swirling of a "power hour" from 10-11 PM, during which Bud and Bud Light are $2, which is exciting! Let's all go there an enjoy it before the Terrible 12s use their Facebook Events and "Maryland IDs" to destroy it forever. Exterior shot of New Pourhouse after the jump. - Photo by Lydia DePillis 
 Breaking-ish news: One Bwog informant wandered into Kim's today and noticed a sign at the counter that announced there would be no new rentals after August 31st and no purchases after September 15th. According to said informant, the staff isn't sure why the store is closing. The staff at Kim's confirms the news. (All outstanding late fees will be charged to the credit card on the account.) No word yet on what will occupy the space or where our PrezBo will go to pick up the latest Tommy Lee Jones vehicle. 
 Add Radio Perfecto to the growing list of Morningside establishments to bite the dust. Signs (right) have been hanging outside the bar announcing the bar's "vacation" since early July. But what brought about the covert demise of Radio Perfecto? If the enraged graffiti poetry on the sign is any indication, it was a conspiracy involving President Bush and grocery stores, obviously. Our informant/photographer has dutifully transcribed this startling revelation: "You insulted / Pres Bush / Now you are bankrupt" "Oh. So _that's_ what / happened to the / rest of the country!" and "This place had an insulting caricature / of the president behind the bar for years. / What business idiots. I guess we will get / another grocery now." Except despite this conspiracy theorist's horrible poetry, which foretold of "another grocery", it looks like Radio Perfecto's old space will now be home to a Southern home cooking restaurant, a self-described "taste of home in the heart of the city." It's called Haakon's Hall and we have details (plus their advertisements) after the jump. It's eclectic (but what isn't?) and there's a communal table, for sharing. Its chef used to cook at Cafe des Artistes, and there's a pantry (with snackfood like PB&amp;J and milk and cookies) for those hoping for a Taste of Home in the Heart of the City on-the-go. Also, according to this ad, Haakon's Hall and its free wi-fi is open til 4 AM and will stay open 24 hours a day during midterms and finals. 
 Just a quick reminder that today is the last to apply for a Blue and White senior editorship.&nbsp; And both the magazine and Bwog are always looking for new contributors and friends, etc. Application after the jump. Thank you for your interest in The Blue and White! Although we will also consider your previous writing and our knowledge of your character, this application will weigh heavily in our selection process. If you have questions, please ask. Responsibilities: Senior editors are crucial to the magazine's success and health; the style, the ideas, the prose, and the layout all depend on their work. The required time commitment is an editors meeting and a general meeting per week (two hours), plus one weekend a month for layout (Friday night, Saturday during the day, and Sunday morning until we're done), as well as helping out with monthly (ish) parties and working with writers in between. The term is one year (eight issues). Senior editors are also invited (and expected) to pitch and write pieces on a regular basis. Qualifications: A good senior editor is creative and curious, able to be flexible and work well with others, take and give edits graciously. Often they have strange obsessions and obscure interests. Always, they are devoted to precise and stylish prose, as well as insightful and conscientious reporting. We will look favorably upon a history of commitment to the magazine, but it's not required. The Application Please take roughly five pages, double spaced, to answer the following questions: What pieces have you written for the magazine to date? Have you written for other on- or off-campus publications? Evaluate the magazine in a holistic sense. What are its strengths and weaknesses? Feel free to use specific pieces to support your argument. Include a list of at least five feature pitches, a few campus characters, and some arts ideas. And any other relevant thoughts you might have. Please e-mail your completed prospectus to Anna Phillips (amp2133), Katie Reedy (ker2114), Juli Weiner (jw2484), and Lydia DePillis (lbd2102) no later than Monday, August 4. &nbsp; 
Payscale.com has just released a ranking of the best Ivy League Schools in terms of post-Bachelors salaries. Let's see how Columbia stacked up. Why look, it's last, dead last. Topping the list is Dartmouth (fraternities), followed by Princeton (eating clubs) and Yale (collective ennui?).&nbsp; &nbsp; As one Bwog staffer points out: "This says a lot more about the profile of students who go to these schools than how much the schools help them. People like me who aren't going to make a lot of money are gonna drag the average down even though people from Columbia can still make that cash if they go into a profitable field." See how SEAS and Barnard stack up after the jump. In terms of engineering schools, our SEAS didn't make the list, nor did Barnard on the liberal arts bracket -- though who knows, maybe Judith Shapiro opted out of that ranking too.&nbsp; Anyway, the real winner here is payscale.com, whose wonderful website gave us the option of embedding this chart for you.&nbsp; 
 As those who watch the Olympics closely know, it abounds with the more obscure sports that only the Ivy League has enough money to field teams in. Not surprisingly, then, the Ivy League has fielded its fair share of Olympians over the years, even as other conferences have taken over the role of being the NBA and NFL's minor leagues. There are enough, in fact, that somebody out in the Internets decided they deserve their own blog. Even less surprisingly, the historical medal count indicates what many a Columbian could have already guessed: Columbia has contributed only 35 Olympians and 13 medalists, significantly below the next lowest, Brown (51 Olympians and 25 medalists).That's waking the echoes of the Hudson Valley. Still, Bwog wishes best of luck to the Columbians competing in dressage, the 400 meters, and, of course, fencing. Hopefully some of their events will actually be on in prime time. 
 Remember all that yelling last fall about changing the Major Cultures requirement? About how it was going to change into a seminar using $50 million from the endowment? Well, the requirement has changed for the class of 2012, according to a bulletin from the Core office -- but Bwog isn't actually sure how different it is from the old one. The new "Global Core" seems to involve a new list of classes that can be either focused on one culture or look comparatively at several, but the link to the list is broken, so we'll have to get back to you with more details. The blurb on the changes (misspellings and all) is pasted after the jump. &nbsp; "The Global Core requirement consists of courses that examine areas not the primary focus of Literature Humanities and Contemporary Civilization and that, like other Core courses, are broadly introductory, interdisciplinary, and temporally or spatially expansive. Courses in the Global Core are organized around a set of prinary texts or artifacts, which may range from texts of literate traditions to media (e.g. film), ritual performances or oral sources, produced in the regions of the world in question. Global Core courses fall into two categories: those that focus on a specific culture or civilization, tracicng its appearance and/or existence across a significant span of time and sometimes across more than one present-day country or region; and those that address several world settings or cultures comparatively (and may include Europe and the West), in terms of a common theme, a set of analytic questions, or interactions between different world regions." 
Since we know there's only so much Hulu you can keep watching, Bwog's enlisted comedy expert and television aficionado Rob Trump to guide us through the wonderful world of web series. First up: The Burg.&nbsp; The Burg’s most recent short, “Jump,” opens with a cheap jab: “Have you guys seen this new ‘Hipster Olympics’ video?” gushes Ryan, the preppie-out-of-water, “They make all these jokes... like hipsters wearing tight jeans.&nbsp; It’s so true!”&nbsp; Cue Xander: “I couldn’t get through that shit.”&nbsp; And uber-hip Jed: “I don’t watch things with the word ‘hipster’ in them.” Just like that, The Burg shows why it’s so much funnier and smarter than all the other milquetoast hipster-satire out there.&nbsp; The show, a sitcom centered on five hipsters (well, four hipsters and Ryan) living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, doesn’t just check off hipster stereotypes laundry-list style, it engages the truly hipper-than-thou persona of the main characters.&nbsp; There's Xander, the excitable film auteur whose dress style pushes the boundary between intentional and unintentional irony; Courtney, the morally indifferent aspiring actress; Spring, the righteously liberal activist of the group; and my favorite character, Jed, the sour know-it-all and bass player in the band Sea Monkey Do.&nbsp; They’re all hipsters-- that’s obvious enough -- but they have importantly differentiable personae and potentials for disparate storylines and conflicts, which the team behind the show exploits wonderfully. Take the pilot, “Cred,” for example, where Xander and Jed decide how to kick out their deadbeat roommate Early, who can’t pay his share of the rent despite busking with a sitar on the L-train.&nbsp; The show has a Seinfeldian desire to blow small things out of proportion into big dramatic conflicts, but in this case, it’s issues of hipness: Jed and Xander have to figure out how to get a new roommate who maximizes their cred but can still make the payments they need.&nbsp; Enter Ryan, a definite compromise towards financial stability and away from cred.&nbsp; The pilot has a handful of missteps (like a child pornography joke that is out of place and unnecessarily crude), but it’s obvious that these people are a thousand times smarter than the guys who made “Hipster Olympics.” Take the intelligence and wit in the ending scene; when Jed dislike’s Ryan’s choice of drink, Ryan responds, “Negro Modelo’s a really good beer. “&nbsp; So Xander explains, “That’s the thing.&nbsp; It’s too good.&nbsp; We drink Coors.&nbsp; It’s working class, and it tastes like water.” Another testament to the show's intelligence: watching every episode of the series will give you no clue as to what music or film the characters like. &nbsp;It's just always assumed to be hipper than what you enjoy. Almost all of the episodes are solid, well-written, and well-acted, but “Bar,” “Chemistry,” “Hood,” and “Show” probably stand out as the strongest.&nbsp; If you can make it through those without breaking out into painful laughter, the show might not be for you.&nbsp; I’m willing to bet, however, that almost nobody can.&nbsp; The Burg is the current reigning king of hipster-mocking comedy, and also possibly the best internet sitcom out there.&nbsp; They’re currently looking for a sponsor for their second season, so subscribe to their podcast and spread the word. 
 When last we left the great promises of Off Campus Flex, we were bemoaning its demise and then celebrating its resurrection.&nbsp; But now, as part of a long list Housing and Dining improvements (which include a mini-Mill Korean at Carleton Lounge in Mudd, faux-vitamin water in John Jay, a taco bar in Ferris Booth, and churros and $9.99 cases of water in JJ's), there is a new list of locations that currently and will soon accept flex.&nbsp; Nussbaum, Fairway, Westside and University Hardware and Houseware currently offer the option, while Chipotle, CampusFood, Amir's, The Heights, Samad's and Camille's will be up and running sometime this summer.&nbsp; Once school restarts, however, the original Mill Korean and Community Food and Juice will join the flex-wielding ranks.&nbsp; And if you need further excuse to discuss collegiate gourmet, Housing and Dining created a Facebook group just for you! -JJV 
 A while back we introduced readers to the next Bwog Book Club book, Denis Johnson's Nobody Move, a serial noir novel published in Playboy magazine. There's been a slight change of plans: we're reviewing the first two sections at once, starting early next week. That means you should find the nearest newsstand&nbsp;to pick up the August issue of Playboy if you want to join in. This particular series is being run by first-time book-clubbers. We're thinking up some questions, but if you have any good suggestions, e-mail bwog with your words. 
Happy Olympics, Columbia! It's that time again for (undangerous) nationalism and spectacle and sport. To help get you in the spirit, Weekend Rental correspondent Brandon Hammer has suggested three Olympics films. GO USA! Chariots of Fire (1981): Winner of four Academy Awards including Best Picture, Chariots of Fire is perhaps the epitome of the classic Olympics movie. It's based on the true story of two British runners who competed in the 1924 Paris Olympics, Harold Abrahams (Ben Cross) and Eric Liddell (Ian Charleson), both of whom attempt to use running in order for some greater purpose. On the one hand, Abrahams, the son of a Jewish immigrant, wants to do well in order to spite society's prevalent anti-Semitism. Liddell, on the other hand, as an ardent Christian and Scot, wants to compete because he feels it is necessary to fulfill God’s will. Even, according to Roger Ebert, if you don’t like running movies, it's still a very inspiring film. Cool Runnings (1993): Cool Runnings is hilarious and thoroughly enjoyable. Based again on a true story in five Jamaican men who seek respect in the face of complete resentment and disdain from the world community by forming a bobsled team. They train in order to compete at the 1988 Calgary winter games, despite the fact that there is no snow in Jamaica, in fact, the mention of winter provokes character to remark, “You mean 'winter' as in Eskimos and igloos and penguins and ice?”. Munich (2005): While this Spielberg film is not really about any Olympic competition or sporting event, it's a reminder that while the world appears to take a break from politics during the Olympics, political tensions lie just beneath the surface. Beginning with an incredibly powerful recount of how Black September, a Palestinian terrorist organization, captured and eventually murdered Israeli Olympic athletes at the 1972 Munich games, the film’s main focus is Israel’s response. The leader of Israel’s Massad response team, played by Eric Bana, is assigned to assassinate those responsible for the attacks. In hunting down different suspects, however, he begins to question the legitimacy of his actions. Though it certainly did not get enough praise when it originally came out, Munich is an essential film for the Olympics. 
 Terrible news for those partial to the business school library's wonderful study rooms: this preference is no longer an option for you, and please get out. According to a Bwog informant -- and confirmed by the man who just picked up the phone at Watson library -- the study rooms are going to be business-schooler-only come fall. Our informant (who moonlights as a library employee) says she was asked to hang signs announcing that September 1st would be the last that the study rooms would be undergrad-friendly. But she is conflicted about performing these cruel tasks: "I thought the whole point of the university system was that we have access to tons o' fun and resources, including as many business-y and economic-y books as required to fill our bellies.&nbsp; So&nbsp;are we paying for a share of the goods, or aren't we?" In any event, see you in the Lerner Piano Lounge, where the duration and volume of someone's piano playing is always proportionate to your workload.&nbsp; 
 Oh look, even more library system makeover surprises: The days of flashing an ID card to get into Butler are over -- well, sort of. Starting today, all students heading into the library will be required to swipe in. However, the system is already down and according to a Butler employee it's only "sort of working." But of course. Graduates will have to get an "Alumni Card", as their old IDs will no longer swipe in. This is nothing new, but now alums might, you know, actually have to do it. 
 Let's give a hearty welcome to Wondee Siam, the latest addition to Morningside's new roster of promising-sounding restaurants. The restaurant will be opening on Amsteram and 107th -- a bold move, as that's right across the street from Thai Market -- and will be the Wondee Siam chain's fourth location. According to Eating in Translation, the grand opening will coincide with the start of school.&nbsp; Reviews throughout the Internet are generally positive. And also, there's apparently a secret menu written only in Thai. 
After picking up on the vaguely changed Major Cultures requirement last week, we inquired with the good folks at the Committee on the Core to figure out what exactly we have to do to get this one out of the way.&nbsp; Profs. Patricia Grieve and Roosevelt Montas (the subject of an interesting profile here) had this to say: "The immediate change to the 'Major Cultures' requirement, besides the change in name, is the revised mission statement -- which reflects more accurately the educational goals of the requirement -- and the elimination of the A, B, and C course lists in favor of one single list of approved Global Core courses.&nbsp; These changes, which the Committee on Major Cultures and the Committee on the Core instituted in the spring, are preliminary steps to a more comprehensive review of the requirement.&nbsp; That review will begin this fall, and will involve extensive consultations with departments, faculty, and students.&nbsp; For the moment, however, what we have achieved is the elimination of some clumsy bureaucracy and the laying out in broad outline where we want to go with the requirement -- namely, towards a more cogent offering of seminars that parallel the depth and rigor of Literature Humanities and Contemporary Civilization.&nbsp; The existing courses in Latin American Humanities and African Civilizations provide useful models of the direction in which we want to proceed." Could that mean that no Global Core class will have prerequisites? Bwog asked for further clarification, and learned that while courses that currently have prereqs, like language courses, will continue to require them -- but that otherwise, the A, B and C list classes don't have to be taken in sequence. "The intention of the requirement is to have a mix of students of different disciplines and interests, as we have in Lit Hum and CC, and so it is my sense that we would want to include many courses that do not have prerequisites," wrote Grieve. But don't get comfortable with however things end up this fall -- everything is likely to change again as the system gets revamped. Oh, also, the broken class list link will be restored slightly before school starts. 
The Bwog Book Club invites you to join our discussion of the first segment of Denis Johnson's serial noir, Nobody Move. If you missed July's issue of Playboy, feel free to read the plot summary provided here and join us next time for a discussion of second segment published in this month's magazine.&nbsp; Here are the main events from section one: Jimmy Luntz, who starts off in a barbershop chorus, receives a ride from a man named Gambol. After they talk in the car and pull over at a rest stop, he realizes Gambol has been hired to hurt him because of a debt Luntz owes to a man named Juarez.&nbsp; Luntz shoots Gambol, calls an ambulance, and goes after Juarez.&nbsp; Meanwhile, Anita Desilvera, a woman about to divorce her husband, drinks heavily, and is good with guns, sees Luntz disposing of his weapon. Predictably, they end up sleeping together (after having sex in case you aren't familiar with that euphemism.) Meanwhile Gambol rehabilitates with an unnamed woman, and plans to come back at Luntz. 1. For starters, Nobody Move is, of course, published as a serial in a magazine.&nbsp; How much of Johnson’s writing and narrative structure do you think is determined by this? MQ: For me, Johnson’s pacing was the most overt indication of the story as a serial.&nbsp; Johnson structured Nobody Move around three story-lines, each one developed in short scenes sectioned off with asterisks like periods. These divisions helped the reader grasp the distinction between each storyline and helped him follow the passage of time and the scene’s setting, but it made the pace less fluid and more disjointed.&nbsp;&nbsp; I found that separating scenes efficiently and economically clarified the plot and development of action, but in the end it seemed like just a way to cram in a lot of action in as little space as possible.&nbsp; DI: I think the serial format made Johnson’s writing a little more hokey than he might otherwise have wanted (although my guess is that he enjoyed that aspect of it, who the hell really knows). The book gets into the action right away and also falls on a lot of traditional crime-story stereotypes, right down to the names.* I definitely agree that it came across as choppy, and I think Johnson was trying to get some action out of the way so he could get on to the development, which is sort of the reverse of the normal order. * You might recognize these names from some things that are great. Juarez shares his name with the classic crime-ridden border town across the way from El Paso; it’s where Bob Dylan gets stuck in "Just Like Tom Thumb’s Blues", and where the police catch up with Johnny Cash in "Cocaine Blues." Gambol is also the dude in The Dark Knight who loses a henchman to ocular penetration, and ends up getting a Glasgow smile from the Joker. 2. The plot and style fits a certain predictable noir prototype, but much of the story does not. How does Johnson deviate from the noir genre? What surprises you? MQ: Speaking very broadly here, Johnson’s initial depiction of Luntz perfectly matches my notion of the typical noir protag.&nbsp; His name, his catchy lingo, the situation he finds himself in the first scene all fit the mold.&nbsp; In his portrayal of Luntz, Johnson seems to not only relish the norms of noir plot and character, but also its direct, no-frills prose.&nbsp; The majority of the sentences describing Luntz are short and simple, like “He put the Caddy behind the building and wiped his face with his sleeve….” All subject, active verb, object. But Johnson takes a completely different tone with Anita.&nbsp; The disparity between the characters, however, isn’t necessarily a bad thing.&nbsp; Unlike Luntz, whom I struggle to sympathize for throughout the story, I immediately sympathize for Anita. DI: Anita is definitely the biggest deviation in terms of characters, and although I’m not sure if I sympathize with her yet I do think she’s definitely the most interesting character. Not only is she a badass lady, but she’s much different than other badass ladies with her insecurities and her marriage problem. Luntz is more boring, but I think one thing that’s surprising about Luntz is how he’s not particularly adept at anything, but ends up overcoming his enemies, at least early on, because he’s smart enough, cold enough, skilled enough. He’s not pathetic enough for it to be funny but he’s not good enough to kick ass, which isn’t that novel an idea but makes the story have potential. 3. Coming off of the previous question, how successful are these deviations? Do they add depth to the characters and add nuance to the development of the story or do they come off as plot devices? MQ: The transition to Anita breaks the consistency of Johnson’s style, but for the most part the style breaks are pretty strong.&nbsp; For me, Luntz comes alive through Anita and the way Johnson parallels the two characters.&nbsp; In Anita’s first scene, we have “She sat down leaving her coat on and bowed her head against the seat in front of her for several seconds, and then raised it up weeping.” Although Johnson adds an unprecedented level of poignancy to the story in this scene, he skillfully recalls the previous scene in the bathroom when Luntz “…put his hands on the sink and bowed his head and breathed in and out several times before raising his eyes to the mirror.” But later when Luntz watches the end of The Last Champion, as if to finish the act for Anita, the interwovenness of the two story lines wears thin. Although Johnson’s use of the movie is exciting and novel with Anita, bringing the reader back here with Luntz seems a bit forced. The last scene of the movie in which the hero rallies to miraculously beat his opponent, who Luntz notes is forty pounds beyond his weight class, comes off as a decidedly unsubtle nod to Luntz’s own scrappy triumph over Gambol.&nbsp; DI: I actually like the move of bringing Luntz into the film. What I got from that scene was that Luntz just couldn’t relate to the movie bullshit, and that his reaction to the boxer beating the guy forty pounds over his weight class was that it was a dumb dramatic convention that would never happen in real life. A boxing match is a (reasonably) fair fight where both competitors know what they’re doing, and his (temporary?) triumph over Gambol is just the opposite. 4.&nbsp; There’s a lot of plot development and little psychological detail.&nbsp; How does Johnson manage to convey what’s going on inside his characters’ heads? MQ: I don’t think Luntz is a particularly self-reflective guy, so I think that Johnson avoids delving into the psychological complexities and mental vagrancies of Luntz’s character is ok.&nbsp; In fact, I think the absence of interior mediation in and of itself informs the reader of these characters.&nbsp; These characters don’t seem to have the time, energy, or interest in contemplating the psychological connotations of their actions. DI: Word. But I do think the way the third-person narration shifts around particular characters tells you a lot about them by implication. 5. In Nobody Move, Johnson spends a lot of time building plot within short scenes and constructing catchy dialogue much like director would do with a film. How, if at all, does Nobody Move resemble a film? Do you think Johnson intended for this resemblance? MQ: Like a camera, Johnson often focuses on physical and visual details of his characters, without penetrating past their exteriors. For example, when he details Gambol’s bullet wound he does not necessarily describe how the how the pain feels, but how the pain looks.&nbsp; But Johnson’s images are so well-made that the reader gets a visceral sense of Gambol’s pain as his “purple lipless” wound “…seemed to well up and spill over, suck back, well up, spill over.” Also, Johnson often relied on physical details and personal props to lend credence to his characters. There’s Anita’s Popov flask, Gambol’s calfskin wallet, Luntz’s checkered bowtie and white t-shirt, among others.&nbsp; All of these provide the reader with quick, clear mental images almost as vividly as a film would. The descriptions while powerful are somewhat unusual in prose.&nbsp; Later Johnson gives an alarmingly expressive snap-shot of Anita’s ex-husband with “Desilvera sat in the corner looking rich.”&nbsp; I’ve never come across a description like this, but with one image he sums up Desilvera’s persona more effectively than he probably would in an entire paragraph detailing his weekly expenses.&nbsp; DI: It reminds me of No Country for Old Men in a way, but without as clean a narrative and without the haunting framing of Sheriff Bell’s narration. Then again maybe it only reminds me of that because I haven’t read enough other books. But that wasn’t McCarthy’s best book and this isn’t gonna be Johnson’s best book, even though I like them both. I can tell you right now I’m not going to like the ending as much as “and then I woke up.” But enough about that. I do think that it was a very visual novel, but that it’s not necessarily easy to capture on film. A lot of the best parts of the story so far come from the sentiments and language of the descriptions, and that would be hard to display. But in general, I agree that the power of the images do a whole lot to move the story along. Back to the No Country for Old Men comparison, although many parts of this one are cinematic, I’m not sure this would make a good movie because the power seems to be in the way the images are described rather than what they are (“sat in the corner looking rich”); obviously, No Country for Old Men did make a great movie. Feel free to respond to one, any or all of these questions.&nbsp; The book club would love your feedback! 
 Let's welcome to the Internet Career Center's new post-MonsterTRAK website. (Hopefully you remembered to remove all resumes, cover letters, etc. that you might have saved in the old system.) Features of the new website include lengthy sections about everything from interviewing for jobs ("Men: Never wear white socks") to the art of negotiation and a graph that illustrates how your skills can translate into jobs: for instance, a skilled researcher might be interested in "clinical research, market research, policy research, or magazine research."&nbsp; Plus, according to the website, "you will also be able to maintain a person calendar," which is a calendar designed specifically for people, just like you! LionSHARE will be releasing how-to tutorials in the coming weeks with information about using the new system and presumably an email annoucing its existence. 
 George Steel, the executive director of Miller Theater, is packing his bags and heading for greener pastures, namely the Dallas Opera -- the $12 million budget of which is four times that of our Miller. Ah, well. Best of luck in Texas, George Steel! 
 We’ve noted before that Georgian leader Mikheil Saakashvili, currently getting what he gave from the Russians in some place called South Ossetia, earned his letters at our very own school of law. Now City Room fleshes out the picture with some snooping around his former Morningside haunts, learning that he loved the Indian Café on 108th and Broadway, but never set foot in the Hungarian. We can’t help but wonder if Mr. Saakashvili will be make good on his offer to teach Georgian studies after scheduled elections in January – or if PrezBo would ask. I mean, he’s no Vaclav. 
Last week, Bwog's online television aficionado Rob Trump discussed The Burg. Trump returns this weekend with thoughts on Michael Cera's latest venture, Clark and Michael.&nbsp; Anyone who recently saw Pineapple Express probably caught the following trailer to Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist: If your reaction to that was, "MICHAEL CERA WHY?" then congratulations, you have a soul. Michael Cera is a talented and hilarious actor, but I'm a little nervous for him.&nbsp; It seems like he's basically taken the same role four times now, just progressively worse-written versions of it.&nbsp; (Arrested down to Superbad down to Juno down to Playlist, if you're keeping track.)&nbsp; I personally am not really tired of that awkward schtick of his yet, so it's fine by me if he doesn't start showing range now. But what he ought to do for his career is to only take the really well-written stuff of that same vein. Or, alternatively, maybe he could write his own stuff.&nbsp; And that overlong introduction brings us to this week's webseries, Clark and Michael. Clark and Michael is comprised of ten episodes, about ten minutes long each, that premiered online last summer.&nbsp; It stars Michael Cera and Clark Duke as mock versions of themselves trying to write and sell a sitcom to a network.&nbsp; If that sounds like the self-aware plotline from the fourth season of Seinfeld, well, yeah, it is.&nbsp; And in the first few episodes, there are even quite few jokes that are almost exact copies of the relevant Seinfeld jokes.&nbsp; (If you're curious as to what I'm talking about, watch the Seinfeld episode "The Pitch"/"The Ticket" and then watch Clark and Michael's fifth episode.&nbsp; Cera is Jerry; Duke is George.)&nbsp; The really unfortunate thing about this is that those first few episodes, with the largest presence of the borrowed plot, are the strongest.&nbsp; After that, the plotlines often spiral off into nowhere or dead-end and abruptly ressurect. But never mind dramatic concerns: is it funny?&nbsp; Yes. It is. If there's a real take-home from this series, it's that Clark Duke (whom you know either from his one line in Superbad or the Sex Drive trailer... or Greek?) is absolutely side-splitting and good enough to act alongside Michael Cera and hold his own.&nbsp; Cera's character is similar to the other stuff he's done, but darker in a satisfying way.&nbsp; Between the two of them and the rotating cast of A-list indie-comedy guest stars (Mitch Hurwitz, Patton Oswalt, David Cross, and Eric Wareheim, to name a few), the show is likely to get a laugh or two out of you from most episodes, if not all of them. So is the show good enough to quell my worries about Cera and convince me that he can always fall back on writing his own stuff?&nbsp; Well... no.&nbsp; But it is funny and worth watching.&nbsp; Here's my final recommendation: if you like Cera's style of comedy, watch the whole thing, just not more than one or two episodes at a time, or the lack of through-lines gets annoying.&nbsp; If you're interested in previewing it, episode 4 is probably my favorite.&nbsp; Oh, and if you make it through all ten, your reward is a reference to Columbia in the closing minutes. Feel free to use the comments to let me know what you think of Clark and Michael or to make suggestions about which web series you'd like to see discussed next week. 
 The US Men's Olympic Fencing team took home the silver medal in team saber. One member of the team was Columbia's own James Williams, CC '07, (smiling victoriously at right) who fenced in the gold medal meet. GO USA! 
 It's time for our exciting first look at NSOP 2008! Seems as if this year's festivities will not include the traditional Orientation Concert on the Steps. You'll recall that last year Clipse performed with the World Famous Vampire Weekend.&nbsp; A Columbia Concerts insider explained that it's "not entirely clear" why there's no concert, only that "we're trying to put all of our eggs into the Bacchanal Concert basket, I guess." He also promises that the Spring Concert will be huge. 
 Independent reports and Bwog tipsters have told us (xoxo) that the CW show/fashion plate "Gossip Girl" is currently filming near "Earl Hall." For those of you hoping to catch some spoilers, the popular show is apparently only filming "exterior shots," which normally do not include cast members. Still, it could include some B-roll footage of cast members and there are at least a few cast members present, so fans might have a shot at meeting them. It's unclear how much longer they'll be filming (or if this is the only time the show will be shooting here). We haven't been able to snap any photos of famous celebrities (or the crew, we guess), but if you have any, send them along to bwog@columbia.edu and we'll update the post to include them. Photos from Just Jared, and fearless photojournalist Miram Schachter's shots of the action -- plus plot details! -- after the jump. Apparently Columbia is supposed to be Yale -- sounds like senior year of high school, eh? Also, filming is going to continue at "a bar on Amsterdam" later today.&nbsp; The blog Just Jared is on the scene as well, and has about 15 photos for your stalking, including these first two. 
 The presidents of 100 universities and colleges (including Duke, Dartmouth and Syracuse) have signed a petition demanding that lawmakers consider lowering the drinking age to 18. Your PrezBo is not on this list, because he too has seen the invitation for "Stephan's Party" (right) and he is simply terrified of what would happen if that open bar really did serve alcohol.&nbsp; 
 Chief Course Directory tipster Jake Miller informs Bwog that this morning, for the very first time, students have access to a full list of this year's CC professors. For the confused Elevens, we've asked some informed upperclassmen (all of who received passing grades in CC!) with whom they recommend taking the class. Powerhouse celebrities Max Frankel and Dick Wald (both CC '52) will be co-teaching a section, though some cautious Bwoggers worry that maybe this would be too great, and we're just setting ourselves up for disappointment? Anyway, if you've ever wanted to take a class with the entire news staff of the Columbia Daily Spectator, now's your shot. Other favorites include Mark Mazower, Roosevelt Montas, Katja Vogt, Matthew Jones, and Anthony Corsentino. Feel free to leave your own suggestions in the comments, the Elevens will thank you.&nbsp; UPDATE: For you Terrible 12s out there, Lit Hum profs have been unmasked as well. Bwog recommends Denise Milstein, who won last year's graduate preceptor award and is reportedly unsafe for silent students and those who would skip class, as well as law school admissions dean Harry Kavros. &nbsp;Let the shuffling begin. 
Roy Den Hollander (he of litigious demeanor at right), a proud business school alum (’97) and self-proclaimed "antifeminist," is suing the University Trustees and the Institute for Research on Women &amp; Gender for using federal aid to promote a “religionist belief system called feminism.” Women’s Studies programs, he claims, are “spreading prejudice and fostering animosity and distrust towards men with the result of the wholesale violation of men’s rights.” And while the College Bulletin claims the major is “intended to introduce students to the long arc of feminist discourse about the cultural and historical representation of nature, power, and the social construction of difference,” the super-secret version explicitly states that the purpose is to “demonize men and exalt women in order to justify discrimination against men based on collective guilt.” Interestingly, Den Hollander has no apparent ill will towards the veritable army of misandric feminists Barnard is working hard to create, and he would be mollified if Columbia took the simple and reasoned step of creating a men’s studies curriculum. More about the case, his “trilogy of antifeminist lawsuits” (which is, regrettably, not as exciting as it sounds), and why he continues to heroically fight for the downtrodden can be found at City Room.&nbsp; -- Sara Horvath 
 After several application deadline postponements, our dead-tree friends at the Spec have finally chosen their new set of opinion columnists. Some old Bwog favorites have returned, some fresh faces have been added, and it's not known who gets the Friday death slots. Anthony Kelley, CC '09, who wrote what IvyGate called "The Batshittiest Spectator Column You Will Ever Read." Jonathan Hollander, CC '10, whose most recent Spec piece called out Kelley. Adil Ahmed, CC '09, CCSC VP for Policy and former MSA president. Andrew Lyubarsky, CC '09, one of the hunger strike negotiators, whom Bwog interviewed in Novermber. Lauren Salz, BC '11, CUGOP President Executive Director and CPU Communications Coordinator. Kate Redburn, CC '10, and Sarah Leonard, CC '10, former Dems board members writing a joint column. Marissa Mazek, BC '10, one of the organizers of "Love Your Body Week." Jonathon Grant, GS '08, actor and dancer. Catherine Madeo, GS '10, a yoga instructor (and the oldest columnist at 33). Becky Davies, CC '10, leader of the Columbia University Food Sustainability Project.&nbsp; Dan Blank, CC '09, who directed KCST's King Lear, and who hasn't written for the Spec since Saddam was executed. Alexios Shaw, CC '09, former Managing Editor of The Birch, and water-polo enthusiast.&nbsp;&nbsp; UPDATE 9:27 PM: Ask for a schedule, and ye shall receive. All mysteries will be solved after the jump. Week 1 M Becky Davies M Dan Blank T&nbsp; Sarah Leonard and Kate Redburn W Jon Hollander Th Catherine Madeo F &nbsp;Alexi Shaw Week 2 M Marissa Mazek M Adil Ahmed T Anthony Kelley W Lauren Salz Th Andrew Lyubarsky F Jon Grant
 Bwog just heard word that this July, Governor Paterson signed legislation making smoking illegal in all New York college dormitories -- this includes EC!&nbsp; A pair of RAs also noted that at least for Columbia, the mere possession of tobacco products is forbidden.&nbsp; In other crackdown news, one Bwog staffer was removed by security this morning for eating some delightful breakfast treats in a Lerner computer lounge. The no-eating policy in the computer lounges is nothing new, but now it seems it's actually being enforced, which is just awful. &nbsp; 
 Tomorrow, US News &amp; World Report will release the most important list of our time or any other: its annual ranking of the best colleges and universities. Bwog received an exciting advance press release, the only information on which was that this year Columbia, Duke, and the University of Chicago share the 8th place spot for top universities. (UChicago and Columbia were tied for the #9 spot last year, while Duke ranked 8th.) We look forward to seeing the rest of the list in all its schadenfreude-y glory tomorrow, and will update with the rest of the rankings as soon as we receive them. UPDATE 11:51 AM: Full list -- well, full list of the portion you're interested in -- after the jump. (Or check comment #1, because this comment foretold the future quite accurately.) 1. Harvard 2. Princeton 3. Yale 4. MIT 4. Stanford 6. Cal Tech 6. U. Penn 8. Columbia 8. Duke 8. U. of Chicago 11. Dartmouth 12. Northwestern 12. Wash U St. Louis 14. Cornell 15. Johns Hopkins 16. Brown 17. Rice 18. Emory 18. Notre Dame 18. Vanderbilt 21. Berkeley 22. Carnegie Mellon 23. Georgetown 23. U. of Virginia 25. UCLA
It's time to further explore the exciting world of Web Series. Your tour guide today -- as always -- is Bwog Television Critic Rob Trump. For even more of Trump's musings, direct your attention to his blog, which has been added to our blogroll for your convenience.&nbsp; If you like to keep up on your Saturday Night Live news, you’ll be happy to know that fantastic New York stand-up comedian John Mulaney has been hired as a writer (as well as UCBT vet Bobby Moynihan as an actor) for the upcoming season.&nbsp; Besides getting me really excited for this year of the show -- Mulaney is seriously hilarious, see him live if you can -- that makes now a good time to muse on the subsequent careers of SNL non-cast writers, a legacy far less-examined than that of the performers.&nbsp; Because while a handful of them have gone on to more visible careers , they’re much more likely to end up writing for a sitcom or late night show and remain as invisible to you as they've always been. Well then, thank God for the web, because otherwise we might never have seen performances from former SNL scribe Liz Cackowski. She takes the titular role in The Jeannie Tate Show, a mock talk show hosted by soccer mom Jeannie Tate.&nbsp; Over the course of each episode, Jeannie, busy woman that she is, manages to ferry around her children while conducting a talk show from her minivan with guests such as Bill Hader, Rashida Jones, Lonny Ross, and Rob Riggle.&nbsp; If it sounds like a bit of a one-joke pony based on that description: don’t worry, it isn’t -- quite.&nbsp; Or rather: even if the characters of Jeannie (a mugging, cheesy one-liner-ing oblivious factory of smiles) and her daughter Tina (a rebellious teenager, played by that one girl on 30 Rock that always shows up as a page and never has any lines) are the only real jokes on the show, they’re certainly enough to sustain laughter through pretty much the entirety of each five-minute installment.&nbsp; The celebrity guests are mostly foils annoyed by Jeannie, but all you have to do is watch the first episode to find out that it’s a hell of a lot of fun to see someone who can go as broad as Bill Hader can be the convincingly uncomfortable straight man. All 7 episodes are about as good, and short enough that you can continually convince yourself that you will watch just one more.&nbsp; The most recent one was put up in June after a five-month lull, so here’s hoping more are forthcoming! (Oh, and if you recognize Cackowski, it’s because she apparently enjoyed acting in her show enough to take a supporting role in Forgetting Sarah Marshall.&nbsp; And: to the dude that wanted Jake and Amir, I’m totally down and they’re way funny, but damn, they have a lot of videos!&nbsp; I feel like I must watch them all before I can accurately report!&nbsp; Next time!) 
 While the first 2012ers are off hiking, biking, or rafting somewhere north of New York, and three days before the rest of their classmates arrive, NSOP has released its 2008 schedule to the public. Mind-numbingly boring rituals like Convocation, Under1Roof, and the academic assemblies are of course part of the schedule. For the more "fun" events, NSOP 2008 seems to be sticking to Manhattan. The highlights: Tuesday: "After Hours At The Met," a private party and viewing of three galleries - Egyptian Art, Roman and Greek Art, and Art of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas. Budding activists looking to get a head start will no doubt protest the lack of Asian Art. Wednesday: "CU: Remix," this year's incarnation of the BlaZe. At this time, it is unknown what, if anything, NSOP will be remixing. Thursday: "Victorian Gardens." Instead of Coney Island or Ellis Island, NSOP has gone with Victorian Gardens for the Thursday night out. Thursday night is now packed with dueling options, then, as freshmen can choose between two parties sans alcohol (NSOP and Jose "Stephan" Perez's Hottest Party of the Year) or stay on campus and watch Barack Obama accept the Democratic nomination. Bwog eagerly awaits this epic battle of historic speechifying vs. fruit juice and Coke. 
 The College Democrats have announced the location of this year's Campaign Fun Trip, and it is to Virginia! Northern Virginia, specifically. They'll be campaigning for Obama, Senate hopeful Mark Warner, and Judy Feder, who is running for Congress.&nbsp; 
 Bwog spies report that the first batch of West Coast Terrible 12s have arrived on campus, with the others following in the next day or so. Because we were all once first-years -- and the 12s need all the help they can get -- we've put together a list of Surprisingly Useful Last-Minute things to pick up on the way to school. Use the comment section to suggest your own (or argue with ours). The 12s will reward you lavishly with praise and appreciation.&nbsp; Stationery, even if it's just a set of Post-It notes, you will make surprisingly good use of it A pair of scissors Stamps and envelopes A Sharpie, or perhaps a set of several For girls: A box -- an old shoebox is fine -- for all your jewelery. It will get dusty in desk/bureau drawers Towels, bring more towels than you think you'll need Duct tape Scotch tape Gummy stuff for your walls Stapler Paper clips Anything for attaching things to other things, actually A big colorful cloth to use as a curtain, emergency sarong, hammock, or wall hanging A heightened tolerance for group activities Bottle opener Check book (wallet insurance) Ruler (to jam your window open) Milk crate (for floppy magazines) Phone charger x2 (unless you know how to work a Rolm) Phone battery x2 (especially if you like to sleep out) Tacks, not tape or blue tack (easier on moving day) Backup hard drive (or else: "I can't hang out, my computer broke.") Book stops (for shelf over bed safety, a Hartley problem) Ear plugs Long johns (when pants won't suffice) Eighties clothes (for temporary hipster approximation) Real condoms (you'll understand someday) Galoshes (to protect your feet) Picnic&nbsp;cloth (for splitting the spoils of cafeteria raids) Gimmick (you are a unique, shining jewel) Ethernet cable (make sure it is of suitable length, around 10 feet usually works) A cable cable, if you want to watch TV Exacto knife or sharp scissors, possible small hole puncher- for John Jay and Furnald people (keys) 
 This morning, the rest of 2012 has arrived on campus to be greeted by happy NSOP leaders and their first Columbia challenge: move-in lines. Reports from campus indicate that the lines are manageable, though. Free food mavens, be aware: the family lunch is starting right about now, allowing you to test the efficacy of NSOP security (we'd love to hear your test results). Finally, with the first day of Orientation also comes our first "Overheard" of the year, courtesy of a B&amp;W staffer: At the elevator, with a bin of stuff, a male Orientation Leader is seen talking to a first year's proud mother while the student is off picking up her keys and NSOP paraphernalia. Mother: So what are you studying? OL: I'm in the Engineering School, but I haven't picked a major yet. Probably Computer Science. What does your daughter want to study? Mother: I don't know. She was chosen as a John Jay Scholar. She's good at almost everything. More exciting Action Shots after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -- Photos by Sara Vogel 
 Welcome to the Columbia Olympics. Through this series, Bwog hopes to prepare you for at least some of the events that you will participate in at Columbia. Unlike the real Olympics, no one's too young, too old, too juiced, or too angry to participate. Since everything must be judged, though, we have included gold medal outcomes at the end of each post. Thanks to the constantly long lines on move-in day, and the rather packed schedule at the start of Orientation Week, many first-years (Columbia-speak for freshmen) no doubt are still contemplating just how to make that special 110 ft. single or half of the 215 sq ft. double their own. How does one turn that whitewashed cell into a new home? Use the comments to add your own advice. Decide immediately whether you want to loft your bed or put it on risers. Even if you don't want the extra space (or can't leap in and out of a lofted bed), you don't want to have to rearrange everything later. Use every corner and every tabletop of space for bins, refrigerators, etc. Know how to loft a bed - nobody wants to start their college experience with their father in the hospital with a gash from a falling bed frame. If you didn't loot your local Virgin megastore for cool posters (or are ambivalent about defining your identity so early in the year), a New York subway map looks good on any prison wall (and is actually pretty useful when first adjusting to the city). Make sure you really like any posters you do put up - you'll be staring at the same cast for months at a time. If you're in the habit of collecting cards (restaurant, contacts, etc.), pin those up into a useful collage (better than finding a decaying stack in your drawer at the end of the year and thinking, man, I should have gotten off campus more). When putting up stuff, instead of wall putty or double sided tape that will just fall down, use a staple gun. It keeps things attached to the wall and the holes are so small you won't get charged for it. None of these steps will matter if you don't have a lamp to make up for the terrible ceiling lights. Gold Medal Outcome: Incorporate a dance routine. 
 It's Convocation time, and to celebrate, Columbia began by playing some warm-up music, including "525,600 Minutes," which is a song from the tragedy RENT and is also what we predicted to be the amount of time this thing would start late. Fortunately, we were mistaken, and at 2:35 PM, the OLs marched in with colorful flags from many countries to the tune of many majestic horns -- it was just like the Olympics, except no sports or competition. (We apologize for our thumb blocking your view of the top left corner of the photograph. There's nothing behind it except more of Lerner and the tops of some flags.) Interim Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger welcomed the class of 2012 and congratulated them for being a part of our "family." He talked a bit about alumni and how important they are (and then the 12s, and how diverse they are) before telling the the new students to stop by and have a cup of coffee with their adviser, all the time, just to chat. He then introduced Belinda Archibong, CC '10, who is the coordinator of NSOP. Archibong's speech was quite poetic: there was a metaphor with an airplane and being nervous about new challenges, which was lovely. And then a second metaphor about riding the subway and feeling overwhelmed and then arriving at your destination, and that too was great. Her sign-off was a crowd pleaser, "I am a student of Columbia University, and so are you." The 12s, wild with apparent epiphany, clapped enthusiastically. Chester Lee, a SEAS/Business school double alum ('70 and '74, respectively) described the campus as a "peaceful urban oasis." He then mentioned his "Columbia connections", which meant networking. He told the 12s not to end up as "run-of-the-mill investment bankers, doctors, lawyers, engineers"; the parents in the room looked nervous. CC Dean Austin Quigley told the 12s that their places at Columbia were "some of the most sought after in the land." He made a topical joke about Obama (who went here) and McCain (whose daughter did). Then he mentioned the 12s sleeping in a strange bed tonight, surrounded by hundreds of strangers. Again, the parents looked nervous. Next up was SEAS Interim Dean Gerald Navratil, who assured the parents in the tents that his daughters went to Columbia too (one to CC, one to SEAS) and he knew what they were going through and said nothing about strange beds surrounded by strangers. He also discussed a new and exciting minor, entrepreneurship, and mentioned a number of famous SEAS entrepreneurs, a list that included a guy who designed the iPhone screen. The next and final speaker was Nicholas Dirks, who was the only one to mention PrezBo's conspicuous absence. The titillatingly vague explanation? He was "unable to be here today." A few OLs and RAs closed the ceremony by singing the fight song -- it's a little ditty called "Roar Lion Roar!" and it's quite lovely. 
 Our second series during Orientation is called "Bi-Partisan Dorm Reviews."&nbsp; The series seeks to show both the pros and cons of living in whatever residence hall that you (hopefully) chose. For non-freshman housing, we did reviews of many upperclassmen buildings during the Housing Lottery, which you can see here. First up is John Jay. As always, feel free to add your own pros and cons in the comments. John Jay is one of the two all-freshmen dorms, with just over 400 rooms. 90% of those are single rooms (of 110-120 sq. ft.), a stat that stands in stark contrast to freshman housing at most other schools. It's this heavily-single setup that determines most of both the upsides and downsides of life in John Jay. PROS: The single gives you privacy that few other college freshmen have. You'll come to appreciate that privacy. No need to ask your (randomly assigned) roomate to let you study. The presence of the main dining hall and JJ's within the building lets you walk to breakfast, lunch, dinner, and late night meals in flip flops. Even in January. The prevalence of singles facilitates hall interaction, which many John Jay residents maintain makes floor friendships easier. The proximity to Hamilton (where almost all the Core classes are) allows quick trips to class. Bwog's done it in three minutes. The roof of John Jay gives a fantastic view, though it has no railing whatsoever. You might get a floor lounge with a relatively new TV and a foosball table. The security desk has a very high wall, making it easy to bring anything in. The John Jay lounge is a great quiet place to study (and gets wifi). CONS It's tough to cram a big party into a 110 square ft. single. If you can do it, you've probably broken something valuable. If your room faces 114th, staring at the dorms across the street quickly becomes nothing but awkward. Unless you have much bigger problems. Unlike some other dorms, there's not an assumption that Thursday - Saturday nights will be loud. Some actually think they can study, and nobody likes that "please keep it down" interruption. The ease in traveling to the dining hall and JJ's makes the "freshmen 15" easier. Chicken fingers every night for 8 months does not keep waist size down. You might also get a lounge with a 13" TV sitting on the floor and one chair.&nbsp; Access to that roof often means crawling out through a window, and hoping you don't slip. Vertigo isn't fun.&nbsp; The trash chute does not sit inside a closet, and can quickly smell like a turd covered in burnt hair. 
 Bwog's received a copy of the list of courses that will count toward the Global Core requirement. The class list still isn't on the Core website, but thanks to one anxious senior/Bwog staffer, we're able to reproduce it after the jump for you. Remember: the 12s must complete two courses from this list, while for everyone else, you have the option of taking two courses from this list or fulfilling the Major Cultures requirement like such: Students must begin the Major Cultures requirement with a course chosen from List A in one of the major non-western civilizations on this list. The second course, which completes the requirement, may be chosen from List A again or from Lists B or C. If the second course is from List A, it may be drawn from any of the civilizations. If the second course is from Lists B or C, it must be drawn from the same civilization as the List A course. &nbsp; GLOBAL CORE 2008-2009 PRELIMINARY APPROVED COURSE LIST Fall 2008 8/25/08 The Global Core requirement consists of courses which are broadly introductory, interdisciplinary, and temporally or spatially expansive.&nbsp; Like other Core courses, Global Core courses are organized around a set of primary texts, new media (film, ritual performance, etc) or oral sources produced in the regions of the world in question.&nbsp; Global Core courses fall into two categories: those which focus on a specific culture or civilization, tracing its appearance and existence across a significant span of time and sometimes across more than one present-day country or region; and those which address several world settings or cultures comparatively (and may include Europe and the West), through a common theme, set of analytic questions, or through interactions among different world regions. Students must complete two courses from this list for a letter grade. An updated list of approved courses will be available prior to spring registration. Anthropology : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V1008&nbsp;&nbsp;The rise of civilization &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2010&nbsp;&nbsp;Major debates in the study of Africa &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2100&nbsp;&nbsp;Muslim societies &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V3027&nbsp;&nbsp;Archaeology and Africa: changing perceptions of the African past &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V3300&nbsp;&nbsp;Pre-Columbian histories of Native America &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W4001&nbsp;&nbsp;The ancient empires African Civilizations : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;C1020&nbsp;&nbsp;African civilization Art History and Archaeology : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V3201&nbsp;&nbsp;The arts of China &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V3203&nbsp;&nbsp;The arts of Japan &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3208&nbsp;&nbsp;Arts of Africa AHUM V3340&nbsp;Art in China, Japan, and Korea AHUM V3342&nbsp;Masterpieces of Indian art and architecture AHUM V3343&nbsp;Masterpieces of Islamic art and architecture &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;G4073&nbsp;&nbsp;African art, architecture, and ideas &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;G4085&nbsp;&nbsp;Andean art and architecture Colloquia and Interdepartmental Seminars : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3920&nbsp;&nbsp;Nobility and civility Comparative Ethnic Studies : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W1010&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to comparative ethnic studies Comparative Literature and Society : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3620&nbsp;&nbsp;Islam and Europe East Asian Languages and Cultures : ASCE&nbsp;V2002&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to major topics in Asian civilizations: East Asia ASCE&nbsp;V2359&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to East Asian civilizations: China ASCE&nbsp;V2361&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to East Asian civilizations: Japan ASCE&nbsp;V2363&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to East Asian civilizations: Korea ASCE&nbsp;V2365&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to East Asian civilizations: Tibet &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3338&nbsp;&nbsp;Cultural history of Japanese monsters AHUM V3400&nbsp;Colloquium on major texts: East Asia AHUM V3830&nbsp;Colloquium on modern East Asian texts HSEA W3898&nbsp;&nbsp;The Mongols in history AHUM W4027&nbsp;Colloquium on major works of Chinese philosophy, religion, and literature, I AHUM W4028&nbsp;Colloquium on major works of Chinese philosophy, religion, and literature, II AHUM W4029&nbsp;Colloquium on major works of Japanese philosophy, religion, and literature, I AHUM W4030&nbsp;Colloquium on major works of Japanese philosophy, religion, and literature, II HSEA W4881&nbsp;&nbsp;Gods, ghosts, and ancestors: social history of Chinese religion History : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3618&nbsp;&nbsp;The Caribbean in the 19th and 20th centuries &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3660&nbsp;&nbsp;History of Latin American civilization I, pre-Columbian to 1810 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3665&nbsp;&nbsp;Economic history of Latin America &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3711&nbsp;&nbsp;Islamo-Christian civlization &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3719&nbsp;&nbsp;History of the modern Middle East &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3760&nbsp;&nbsp;Main currents in African history HSEA W3898&nbsp;&nbsp;The Mongols in history &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W4404&nbsp;&nbsp;Native American history HSEA W4881&nbsp;&nbsp;Gods, ghosts, and ancestors: social history of Chinese religion Middle East and Asian Languages and Cultures : ASCM V2001&nbsp;Introduction to major topics in Asian civilizations: the Middle East and India ASCM V2003&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to Islamic civilization ASCM V2008&nbsp;&nbsp;Contemporary Islamic civilization CLME W3000&nbsp;&nbsp;Theories of culture: Middle East and South Asia &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3004&nbsp;&nbsp;Islam in South Asia AHUM V3399&nbsp;Colloquium on major texts: Middle East and Asia CLME W4031&nbsp;&nbsp;Cinema and society in Asia and Africa SPME W4200&nbsp;&nbsp;Andalusian symbiosis: Arabs and the West &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W4251&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to political thought in the modern Middle East Music : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2020&nbsp;&nbsp;Salsa, soca, and reggae: popular musics of the Caribbean AHMM V3320&nbsp;Introduction to the musics of East Asia and Southeast Asia AHMM V3321&nbsp;Introduction to the musics of India and West Asia Political Science : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W4445&nbsp;&nbsp;Politics of the Middle East and North Africa &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;G4461&nbsp;&nbsp;Latin American politics Religion : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2005&nbsp;&nbsp;Buddhism: Indo-Tibetan &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2008&nbsp;&nbsp;Buddhism: East Asian &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2205&nbsp;&nbsp;Hinduism &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2305&nbsp;&nbsp;Islam &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;V2802&nbsp;&nbsp;Introduction to Asian religions Spanish and Portuguese : &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3265&nbsp;&nbsp;Latin American literature in translation &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3349&nbsp;&nbsp;Hispanic culture: Islamic Spain through the colonial period &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3350&nbsp;&nbsp;Hispanic culture: Enlightenment to the present &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3490&nbsp;&nbsp;Latin American humanities, I (in English) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;W3491&nbsp;&nbsp;Latin American humanities, II (in English) SPME W4200&nbsp;&nbsp;Andalusian symbiosis: Arabs and the West 
Embracing all things collegiate, Bwog joined the class of 2012 last night in Roone Arledge Auditorium for Class Act: Advance Screening. Day One of NSOP challenged the wily troop of 12s with long lines, dorm room design, and familial farewells followed by awkward introductions and icebreakers.&nbsp; But no odyssey draws to a close without its due reward. To initiate the 12s into dear alma mater, NSOP offered up an Class Act, an evening of campus tips and trivia and brazen leonine spirit. As is tradition with all Columbia events, Class Act began a full half hour late. OLs and their charges kept busy with the multiple-choice quizlets projected on a screen at the front of the auditorium. Although this competitive and cognitive exercise quickly won the crowd’s attention, the first skit, featuring a cell phone toting personification of the Alma Mater statue, dragged on with repetitive, but well-received, nods to the new class. Following that, Belinda Archibong, NSOP coordinator and Convocation's breakout star, introduced a short film featuring OLs’ favorite places around town.&nbsp; The OLs responses ranged from local (Dodge gym and John Jay cafeteria) to somewhat more adventurous (B.B. King Blues Club and Grill and Steps Dance Studio.)&nbsp; Although the gym and JJ enthusiasts received the most laughs -- obviously their intention -- the homebody OLs came off as more sincere in their responses than their ostensibly more savvy counterparts. &nbsp; But without a doubt, Class Act favored kitschy cheer over savvy insight.&nbsp; To further rally CU pride, the newbies were subject to a harrowing pep talk given by Women’s Volleyball coach, Jon Wilson, accompanied by the Columbia marching band, complete with Roar-ee in his signature light blue jersey and three spandex-clad and sparkly members of the dance team. The speech ended with a solicitation for frosh volleyball fans, promises of free t-shirts and an obligatory “Roar, Lions, Roar.” And while it was a lot of fun to see a tuba and blue and white pom-poms, the Varsity Show performance was the highlight of the night, in which stars from last spring’s show sang and danced a medley of V Show classics with older cast members -- though the performance lacked some of the V Show’s wittier numbers. The lyrics riffed on the familiar Columbia content: hating on NYU, the swim test, Ivy League in-jokes, Facebook and the like. Class Act ended as Jessica Marinaccio, the peppy and platinum blonde Dean of Undergraduate Admissions, and rather blithe Kevin Shollenberger, Interim Dean of Student Affairs, shared the podium and led the crowd in the final rendition of “Roar, Lion, Roar", as is the NSOP way. -- Mariela Quintana 
 Our second series during Orientation is called "Bi-Partisan Dorm Reviews." The series seeks to show both the pros and cons of living in whatever residence hall that you (hopefully) chose. For non-freshman housing, we did reviews of many upperclassmen buildings during the Housing Lottery, which you can see here. Second up is Carman. As always, feel free to add your own pros and cons in the comments.&nbsp; Carman is the imposing hunk of concrete that sticks out of 114th and Broadway. Made up of suite-style two-room doubles, the dorm serves as a perfect factory of freshman for frat row. Every tour guide will tell you that "Carman is the social dorm!" which really just means residents don't mind falling asleep to the smell of weed. Read on for more evidence of the double-edged sword that is Carman. PROS: The cleanliness and solitude of your personal bathroom. Hallway toilets will never compare. Four-person suites make for instant, sometimes mandatory friendships. Dorm parties every weekend (another floormate arranged a personal beer-pong table with nothing but his wits and an old slab of cardboard). Sexiling opportunities are boundless Couch wars!: Raiding other floors and stealing furniture as revenge for getting your remote stolen has become a yearly tradition. Cool security guard Mike who enlightens freshies on self-promotion while selling you his jazz CD if he thinks he can trust you. A minute's distance from the subway as well as the behemoth of social encounters and frozen yogurt that is Lerner. Seemingly cooler RAs than usual (ours used condoms and lube for our icebreaker… though he did later call campus security for one of our parties and was hence considered an asshole). CONS: One measly kitchen for the whole dorm, relegated to the bottom floor and completely impractical for any cooking purposes unless you have a personal cart. Two elevators for about 600 residents means unusually long waiting time to get to your floor and an even more uncomfortable standing situation. Move-in/out is particular hell. Waking up to the sound of construction workers and garbage men at 6am. Coming back from class to the familiar smell of weed in the hallway. Getting sexiled. Prison-like walls that do little to combat seasonal depression. Frat debauchery is your view from the window, with accompanying late night noises to boot (particular favorites are the "WOOOS!!" of random drunk girls at four in the morning). Making the most of those gazillion John Jay meals in the dead of winter is impossible Weekly disasters in the elevator after a raucous weekend (read: every weekend). The concoction usually includes an unorthodox mix of vomit, pee, and/or spilled beer. - YS 
 Welcome to the Columbia Olympics. Through this series, Bwog hopes to prepare you for at least some of the events that you will participate in at Columbia. Unlike the real Olympics, no one's too young, too old, too juiced, or too angry to participate. Since everything must be judged, though, we have included gold medal outcomes at the end of each post. Protesters. While college students worldwide in general have long been associated with protesting, no school is more famous for its protesters than Columbia. Throughout the last century, many of the biggest stories have centered around protests, or at least the controversies being protested. Many of you have probably dealt with relatives or neighbors who only know Columbia as "that crazy school with all those building takeovers," and then you have to explain to them over Thanksgiving dinner that you really like the school, and then they say that they wouldn't go there, and the whole conversation that was going so well gets all awkward. Not that that happened to us... Anyways, Bwog wants to help by explaining some basic facts about protesting and dealing with protesters. Use the comments to add your own advice. Protesters: Don't be discouraged by cynics. Even protests that look like they're going nowhere can quickly receive large concessions. Going to school in New York helps greatly in getting media attention for your protest. Somebody will be interested. Remember when waving signs or soliciting signatures that you're also hassling those who agree with you. They just have class right now. Getting attention means being clever, not over-the-top. Students ignore tables and provocations in equal amounts. The following are not valid gauges of public opinion: Facebook groups, protest sizes, resumes of protest speakers, and Bwog comments. Free food is always a good bribe. Non-protesters: Don't try to argue. Seriously, you're not going to make a group move, and you'll just be creating a shouting match. Channel the energy into organizing your own counter-protest if you feel strongly enough -- it makes great theater. The "don't argue" advice goes double for anything related to Israel or Palestine. The following are not valid gauges of public opinion: Facebook groups, protest sizes, resumes of protest speakers, and Bwog comments. If you didn't want people from off-campus joining student protests (or coming to campus with their own outside protests), you should've attended school in a city nobody wants to spend their free time in. The best way to avoid being approached is to keep your head down and your iPod on. Take the free food.&nbsp; Gold Medal Outcome (accidentally absent the first time we posted): For protesters, getting in a gallery (see image #7). For non-protesters, winning your floor's game of "protest lingo bingo." All Bwog needed last game was "No Justice, No Peace." 
 Bwog followed the Class of 2012 to one of NSOP’s headline events, After Hours at the Met. From the overly large museum, freshman correspondent Will Leonard reports. Before they could arrive at the hallowed destination, 2012ers had to deal with the double danger of novice New Yorkers: Metrocard machines, and getting across Manhattan on the subway. With only a few casualties, mobs of 2012ers made their way down to 5th Avenue for the second major event of NSOP 2008: an evening cocktail party and gallery showing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Most of the students from the four schools made it out, accompanied by their oddly sleepy RAs and overly perky Orientation leaders. 2012ers were welcomed into the Grand Hall of the Met by stern security guards and even sterner catering staff, who distributed meager amounts of gummy bears and M&amp;Ms to the mingling freshmen. As they sipped their so-called mocktails, 2012ers engaged in small talk at their cocktail tables. Topics of discussion included upcoming parties on Carman’s 11th floor and the long lines for food in the now “trayless” John Jay Dining Hall. “An environmentally friendly dining hall for freshmen? That’s just AWESOME,” one freshman declared. While at the Met, the 2012ers were given just 90 minutes to visit the Greek and Roman, Egyptian, and African art galleries. While standing at the famous Egyptian temple, one young freshman enthusiastically proclaimed, “Wow! After visiting the Met tonight, I know that I’m ready to take Art Hum!” Another 12 shouted, “Whoa, dude. Dude! Look how many girls are in here! They’re all over the place, from Barnard and Columbia!” However, at 8:30 p.m., Met security guards were finally able to do what they had wanted to do all night: push and shove the cattleherds of 2012ers out the door. The promptness of the dismissal gave everyone just enough time to make the subway ride back to Morningside to prepare for the parties in Carman.&nbsp; 
 Young Will Leonard's report on the 12s' Met excursion contained a Shocking Revelation, namely that John Jay Dining Hall would no longer be using trays. We called Dining just a few minutes ago, and the helpful woman on the phone confirmed that yes, there are no more trays. Apparently, this is because of "environmental concerns" -- not having trays means you don't have to wash any trays, she pointed out -- and noted that many other universities were following suit. 
Bwog enlisted freshman correspondent Peter Thompson to report back with all the exciting details of the semester's first Lit Hum class. Notebooks and laptops in hand, the thousand or so 2012s filed in to Roone Arledge Auditorium this afternoon for their very first Columbia class. Professor Gareth Williams, chair of Lit Hum, started speaking at 12:35 PM, but it took almost a full minute for the 12s to quiet down. Williams began by talking about how wonderful the Core, and specifically Lit Hum, is. Then he spent several eloquent minutes waxing poetic about the marvels of the Iliad, calling it a "human document" and saying it exists in a "timeless vacuum." He also declared it a "miracle of advanced technology." Just like an iPod. The highlight of his lecture came when he asked the members of the audience whether they were on Agamemnon's or Achilles' side. The first girl who ventured to the mike was wearing a pink bandana, and at first had trouble getting the mike to work, but she told everyone not to worry, she could project. She then said that she was on "neither side" because both Agamemnon and Achilles "treat women like meat." This wasn't exactly a response Professor Williams had in mind. He said he would "take that point" but that it was a "whole other issue." But he added that Pink Bandana Girl's comment illustrated the whole point of Lit Hum, which is that we "talk with each other." A more helpful comment came later, when Williams asked whether Achilles was a monster or a hero. One freshman said that "one of the great things about literature is you do not need to take a particular side… a human being." Williams really loved that comment, which somehow led him to the epiphany that Achilles is a "rainbow." Williams' lecture was concentrated and efficient, keeping a restless crowd mostly under in control. He ended at 1:25, fifty minutes after he began and a full thirty-five minutes before he was supposed to end. 
Bwog correspondent Jon Hill reports some awful Koronet-related news: prices have increased 25 cents, up from the $3/slice price, which lasted about a year. Hill researched some old data and used Microsoft Excel in order to illustrate for you, the concerned citizenry, the historical precedent for this price increase. &nbsp; 
 You'll recall Bwog reporting last week that Business School Alum and self-proclaimed "anti-feminist" Roy Hollander was suing Columbia for offering women's studies courses. Apparently, these courses are discriminatory against men. Now, according to Bwog tipster Stephanie Quan, some Columbia women are interested in hearing his views. More specifically, the group Women in Science at Columbia have invited him to speak at the school, where he will "give a short talk briefing us on the case against Columbia and then answer any questions from the audience." The talk is scheduled for tomorrow, August 28th, from 1-2 PM, and the room is TBA Havemeyer 209. Whether it includes free food is unknown at this time. 
 Bwog enlisted yet another freshman corresponder, Aseel Najib, to summarize this year's incarnation of the NSOP-sponsored scavenger hunt, CU: Remix.&nbsp; Before the Remix could start, Columbia continued its schedule of live PSAs.&nbsp; Entitled "Community Forum", this one aimed at bringing together students of various ethnicities, religions and sexual orientations, and highlighted the importance of social activism and diversity on campus. Skepticism ran high as incredulous students shuffled out of the auditorium, raising their eyebrows and plugging in their iPods. Unlike previous versions that stayed on campus, CU: Remix's scavenger hunt took place all over Morningside Heights. At the start, freshmen reluctantly crowded Low Steps and College Walk, searching for their teammates, as orientation leaders took to yelling out the names of their groups in Bazaar-like fashion. Eventually, team members were located, groups were formed, and t-shirts distributed. Some freshmen, already too cool for group t-shirts, called it a night and headed back to their dorms, disposing of the shirts along the way. More spirited student tied their t-shirts around their heads and excitedly drew up game plans. Most, however, simply fell into the ambivalent majority, shrugging their shoulders with calculated reserve and dejectedly drawing the shirts over their heads. With the blow of a whistle, the games began, and soon, frantic freshmen were seen climbing the Alma Mater, skipping down the Low Steps and accosting oblivious upperclassmen for clues. Shouts of "I got it!" rang throughout campus. Off-campus, they were spotted racing up and down Amsterdam, crowding into neighborhood restaurants and overwhelming storeowners. Meanwhile, other freshmen participated in NSOP-directed games and contests. Some played baseball, others participated in clothing-related relay races, and a few even painted themselves white and blue to demonstrate their extraordinary team spirit. By the time the event ended, discordant singing of the Backstreet Boys "I Want it That Way" filled the air. Freshmen trudged back to the Low Steps bruised, battered and barefoot.&nbsp; While most would probably acknowledge that they had lost at the scavenger hunt, they would be horrified to realize that they had also lost their calculated reserve and practiced cynicism. And yes, even a few shoes. 
 Most of the NSOP schedule leaves freshmen with two choices: go to the "required" event, or skip it. Tonight, though, newly-convocated Columbians have at least five choices for their entertainment.&nbsp; &nbsp;NSOP is asking you to join them at Victorian Gardens to "meet your class for a tantalizing night under the stars. Who knows who you might meet?" Bwog's just guessing at the answer here, but you'll probably meet your class.&nbsp; Doors opened at 7:30. One 2012er has taken the night into his own hands by throwing his own party. Yes, it's Jose "Stephan" "Pregame Lol" Perez's "Sexxx in the City" party. Doors to the bar (thoroughly stocked with fruit juice and Coke!) open at 10. Those who want to stay closer to campus might be considering the various party options around as upperclassmen arrive. Doors open whenever their stuff gets unpacked. Sleep. Doors stay closed. For those seeking more of a national profile, Barack Obama is accepting the Democratic nomination later tonight at Invesco Field in Denver. Those of you of the Democratic persuasion can join the Columbia Democrats in the Tasti Lounge Hartley 3B starting about 8:30. Bwog's Political Weekly will be liveblogging the speech right here as well. 
 Bwog's Political Columnist Jim Downie returns to live-blog some random speech. No doubt 2012 is wondering why Bwog is employing a political columnist, and why he's live-blogging alongside almost every other political website in the country. I can't answer the first question, but, since I'm here, I might as well live-blog the first presidential nominee with a Columbia undergraduate degree. 9:18: Dems have trotted out 25 retired generals onto the stage. Subtle. 9:25: At the bottom of its graphics, CNN has a Nantucket Nectars-inspired "Facts" box. It's wonderfully distracting. 9:30: Joe Biden introduces a parade of random people to attest to Obama. So far, we have a union man from Michigan and a teacher from Ohio. Again, subtle. 9:33: These are some of the most animated speeches we've seen, actually. Though, in fairness, following Al Gore would make anyone look animated.&nbsp; 9:35: A woman with a graduate degree is shouting "¡Buenas noches!" Lou Dobbs's head just exploded.&nbsp; 9:37: While the "average Americans" ramp up the Denver crowd, CNN is talking about John Lewis, MSNBC is trying to shout over its background audience, and FOX is on commercial. Only PBS and C-SPAN are actually showing the speeches. 9:41: MSNBC has been feeding Rachel Maddow lots of questions in advance of her own show. No problems with that here - she's the rare pundit that gets away with rambling. 9:45: The stadium is packed, and so is Times Square.&nbsp; 9:50: For those of you who don't know who John Lewis is, he is the only speaker from the 1963 "March on Washington" still alive (which finished with Martin Luther King, Jr.'s "I Have A Dream" speech 45 years ago today). The New York Times wrote about him today. 9:51: Fox News claims McCain has made his VP pick, but it won't leak tonight. Why they would want it to leak is unclear. 9:52: The cable networks have no idea what to do with themselves right now. It's the same questions they asked each other an hour ago. 9:55: According to Fox, the people who set up this stage say it was much harder to do than the one they did for Britney Spears. Now they're talking about Oprah's feelings on this night. 9:57: Speaking of Fox, I've seen Brit Hume in person, and I can confirm he looks just as grumpy without the TV makeup. 9:59: Dick Durbin, senior senator from Illinois, steps up to the podium. T minus 15 minutes or so. Also, the wind is moving his hair quite dramatically. 10:04: Obama intro video plays. Normally, you'd only see these on C-SPAN, because the networks see these videos as free advertising (and, more importantly, very boring). But he is the nominee. 10:06: Michelle and Barack are talking about the courtship. Apparently Barack's the oratorical equivalent of Hitch. 10:08: Now we see the smiling family. Nobody saw that coming... 10:10: Nice choice of David Strathairn as the narrator. After all, he was Edward R. Murrow. 10:12: As usual, he enters to U2. WBAR and WKCR were clearly not consulted. 10:14: It's a 16-thank you level of applause! 10:16: Takes care of the Clinton tribute right away. Shockingly, John Edwards goes uncongratulated. 10:17: Sitting behind the Obamas are an African-American, a Hispanic, and an Asian-American. Totally by accident, of course. (UPDATE: Apparently, I offended some commenters by leaving out the fact that they were actually members of his family, and that the description of his half-sister as Hispanic was incorrect. I apologize for that - it was a poorly-executed attempt to describe what most Americans would think when seeing the people sitting around Michelle Obama. I knew it was his family, since that's where they would sit, but I failed to add the context in the rapid pace of live-blogging). 10:20: "America, we are better than these last eight years." The message has been economic-heavy so far. 10:22: Now pivoting to attack the Republicans. It's got to be the first time that the VP has been mentioned as a boogeyman eight years later. Heck of a job, Cheney. 10:26: Clearly the plan for this section is to bring back all the slip-ups McCain's made over the summer ("nation of whiners" etc.). A lot of viewers are hearing these for the first time. 10:28: It appears the "Debbie Downer" part of the speech is wrapping up.&nbsp; 10:30: We know that 80,000 are in the stadium, but the sound setup doesn't make it sound much louder than the 19,000 who saw him win in Minnesota. Also, the sheer size of the stadium prevents the standard cheering in unison. 10:34: He's just launched into the "I Promise" part. Still heavy on the economy. 10:37: To quote Marc Ambinder of The Atlantic, it's "a stump speech, but a good stump speech." It's about specifics right now. 10:39: "Now is the time" has to be an intentional echo.&nbsp; 10:41: "While Senator McCain was turning his eyes to Iraq after 9/11..." Obama rakes McCain over the coals of Baghdad. 10:46: The foreign policy section is either considerably more vague or soaring, depending on whom you support. 10:48: The "Uniter" section begins - the make or break section. 10:52: Ramping up to the big, parallelism-filled finale...Sounds like he's "seen" a lot. 10:55: "Our universities and culture are the envy of the world." Woohoo!&nbsp; 10:56: And now the specific mention of King to close it out. It's a powerful parallel, and he's incorporating it perfectly. Hard to be cynical at the end. 10:59: And that's it. The country tune "Only in America" plays in the background, as he's joined by his family and Biden and fireworks explode in the air. 11:00: So one party has an official nominee. Tomorrow, the spotlight moves to John McCain as he announces his VP, but, for tonight, Barack Obama made a strong case to the viewers at home. The need for specifics, particularly on the economy, prevented it from being the oratory from 2004 or even this past January, but it ended on a strong note. 
Yet another New York dead-tree outlet has decided to consider Columbia University's fitness for protesting 40 years after 1968. First, we had New York and the Times. Now, am New York decides to ask: "Is Social Activism Dead on College Campuses?" The answer, according to the piece, is yes. "Many historians, students, and activists from then and now suggest it comes down to one word: money."&nbsp; Apparently, we're all too busy grubbing for jobs to get up and convince stodgy, conservative professors like Todd Gitlin that the Iraq War was wrong. Those interviewed include activists Samantha Stanton and David Judd, and Gitlin himself. Discuss!
&nbsp;It's time again to learn about another exciting Web Series with Internet television aficionado Rob Trump. This week, a multimedia presentation of why you should be watching Jake and Amir. Relationship problems stemming from insignificant reasons.&nbsp; One person acting like a chump and another person being annoyed by it.&nbsp; Dudes getting nailed in the nuts.&nbsp; Will any of these things ever stop being funny?&nbsp; Let me throw my hat in the “probably not” category.&nbsp; With that short introduction, allow me to introduce Jake and Amir, a couple CollegeHumor writers with an eponymous webseries that fits squarely in the “rube and foil” category.&nbsp; And yep, they do it right, and yep, it’s great. Before watching the entirety of Jake and Amir -- for which I deserve some award hopefully called “going to somewhere other than Minnesota for the next nine months” -- I mostly knew Amir Blumenfeld from the CollegeHumor series “Prank War”, which, while not really a web series, is still highly recommended if you’re a fan of good pranks.&nbsp; (Watch it chronologically.&nbsp; It will make you laugh, then want to be in a prank war, then realize you really don’t want to be in a prank war.)&nbsp; Anyway, Amir in that came off as a really, really likable guy who could probably sometimes be a little annoying and needy.&nbsp; So, I’m guessing that Amir’s character in Jake and Amir -- the idiot/loser to Jake’s straight man -- is an exaggeration of how the other people in the CollegeHumor offices see him.&nbsp; And it’s a really funny character. Let’s start chronologically, since I did watch all of these (seriously, over 120 videos).&nbsp; Jake and Amir is less of an episodic webseries than any of the ones I’ve reviewed so far; until recently, there were rarely plotlines or multi-installment arcs.&nbsp; In general, it’s closer to a sketch show with the same characters every time.&nbsp; The first few episodes comparatively pretty weak, and a lot of them drag on a little too long without much comedic development on the central joke.&nbsp; But there are also very solid early episodes that show the show at its conceptual best, where Amir does something stupid, then continues to dig his own hole deeper and deeper to absurd levels: Proverbs from Jake Hurwitz on Vimeo. The dynamic got better as the characters’ relationship came into full view: Amir mostly wants approval from Jake, in a very Michael Scott-Jim Halpert (or David Brent-Tim Canterbury) way.&nbsp; Amir isn’t Jake’s boss, however, so that means Jake can take advantage of Amir, a concept introduced slowly in episodes like this quality one: iPhone from Jake Hurwitz on Vimeo. As the show went on, the creative minds behind it (I assume, but don’t know, that it’s mostly Jake and Amir themselves) started exaggerating the characters a little more, making Amir even dumber and Jake more of a jerk to him.&nbsp; Amir (the character) also became more infatuated with Jake as Amir (the actor) became a better actor, eventually turning in really wonderfully pathetic performances.&nbsp; Jake (the actor) was and still is a little stiff, but he doesn’t need to do as much, so it’s not all bad.&nbsp; Anyway, with these tweaks, the show for the first time started turning out really hilarious episodes regularly, for example: See more funny videos and funny pictures at CollegeHumor. Over the last six months or so of the show, which as a whole keeps getting better and better, there were so many running jokes added (Amir’s diet of exclusively Chicken McNuggets, his obsession with mediocre comedy, his frequent idle utterance of, “Jake”), that perhaps the next video isn’t as funny without all the background.&nbsp; If you have the background, though, it might be their best.&nbsp; Watch it now, or I’m going to spoil it by discussing it afterward: Script Notes from Amir on Vimeo. That last line, “Is ‘butthole’ with two ‘b’s?” is a pretty great testament to how good the writing for this show has gotten.&nbsp; Someone lazier might have been happy with Amir asking, “Is ‘butthole’ with two ‘t’s?” but Amir’s stupidity is such that it’s just as plausible, just as concise, and way funnier for him to say what he does. On the negative end, other than the lack of originality (which doesn’t bug me much when your execution is this good), my major gripe with the show that the production is sometimes really lazy, with a lot of the early videos shot without noise cancellation and having pretty bad sound problems.&nbsp; Also, whenever the jokes are too reliant on the production, like ones involving dream sequences or fast-motion, the effect isn’t quite professional enough for me to get lost in it and completely buy the joke.&nbsp; It’s low budget comedy, and it works best on a low budget.&nbsp; Oh, another criticism: most of the other CollegeHumor guys and girls, when they show up, make Jake look like DeNiro. In sum, if you laughed at any of the above videos, well, the characters get funnier the more time you spend with them.&nbsp; You’d do well to go to the start (kind of hard to find, it’s here at the bottom of the page) and watch them all in order, only a few every few days or they can be a real time-waster.&nbsp; (Yes, your mother is writing this.)&nbsp; If you didn’t laugh, then consider yourself lucky, because you will get a better grade on your first midterm than the people who are watching all of these. 
Our second series during Orientation is called "Bi-Partisan Dorm Reviews." The series seeks to show both the pros and cons of living in whatever residence hall that you (hopefully) chose. For non-freshman housing, we did reviews of many upperclassmen buildings during the Housing Lottery, which you can see here. Third up is the Barnard Quad. As always, feel free to add your own pros and cons in the comments. The strong, beautiful first-years of Barnard live on a bucolic quad on 116th and Broadway. A sorting hat determines which of three halls students will occupy: Sulzberger, Reid, and Brooks. There's also some nebulous half-hall called Sulz/Reid. All rooms are doubles or triples. PROS: Brooks has fancy, non-working fireplaces and "walk-through doubles," the latter of which optimize privacy and the illusion of having a single. Quick elevator ride to most Barnard gym classes and the Hewitt cafeteria, which is generally acknowledged to be superior to John Jay. Half a block to the 116th subway, and even less than that when the gate at 116th street is actually left open. Proximity to all the cupcake-based frivolity that's the basis of most of Barnard's spring celebrations. Tunnel access through the dorms and to most of Barnard's academic buildings means never having to see the light of day The bathrooms are usually cleaner than Columbia's first-year counterparts No boys CONS: One of the two Sulzberger elevators is "reserved" for senior floors (everything higher than 9), so expect frustrated sighs from seniors if you're taking it to a lower floor The size of the rooms and the omnipresence of the RAs make parties, smoking (anything), and loud music impossible. The 116th street entrance to the Quad is sometimes randomly locked, for seemingly no reason. Frequent construction projects are loud, early and send dust and rubble through open windows. Embarrassingly themed, over-advertised group craft projects will probably earn you ridicule from your SEAS and College friends. No boys 
That celebrity magician guy David Blaine is outside Lerner right now, performing card tricks for adoring masses of 12s (see Blaine -- he's the one directly under the boom -- and said adoring masses, below.) If he makes himself levitate or makes the 12s disappear, Bwog will probably go back and snap another picture. &nbsp; 
 Freshmen are probably noticing that NSOP slows down the pace of events quite a bit as it moves into the weekend. Bwog thought it would slow things down as well and bring you a round-up of Columbians in the&nbsp;news. We know it's not all&nbsp;national or internation news, but not all of us can be presidential candidates. President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia remains closely allied to the United States despite continual pressure from Russia. Tim Horrigan CC '69 is running for New Hampshire State representative. For more background on him, check out his Netscap-era website. The Buffalo News profiles Dan Foote CC '85, who is currently on diplomatic mission to Iraq. Future alum/current 2010er Raphael Graybill was in Denver this past week as the youngest member of Montana's delegation. 
 Welcome to the Columbia Olympics. Through this series, Bwog hopes to prepare you for at least some of the events that you will participate in at Columbia. Unlike the real Olympics, no one's too young, too old, too juiced, or too angry to participate. Since everything must be judged, though, we have included gold medal outcomes at the end of each post. Bwog believes in timely advice. For Sunday mornings, timely advice means tips on how to lessen a hangover. Hangovers (aka "nature's&nbsp; way of telling you you possibly did something dumb last night") are annoying regardless, but the length and strength of the hangover can make a big difference in how productive and enjoyable your day will be. Here's some ideas from the Bwog and Blue &amp; White staff. Use the comments to add your own advice. Also, as a magazine and blog of mostly humanities majors, Bwog takes no responsibility for the scientific veracity of these "cures." Winning the hangover battle is all about preemption. The night before, eat a heavy meal if you're planning on drinking a lot. It will slow withdrawal, settle your stomach, and leave you fed. Even a snack afterwards can help if you drink more than you thought. Drink lots of water, both the night before and in the morning.&nbsp; You might end up having to get up to pee in the middle of the night a lot, but you will be very glad when the sun rises. You're going to want caffeine, but stay away from coffee unless you have to. Take Excedrin instead, it's easier on the stomach. Gatorade and other sports drinks can also work in lieu of water. Be careful with pain relievers like Tylenol - there's a reason these drugs carry warning labels against consuming with alcohol. Get some fresh air or exercise. Read this New Yorker article and act accordingly. (Yes, we know it labels several of these tips as placebos. What's your point?) Gold medal outcome: Waking up without a hangover. 
 2012ers are probably aware of tonight's event, but upperclassmen on campus might not know that Lerner has been taken over by NSOP. It appears that they're going for a Boardwalk-like theme, as the entertainment includes "free popcorn and photo booths," as well as caricature portraits! Roller coaster tickets not included, but free popcorn does mean free food! Tomorrow NSOP wraps up with a "performance showcase" in Lerner from 2:00 - 5:30, and then "JJ's Freedom Festival" at JJ's that night. 
The Schapiro fire alarm has been christened. &nbsp; Let the year begin! 
 Tomorrow is the first day of the semester, and as is our tradition, Bwog will be posting all your professors' opening remarks. Email all the inspiring/hilarious/insane things your professors say to open the class to bwgossip@columbia.edu so that everyone will be as excited and terrified as you are. Here are the things that were said to open and close last semester's classes, and here is a whole batch just from Richard Bulliet. 
 While basically just waiting for classes to begin, we found ourselves looking over The Heyman Center's new fall schedule. As usual, it's mostly academic events with a few more timely topics mixed in. Some highlights: "What Was Democracy" (Sept. 22nd): Joyce Appleby of UCLA discusses early American democracy with Columbia's own Eric Foner.&nbsp; "Lionel Trilling and His Legacy" (Oct. 3rd): the influence of the famous literary critic/author/Columbia professor is the subject of a day-long conference, including the New Yorker's Louis Menand. Free copy of Partisan Review not included. "An Election Post-Mortem" (Nov 5th): Katha Pollitt of The Nation and Bwog favorite Hendrik Hertzberg of the New Yorker review the election the day after. "%@#?!: From a Ten-Cent Plague to a Ninth Art in 90 Minutes" (Dec. 1st): Journalism professor David Hadju is joined by artist Art Spiegelmann, best known for his Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novel Maus. 
 Columbia administration looks a bit spartan to start off the year. Fully stocked fridge?&nbsp; Enjoy cooking with Spec. Use your KimMoney while you still have the chance. Been away recently?&nbsp; Rent control, it's still a problem. Turn and face the changes. &nbsp; 
 Today is not only the first day of school, it's also the day when Controversial Storage Company Collegeboxes (the very same one banned from Barnard) makes its glorious return to campus, maybe with some of your stuff in tow! Bwog spoke with one girl waiting in front of Lerner to retrieve her packages. She warned us that if we were waiting for boxes, better to call ahead for your pick-up time, as she mistakenly believed her belongings would arrive by 11 AM, and but in reality, they would not arrive until noon. It's a harrowing tale, but it's one we can all learn from. 
 For those of you with your heads buried in move-in, this weekend was also a time of meeting and greeting for the Twelves, as student groups began the race to lure fresh blood with a number of mini-club fairs in preparation for the big one on the plaza this Friday. Student Councils and governing boards had a session on Sunday, and guess who didn't show up? According to a source present at the event, the CCSC table was empty -- 11:30 am on a Sunday might have been a bit much to ask. 
 As per custom, Bwog unveils its list of the most outrageous and laughable comments made by professors at their first class meetings of the year.&nbsp; Be sure to email us with all of the inspiring, hilarious, and insane things your professors say today to bwgossip@columbia.edu to keep our tradition alive, and please check back as we continuously update the list. Christina Hunter, Art Hum "This is a very easy class to fall asleep in, especially if you're an athlete and have already ran 5000 laps. I suggest you sit in the uncomfortable chair in the front to stay awake." Self-described "quirky" Political Science Professor Mona El-Ghobashy, in Intro to Comparative Politics (Explaining her thoughts on cell phones): "I'm probably one of five people in New York who doesn't own a cell phone. I'm a cell phone hater, not a congratulator." (Answering why none of her works are on the syllabus): "You can look me up on Google!" A number of gems courtesy of Professor Brendan O'Flaherty's Principles of Economics class "If you can make me cry, you get an A." "In 1790, Ozge (Akinci, a TA) could go into any pub in London and kick butt." "I will not teach you how to chirp and lay eggs." "Prerequisites: Breathing. If you are a corpse, you will not be admitted to this class."&nbsp; "One of the best places you can get shot is Newark; there's only a 10% chance that you'll die." "If you think that you will be raped, you don't go rape them first!" "I never teach class with a gun." "Anyone who shoots me gets a bad grade." Professor Dick Bulliet's History of Iran class "There's nothing that you won't find in Williamsburg that you can't also find in Tehran." Professor Rosalind Rosenberg, Barnard History Department "John W. Burgess, the founder of Columbia's history department, once said, 'women will teach in the Columbia history department - over my dead body.' Well, he's dead." Andrew Sarris's The Works of Howard Hawks Class (The TA never showed up with the movie until the projectionist ran over to get it from Butler). Sarris said, "I never wanted to teach this course. If I went to the New York Times to take over A.O. Scott's column for a week they'd toss me out the window. And that building has a lot of floors. It's very high up. " 
 Jezebel has breathlessly recounted an argument that occurred between Columbia's own James, a self-described anti-feminist with a private Facebook page, and an unnamed Barnard student who slapped him for saying that he hadn't met an "intellectual feminist" in his life. Naturally, this all happened this weekend at a party East Campus because of course. James' mysterious and covert Facebook also features a theoried-out anti-feminist rant. It's cryptic and long and its coherence is tenuous, but you can read the whole thing on Jezebel (if you're so inclined). Oh okay fine, here's the thesis: "The ethos of the feminist movement and gender relations today in America the homosexualization and corruption of women into earthly creatures moved only by sex and material power, incapable of affirming a natural and sacred feminine identity in favor of an unnatural masculine one." 
 With a mere 63 days left until the Presidential election, the blogosphere has lit up with speculation about the personal life of Republican Vice Presidential candidate Sarah Palin.&nbsp; While the daughter of Alaska's favorite hockey mom may be five months pregnant and questions abound about her readiness to lead the nation should she find herself a 72-year old heartbeat away from the Presidency come November, rumors about Columbia's favorite son have come up as of late courtesy of the New York Sun.&nbsp; See what our downtown colleagues have to say about Obama's days at old alma and perhaps why none of his personal information from his days here have been leaked.&nbsp; While previous presidential candidates have unabashedly released personal records from their university days, Obama's have been tightly sealed.&nbsp; Does good old Bams have something to hide about his "monkish" days buckling down in Butler? In other political news, IvyGate spoke today with Lauren Salz BC '11 about life as Executive Director of the College Republicans.&nbsp; While Salz may take issue with the current state of political life on campus, Bwog can just sense the ghost of Chris Kulawik bursting through the seams of this piece. 
 Do you increase Columbia's net worth?&nbsp; Or should the admissions officer have accepted Joe State in your place? Capitalism: keeping America on top!&nbsp; What's that you say China?&nbsp; You are going to launch the Bird Nest into space? Money: keeping the J-School on top!&nbsp; But are there going to be any newspapers left? Manhattanville's consumer confidence decreases: losing property and can't afford public transit.&nbsp; But worry not, fair reader, Prezbo did a little work while chilling in Vermont. 
 It's time to get the story straight.&nbsp;Our Hero Hawkmadinejad, christened and courted with gads of sightings over the course of last school year, proved pervasive and rather uncanny. Commenters squinted at his tail feathers as they seemed to shift from brown to red and then to brown again - rather strange for a red-tailed hawk that only molts&nbsp;in its red retrices once.&nbsp;Something was up with&nbsp;our fair feathered friend. So here we have it: the truth.&nbsp;From birder and blogger Bruce Yolton, "I would say Columbia has a juvenile hawk and two adults right now, plus the two fledglings which will begin exploring the campus later this summer." I know, I know, it's shocking to think that Our Hero is, well, rather of the poly-faceted sort, but there you have it. We've got a juvi that will probably molt to his/her red tail feathers this coming spring. Then there&nbsp;are a couple of hawks that have shacked up at St. John the Divine and made two beautiful eyases. We've been sighting the former three hawks and calling them one. But there is hope. The juvi, still unnamed, has been called "Hawkmadinejad" by a few bird bloggers in the neighbirdhood - it could become that bird's official name, or at least the alter ego of "Norman". And the spirit of the thing remains: our juvi Hero will be arriving down from upstate, where he probably summered, and begin tearing squirrels to shreds around midterm time. The Divine pair are still over at the church, pooping all over the gargoyles and saints - albino peacocks beware! And we'll be watching it all, camera phones in hand. Send sightings of and writings on&nbsp;Hawkmadinejad to hawkmadinejad@gmail.com 
 Our series on professors' opening remarks continues, because Monday-Wednesday classes have auspicious beginnings too! Send your overheards our way at bwgossip@columbia.edu. Stats professor Chun Yip wrote the following definition of "independence" (as in variables) on the board: "Independence: The relatively frequency of one variable are the same when condition on every categories of the 2nd variable" This is not a bad transcription of a statement.&nbsp; He wrote this on the board. Professor Carl Hart, Drugs and Behavior class: "This is not a class to discuss your drug experiences. Don't say things like 'my FRIEND did this drug once and...'" Michael Shaevitz, Intro to Physics: "I don't CARE about significant figures" -- HUGE APPLAUSE from the 300 person lecture -- "forget about what the book says about significant figures. I know it's all the rage in high school." Major Debates in African Civ., Professor Mahmoud Mamdani As the projector doesn't work, the mike sucks and CUIT is nowhere to be found, Mahmoud Mamdani exclaims, "We are the lowest priority on the totem pole at Columbia. Welcome the African perspective." Professor Jill Shapiro, "The Human Species: Its Place In Nature" "I should probably tell you that I make a lot of bad jokes.&nbsp; They are not for your amusement, they're for mine." (General laughter.) "Even if you don't laugh, it won't stop me." (Silence.) Professor Alfred Mac Adam, in a class called Mad Love "The son kills the father and lops off his penis. Then it falls in the ocean, which foams up......like Alka-Seltzer." "If we had time to read Wuthering Heights, we would see that Cathy &amp; Heathcliff don't even enjoy the physical act of sex. They only share a dark passion. Granted, they are English." "Humans, on the other hand, get pleasure from sexual intercourse. Or so I'm told." "And since our first reading is Plato, let me leave you with a few very Platonic thoughts, from that most distinguished insurance executive, from that Athens of America, Hartford, Connecticut. Yes, I'm talking about Wallace Stevens." Mahmood Mamdani, Debates in the Study of Africa: "In some former Major Cultures, you have been celebrating this culture and this culture. We will not be celebrating in this class." Student whispering to neighbor: "Shoot me." Michael Stanislawski, Rise and Fall of the Soviet Union: “There’s nothing that stirs my heart more than a good Red Army chorus” 
This first issue of The Blue and White was made with Columbia's newest inhabitants in mind. Dearest overachievers: perhaps the humanities is not the way to go for that A+... If you came to Columbia in search of fat cats, look no further. They are at the top of student government and the campus music scene.&nbsp; Take heed future presidents and rock stars. For the strong and beautiful neighbors across Broadway, a conversation with your new president, maverick economist and baby expert. Beware of documents named output.xls. And finally, this is the very best of your prefrosh Facebook encounters. 
 Our friends at Gawker have taken a liking to one special Barnard gal, and her name is Lizzy Fraser. You might have seen her in your 20th century art class, or, failing that, probably at St. A's.&nbsp; According to the gossip site, she's one of the "Upper Class of 2008," specifically in the "New Edies" phylum.&nbsp; Says Gawker: "The ghost of Edie Sedgwick reincarnate: model, Columbia undergrad, Warholophile and photographer favoring self-portraits of herself surrounded by a minimum of four mirrors in varying sizes and shapes. See lizfraseronline.com." 
From the Orientation Issue of The Blue and White, we bring you Rob Trump's detailed account of the beginning of PrezBo's summer sabbatical in Vermont. 8:00 AM: Here we are. Sunny Vermont. Sunny, sunny Vermont. Let the sabbatical commence. 8:21 AM: ... 8:25 AM: Jesus, this is boring. 8:26 AM: What the hell am I supposed to do on a sabbatical, anyway? Jean? Jean, could you come over here? 8:33 AM: Jean, would you look up "sabbatical" in the OED for me? 8:34 AM: Under "S." "S" for "sabbatical." 8:35 AM: One "b." No, I'm not sure! Do I look sure? Two "b"s. Three "b"s! Is it really that hard to find when you've got "s-a-b" to start? 8:40 AM: "A period of leave from work"? Aw, no, really? Just a... just a period of leave? So I have to go back? 8:41 AM: Which is the one where... which is the one where you don't have to go back to work anymore? Retirement? Retirement! That's the one I wanted! That's the good one! 8:44 AM: Well, I guess that means at least Quigley and Colombo are coming back from their "sabbaticals" too, huh? 8:45 AM: Oh, you've got to be kidding me. 8:46 AM: So I'm all alone on this one, huh, Jean? Well, that's shitty. At least Judy Shapiro is gonna... 8:47 AM: Oh hell naw. 9:04 AM: That crafty tart. 9:30 AM: So I'm all alone to deal with that expansion, huh, Jean? What a mess. 9:31 AM: "Gentrification blah blah blah eminent domain blah blah blah." 9:32 AM: Hey guess what, kids? If you don't like this school gettin' bigger and better how about you protest by NOT GIVING ME ALL OF YOUR MONEY SO I CAN DO IT. 9:33 AM: Don't do that, though, I like your money. 9:34 AM: I'm just talking to myself, Jean. 9:35 AM: No, I'm perfectly fine. This is just what a sabbatical is for. 9:36 AM: Yes, it's for talking to yourself! And yes, I'm aware that there was nothing in the dictionary about talking to yourself! It's for that now because I'm deciding it is! I can do that! I'm still the President! 9:42 AM: Aw, quit it, Jean, or I'm going to take a sabbatical from you. 9:43 AM: Yes, I'm aware that means I'd have to come back to you, thank you. And no, that's not my solution to all my problems. 9:46 AM: Well, what about the time I said I was taking a sabbatical from weddings, then? No, it was not so that I could avoid giving another speech. 9:47 AM: Yes, I absolutely would've enjoyed giving a speech at my own son's wedding! I couldn't go because I was taking a sabbatical from weddings, that's all! 9:48 AM: I know I'll only get the chance to see my son get married once! So will you, Jean! 9:49 AM: Oh, that's why you went, huh? Oh, I see. Well, I was taking a sabbatical from weddings. Now let me read my Carl Hiaasen novel in peace, thank you. 10:24 AM: Jean, where'd you go? 10:25 AM: Jean, I have yet to move from this chair during my sabbatical, and I'm not about to start now. 10:56 AM: Oh, there you are, Jean, finally! I—I'm not at a good stopping point now, though. I was earlier! Chaz is in all sorts of trouble now, let me tell you. 10:57 AM: Okay, okay, I'll put it down. Thanks for shopping, by the way, yes, Jean. 10:58 AM: Oh, you've bought the ingredients for lime rickeys? Well, why didn't you say so? 10:59 AM: Like hell I'll ever take a sabbatical from drinking. 11:00 AM: Now, who was it that's taking over for Judy? 11:01 AM: Debora Spar? The hell kind of name is that? 11:02 AM: No, I'm just jealous because it's awesome. I wish my name sounded like an imperative to fight. 11:03 AM: Lee Attack! Lee Jab! Lee Smash! 11:04 AM: Lee Pace? That some kind of trick to get me out of this chair, Jean? 'Cause I'm not falling for it. 11:05 AM: And don't you think for a second you're getting me to change out of my boxer shorts and my NYCLU shirt. This here's a man's uniform. 11:06 AM: Oh yeah? You think I should? Well, I might just take this to the NYCLU then. Whaddaya think about that? 11:07 AM: Thought so. 11:10 AM: Some raspberry syrup. Raspberry syrup in the lime rickey. I'm going to take a sabbatical from this lime rickey until you put in more raspberry syrup. 11:11 AM: Ooh yeah. 11:15 AM: Haha, look at me, Jean! I'm on hunger strike, but look what I can still drink! 11:16 AM: It's funny because it looks like Gatorade. 11:17 AM: I don't know what kind of Gatorade it looks like, Jean. It's a lime rickey with raspberry syrup. It looks like a combination of the lemon-lime and the fruit punch flavors. 11:18 AM: No, the hunger strikers did not drink a mix of lemon-lime and fruit punch Gatorade! That is not the point! Stop ruining my jokes, Jean. I'm going to— 11:19 AM: No, I was not about to say that I was going to take a sabbatical from you, Jean. I was going to say that I'm going to write a book. I'm going to write a book while I'm on sabbatical. Yes, that is absolutely what I was about to say. You can quote that to the papers. 11:21 AM: It's going to be about the usual things, Jean! The usual things books are about! 11:22 AM: You know, like The Odyssey! Or City of God! Or Skinny Dip! A book like those! 11:23 AM: Jean, you don't have to point out to me that those are not about the same thing. I know that. 11:28 AM: Which one of those will it be most like? It will be most like Skinny Dip, Jean, because Skinny Dip is a fine novel. A fine, fine novel that I might finish one of these days if I just had a minute to myself. 11:34 AM: It might actually have a little more about First Amendment history than Skinny Dip does, to be honest. 11:42 AM: Oh, I'm starting work on my book soon, thank you for reminding me, Jean. 11:54 AM: This sabbatical stinks, Jean. I'm going to take a sabbatical from this sabbatical. — Rob Trump &nbsp; 
 In case you haven't been to Ferris yet -- maybe you're holding off on that particular pleasantry until later in the semester -- we'd like to call your attention the new burrito/taco station (right), which sits where the stir-fry paraphernalia once was.&nbsp; Initial reactions to the tacos and burritos are guardedly optimistic and dissatisfied, respectively. Apparently, there's been some trouble tortilla-wise, as one customer recalls a chef explaining that employees aren't yet comfortable enough with the tortillas for you to expect the burritos not to fall apart. With the tightness of the tortilla just a dream down the road, the burrito is "like a soggy dosa," the student said. Still, she said, the tacos are "okay."&nbsp; 
 Holy shit. Spec is reporting that the candidates will speak on behalf of ServiceNation, an organization that aims to increase public service participation. We're trying to figure out whether the event is open to students, and will be updating as we do. According to the NonProfit Times, 500 seats have already been filled: "500 supporters are expected at the event in New York City. On September 12, leaders representing many sectors of American life will convene to ratify a Declaration of Service and to draw national attention to the platform of ServiceNation." Roone's seating capacity is 1,500. UPDATE 8:17 PM: Infuriatingly vague news about ticketing in PrezBo's mass email: "Given our limited space, we will ensure that all seating available goes to students in our University community. Students will receive a follow-up email tomorrow with details regarding how to register for the ticket lottery." (full e-mail after the jump). UPDATE 9:45 PM: The major political campus groups seem to have been completely blindsided by the announcement as well--the College Democrats were just beginning their freshman open house when they got the news, and the packed Broadway room gasped in unison when President Chris Daniels dropped the bomb at the end of his speech. The Dems may ask for a Jumbotron screen on one of the lawns, a la Ahmadinejad last year. Outside the Broadway room, Bwog hailed a rushing CCSC President George Krebs, who said he just heard about it and would be meeting with administration to discuss particulars tomorrow. Columbia Political Union head Nick Shea said he also found out like everyone else, and that the group will likely plan "one or more events around the same time as the McCain/Obama event." The College Republicans' Executive Director Lauren Salz have not yet responded to inquiries says that the CUGOP "did not hear about Obama and McCain coming until the Spectator asked me for a comment. &nbsp;I think it's amazing that both candidates are going to share the stage at Columbia. &nbsp;We don't have any events planned right now, but if we do plan events, they are not going to be partisan in nature. &nbsp;It's September 11th, and the theme of the event is public service and non partisanship, so we will not be holding any sort of rally in support of McCain." Dear fellow member of the Columbia community, I am delighted to welcome you back for the new academic year with some exciting news. Columbia University has been selected to host "ServiceNation Presidential Candidates Forum" next Thursday evening as a partner in the ServiceNation Summit that will take place in New York on September 11-12. On September 11, a day of remembrance that ServiceNation organizers intend for nonpartisan reflection on our obligations as citizens, we look forward to welcoming both Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama back to our campus for a nationally broadcast conversation in Alfred Lerner Hall about the future of national service moderated by TIME Magazine editor Richard Stengel and PBS NewsHour anchor Judy Woodruff. Governor David Paterson is scheduled to provide a welcome to the event. It is entirely fitting for us to become part of this two-day conclave that will bring together so many admired leaders in our country to consider ways to expand the scope and scale of successful service programs throughout the nation. Public service and active involvement in the issues facing our society have always been an essential part of Columbia's identity and academic mission. As a leading research university in our nation's greatest urban center, ours is a campus of robust engagement in the life of our neighborhood and City, our nation and our world. Each year, thousands of Columbia students across all our schools, colleges and affiliates participate in hundreds of service learning, volunteer action and social entrepreneurship programs here in New York and across the globe. We look forward to having this very public event spark an ongoing conversation within our own University community about strategies to further enhance the role of service and citizenship in Columbia's academic mission. Given our limited space, we will ensure that all seating available goes to students in our University community. Students will receive a follow-up email tomorrow with details regarding how to register for the ticket lottery. While it will not be a presidential debate, but rather two individual conversations, this nonpartisan Forum is one of only a few times that John McCain and Barack Obama are scheduled to appear on the same stage during the general election campaign. We are delighted to be part of an event on a theme so important to all citizens and to Columbians. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President 
 Well, they moved quickly this time. As we wrote about before, the announcement of a joint appearance by Obama and McCain on campus next Thursday took student government and group leaders completely by surprise. Just before midnight, though, the presidents of the student councils, club governing boards, and Panhellenic councils have sent an email to President Lee Bollinger, as well as fellow administrators interim Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger, Executive Vice President for Student Services Jeffrey Scott, and Housing &amp; Dining Vice President Scott Wright. The email asks for two accomodations: "a fair share of the tickets made available are apportioned to undergraduates" and "arrangements, similar to those made for the Ahmadinejad visit, should be made for all students, including but not limited to the installation of a large screen on South Lawn." In other words, "make sure everyone gets an equal chance at tickets, and give us another jumbotron." The full letter will be printed in Thursday's Spectator, but you can save yourself from waiting outside a residence hall until noon and just read it below the fold. We are writing you in regards to the recent announcement that both Senator Obama and Senator McCain will be speaking at Columbia on September 11th.&nbsp; As leaders from the student councils and governing boards, we are representatives of the undergraduate student population of Columbia University and want to make sure that undergraduates are being represented fairly at this event.&nbsp;We write to ensure that the lottery system is not favoring any one group of students over another. It is important that a fair share of the tickets made available are apportioned to undergraduates. Considering the importance of service to our community that this event seeks to highlight, both on a national scale and at Columbia, it is vitally important that the many undergraduates who will not have access to the event be able to participate in the dialogue that this event will encourage. Arrangements, similar to those made for the Ahmadinejad visit, should be made for all students, including but not limited to the installation of a large screen on South Lawn.&nbsp;Students have shown a tremendous interest in hearing what each presidential candidate has to say,&nbsp;and we feel that this is the best way to reach the largest proportion of the undergraduate population. Moreover, we feel that it is important for Columbia to remain an open forum for political and social discourse and the large screen will allow access for a greater number of students to participate and further a more meaningful discussion on campus. Please let us know if we can be of any assistance in the planning of this event, as we would be happy to meet with you about the event.&nbsp; We are grateful for this once-in-a-lifetime experience and look forward to the event. Sincerely, Peter Valeiras President, Engineering Student Council Sarah Besnoff President, Barnard College Student Government Association Brody Berg President, General Studies Student Council George Krebs President, Columbia College Student Body Monica Quaintance University Senator for Columbia College Arjun Kapoor Chair, Student Governing Board Samantha John President, Activities Board at Columbia Grace Chan Vice-President, Activities Board at Columbia Donna Desilus President, Multicultural Greek Council Giselle Gastelle President, Panhellenic Council Matthew Heiman President, Inter-Fraternity Council Bryant Rolfe President, Club Sports Governing Board The Community Impact Student Executive Board 
 Everybody will read today's issue for some forum. But there is other news, apparently: Madonna Constantine refuses to go away. How quickly could you construct a "Vag?" Professors aren't gods? Whaaat? Already tired of New York clubs? Some months-old options. 
 Don't fret, readers: you now have a chance to get tickets for the McCain - Obama forum! In an email sent just before noon, President Bollinger officially announced the details for the event and ticket process behind it. All one has to do is register online here between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. tomorrow (Friday). Winners will be notified on Monday. As for the odds, it appears that almost every Columbia student is eligibile, and preliminary reports indicate that, this time, all the schools have actually recieved the email before tickets disappear. Furthermore, a senior administration official tells Bwog that not all the remaining tickets will go towards students. In other words, the percent chances are almost certainly in the single digits.&nbsp;&nbsp; For those of you who don't get a ticket, "alternative viewing options for those unable to attend are being arranged." Full email is below the jump. President Lee C. Bollinger is pleased to announce that on Thursday, September 11, at 7:00 p.m., the "ServiceNation Presidential Candidates Forum" will be held at Columbia University in the Roone Arledge Auditorium of Alfred Lerner Hall as part of the ServiceNation Summit 2008. New York Governor David A. Paterson will open the program, followed by remarks by Senators John McCain and Barack Obama. Moderated by TIME Magazine Editor Richard Stengel and PBS NewsHour Anchor Judy Woodruff, the forum will offer both candidates a national stage to discuss the role of service in America. The limited available seating will be open only to Columbia University students through a lottery system.&nbsp; Alternative viewing options for those unable to attend are being arranged.&nbsp; Please continue to check the University homepage for updates. In order to register for the lottery, you must be a current student at one of the following schools: Columbia Business School; Columbia College; College of Dental Medicine; College of Physicians and Surgeons; Barnard College; Graduate School of Arts and Sciences; the Journalism School; Mailman School of Public Health; School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation; School of Continuing Education; the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences; School of General Studies; School of International and Public Affairs; Columbia Law School; School of Nursing; School of Social Work; School of the Arts; and Teachers College. Students must register for the lottery online on Friday, September 5, between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. at: https://calendar.columbia.edu/sundial/webapi/register.php?eventID=25241. The subsequent drawing for the lottery will be monitored by students and lottery winners will be notified via email on Monday, September 8.&nbsp; Students must pick up tickets in person with a valid student ID card. Tickets are non-transferable. Please be aware that on the day of the event, doors will open at 4:30 p.m. and close at 6:30 p.m. The ServiceNation Summit is co-chaired by Caroline Kennedy; Alma Powell, chair of America's Promise Alliance; Richard Stengel, editor of TIME; Vartan Gregorian, president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York; and Bill Novelli, chief executive officer of AARP. The summit is underwritten by a grant from the Carnegie Corporation and presented by TIME, AARP, and Target. Please visit www.columbia.edu or call 212-854-7328 for event details. 
 While the campus prepares for the visit of the two presidential candidates, students have already gotten started on the fall election. the College Democrats, MSA, and Free Culture are co-sponsoring a campus-wide voter registration initiative, modeled on the popular CUAssassins game that every year afflicts students with amusingly high levels of paranoia. Teams of students will compete to register as many students as possible, with the overall goal being "100% registration of the entire freshman class, and anyone else who isn't registered." The three teams with the most registrants receive "significant cash prizes." The clubs have partnered with well-known off-campus organizations such Rock the Vote, HeadCount, Mobilize.Org, and the League of Women Voters. Dems Lead Activist Jenna Hovel also told Bwog that members from many other campus political groups, including CQA, BSO, and the Asian-American Alliance, are involved, though the boards have not officially co-sponsored it (yet). Frankly, though, Bwog just wants to see the Assassins-esque "kill stories."&nbsp; To register your team, e-mail ac.cudems@gmail.com. 
 It's Activities Day time! Today and for the next several weeks, Columbia's panoply of clubs, societies, associations, teams, groups, organizations, and alliances will compete for your attention and allegiance. Explore and ask questions, but beware the listserv: you'll spend the next four years trying to get off. We've done a bit of the legwork for you. The first part covers political and media groups. N.B. We have not included every club that ever existed, only the ones we find worthy of note. We make no claims to be fair or balanced. "The Chattering Class" (Media) Columbia Television (CTV) - While CTV is mostly an opportunity for aspiring newscasters to play with expensive equipment, CTV has had some high points in recent years: a video that made national news--over and over and over--as well as arguably one of the most awkward sitcoms in Ivy League history. &nbsp; WKCR-FM (Columbia University Radio) -- WKCR is as old and venerable as the people who listen to it--we don't know who they are, but there's apparently enough of them for the station to have its own SDA staff member. WBAR - Barnard's radio station is of a decidedly different character than its big brother across the street, hosting indie music shows and allowing pretty much anyone the airtime (or at least web streaming time, since they don't have their own channel) to do with what they will. Highest hipster density of anywhere on campus. The Birch -- Columbia's Slavic journal, which enjoyed a high point in the time of Vaclav Havel, is perhaps the greatest manifestation of Eastern Bloc pride you'll find in Morningside. &nbsp; The Blue and White -- Only the best monthly undergraduate magazine printed in blue ink on campus. The B&amp;W started this humble blog in 2006, and the brother-sister publications feed off each other in a healthy symbiosis. Both are always recruiting people who like words, pictures, and advertising.&nbsp; Columbia Daily Spectator -- With airy third floor offices next to the Heights and a million dollar budget, the Spec is a venerable institution and a good place to learn the journalistic trade. If you decide to join, make sure to keep your friends who don't -- Spec tends to suck away social lives and slay GPAs faster than you can say "dead tree".&nbsp; Decide quickly, though, since newspapers may not be around when you graduate. Columbia Journal of Literary Criticism - An English department-funded enterprise publishing undergraduate essays on topics in the humanities.&nbsp; Columbia Political Review -- CPR was supposed to be The New Republic of Columbia, but it doesn't write about Columbia, with the consequence that you're usually just better off reading The New Republic. Still, future wonksters and pundits can get their start here.&nbsp; Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal -- Those of us who throw up our hands in surrender when we hear article titles like "The Role of Neonatal Carnitine Palmitoyl Transferase Deficiency Type II on Proliferation of Neuronal Progenitor Cells and Layering of the Cerebral Cortex" mostly remember CUSJ for being epically pranked a couple of years ago by the Jester. The Jester has publically denied all culpability. &nbsp; The Current -- Started a few years ago by a leader of the David Project and funded through the Shalem Foundation, the Current has grown into an elegant journal of Jewish affairs that often has only as much to do with actual Judaism as it needs to keep its funders happy. &nbsp; The Fed - Known in full as The Federalist Paper, the Fed was originally founded in 1986 as a "classically liberal" forum for undergraduate debate. More recently, the reinvented humor rag has touched off on of the bigger brouhahas in Columbia's history of race relations, and continues to offend and entertain by turns.&nbsp; Jester of Columbia -- The Jester--which had published continuously through the 60s and 70s, with some of the best covers of any Columbia magazine ever--resuscitated itself almost three years ago now and quickly started picking off some of the Fed's better humorists. Enjoying it usually requires suspending any sense of political correctness. The Journal of Politics and Society (a.k.a. Helvidius) -- JPS, now on stands in Barnes and Nobleses across the country, publishes academic papers from students all over the country as well as illustrious adults. "The Speechifyers" (Political Groups)&nbsp; American Civil Liberties Union at Columbia (ACLU) --The ACLU has tended to not get too involved in campus-level issues, other than the odd debate and public forum--not much to do when your college president is a first amendment scholar?&nbsp; Amnesty International at Columbia -- If you see a refugee camp pitched on Low Plaza, or someone being tortured, it's probably Amnesty. They also spend a fair amount of time protesting at the United Nations, and trying to get people to care about Darfur.&nbsp; College Democrats -- Coming out of an off-election-year in which they got good at gimmicky demonstrations and campaigning for shoe-in favorites, the Dems are ready to roll with this year's election. The party of the big tent also incorporates a number of umbrella groups that work on more specific projects, and the whole lot will be traveling to Virginia this November.&nbsp; College Republicans -- The glory days of the CUGOP could&nbsp;fade with the passing of the Kulawik-era, during which the group delighted in bringing speakers seemingly chosen for their ability to make the campus left hopping mad. We'll probably see the annual Columbus Day Barbecue, and maybe another Global Warming party. &nbsp; Columbia Global Justice -- Historically one of the worst listserv spammers, CJG focuses largely on AIDS issues, and issues frequent exhortations to protest at the United Nations, make phone calls to legislators, etc. &nbsp; Columbia Political Union (CPU) -- This is kind of like the U.N. of Columbia--a governing board composed of members from all the political groups has oversight over publishing the Columbia Political Review, hosting speakers, cosponsoring events, and putting out an election guide. For those of neutral temperaments who like hobonobbing with boldface names. &nbsp; CUsmile -- Helping children with cleft lips might seem like an unusual cause for a college student, but there you have itÃ¯Â¿Â½and selling grilled cheese in J.J.'s to raise money helps everyone else as well.&nbsp; Everyone Allied Against Homophobia (EAAH) - Not to be confused with Columbia Queer Alliance, EAAH is the anti-homophobia group on campus. International Socialist Organization -- Robbed of its most dedicated and media-loving member, David Judd, we're not sure how well the ISO will fare this year, but wild horses couldn't drag them from hawking the Socialist Worker on College Walk. Not to be confused with the Spartacists and World Can't Wait, who are actually crazy.&nbsp; Libertarians -- The Libertarians, while few in number, have managed to pull out some notoriety for themselves of late. They maintain an irascible blog (money line: "tax cheats&nbsp; are the Rosa Parks of our day") and like to play with chalk. &nbsp; LionPAC -- Columbia's pro-Israel advocacy group, which focuses on "educating the Columbia community about the importance of the American-Israeli relationship."&nbsp; Students Promoting Empowerment and Knowledge (SPEaK) -- We're not sure if this group will be around this year--it had its period of greatest activity addressing hate crimes a few years ago, and then faded as Stop Hate on Columbia's Campus (SHOCC) took over as the ad hoc coalition of the moment. &nbsp; Students for Choice - Guess what this group's for? With pro-lifers largely keeping to themselves, Students for Choice's role on campus has recently been less public than one might expect, but they still hold many events.&nbsp; Take Back the Night -- Mainly organizes the rollicking TBTN march in the spring, suffusing campus with the warm glow of female solidarity.&nbsp; UNICEF - Known, not surprisingly, for their fundraisers. &nbsp; 
 How to lose friends and alienate people Oh Sarah Palin, is there anything to which you are not tangentially relevant? The first of a two-part series on truck-based dessert foods. Reading doesn't count unless someone sees you doing it. Why try to forget about all the fun stuff you missed out on when you could relive the disappointment? eyePod! 
 It's a phenomenon almost as annoying as having to re-enter your SSOL password when you leave it alone for more than 3 minutes: rising prices at campus eateries. So far, Bwog tipsters and staff have seen price hikes at many campus eateries. Offenders include Ferris Booth, which, in addition to replacing the popular stir fry station with a taco bar, has raised prices at several of their other stations. At $7, Ferris and 212 sushi, for example, will now set you back more than many supermarkets in the area (M2M sells it for about $4).&nbsp; Cafe 212 has also raised its prices on sandwiches, and they've also stopped selling sunflower seeds, which Bwog considers a travesty. Finally, Butler's Blue Java has, as our tipster put it, "coffee now priced at Starbucks levels, pastries even higher." If you've heard of other places, on-campus or off-campus, raising (or lowering!) their prices, let us know at bwgossip@columbia.edu or in the comments. 
Last night (tonight?)&nbsp; at the intersection of Broadway and West End, friends of the Kitchen Cabinet, Raul, and the Ceiling packed into a room scarcely larger than a Carman double to witness an unlikely succession of bluegrass and rock that satisfied every taste and craving. Perched on a table, Bwog tapped her toe to the lyrical stylings of campus character Ashraya Gupta and covered her ears to the cacophony of the former Wizards of the Coast. So college, and yet so glorious. &nbsp; 
 Political clubs pay attention to politics! Lauren Salz...she's everywhere!&nbsp; The Hawkmadinejads will take care of this JShap rides off into the sunset to bright new career as a lounge singer Political science becomes even less of a real field 
Bwog hauled herself out of bed at an ungodly hour this morning to lie in wait for PrezBo as he ran, preceded by two Amazonian bodyguards, in the midst of hundreds all looking around for their leader. It looks like he may have had as rough a night as anyone there. More photos after the jump! &nbsp;The stream of humanity! Yeah yeah, we couldn't resist.&nbsp; 
While the Obama-McCain registration page appears to be broken at this time--most likely overwhelmed by all of you constantly refreshing the page--the unchanging black-and-blue interface of Columbia College has undergone a makeover. Here's hoping it's more navigable than the last.&nbsp;
According to the Columbia homepage, those of you who've been sitting around trying to register for one of 200 available lottery seats to the Obama-McCain event will have until noon tomorrow to sit around some more. Best of luck!
You still have an hour and a half left in the activities fair! Hurry up before all the snacks run out (SGB is still serving samoosas and chicken wings, for those out to ruin their diets). Feel free to refer to the following extremely approximate cartogram for locations, and see highlights after the jump. &nbsp; Best Contrast: Atheists and Agnostics next to Catholic Catholic Ministries &nbsp; Most egregious no-show: Columbia Men Against Violence&nbsp; &nbsp; Biggest spread, best spiel: Scientists and Engineers for a Better Society &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Current-founder Bari Weiss, CC '07, writes in the (possibly ill-fated) New York Sun today about the 19 incoming Columbia GS first-years who had previously served in the Armed Forces. (According to Weiss, GS was created in 1947 partly as a response to the high number of ex-soldiers returning from WWII.) Weiss spoke to a number of the 19 first-years about the differences between military life and academic life, and reactions range from confident about success ("You sit down next to these girls who are 18 years old and they've got plastic jewelry from Claire's and they're trying to understand the rise and fall of the USSR. They can do it; but we've seen dictators rise and fall") to thankful for the ability to appreciate the civilian life: "I'm just happy to be alive. I'm ecstatic here." 
Not only is Hamilton Terrace relatively nearby, but just about every blog in the city has also posted this PSA. &nbsp; 
In case you didn't get the e-mail.
Just because you have homework doesn't mean the TV watching has to stop -- really 12s, it's true! Rob Trump's weekly web series fun continues with Mark Erickson's Infinite Solutions. Well, my original plan for the first week of school was, having done Jake and Amir, to quickly knock off a review of the other major CollegeHumor webseries, The Michael Showalter Showalter.&nbsp; But while I was watching some other CollegeHumor stuff, specifically their awesome “Minesweeper: The Movie Trailer”, I discovered something magical that made me abort my original plan.&nbsp; It was Infinite Solutions with Mark Erickson.&nbsp; Specifically, it was this: This video was, by itself, way too amazing to pass over without further study.&nbsp; The production of the whole thing, first off, right down to the nerdiest haircut imaginable, was so hilarious that even if this wasn’t intentional comedy, it was great comedy nonetheless.&nbsp; And the actual content of the video?&nbsp; The secret mode of minesweeper seemed, actually, pretty plausible to me; the only real tipoff that it might not be was the requirement that you erase your original scores, which, if it was fictional, seemeed a pretty brilliantly mean thing to make people do.&nbsp; So I investigated further: After watching this one, it became clear to me what Mark Erickson was doing, and I wholeheartedly approved.&nbsp; The whole thing made-up, clearly, but it’s played so straight-faced, and with such attention to detail, that it transcends the lame internet practice of “trolling” and becomes something sublime.&nbsp; There aren’t really “jokes” in Mark Erickson’s videos per se, and as a whole I’m not sure this is a web series that even belongs in the same category as the other ones I’ve reviewed, but if you can at all get into the Andy Kaufman-esque vibe of these elaborate prank tips, they’re very, very funny.&nbsp; Maybe the two best he’s done are simple 30-seconders: For even more comedy, look through the comments to find people who took Mark seriously and tried these out. Mark Erickson, like Jeannie Tate, is someone that falls into the category of “if you like this style of comedy, just go watch them all now,” because there aren’t that many, and you won’t be able to rest until you do.&nbsp; And next week, Showalter. 
 At this time of year, newness comes in all forms, from the obvious (your new dorm, your new classes, your new books, your new backpack) to the unanticipated (your replacement macBook charger, your subscription to Netflix to replace Kim’s.)&nbsp; And while the novelty of these items is, well, novel, the polish of your purchases and the glow of your post-consumption satisfaction wears off as soon as your credit card bill comes at the end of the month. In addition, New York City is notoriously pricey, your Morningside Heights being no exception. So when it comes to the question of making the most of their money, our heady first-years are pretty hard-pressed.&nbsp; But this semester, Bwog is at the service of the 12s. We will be offering tips to help you make ends meet and to prevent you from feeling broke all the time. The intention is to provide you with easy and applicable ways to save money.&nbsp; Expect lots of information about wallet-friendly restaurants, stores and cultural venues in addition to periodic budgeting techniques. The series begins this week with easy lessons: Instead of Westside and Morton Williams, go to Fairway. The produce is far cheaper.&nbsp; Embrace buying in bulk. Instead of Book Culture and the Columbia Book Store, use abebooks.com. Yes.&nbsp; Online shopping involves delayed purchasing satisfaction and postal charges, but the savings are worth it. Instead of Poland Spring 24-packs and coolers, reuse and refill your bottle at Butler.&nbsp; The water fountain there is by far the coldest on campus. And you’re saving money and the planet simultaneously. Instead of Marlboros, DIY it with a pouch of Drum loose tobacco. The opportunity cost of rolling your own is astronomical. Instead of club-hopping downtown, support your local bar. And in the morning you’ll be glad you saved. Try Sip Bar and Lounge on 109th and Amsterdam. Half-priced menu Mondays and free tapas with all drink orders during their bi-nightly happy hours. West Village it’s not, but after a couple rounds it’s pretty easy to forget the chintzy atmosphere. Many of these may be already be familiar to you, if so, you’re ahead the game and well on your way to reaping monetary gains.&nbsp; And upperclassmen, if you have further suggestions, please use the comments or email us. The 12s, as always, will reward you lavishly. 
This morning, Bwog woke up hungry and hankering for something not sweet, but savory.&nbsp; Fortunately, Saturday Brunch will never be Sunday Brunch and Bwog wanted lunch.&nbsp; And so on this dark Saturday, Bwog strode down Broadway past the parfaits and waffles of Community and Le Monde in search of vittles of a more proteinaceous variety.&nbsp; &nbsp; Ecce Empanada Joe’s! Despite its highly anticipated arrival, the little eatery opened to little fanfare a few weeks ago.&nbsp;&nbsp; Unlike Chipotle, tempting customers with both flex and Burrito Bowls, Empanada Joe’s offers neither and unsurprisingly lacks the long lines and loyal following of the former pseudo-latino burrito bar. But occasionally, today for example, hunger outweighs reliability. And despite of Empanada Joe’s generic, prefabricated décor, a result of franchising no doubt, Bwog’s gastronomic gusto was a success. &nbsp; Entering just minutes after Empanada Joe’s opened this afternoon, Bwog enjoyed a lunch of two stuffed pastries and a side of corn salad.&nbsp; For all those who no habla Espanol, the word empanada comes from the Spanish verb empanar, meaning to wrap in bread (sp. pan.) The pastry to filling ratio often poses a problem to chefs and results in overly doughy or excessively juicy empanadas.&nbsp; But the folks at Empanada Joe’s have the formula for flaky on the outside to flavorful on the inside down. Although their menu is small and primarily consists of the eponymous treats, there are some desserts and a bunch of tasty sides as well.&nbsp; But the variety lies, however, with what’s inside the empanada. Most of the filling options involve the typical ingredients of Latin American cooking, pulled pork, sausage and peppers, beef and the like.&nbsp; But there are vegetarian options and some creative, decidedly un-ethnic, spins on bacon-egg-and-cheese sandwiches.&nbsp;&nbsp; It’s a little confusing to know how much to order the first time around.&nbsp; But Bwog recommends at least two empanadas, reasonably priced at $3.38 each and a side, $3.42 each, to round out the meal.&nbsp; Together the Rio Chicken, spicy without being overwhelmingly so, and the Veggie Mama, a little light on veggies and heavy on the sauce, left just enough room for the corn salad.&nbsp; To be honest, this was most anticipated item of Bwog’s lunch, but damn those great expectations.&nbsp; Unfortunately the corn salad, consisting of canned corn and neither enough lime nor parsley, fell short. &nbsp; Nonetheless Empanada Joe’s served up fresh, hot and healthy-ish lunch in minimal time and for minimal money.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog's rogue adventurer, Jon Hill braves midtown in search of Sake and soy-infused delights.&nbsp; Read on, Japanophiles. &nbsp; You could easily miss the Sake Bar Hagi on 49th Street if you weren’t looking for it. Only a single sign announces its presence, and to make matters worse, the sign is posted several doors down from the actual entrance to the Japanese pub. Still, if you pass those two tests, a third obstacle awaits you – a steeply descending staircase that hides the front door from sidewalk view. Such subterfuge might be necessary, though. The evening crowd packing the noisy subterranean booths and tables of Sake Bar Hagi is almost too large for the staff to handle, and wait-times for seats can exceed an hour-and-a-half. Admittedly, customers have good reasons to stick around: the food is cheap, the atmosphere is charming, and the menu seems practically airlifted from the streets of Tokyo. That authenticity is what attracted me to the bar Friday. I had my eye on a dish not often seen listed on American Japanese restaurant menus – natto. Common in Japan to the point of being a breakfast food, natto is essentially fermented soybeans. It’s a nutritionally well-balanced food and, like most soy products, it’s surrounded by a cloud of medical lore touting a multitude of health benefits. (Who knew I could reverse baldness and cure dysentery with a single meal?) Unlike soy sauce and tofu, however, natto has not made the cross-cultural leap into the standard American culinary repertoire. Indeed, when the Sake Bar Hagi waiter was asked about ordering the dish, he looked at me startled and replied, “You want natto?” The reason for natto’s estrangement from the American palate was immediately obvious when a saucer of it arrived at my table. Despite being cloaked in a fried tofu wrapper, the natto gave off a distinctive odor my dining companions best described as “like a zoo.” The strong, meaty, musky smell rivals some cheeses in its pungency and has been compared by some food writers to the aroma of toes. (That’s right – toes.) Natto’s appearance is not much better, either, as it is lumpy, dark brown, and coated in a stringy, mucous-y goo. Those web-like strands, it turns out, are actually the remnants of the bacterial colonies used to ferment natto, though this is a fact you may wish to leave out of polite dinner chit-chat. Surprisingly, I did not find the taste to be worth the unappetizing build-up. Although natto’s texture is rather like month-old canned peas, the flavor lacks the noxious ammonia quality you would expect based on the smell. Instead, it is highly savory and somewhat salty but, on the whole, mostly bland. For anyone who has braved Morbier and Limburger cheeses, natto feels like a remedial course in stinky foods. There is little pay-off for all of the olfactory hype. (Sake Bar Hagi fortunately serves its natto paired with grated ginger, which helps punch up the dish to a more interesting level.) But, assuming you can ignore the smell or are perhaps suffering from dysentery, natto is still worth a bite or two. You’ll have an interesting war story to swap with future food adventurers and you won’t be too weirded out to keep sampling Sake Bar Hagi’s other culinary curiosities, including wasabi-flavored raw octopus, grilled quail eggs, and barbecued ginkgo nuts. WHAT IT IS: Natto, a dish of fermented soybeans from Japan WHERE IT IS: Sake Bar Hagi, 152 W. 49th Street (Midtown) HOW MUCH IT IS: $4.50 for four pockets of tofu-wrapped natto HOW TO GET THERE: Take the 1 train to 50th Street and walk a block east. (Be sure to show up early or be prepared to wait. Sake Bar Hagi fills up fast with traveling Japanese businessmen and exchange students, and the pub does not take reservations.) 
 Tonight, the CQA, Columbia's Queer Alliance, celebrates LGBT rights and fights for everyone's right to party with the First Friday Dance. On Saturday. Nothing sets the atmosphere for a dance party better than torrential rain, right? How lucky we are to celebrate the First Friday Dance of the semester on this diluvial Saturday! If you’re not a fan of going out in hurricane weather and are considering taking a rain check on “the hottest dance on the Upper Westside,” according to the CQA, live va Queer Prom last spring to see all the Kate Perry pumped fun you'll be missing. &nbsp; More love in the club after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
The activities fair may be over, but you've still got a while to find your niche in Columbia's extracurricular scene. To help you sift through the alphabet soup, our series of club crib sheets continues with groups that hand out money and groups that may eventually make lots of money. Governing Boards and Councils (a.k.a. The Man) Activities Board at Columbia (ABC) - This oversight organization funds publications, cultural groups, competition groups--basically everything SGB doesn’t pay for. Every club competes to have its friends on the board of representatives in hopes of upping their allocations. Engineering Student Council (ESC) - ESC may be elected undemocratically—the executive board, which composes a much larger percentage of the total student body than any of the other councils, selects the president--but they do come up with the most wonderful web applications. Student Government Association - Barnard College's student council, this year headed by Sarah Besnoff. SGA mostly stays on the west side of Broadway, but frequently cosponsors events with the other undergraduate councils. General Studies Student Council (GSSC) - Now with a cute owl logo and a website that’s at least helpful and up to date, GSSC is one of the more constituency-conscious councils out there. Bwog can only hope current president Brody Berg will be as entertaining as ex-leader Nico Cunningham. Student Council, Columbia College (CCSC) - With President George Krebs in office, this promises to be an entertaining year for CCSC—show up for meetings at 8PM on Sundays in Satow, and bring popcorn. For all you aspiring campus politicos, keep your eyes out for information about freshman elections, starting soon. Student Governing Board - The SGB, which funds political and religious groups, was created in 1968 when students demanded a more student-run governing body that would safeguard the freedoms of speech and religion. In the wake of the Minutemen scuffle, it was moved from the nurturing arms of the University Chaplain to the bureaucreatic (but better funded!) office of Student Development and Activities. Some cried censorship, but so far complaining has been minimal, and the body’s finances may be better managed. Bacchanal Events - Bacchanal used to be a bigger deal than it is now, with a declining budget and leadership in slight disarray. But they'll still pull off a week of free entertainment in the spring, and hopefully a concert good enough to make up for having given up on getting one for this fall. Ferris Reel Film Society – Three-dollar just-out-of-theaters-but-not-yet-in-movie-stores film screenings? Heck yes! Thank goodness for the good folks at Ferris Reel for making it unnecessary to even leave campus on a Friday night. Academic Competition Chess Club - Did you know that in high school you can letter in chess? Well at college, you won't use it to waive your gym requirement, but playing a grandmaster has got to be at least as good. Columbia International Relations Council and Association (CIRCA) – This isn’t a new group, just a spiffy new acronym for a decidedly high-schoolish old group: CIRCA has shed its Model United Nations moniker in order to sound more official on its officers’ resumes accommodate a wider range of activities, including speakers and cultural events. Which also means that its annual conferences will no longer have the awesome acronym-derived taglines of Seamonkey and C-Money. They'll still be fielding a competitive traveling team as well as running crisis simulation and high school Model U.N. conferences. Mock Trial Team – Mock Trial gets the largest budget of any ABC group, bar none. This is supposedly because they are very good and do very well, although their most noteworthy achievement of recent years was a second-place finish at nationals in 2004. Model Congress - Pretty self-explanatory: they pretend to be legislators in pretend sessions of congress with pretend debates and everything (although presumably the issues are real). Parliamentary Debate Team - This form of debate—basically Lincoln-Douglas to you high school debater kids—is potentially more fun than either Policy, Mock Trial, and Quiz Bowl, because you don’t need actual facts, just rhetorical firepower. The weekend tournaments at schools up and down the East Coast can be a blast, if you survive all the hot air. Quiz Bowl – The trained Columbia Quiz Bowler is a wonder to behold. The B&amp;W has firsthand experience, having been trounced in intramurals by buzzer-happy pros endowed with a trove of random minutiae. Geeky? Yes. Strangely fantastic? Yes, that too. - LBD
For a three-day week, it sure felt a lot longer. Maybe it was the newness, maybe it was the heat (or Hanna). Either way, let's relive this auspicious beginning to the semester.Your professors began class in off-putting and amusing waysA mysterious antagonist offended one violent feminist in EC We discovered our beloved bird of prey was a pluralTo little fanfare, tacos were substituted for stir-fry in Ferris Booth It was announced Obama and McCain would soon descend upon RooneAt which point, every single person in the world immediately tried to secure tickets. These attempts were rebuffed by fickle and cruel technology. 
 With the dual force of Obamacain four days from striking campus, student groups and councils are scrambling to inject themselves into the festivities. On Saturday, representatives from almost every governing council, as well as CPU, the College Democrats, and the College Republicans, met to plan programming for the run-up. They plan to send their outline to Columbia administration tomorrow morning. The plan consists of two parts: speakers and service opportunites. Highlights will apparently include a voter registration drive led by CPU, the Dems, and the Republicans. Governing boards and individual community service groups will also put on a "service fair," highlighting service opportunities on campus. Finally, there will be a canned food drive led by the four student councils. As for speakers, the ad-hoc coalition plans to bring in live speakers from 6-7 P.M., before the beginning of the forum. The speakers will focus on both service and September 11th. The pre-forum programming will close with a moment of silence for 9/11 victims. The councils hope to get a famous speaker (possibly a celebrity like Angelina Jolie) as part of the program. Bwog will bring you more specifics and reaction as they come in. UPDATE 11:31 PM: The full plan to be presented to the deans is below the jump SERVICENATION UNDERGRADUATE PRE-PROGRAMMING PROPOSAL&nbsp; Overview: This event is going to be catered towards the undergraduate population of Columbia University in order to supplement the evening discussion on service.&nbsp; The aim of the event is to harness all of the energy brought about by the ServiceNation Forum.&nbsp; Our proposal includes two components: a service fair and a speakers program.&nbsp; The service fair allows current community service groups on campus to promote their work to the larger student population.&nbsp; In addition, during the service fair we are proposing a service pledge drive and canned food drive to incorporate the mission of the ServiceNation program into our own event.&nbsp; The speakers program will invite service leaders from both within our own community and leaders on a national level to speak to our student population about their own experiences with service and the importance of incorporating service into ones life.&nbsp; Our collaboration goals with the administration are outlined below.&nbsp; In addition we are requesting a food donation from Columbia Housing and Dining.&nbsp; The specifics of our ideal program components are further outlined below along with our requests for support from the administration.&nbsp; We are excited for this opportunity to work on an event of this caliber and magnitude with the administration.&nbsp; This proposal was written in conjunction with the leaders from the Engineering Student Council, the Columbia College Student Council, the General Studies Student Council, the Barnard College Student Government Association, Community Impact, Columbia Community Outreach, Columbia Political Union, the College Republicans, the College Democrats, Activities Board of Columbia, Student Governing Board, Inter-Greek Council, Columbia Urban Experience, and Double Discovery Center.&nbsp; Service Fair Component: The service fair component of the event is meant to further the awareness and encourage the participation of students in current Columbia University service organizations.&nbsp; We have reached out to undergraduate student governing boards and have received positive responses.&nbsp; The community service groups will set up tables with information on how students are able to get involved in their work.&nbsp; The Columbia Political Union, the College Democrats, and the College Republicans will be joining together to set up a comprehensive voter registration drive throughout the day.&nbsp; Student organizations from SGA, ABC, IGC and SGB will be at tables promoting the philanthropic aims of their clubs.&nbsp; The Councils will be staffing pledge card tables to encourage ongoing commitment to service.&nbsp; In addition, we will have bins for a Canned Food/Non-Perishable Items Drive which will be donated to local soup kitchens/food pantries.&nbsp; Speakers Program Component: It is anticipated that students will begin to congregate to hear the speeches around 6:00pm.&nbsp; It is proposed that live speeches be given as a prelude to the televised speeches shown at the alternative viewing location.&nbsp; We would like to utilize this opportunity in which Columbia University is being promoted on a national stage as a leader in service to invite locally and nationally renowned community leaders to address the student population.&nbsp; The beginning portion of the program allows for student participation and reflection.&nbsp; First, we have created an opportunity for students to email pictures of themselves participating in community action.&nbsp; We will be turning these pictures into a presentation, which will be played on the screen during our portion, augmented by inspirational music to rally the student population.&nbsp; Student groups have been notified that there will be an open-mic opportunity for students to speak about their own personal experiences with community service as part of the Columbia community.&nbsp; The presentations from invited speakers would begin at 6:00 pm.&nbsp; Our first speaker would be a renowned Columbia service leader who will introduce our invited speakers.&nbsp; The first speech will focus on public service and the role of volunteers to organizations, stressing the importance of turning one’s passions into an opportunity to serve your community.&nbsp; The second speech from our wish list of national figures would emphasize the connection on this day of service with 9/11 and align with the goals of the ServiceNation Forum.&nbsp; Finally, we are asking another service leader from our Columbia community to lead a moment of silence to remember those lost in 9/11.&nbsp; Speakers Program Outline: Photo Montage/Music Student Open-Mic Introduction 2 Speakers &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Local Service Professional &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;-Service Professional of National Interest Closing&nbsp; Administrative Collaboration: The following is the list of the donations we are requesting from the administration to supplement our event.&nbsp; Activities Booths:&nbsp; -75 Tables with tablecloths: location and layout to be determined pending location of screen -Budget for printing (brochure, pledge cards, advertising, table layout maps, etc.) -Stamps, mailing and copying for voter registration&nbsp; Canned Food Drive: -Bins for food collection -Label/Poster Board -Budget for printing advertisements&nbsp; Donated Food: -Donations from Columbia Housing and Dining&nbsp; Speakers Program: -Access to screen and sound -Raised platform for speakers -Sound system (mic and speakers) -Podium -Speaker contact information and how to approach -Timeline for notification -Speaker comforts: Seat to see speeches Gifts complimentary of Columbia -Lighting for table locations -Information on Rain Location requested&nbsp; Speaker List Introduction: 1. Roger Lehecka&nbsp; Closing: 1. Jack McGourty&nbsp; Local Service Professional: 1. Geoffrey Canada 2. Wendy Kopp&nbsp; Service Professional of National Interest: 1. Governor Schwarzenegger/Maria Shriver 2. Angelina Jolie 3. Mayor Bloomberg 4. Usher 5. Kenneth Cole 6. Alma Powell 7. Caroline Kennedy &nbsp; 
Your (Columbia College) student government is officially functional! The full CCSC met for the first time tonight in Satow, where they'll be taking care of business every week this year on Sundays at 8:00pm. "We're going to get in, do what we need, and get out," said a take-no-prisoners President Krebs of his meeting style. Bwog's minutes follow, in approximate order of importance. Plans for Obamacain: Rest assured: there will be a jumbotron. In addition, the thousands of you who won't get lucky in The Lottery (to be overseen by two student representatives to ensure fairness) can still see what CCSC hopes will be an all-star speaker lineup: the council has requested one or two from a list including Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Angelina Jolie, Usher, and Kenneth Cole. The service fair, detailed below, is very much like the activities fair. It will also include a photo montage, augmented by inspirational music to rally the student population,&nbsp; as well as an open mic for students to "speak about their own personal experiences with community service as part of the Columbia community." The whole shebang starts around 6pm. Midnight Mania torpedoed: the sports marketing people have decided this year that rather than throwing a big event to promote fall sports, they will instead bribe students to go to athletics events with prizes like laptops. "It was not our decision in any way," said campus life VP Robyn Burgess. An alternate event, emceed by Krebs himself, will promote a broader range of sports than just basketball -- water polo needs celebrating too! --&nbsp; and policy VP Adil Ahmed is working on a new student group called "Lion's Den" as an "organized way of promoting school spirit on campus." Barnard swipe access: It's coming! Barnard students indicated overwhelming approval last spring of allowing CC students access to their dorms, which will happen as soon as the electronic kinks get worked out. Manhattanville 2.0: The Committee on Manhattanville has been re-named the the Committee on Manhattanville and Community Building, since "the expansion is happening" in the words of Ahmed. It will be working with the Student Committee on Expansion and Gentrification, which has been re-orienting of late. Courseworks 2.0: expect some changes next month with a new-ish program that will allow multimedia and filesharing. A Bwgossip for Columbia: In a revamp of the liaison system, each student council member will be assigned a few hundred students to communicate with via e-mail, in a system originally pitched as something like our very own listserv. This will make it easier for students to vent their smaller concerns to an actual person, although as one student rep pointed out, it sort of leaves open the actual function of the student rep. "It's something we need to talk about at some point," admitted VP communications Ian Solsky. - LBD 
 Obamacain lottery extended until an hour an a half ago, so... hurry? This article on anorexia is called "The Campus Elephant." Activism outside Columbia: it's a whole other (gentrified) world out there. There are a number of Mexican restaurants by campus. Here are their phone numbers and addresses. At an undisclosed location, at an unnamed date and time, Nino Burjanadze, the ex-head of Georgian Parliament came and spoke at Columbia. Circumstances of the visit are likewise unknown. It is available to you and it is free, so watch Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles because why not. 
 This past weekend, Inside New York threw a party to celebrate the release of its 2008-2009 edition. The party took place inside the new Village Pourhouse, the uptown counterpart to the popular original location, which caters to the villianous downtown adversaries of New York University. Bwog took along our camera and a notepad. What we're cautiously optimistic about: It's huge, and by Columbia bar standards -- see: claustrophobia-inducing Heights and misanthropy-inducing 1020 -- it's the biggest place around. There's a smaller bar area with several TVs, and this area opens up into a larger room with a dance floor and many spacious booths. It's sportsy. Athletic types and their acolytes have about 1,000 fairly large TVs to enjoy, all of which were invariably tuned to games, matches, races, etc. This is also a nice change of pace if you're sick of watching 1020's steady rotation of whimsical kids movies and bizarre vintage pornography. Happy hour is from 10-11 PM, and Bud and Bud light are $2. According to VilPour, the establishment has a kitchen, and they will be using it to cook late-night snacks like wings and the like. Bwog didn't see evidence of the kitchen, but we're willing to take them at their word. What's we're less than enthralled about: &nbsp; &nbsp;It's very, very hard on IDs. Bwog saw a number of friends (whose IDs normally work at bars far and wide throughout Morningside) get turned away. Now, one friend of Bwog speculated that this is because the bouncers at the Inside New York party were shipped in from the downtown location, and downtown bars are notoriously stricter on underage drinking. Still, we're trepidatious about returning with friends with not-so-great IDs. Mixed drinks were heavy on the soda, light on the alcohol. The entire place smelled like varnish, paint, and wood. Granted, we're sure this will eventually fade with time, but it's something to keep in mind when you're already kind of light-headed from the combination of alcohol and loud, bad music. Verdict: Probably worth walking the extra few blocks, depending on your mood and tolerance for possible disappointment. 
 Yesterday evening we reported on the exciting news that Swipe Access to Barnard dorms is imminent. This, while sort of true, is not the full picture, according to SGA President Sarah Besnoff. Though CCSC announced that last spring BC students had "voted overwhelming to allow Swipe Access," according to Besnoff, nothing formal has been decided, so the imminence of Swipe Access is entirely debatable. "Last year, SGA released a survey to the BC student body about Access and Security as relates to residential halls.&nbsp; The survey demonstrated that there was overwhelming BC student dissastifaction with the current sign-in procedures and how this procedure procludes community integration.&nbsp; As such, there is going to be an effort this year by SGA (in conjunction with CCSC and ESC) to move forward on examining what "universal access" would look like.&nbsp; Nothing has been decided, and this year's SGA has not formerly endorsed any resolution calling for CC students to have access to dorms," Besnoff told Bwog in an email. The first step to Swipe Access would involve sending out a referendum to the Columbia Community, as Class Councils operate democratically, occasionally. 
In which Bwog correspondent CML alights from the stygian sauna that is Woodbridge Residence Hall to nestle himself between the facade of Cardomat and the awning of Oren's Daily Roast, to document a picaresque evening of rare chess camaraderie. When you think of chess, you think of bearded Slavs with vodka on their breath, sterile cafeterias filled with five year-olds waiting to go home and play Super Smash Bros., and Garry Kasparov, the Mike Gravel of Russia.&nbsp; And when you think of chess in New York, what probably comes to mind are a few sepia-toned tableaux from ‘Searching for Bobby Fischer’ – bums in Washington Square, tyrannical tutors, kids developing scoliosis from hunching over a board for hours a day, and so on. &nbsp; But chess in Morningside Heights?&nbsp; Early last night, at five PM, a small group of community residents descended on the sidewalk at 112th and Broadway to participate in an impromptu chess tournament.&nbsp; The organizer, Russ Mackofsky, explained his goals as follows: “I’m just trying to organize a community.&nbsp; You know, New York City has a strong chess culture …” – he gestured towards some merchandising, t-shirts with chess-pieces interspersed against the Manhattan skyline, a king and queen in place of the Twin Towers.&nbsp; “This is our third event … we plan to have five more by the end of the year … the next should be a simul…” “Aren’t the downtown chess clubs, the Marshall and the Manhattan, in decline these days?” “Yeah, but chess is really taking off these days … we have Chess in the Schools … we have all the infrastructure here to really popularize chess.” I was reminded of the time Sunil Gulati told me that soccer in the U.S. was really going to take off.&nbsp; In terms of generating talent at a grassroots level, both seem to be doing very well for themselves – check out the Murrow chess team – but both are hampered because the best players in the world play elsewhere.&nbsp; Mackofsky gave me his contact information (www.chessnyc.com, they’re looking for a web designer), a few more stragglers slouched in, and the festivities began. -- A gentleman in Chelsea motley and a moustache straight out of the sixties strummed on a guitar and yodelled Beatles standards in a Dylan timbre.&nbsp; The masses seemed to have deserted Campo on account of the all-too-appropriate price increase for its unlimited mimosa brunch.&nbsp; Plus, they carded me last time.&nbsp; I repeat, ladies and gentlemen: Campo is no longer offering an unlimited mimosa brunch for $14.90. “It’s a round robin, seven rounds,” said Russ, and I found myself with the white pieces against a gentleman named Ahmad, all swarthiness, suit, and beard. “How long have you been doing this?” “You mean, playing chess, organizing, out on the streets?&nbsp; About ten years.” Then the game began, with only seven minutes a side allotted to complete all the moves.&nbsp; Tournament standard back in high school was ninety (I should probably mention that it was Yasser Seirawan, greatest American chess player ever, who was the captain of Garfield High School’s team during its apex, and me who was the captain during its nadir). I was as poorly equipped to deal with his style of chess as a mediocre suburban point guard would be to combat a streetballer.&nbsp; After overextending against a comically passive opening I impaled myself on his defenses. &nbsp; “I won!” he said.&nbsp; A little kid wandered up to our board.&nbsp; “Want to play?” I took black against the kid, who hammered out five moves of theory in as many seconds. “Don’t overrate him,” said someone in the peanut gallery, obviously talking about me. “Don’t let him intimidate you.” The kid said nothing and hammered out another five moves. “The next round’s beginning,” said Russ.&nbsp; The mother shepherded her kid elsewhere.&nbsp; A woman perched on the other side of my table. “Hi, I’m Chris,” I said. “Hi,” she responded – chess players are infamously laconic. I lost again. “Round three, we have Chris versus Russ,” said Russ. I defended a difficult position and queened a pawn. My material advantage swelled with my confidence until it all fell out when I rose to new levels of mortification by idiotically stalemating his king, forfeiting half a point.&nbsp; From the peanut gallery came: “That was intense.” “Round four, we have Chris versus Armin,” intoned Russ. Armin Rosen was checkmated in twenty-five moves. "So I lost my game, does that mean I go to the losers' bracket?" "This entire thing is the losers' bracket." -- “Round five,” said Russ, “we have Chris versus Luis.” In front of me was a man in a tam-o-shanter and beard, a spitting image of Sam Jackson in his dress.&nbsp; He lit a cigarette, swilled some coffee, and dropped a piece.&nbsp; Then I dropped a rook.&nbsp; Then he dropped his queen.&nbsp; It was the grandmaster Savielly Tartakower who once said something like, “it is he who makes the penultimate blunder who wins,” and, with my time dwindling to nil, it was Luis who made the penultimate blunder.&nbsp; Defeat crept up on me. “Want a draw?” I asked, trying a cheapo from those days in the sterile cafeterias. “Draw?” he guffawed.&nbsp; “I’ll draw some blood!”&nbsp; And he did. “Round seven.”&nbsp; A gentleman in a flannel shirt and straw hat entered my domain. “What brings you to this terrible part of New York?” I asked, by way of cordial introduction. “I live here.” “That makes two of us.” “Oh.” But, I thought to myself for the first time since two hours into orientation, maybe Morningside Heights isn’t so terrible after all.&nbsp; As the sun set in the west above the foliage that graciously concealed New Jersey, I had not only won my last match but played a remarkable game of chess. 
 Did you know that this very University is the chosen educational institution of many famous people besides Vampire Weekend? It's true! The New York Daily News and one Perez Hilton-reading commenter (who is probably glad commenting is anonymous) are reporting that ex-model Christy Turlington is enrolled at Columbia to study maternal and child health.&nbsp; Plus, Stanford alum Chelsea Clinton is receiving a master's in public health policy. 
 Earlier today, we spoke to SGA President Sarah Besnoff, who explained that despite reports of Swipe Access' imminence, in fact, a CCSC/SEAS survey on the issue is the next step in actually moving forward on this thing. According to CCSC VP of Policy Adil Ahmed, this survey will be sent out "shortly." CCSC is currently working with Housing and Dining, and then must present their efforts to Security. As for the GS question, according to Ahmed: " only talked about BC and will be incorporating GS into the discussions shortly. We're going to work on this in stages with BC getting first priority." &nbsp; 
 In the comments section of this very site (and others) many of you speculated that a Doctors Without Borders event originally scheduled to be in Roone on 9/11 was, in cruelly ironic fashion, canceled to make way for the Obamacain Service Spectacular of 2008. A tipster on the Doctors Without Borders listserv just forwarded Bwog an email sent to attendees of the event that announced a location change. The event (Starved for Attention: The Neglected Crisis of Malnutrition) will now be held in Riverside Church.&nbsp; 
 As the joint Obama-McCain forum rolls closer, more and more details are beginning to emerge. Last night, Bwog told you about the councils' and groups' plan for Thursday. Now, more details are emerging about the event itself. The first issue is seating. Many of you are no doubt wondering when those emails granting you entrance will show up. It turns out that they will not arrive in your inboxes until tomorrow morning. The lottery was conducted early Monday afternoon, but Secret Service checks and other delays will keep the final list from being sent out until Tuesday. Sadly, chances of getting a ticket are not exactly high. Sources told Bwog that over 15,000 people registered for the lottery. 300 people were selected, but only the first 100 names on that list are guaranteed entrance. The other 200 names will be put on a waitlist, with no more than half of them getting in. The final student count depends on how many seats there are, but suffice it to say that, even if you managed to brave the internet traffic jam to enter the lottery, your chances of actually sitting inside are only about 1%. More details about event, including who else will be sitting in Roone, and what to do if you're not able to get in, after the jump. For those of you who must resort to alternative viewing, there will be several options. First, there will definitely be a Jumbotron, but, unlike last year's event when it faced one of the lawns, this year it will face Low Steps. The organizers believe this will allow more students to watch, as well as increase visibility and attendance at the council/group-led "service fair" preceding the forum on Low Plaza. If you would rather stay in your room or lounge, the forum will be broadcast on PBS, NY1, C-SPAN, and probably the cable news outlets. There won't be an official webcast through Columbia (as this weekend showed, Columbia doesn't exactly have the servers for such a huge amount of traffic), but CNN et al. typically webcast feeds of every McCain and Obama event on their websites. If you do manage to make it inside, you will be joining 150-200 Columbia students, members of the ServiceNation summit, staff from both campaigns, and, finally, family members of 9/11 victims. As of right now, there are no plans for the candidates to be on the stage at the same, and it is not known how or when they will enter or exit the building (though Obama is scheduled to have dinner with former president and new Columbia parent Bill Clinton before the event). Finally, NYPD is already working on security: Bwog spotted NYPD officers this morning at 116th and Broadway, and tipsters report the NYPD is already traveling the subway as far up as the Medical School. 
 The luckiest student in the whole world just forwarded Bwog The&nbsp; Email sent from Student Programs and Events just a few minutes ago. So, start checking your mailboxes and start the morning off with an inbox full of (or should we say empty of!) disappointment. Email that you will never receive after the jump. &nbsp; Dear student, Congratulations! We are pleased to inform you that your name has been selected in a random lottery for one ticket to the ServiceNation Presidential Candidates Forum. To claim your ticket, please come to the East Ramp Lounge on the campus level of &nbsp;Alfred Lerner Hall on Tuesday, September 9 between 2:30 and 5:00 p.m. or on Wednesday, September 10 between 10:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. &nbsp;You will be required to show a valid student ID card with the matching name and uni as that selected in the lottery. Tickets are non-transferable. &nbsp;Only the ticket winner may pick up the ticket (i.e. your friend/family member may not pick it up for you). &nbsp;If you do not pick up your ticket during time period stated above and do not make alternate arrangements with us ahead of time, your ticket will be forfeited and reassigned to an alternate lottery winner. Admission to the Forum will open at 4:30 p.m., and will close at 6:30 p.m. Columbia student ID along with ticket verification will be required. No one will be allowed into the auditorium after the doors are shut. No bags, briefcases, purses, food or beverages, banners, signs, or electronic devices of any kind (including laptops, cameras and cellular phones) will be allowed into the building. Guests will be required to enter through a metal detector. Re-entry will not be permitted. Please REPLY TO THIS EMAIL to confirm receipt. If you are unable to pick up your ticket during the arranged period or have other questions, please contact Koren Manning at 212-851-7423 or km2552@columbia.edu. Sincerely, University Programs and Events &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 McCain and Obama at Columbia, a glorified activities fair.&nbsp; Thank you Mr. Krebs. First Kim's disappears, now Morningside Books? Local political primaries are today, did you remember (or care)? Fire alarms are loud (or at least they should be). Radical: a politics of love and an ethics of compassion (or maybe just crazy). 
 In the midst all this heart-breaking excitement about John McCain, we were reminded to check in (as we do from time to time) with his daughter Meghan, CC '07. Today Meghan answered 11 questions for MSNBC, in which she revealed her love for HamDel and her father's love for Tom's. Tom's. "Q: Your dad is coming to Columbia this week to appear with Barack Obama for a Service Nation event. Since you went to Columbia, where are you looking forward to taking your dad around your old stomping ground? A: The Hamilton Deli, it’s where I used to eat every meal. I also really love Tom’s. That was my dad’s favorite thing about Columbia -- that it was by Tom’s Restaurant. He used to tell everyone, 'Meghan and I ate at the Seinfeld restaurant!' He could have taken me to Nobu, but we went to the Seinfeld restaurant (laughs)." Oh and then she makes some joke about wanting to drink with Obama at the Heights, but Obama not wanting to. In conclusion, none of this will make you feel any better about being denied entrance to The Non-Partisan Service Spectacular of 2008. 
 The matter of how the 200 Obamacain seats would be assigned was a pressing concern for about 15,000 of you.&nbsp; At the same time, many campus media organizations applied for press credentials (which were approved -- or, in all cases but two, denied -- by ServiceNation), so that they could record, report, videotape, and photograph the event from the coveted interior of Roone.&nbsp; According to a University spokesperson, Columbia didn't secure any of the 200 seats for campus media. However, ServiceNation did save a seat for one lucky Spectator reporter -- our money's on Joy Resmovits, the deputy campus news editor who got the initial scoop -- and, in an exciting new development, one for Bwog too.&nbsp; Meanwhile, the Columbia-affiliated CTV applied for credentials from ServiceNation and was denied, as was WKCR. "Unfortunately, because it's not a university sponsored event, the University has very little say in who gets credentialed and as of right now. It doesn't look like any of the campus media groups are being credentialed," said Allison Yang, the CTV news director. (The University spokesperson said that a livefeed would be broadcast on CTV.) However, the majority of the press will work from outside Roone, in designated press room with a live feed of the Summit. 
 The denizens of Low Library have just released the calendar for Columbia's 2008 edition of the World Leaders Forum, fresh with a snazzy new website chronicling the&nbsp; Columbia tradition's past, present and future.&nbsp; Have a look at their new multimedia section, and you'll see that this site is no laughing matter. But the speakers this year?&nbsp; Bwog is still scratching its head on that one.&nbsp; While last year's version sparked considerable hooplah with the invitation of a certain Iranian politician, it seems that this year's lineup may lack a bit of the sparkle that a certain petty and cruel dictator's speech last year may have offered.&nbsp; That is of course not the case, if you find a spiel by Olafur Ragnar Grimson, President of the world's oldest democracy (Iceland) scintillating.&nbsp; If the leader of a small, island nation speaking is not your cup of tea, perhaps you might be interested in a scheduled speech by Primer Minister Anders Fogh Rasumussen of Denmark or President Danilo Türk of Slovenia.&nbsp; While this year's World Leaders' Forum may not dazzle as much as last year's, there is always the Obamacain spectacle to look forward to this time around. 
 Several tipsters have pointed us in the direction of this Observer piece, which announces that James Franco, MFA '?? will star as Allen Ginsberg, CC '48, in an upcoming biopic. And while we're on the topic of Franco (the plaintive soul at right), last night he was spotted studying in Blue Java "with massive hipster headphones staring at his Mac." Reportedly he looked "scruffy" and was sporting a black Jansport backpack. That said, as a general policy and a nod to basic human decency, we will not be posting Franco sightings in real time. But continue to send them in, and we'll do a FrancoWatch wrap-up whenever the need arises. 
Now that Columbia's buildings (and the 25 feet surrounding those buildings) are officially smoke-free, the ashtrays in front of Hamilton -- the longtime home of many a clove extinguished in the minutes before a humanities class -- have been turned into flower pots. The War on Tobacco has taken a most poetic turn. Photo by Joseph Meyers 
 Alan Brinkley is the most popular Columbia professor on Facebook. Columbia is trying to "ameliorate" tensions with the community. Columbia gets amazing athletic recruits, who eat McDonald's every day, wear jeans so tight that their legs atrophy and smoke clove cigarettes.&nbsp; Statisticians: Here are all the sexy details about the rigorous lottery.&nbsp; Pity the first-year who did not witness the hunger strike and thus cannot fully understand the ramifications of the Global Core. 
 The foodie blog SeriousEats has posed an interesting question: "Does Morningside Heights Finally Have A Good Contemporary Italian Restaurant?" It's referring to Campo, which took the place of Pertutti, the now-defunct Parents Weekend hotspot with a reputation for sucking. Anyway, SeriousEats calls the pizza crust "cardboard" and the service "sloppy but well-meaning," which seems to answer the question posed by the post's title. "The Columbia community is still in need of a really solid Italian restaurant. I actually think Campo has good intentions," the blog concludes. But Bwog's own informal polling of students seems to indicate otherwise. The consensus was that yes, of course it's too expensive, but still, the "outdoor seating is nice" and it's "better than Pertutti" -- which, well, it would almost have to be. There was even an impassioned defense of the cardboard-y pizza! Still, one CC senior probably best summarized the Campo condition in saying, "Overpriced.&nbsp; Mediocre food.&nbsp; Perfect for Columbia students." 
 Rumors saying as much have been swirling around this very blog (as well as Spec) for a month or so, but Bwog just spoke with a clerk at Kim's who confirmed the terrible news: When Kim's closes, a Ricky's Cosmetics will open in its place. You might be familiar with the products of Ricky's if you recall the trashiest Halloween party you've ever been to. For come October, Ricky's boasts an impressive collection of costumes you will later regret having worn.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 A tipster reported that right now at the Barnard's Activities Fair, amidst clubs and I HEART BC shirts galore, cotton candy is being given out to strong, beautiful women (and probably strong, hungry men.)&nbsp; It only lasts until 3pm, so hurry up and get your spun-sugar treats. 
 Geneva, SWITZERLAND -- This just in from CERN Research Center: It was the culmination of thousands of physicists and engineers working for over a decade in what has become the greatest scientific project the world has ever seen.&nbsp; The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is built to hurl thousands of tiny particles at speeds approaching that of security kicking you off of South Lawn.&nbsp; Scientists ran a test of the finalized machine with just spinning protons and were displeased to find out that they did not create a quantum vortex enveloping all of Earth and, indeed, the entire solar system, into a black hole. But fear not, according to the source of all knowledge, the real fun happens on October 21, when they begin high-energy collisions.&nbsp; Also, for those looking to put one together using their ROLMs and duct tape, CERN published the entire manual for the LHC, totaling over 1500 pages. 
Bwog snuck into Roone to see all the exciting preparations for tomorrow's Service Spectacular. There are about 20 people inside working on installing cameras, television screens, and mysterious black sercrecy curtains shrouding the Broadway entrance to Lerner. There are also a few important looking people on stage discussing logistics of the chairs and American flag paneling. More fairly passable cameraphone photos after the jump. 
In the highly likely case that you don't read your emails to COLUMBIACOMMUNITY, here at Bwog we'd like to relay some helpful tips for getting around campus tomorrow during tomorrow's madness.&nbsp; Secret Service has already been sighted at the 117 st. gates, on College Walk, and at the Med School (?), so be ready with these handy tips: &nbsp;Have your University ID with you all day. Duh. Avoid Lerner at all costs.&nbsp; The entrance from Broadway, Mail services and Tasti-D will close at 2:00 p.m.&nbsp; Get your fake yogurt fixes elsewhere (or take on a second job to eat at Pinkberry.) After 2:00 p.m., you won't be able to enter campus from John Jay or Carman gates.&nbsp; After 5:00 p.m., you need an ID to get into any of the other gates. Sit on the Low Steps to watch the Jumbotron.&nbsp; You probably will want to get there well before the 7:00 p.m. start time if you want to actually sit, though.&nbsp; Remember that 15,000 people signed up for seats and they'll be itching to watch. Otherwise just watch on CTV. According to a University spokesperson, "CUTV service is available to students in the individual rooms of 600 W 113, Broadway, Carman, Furnald, John Jay, McBain, River, Ruggles, Schapiro, Watt, Wien, Woodbridge, and the two-person flats in East Campus. In Hogan and the East Campus suites and townhouses, service is offered only in the common areas." For all the thrilling details about Your Safety, the complete email is after the jump.&nbsp; To all members of the Columbia community: On Thursday, September 11, Columbia University will host a ServiceNation Summit event in Alfred Lerner Hall featuring presidential candidates John McCain and Barack Obama. &nbsp;The purpose of this message is to provide important information about campus access and the events taking place this Thursday. Please carry your University ID card with you on Thursday to ensure that you can access campus at all times. LIMITED ACCESS TO LERNER HALL Lerner Hall will be open only to University ID holders on Sept. 11. &nbsp;Beginning at 2:00 p.m., the Broadway entrance to Lerner Hall will be closed, as will the Lerner Gate at 115th St. and Broadway. &nbsp;After that time, please enter through the building's campus entrance by using your University ID. &nbsp;The first floor of Lerner and the 4th floor corridor near Ferris Booth Commons, including the Package Center, will also be closed at 2:00 p.m. All other Lerner Hall offices, Café 212, the 3rd floor of Ferris Booth Commons, and the Columbia Bookstore will be open during normal business hours. &nbsp;After 2:00 p.m., the Bookstore will be accessible via the Lerner campus entrance only. STREET AND SIDEWALK CLOSURES 114th St. between Broadway and Amsterdam Ave. will be closed to vehicular traffic from 12:01 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. on Thursday. &nbsp;"No Parking" signs will also be posted. &nbsp;Please do not park your car on 114th St. overnight on Wednesday or it will be towed by the Police Department. Pedestrian traffic on 114th St. will be restricted to the south side of the street beginning at 2:00 p.m. &nbsp;At that time, the Carman and John Jay gates will also close. The east side of Broadway between 114th St. and 116th St. will be closed to pedestrians beginning at 2:00 p.m. ADDITIONAL GATE CLOSURES From 5:00 p.m. onward, the campus will be open to University ID holders only, through the following gates: - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 116th St. and Broadway (north walk only)- Note: this gate may be subject to closure depending on pedestrian traffic on Broadway - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 116th &nbsp;St. &amp; Amsterdam Ave. (north walk only) - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Earl Hall Gate (117th St. &amp; Broadway) - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Chapel Gate (117th St. &amp; Amsterdam Ave.) until 6:00 p.m. - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Grove (119th St. &amp; Amsterdam Ave.) - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 120th St. Gate until 6:00 p.m. - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Mudd Building entrance on 120th St. until 6:00 p.m. - &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 115th St. &amp; Amsterdam Ave. Gate ** You must present your University ID to enter campus at any gate after 5:00 p.m. ** ACCESS FOR TEMPORARY STAFF If you have temporary staff who do not have a University ID and who need access to campus on the afternoon of Sept. 11, you will need to make the following accommodations for them. &nbsp;Please prepare a letter on University letterhead stating that the person is reporting for work, specify the campus location, and sign the letter. &nbsp;Please give this letter to your temporary workers before Sept. 11, and please instruct them to carry a photo ID, such as a driver's license, matching the name in the letter. VIEWING AND PARTICIPATION IN CAMPUS EVENTS The ServiceNation Summit event will be simulcast on a large screen facing Low Plaza. &nbsp;All University ID holders are invited to view the event here. &nbsp;The simulcast will begin at 7:00 p.m. &nbsp;A live feed of the event will also be accessible via CTV in all Columbia residence halls. &nbsp;It is likely that the event will be broadcast live on major media networks, and we encourage schools and departments to organize screenings where possible. A series of student-organized events, including a food drive, will run throughout the day. &nbsp;Please check the Columbia homepage for updates on these plans. Your cooperation during this busy and historic day is greatly appreciated. &nbsp;We hope that you will take advantage of the events surrounding this summit and join the University in recognizing the importance of public service. Sincerely, Jeffrey Scott Executive Vice President Student and Administrative Services James McShane Associate Vice President Columbia University Public Safety 
Oh look, the fleet of roving news vans has already arrived on campus, a full half a day before the Obamacain Spectacular. That is CBS in the front, and our friends Fox News in the back.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Obama wasn't a huge fan of Columbia! Columbia wasn't a huge fan of McCain!&nbsp; The neighbors are apathetic! Athletes aren't dumb! Volunteering is great!&nbsp; Really!&nbsp; Students think so too! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog Culinary and Sciences Editor Jon Hill noticed that the following event was removed from the World Leaders Forum website: "Sixth Annual Heads of State Visits Date: September 22, 2008 to September 26, 2008 Location: Morningside Campus Description: Columbia University hosts heads of state in September during the opening session of the United Nations General Assembly." It might be that our only speakers this year will be the leaders of Denmark, Iceland, and Slovenia. Oh, and plus the CEO of AREVA and a feminist politics conference. 
 It's been seven years since 9/11, and the city's firefighters still come here, to Firemen's Memorial on 100th St. and Riverside. The Ground Zero memorial is restricted to those from FDNY 343 and their family members. "It's sad that an event like this has to bring us all out," said Officer Pat McNeely, from Ottawa, explaining that the force comes together when someone dies in the line of duty.&nbsp; "Word always travels really fast in this job. Someone somewhere in the city always has the pulse on some other department."&nbsp; Hundreds of blue-suited firemen gathered, talking in low voices, with bagpipe strains in the background. For more memorials in the city, check here. - LBD 
 Our new friends at this J-School blog have spotted a TV schedule for tonight's forum on one of the trailers on Broadway. Industrious aspiring journalists that they are, they have summarized the preliminary order of events. What you need to know: The candidates will not speak until 8 p.m. (McCain) and 9 p.m. (Obama) respectively. Each has about an hour for their speeches. The preceding hour will be mostly taken up by introductions of various kinds, including New York Governor David Patterson (who apparently plans to introduce a new service initiative) and Tobey Maguire (best known for playing fictional Columbia student Peter Parker). PrezBo's intro will be at 7:30.&nbsp;&nbsp; To see the rest of the schedule (including a photo of the actual minute-by-minute sheet), head on over to that J-School blog. 
Hey look at that, a human being has emerged from the Fox News van, which stood silently in waiting all through the night. This fellow here is Major Garrett, but stay tuned for more Media Portraiture of all his friends. Photo by Jon Hill 
 So, as you may have noticed, Bwog is a little on the fritz today because of course. We're looking into the problem (something with "servers," maybe) and it should be fixed soon-ish. Thanks for your patience.&nbsp; 
 Bwog doesn't know whether this New York Times story about engineers earning credit for service projects in Harlem was originally supposed to run yesterday, but, regardless, we doff our collective (and imaginary) caps to the Grey Lady for its sense of timing. In short, the engineering school allows students to earn class credit while doing public service at the same time. While this is currently the only project on such a large scale numbers-wise, the Times reports that "at Columbia, other academic departments are now considering integrating service into the curriculum, and community projects have become a key part of the university's sales pitch to prospective students." Other highlights include an appearance by Jack McGourty, a one-sentence mention of today's "service fair," and the man behind ServiceNation declaring that "the millennial generation is the greatest serving generation since the greatest generation." Bwog is happy to score one for optimism. 
 Look where I was this summer! Some photos of paintings on walls Now a little less than half of life is just showing up First Ladies: the Wardrobe Change We Need! An editors intro about Sept. 11: because nothing else is...
 Some of your classmates have already started sitting on the steps, willing to sit there bored, for hours and hours, just to watch Obamacain on the Jumbotron, which your student leaders fought for so valiantly. Michael Snyder and Tobin Mitnick, both CC '10, said that they weren't sure they were going to hang around until the speech. "I don't have class," Snyder shrugged noncommittally, and later admitted that he would "probably hang around." Mitnick doesn't expect Obama or McCain to say anything of substance, but said that if there were a debate, he'd like Lee Bollinger's hair to moderate. Laura, CC '09, also wasn't sure if she was going to hang around. She had been there for 10 minutes, and sat with a salad looking vaguely bored. Anyway, it's kind of chilly out too, so if you are planning on heading to the Steps, bring autumnal outerwear. 
The lottery winning ticket-holders have began to line up at the entrance of Roone. Ha! They have to line-up inside already and the rest of us get to hang around and enjoy this lovely, overcast day. Who's the lucky one now? Meanwhile, Bwog actually heard a pantsuit-wearing lady say "I just spoke to the White House this morning..."&nbsp; &nbsp; 
World-renowned Service-enthusiast Usher just walked up the Lerner ramps, right in front of your Bwog editor! He was wearing a scarf and sunglasses and was surrounded by many others wearing sunglasses. He was hurried into the piano lounge, but apparently that was the wrong place to go and he was taken to a second mysterious location. Oh, and then these guys walked up to Bwog and asked who that was we just took a picture of. We replied it was none other than Usher. "Ha! I told you so!" one of them shouted. "You owe me $5." More horrible paparazzi shots after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Check in as we bring you updates and photographs from the Steps, Lerner, and the Press Room. &nbsp; &nbsp; 5:24 PM: Sarah Besnoff, George Krebs, and Peter Valerias are talking to us about the community service fair that's still happening but no one is going to forfeit their spots on the steps.&nbsp; 5:27 PM: Someone is speaking very quickly and softly now, there is literally no way to tell who it is. It's quite windy out.&nbsp; 5:32 PM: The mic keeps going out but Bwog heard the phrases "commuity lunch" and "not to be too corny, but to quote Martin Luther King..." 5:37 PM: There is a slideshow, with the theme of Service. Seems like the mic has been fixed, in any event. Steps are basically standing room only at this point, so latecomers have started to spread out on Low Plaza.&nbsp; 5:53 PM: New Chris Colombo Kevin Schollenberg is sporting very dapper plaid suit. Let the record state that he is better dressed than Usher. 6:04 PM: Krebs introduces Bollinger. No one can hear a word he is saying. A few kids starting "shh-ing" other kids, but gave up with a half a second. Oh, and Bollinger's done already. 15 people applauded, including Krebs. 6:10 PM: Media folk are standing on the edges of the crowd, so if for whatever reason you want to be interviewed about all this, head that way. Media will be watching the Summit in a "press receiving room" in Low, which is probably not what they were expecting. 6:13 PM: Here is McCain's press release about Service, because that is, after all, why we are here. Service. 6:24 PM: Dems, CUGOP, and CPU are sending some doomed souls over to Fox News tonight, right into the open arms of Sean Hannity and Alan Colmes.&nbsp; They'll go on at 10 PM. Stay tuned for the Names of the Damned. 6:32 PM: Loudest cheering all night, in celebration of the Jumbotron. 6:36 PM: To read about Obamacain's visit to Columbia, check here. 6:36 PM: None of the press can get into Low because the door is locked. The press room is conveniently located in the locked building, and there are frantic camera people running around asking us if we know of any alternate entrances. We do not. 6:37 PM: Oh dear god, the ServiceNation people need to get in Low but obviously it is locked. They are all on their phones, trying to find someone who knows what's going on. 6:46 PM: So here are those names we promised you of which friends of yours are stopping by Hannity and Colmes Fox News tonight: Kaley Hanenkrat, BC '11, Dems membership director Avi Edelman, CC '11, Dems media director Sajaa Ahmed, CC '10, CPR editor Lauren Salz, BC '11, CUGOP executive director Jonathan Kaiser, CC '10, CUGOP communications director And, the best part, it's being taped live outside the 116th gates tonight! 6:50 PM: Bwog found the entrance to Low, finally, and is sitting in a media room because there are outlets there. Here's a photo of the media room. If you manage to sneak in, there's free soda and food.&nbsp; 6:55 PM: There's a livefeed of Roone playing in this room. (According to our sources on the Outside, there's still a Service Slideshow playing for the Steps audience.) So here's what you need to know: people are milling about. That flag paneling we showed you yesterday? Turns out it's symmetrical. No sign of Obama, McCain, Bollinger, Usher, James Franco, Jonathan Taylor Thomas, or anyone else you were hoping to see. 7:01 PM: Overheard from a security walkie-talkie: The flags are going to fly at half-mast. 
We'll start a second liveblog dedicated to the Summit itself, which is about to start. Join us! Or reminisce about all the fun times we had on the lawn, with our earlier liveblog. &nbsp; 7:04 PM: Everyone took their seats off the stage. Ushers are ushering people to chairs. If Bwog sees one empty chair... 7:06 PM: Ooh, we're starting, we're starting! Thank you to our sponsors, Target and Time magazine, and others! 7:07 PM: It's Joseph Ienuso, who just asked one million people to turn off their cell phones. 7:08 PM: Bwog operative spots a sniper on the roof of Butler. Awesome. 7:09 PM: It's someone from Target and someone from AARP talking about ServiceNation. Hm, it seems most of the sodas that were here earlier are gone. &nbsp; 7:11 PM: Where is Rick Stengel?! Oh but who cares that's Usher, the "youth co-chair." 7:14 PM: A pack of Terrible 12s are celebrating 40s on 40, about four years too early. They are wasted. They're right by Alma Mater, go say hello! 7:17 PM: So while this guy is talking, we thought we'd report that earlier Joe Biden gave a small speech to a crowd at 114th and Broadway. 7:18 PM: The flaxen-haired, elf-like boy who plays Eric van der Woodsen is sitting on the steps behind Alma Mater. Maybe the Terrible 12s will share their alcohol with him, but we doubt it. 7:21 PM: It's PrezBo time. 7:23 PM: PrezBo thanks ServiceNation and talks about 9/11 and extends a special welcome to the 9/11 families, who are in Roone. 7:24 PM: PrezBo is proud of you, just for sitting on the Steps! 7:25 PM: Now he's talking about the history of the Core, because he may as well. He just called Lerner a "global citizenship house" and said that all of Columbia should be called that. 7:26 PM: SEAS shout-out. 7:27 PM: There's no audio for you on the lawn, apparently. Yikes. Well, PrezBo is just introducing Paterson. 7:28 PM: Paterson is telling a Service-related joke that also relates to his blindness. 7:30 PM: Shocking reports from the unruly lawn: the livefeed has cut out! There are boos and demands for the Jumbotron to be turned up. 7:32 PM: Paterson is calling us to Service. Oh, now he is talking about the economy and subprime things and 3/4 of people being dissatisfied with the direction in which the country is going, which sounds suspiciously partisan to us. 7:33 PM: Lawn report! Audio on the Jumbotron is up, there is brief cheering. Then the screen loses color. 7:35 PM: Bwog operative sends in photos and notes from outside the gates: A few lonely World Can't Wait protesters -- including Manhattanville activist Tom DeMott - -with orange signs decrying war against Iran, torture, etc. etc. Passersby either take pictures or rush on confusedly. 7:37 PM: People in the press room are giggling at the ridiculous Tobey Maguire introduction: "He starred in 3 of the 15 highest grossing movies of all time..." Apparently Maguire's next movie co-stars Jake Gyllenhaal. 7:38 PM: Tobey: "I swear I did not write that introduction." Even Tobey Maguire is a little incredulous Tobey Maguire is here. 7:40 PM: Overheard: "Let's drink every time they say 'service.'" Please don't kill yourselves. 7:40 PM: Tobes says that though he may play a superhero in the movies, the real superheroes are the people who do actual good deeds. Mmm. 7:41 PM: Tobes is clealy unsure whether to look at the audience or the camera. Now he just looks stoned. 7:44 PM: A woman whose son died on 9/11 is talking about terrorism, torture, and how she has dedicated her life to helping victims of mass violence. 7:46 PM: "The need is everywhere is growing as war and civil strife continue to make headlines around the world." 7:47 PM: Lawn Report! Trouble with the screen! It's black and white, and alternating to color, and now it's off... 7:49 PM: 9/11 is now a nationally recognized day of service. Another 9/11 family member just said of 9/11: "You wanted to find a way to help, even in just a small way. We thought that passion was just too valuable to waste." 7:52 PM: The screen is black. Some press member just screamed. 7:53 PM: Oh, thank god, it's back. But who is this guy? Apparently the screen's still out on the lawn. 7:53 PM: The screen is gone again. You can actually feel panic. Everyone is silent but screaming on the inside. 7:55 PM: People are starting to migrate from the Steps, as there is no video or sound. In the press room, there's just the ServiceNation logo which is, in a way, worse than if it were just a blank screen. 7:56 PM: It's Joseph, working with the content team. He's thanking us for blogging and telling us about ServiceNation.org, and there's a livefeed but that is down. Now he is telling us about the depelted soda reserves. 7:57 PM: Listen up! Joseph says that the screen will cut out when there is an advertisement. Everyone calmed down and went to go find soda. 8:00 PM: Ha, all the media people are trashtalking C-SPAN. "This is a perfect C-SPAN event, there are all these celebrities," which we think is an insult. 
 The main event is here! Check back at other liveblogs dedicated to the opening act and pre-gaming on the Steps. 8:01 PM: The screen is back. And Judy Woodruff is here.&nbsp; 8:03 PM: Oh, here is Rick Stengel. Is it just our TV or is his face bright yellow? 8:04 PM: It's McCain! Hello, McCain! 8:05 PM: He just pointed in the audience, maybe at Meghan! 8:04 PM: It's time to talk about 9/11. Are we forgetting about it? How will McCain make us remember, because clearly this is his responsibility. 8:05 PM: He replies that serving our country is what this forum is all about. 8:07 PM: If McCain were President in 2001, he would have expanded the military. We needed a "concrete plan of action" about the need for us all to service the nation. 8:08 PM: Everyone in the country is frustrated with the Republican government. McCain, who is a Republican but also a Maverick, agrees. 8:10 PM: Oh McCain made a sassy face when Stengel asked him to explain his earlier remark about everyone hating Republicans. 8:12 PM: McCain made a mumbly joke about having a terrible temper. He's talking about his Experience as a Maverick. 8:13 PM: It's a break again now don't everyone freak out when the TV goes blank. 8:13 PM: The TV didn't go blank. McCain and Woodruff and Stengel are still in their respective chairs. So it's time for a Lawn Report! Bwogger Downie reports "polite applause" when McCain took the stage. Low Plaza and Steps are apparently standing room only, if that. 8:16 PM: And we're back. And talking about Katrina, because that too relates to Service. McCain is talking about "faith-based organizations." 8:17 PM: He just insulted Target! Target is a sponsor. 8:18 PM: Judy Woodruff talks about how service "is left to those who can afford to take time off from work." McCain thinks it is people of average wealth that do that most, "in all due respect to rich people." 8:19 PM: "The busiest people are the busiest. And the busier they get, the busier they get." - John McCain. Also, Operative Downie notes McCain pronounced New Orleans two different ways in about a sentence. 8:21 PM: McCain says he's not a hero, he had the "honor of serving in the company of heroes." 8:22 PM: Woodruff brings up Iraq, uh oh. This could get partisan. 8:24 PM: Yeah, of course it did. He brought Columbia's ban on ROTC and Bwog could hear the roar from the Steps from inside Low. 8:28 PM: Clapping, followed by a camera zoom. We're back. 8:28 PM: Stengel just used the term "interesting" in a really undermining way.&nbsp; "Why would we have compulsary military service in America that has a civilian component?" 8:28 PM: Lawn Report! Security estimates there are about 5,000ish of you on the Lawn. Also, the 9/11 Truth protestors have arrived. 8:30 PM: McCain doesn't agree with Obama, but thinks his proposals for compulsary service are okay. "It doesn't have to always be run by the government." He mentions faith-based organizations. 8:31 PM: Would McCain make Obama a member of his Cabinet? He says yes and everyone applauds. 8:33 PM: According to McCain: McCain:Goldwater::Obama:JFK 8:34 PM: Bwogger DePillis reports: The 9/11 Truth people are arguing with the Communist, calling them searing insults like "you fucking Communists." 8:34 PM: Bwogger Downie reports that the Steps crowd boos Palin's name.&nbsp; 8:36 PM: "I understand that Ted Kennedy is coming back in January. I greet that with mixed emotions." 8:40 PM: Joe, in the media room, is literally going around and asking if he's helpful or distracting. Someone answered him that all his talking is "a way to pass the time." 8:41 PM: He pretends to fall asleep, because he's talking about the elderly. 8:41 PM: Ooh, online questions. It's Gisele from Brooklyn. Oh my god, Gisele is in the press room, next to Bwog. She's giggling. It's a trap, John McCain! Gisele is a reporter. 8:42 PM: Stengel wants to talk about McCain said we shouldn't send money to countries that don't like us. Should we send people? McCain says yes. 8:44 PM: He's talking about immigration, and how we'd love to have "so many of these highly trained people stay in our country." 8:44 PM: Are Americans better than everyone else? "We're the only nation that is deeply concerned about adhering to the principle that all of us are created equal." 8:46 PM: Again, it's probably going to get Partisan. Thanks Rick Stengel. 8:48 PM: McCain wanted himself and Obama to stand on stage together and talk. Why isn't this happening again? 8:48 PM: 2042, the US will no longer have a white majority. There is only one minute left and Rick Stengel couldn't finish the question but McCain will answer it anyway. Again, that word, "exceptional." 8:50 PM: Bwogger Downie notes it's interesting he keeps brining up the Town Hall thing. He hasn't brought that up in awhile. 8:51 PM: Woodruff thanks McCain. Photographers trip over eachother trying to get to the stage. They are rushing the stage.&nbsp; 8:51 PM: It's Obama! Bwog can hear the cheers from outside. 8:52 PM: Commercial time. Joe just asked the media room if anyone is blogging for MySpace. No hands went up. 8:52 PM: Gisele from Brooklyn, the reporter who submitted the question, tells another reporter that she was doing that to see if the system worked and she submitted a million questions. 8:55 PM: Lawn Report! A CU staffer claps and chants "Yes We Can!" He later admits, "I've always wanted to do that." 8:55 PM: There! See! He said it. He admitted he went here. The neighborhood has changed. Our apartments are nicer, for one thing. 8:56 PM: Stengel reminds Obama of today's date. 8:57 PM: "How do we honor those who died everyday?" Obama asks himself. "My sense is that the country years for it. It's hungry for it. What has been missing is a President in the White House who taps into that." Partisan alert! 8:59 PM: "We have been tested, and yet we have survived," is what Obama would say if he had been President during 9/11. Some girl just cheered really loudly when he mentioned alternative energy. 9:00 PM: Rick Stengel is yellow. It's not just the TV. 9:00 PM: "Part of what makes America works is that we believe in individual responsibility but we also believe in mutual responsbility." He says we are committed to something larger than ourselves, and this has built our country. 9:02 PM: Oooh, Woodruff calls him on his vagueness. She asks for specifics about this "mutual responsibilty." Obama calls Kennedy his "dear friend." Kennedy has supported Obama's service plan. 9:03 PM: The specifics include making college affordable and giving high schoolers service opportunities. It is a cliffhanger, because there are even more service opportunities after the break. 9:08 PM: He's talking about retirees providing help to young people and how these young people will welcome it. Obama believes we are in a "special moment' where American recognizes we are not on the right track. Lawn correspondent Downie reports that the lines about student aid get applause. &nbsp; 9:09 PM: "Income does not determine whether or not people serve." Also, he mentioned Columbia again and the crowd goes wild, or so Bwog hears. He talks about choosing service over Wall Street. 9:11 PM: Stengel makes a jokes about Newt Gingrich. It gets polite applause. 9:11 PM: Barack Obama interrputs Stengel's dumb question and says "Let's look to the future." And says "We have to have a FEMA that works." We do this by encouraging young people to get involved in civil service.&nbsp; 9:13 PM: Wants to define a "government of assist" vs. a "government of bureaucracy." Woodruff reminds Obama now is not a time to get all partisan, but encourages him to get a little partisan. 9:14 PM: Increased service means the government providing these avenues and opportunities. 9:16 PM: Gisele from Brooklyn happily reports that all her friends are texting her. 9:17 PM: The media room wants to know the same question as you, Bwog commenter. Who is the heavy-set man in a tan jacket wandering around aimlessly on stage? 9:18 PM: In the wake of Iraq and Afghanistan, the military is facing challenges. "It's important for us to increase the size of our army so we can reduce the pace of the tours that our young men and women are on." He also mentions increasing pay. 9:19 PM: Stengel was asking Obama questions off-camera, about service. Is this allowed? Why does Rick Stengel think the rules don't apply to him? 9:23 PM: Obama considered signing up for the military. "If there are wars going on and some are being asked to sacrifice their lives, I think you have to ask yourself, why them instead of you?" 9:24 PM: The burden of military service has been shouldered by such a narrow group and this is a problem. Same goes for how we treat these people when they return home, says Obama. 9:25 PM: Online question from Gina in Bloomfield. It's probably just Gisele again, using a pseudonym. Obama thinks that we have a "special obligation for those who have put their lives at risk on behalf of the security of America. That does not mean we cannot provide other opportunities of service." 9:26 PM: He says we need teachers, and says that this is something we should be willing to pay for. 9:27 PM: One more segment to go. 9:28 PM: Lawn Report! The fencing is being moved along College Walk. Jim Downie thinks that the convoys might be driving along there, after this thing ends. 9:30 PM: National service elevated to a cabinet level position? Obama wants to make McCain a deal, and McCain can serve in Obama's cabinet. People laugh. Obama talks about McCain "inspiring a whole generation of young people." 9:31 PM: Obama is talking about Matt, a soldier in Montana, who is now a lawyer. Matt quit his job and decided to create an advocacy group about post-trauatic stress disorder. "I never asked Matt whether he was liberal or conservative. What I knew was that he had seen a wrong and had been inspired to take action." 9:32 PM: Uh, oh. Palin question. Was Palin being unfair when she said those things about community organizers? Obama is talking about small time mayors. Obama was "surprised" by several remarks around "community organizing and belittling it." 9:34 PM: Working as a community organizer was the best education Obama ever had. No offense to Lee Bollinger, he hedges. 9:34 PM: Security is clearing traffic away from Lerner. In anticipation of people lining up along the fences on campus, there are lots of police around Butler and Lerner. 9:35 PM: "If it weren't for government, we would not have the Civil Rights Act or the Interstate Highway System." Obama wants to "make government cool again." 9:37 PM: Stengel is trying to impress Obama by talking about de Tocqueville. 9:38 PM: Obama says people have the freedom to determine the direction of their communities while recognizing that we are part of a common project. He says this has been lost. 9:39 PM: According to Scott Helfrich, candidates could "possibly" be going along College Walk. 9:39 PM: Obama said that Kennedy knew where America to go, and it wasn't just the moon. Teddy Roosevelt was also an activist President, like Clinton and Kennedy. 9:41 PM: "Change happens from the bottom up." 9:41 PM: It's over. There's a stampede to the fences! 9:41 PM: CONFIRMED WITH SECURITY: Obama heading to College Walk now! 
 As we wait for Barack Obama to walk across College Walk and hop into a white SUV at the sundial -- UPDATE 10:10 PM: Security says they're "having trouble with the dorms" and this walk is canceled -- we've received a Shocking Report that an estimated 75 seats located on the lower level of Roone were completely empty. A Roone insider reports that ServiceNation brochures and a copy of Time were placed on these seats, indicating that they were, at least in theory, designated for audience members.&nbsp; 
Today, we received many outstanding photographs of various things like David Gergen and cops on the roof of Butler and Joe Biden befriending a small child on a bicycle. Here is a collection of the day's special moments. Plus a bonus PhotoShop Contest after the jump! Photo by Jon Hill &nbsp; Photo of Joe Biden and new friend by Jenny Shen Photo of CNN correspondent/Nixon advisor David Gergen by Jon Hill Photo by Mariela Quintana Photo by Anthony Yim Photo by Anthony Yim Photo by Anthony Yim Photo by Anthony Yim Photo by Anthony Yim Photo by Mariela Quintana Photo by Jon Hill Bwog's Culinary and Sciences Editor Jon Hill (also the famed photographer of many of the above photos) has announced a PhotoShop Contest. The challenge: What would Alma be holding in her left hand while watching the Summit? PhotoShop it in, and send to bwog@columbia.edu by Sunday at noon. 
 A Robyn Schneider for a new generation. Philip Roth makes it big, in Hollywood! Woody Allen makes things beautiful and slightly off-putting, in Barcelona! Standing up to middle school and high school bullies: what you need to know. That time you sat uncomfortably on the Steps yesterday: relive the magic! That time you watched the Summit and were vaguely bored: relive the magic! Waterfalls are magic. &nbsp; Photo by Anthony Yim 
 Bwog was just stopped by a pair of high school pollsters from New York's Urban Academy, looking for Columbia students' opinions on the upcoming election for a project. Help 'em out! The young lady is wearing a purple jacket, the young man is sporting a navy blue backwards cap. They're outside Lerner holding clipboards now. Ask for the "bonus question" about how you feel about Palin's stance on teenage abortion rights. 
 When we posted about the World Leaders Forum speaker list a few days ago, many of you suggested that more high profile speakers would be announced soon. Well, you were right, though the speakers aren't for the World Leaders Forum. A tipster has informed us that, on Wednesday, September 24th, several South and Central American heads of state will be sitting on a panel about poverty in Latin America, including Felipe Calderón of Mexico, Cristina Kirchner of Argentina, Elias González of El Salvador, and Martin Espino of Panama. Joining them will be Columbia's own Jeffrey Sachs (who just can't stop hanging out with celebrities), and the pop star/"activist" Shakira. In fairness, Shakira should be used to colleges after taking a class at UCLA last year. Registration will start on September 17th at 9 A.M. 
 Like the candidates' commitment to service, Bwog's commitment to free food never wavers. Here are just some of the events this evening for you to fill your stomachs at: Last night's Jumbotron extravaganza not enough for you? The College Dems are having a "debriefing" barbecue from 5-8 in front of Hartley and Wallach. If&nbsp;you&nbsp;like to eat later, CQA is holding its "Queer Sushi" event from 8-10 in the Satow Room (5th Floor Lerner). If you want some art to go with your food, head over to Postcrypt instead from 8-10 for its Summer Photography show. There'll be live music as well, with free wine and snacks (2 IDs to drink, of course). (Update: the Postcrypt show is next week, not tonight. Bwog will now be signing up for a calendar-reading course...) Now go feast! UPDATE 4:44 PM: Everyone seems to value staying dry more than free food.&nbsp; 
 The school year has started again, and so Bwog's "White&nbsp;House Bureau Chief" Jim Downie resumes his dispatches. Gather 'round, Terrible 12s, and I'll tell you a story. See, way back in your senior year of high school, Bwog decided to ask me to write a weekly column about the election. I've been told the selection process involved "a dartboard." This was back when we were still waiting for Super Tuesday, Clinton was still the favorite, John McCain was only just completing his comeback in the Republican primary, and&nbsp;the&nbsp;New York Giants had just saved the world&nbsp;from the only thing that could ever make Boston sports fans more annoying. I&nbsp;was&nbsp;young and innocent, and I was dazzled by the possibility of my name up in lights. Actually, that's a lie: I was bored, and it seemed like a fun thing to do at the time. I agreed, in exchange for a promise that I would be the first to know when somebody figures out what's tasty about Tasti-D-Lite (I'm still waiting). So what's the idea behind&nbsp;Political Weekly? As I wrote&nbsp;in&nbsp;my column,&nbsp;"The idea: "it's not for political junkies. It's for normal people.' Sometimes serious, sometimes witty, sometimes nutty, and sometimes not even political (or linked)." It's a combination of keeping you informed and helping you procrastinate. And now, the news (ten imaginary bucks to the first Anglophile who gets that reference): ZOMG! Palin Actually On the Record: One of the strategies of the McCain campaign has been to keep Sarah Palin away from reporters until she completes her briefing crash course. To that end, they've had a blanket "off-the-record" policy on her plane, and she hasn't been interviewed by the major networks until yesterday, when she sat down with ABC's Charlie Gibson. Those on the right seem to be satisfied with her performance, given that she's still absorbing a bunch of new information (particularly on foreign policy), but those on the left thought it curious that she didn't know what the "Bush Doctrine" was. Not that it's been a big part of the last 8 years or anything... Of Farm Animals and Cosmetics: In the middle of the week, Barack Obama set off a media frenzy when he said, "You can put lipstick on a pig; it's still a pig." The McCain camp declared the comment a clear sexist jab at Sarah Palin, though much of the media has pointed out it's a relatively common slang phrase. TIME Magazine has a history of the phrase. The Possible Palin Problem: It's not perceptions of her as inexperienced or too conservative,&nbsp;but probably this hearing in Alaska over whether she "abused her power in trying to get her brother-in-law fired." Unfortunately, it's already being referred to as Troopergate, the least creative scandal name since every other time people have tacked on "-gate." "Well, So What? What's Wrong With Being Sexy?": Jon Stewart takes on the sexism charge. On this issue, I stand with Nigel Tufnel. Numbers, Numbers, Numbers: As usual, polls for all the states (in slightly different formats) are here, here, and here. For the more mathematically-inclined, check out the Baseball Prospectus-inspired FiveThirtyEight.com. A More Special Number: For months, Democrats have led in the generic congressional ballot, but that lead has suddenly shrunk to 3 points. Maybe people finally realized they're doing nothing? Well, That's Just Salt in the Wound: Joe Biden tells a guy in a wheelchair to "stand up." Yay Views!: This anti-Obama video has over 5 million views on YouTube. More background on the creator, who is not affiliated with the McCain camp, here. McBama Appears At Columbia: But you already knew that. 
 You may have seen the campus-wide email announcing that, next Wednesday, Columbia will join schools across the country in celebrating Constitution Day. You might also be asking "Constitution Day? Why are we getting a campus-wide email about a holiday I've never heard of?" Well, you have probably never heard of it because the day itself is not that old. Constitution Day only began in 2004, when Senator Robert Byrd stuck an amendment into a big spending bill. The amendment forces any school that receives federal money to provide "educational" materials related to the Constitution. Once again, Columbia is rolling out John Jay's papers to meet the requirement. Also, per the email, "for all of you who have lost or mislaid your pocket version of the constitution - copies will be available for free, while supplies last - at the Law School's Faculty Panel and in the Government &amp; Community Affairs Office in Low Library, Room 309." It's almost like they're not taking this seriously! 
Has your weekend been lacking a certain cultural, athletic or alcoholic satisfaction? If so, check out Bwog’s mid-weekend guide to the weekend update. Cultural Danscores by Ofelia Loret De Mola Shakespeare’s Ophelia was not much of a badass. Rather than sticking it to the man, she let the man stick it to her. Not so with this Mexican-born Ofelia. In the final performance of the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council’s “Sitelines” series, this choreographer expresses her rebellious anti-establishment opinions in performances that challenge the conventions of modern dance. Expect dancing in the street and lots of Mexican punk music. City Park Hall; September 13-14 at 8; Free Oresteia Major Cultures, Global Core, there may be very little distinction between the two, but one thing we do know is that Columbia loves the Western Canon. The university’s love fest with Greek tragedy continues with the Miller Theater’s performance of Iannis Xenakis opera, Oresteia, based on Aeschylus’ tragedy. Miller Theater; September 13, 16 and 17 at 8 The Brooklyn Book Festival Books are great, but Butler on a sunny September day is not. Spend your Sunday in lovely Brooklyn Borough Hall Plaza with some of your favorites authors, including Joan Didion, Jonathan Franzen, Pete Hamill, Jonathan Lethem, Richard Price, Simon Rich and others. Brooklyn’s finest politician, borough prez Marty Markowitz, will preside over the agora. Brooklyn Borough Hall and Plaza; September 14 from 10 – 6 &nbsp; Kayaking on the Hudson Every Saturday and Sunday until October 15th, the New York City Downtown Boathouse hauls their hulls all the way uptown to 72nd Street. Just for you, dear reader! No tickets, no reservations, no equipment, no experience required. Leave your crocs at home. Riverside Park at 72nd Street; Weekends and Holidays from 10 – 5 NY Craft Beer Week According to folks behind this celebration, “there is always a good reason to stop in and enjoy a pint, be it for culinary exploration, watching a game, meeting friends, enjoying music, taking a date, playing games, testing one's knowledge through trivia, or seeking some good ol' fashioned solitary reflection.” Beer Week seeks to honor this adage through innumerable pub crawls, bar parties, brewery tours and BBQs. Upper West Side venues include Toast, Amsterdam 106, Dive Bar, The Dead Poet, Dinosaur BBQ among others. September 12 – 21 Christmas on Mars This weekend, the Flaming Lips introduce their fans to their recently completed movie Christmas on Mars: A Fantastical Film Freakout Featuting the Flaming Lips, a science-fiction extravaganza in which the red planet, a baby and an alien dressed as Santa come together for an excellent adventure. Screenings take place at. September 12-30 at the K.G.B. Bar on E. 4th St. 
 As we all know Columbia loves controversy.&nbsp; We also know that Columbia loves Mexican food.&nbsp; Thankfully Morningside Heights entrepreneurs have recognized this and consequently the neighborhood offers plenty of Mexican eateries.&nbsp; So many in fact that the recent increase in Mexican restaurants has caused quite a controversial and competitive commotion.&nbsp; Where can a student find the cheapest nachos? The most filling burrito? The freshest guacamole? The quickest quesadilla or closest taco? All these questions have roused heated debate.&nbsp; But the most contentious question of all does not concern the price, proximity or preparation of the food, but its authenticity.&nbsp; Now the word "authenticity" is puzzle in its own right, one that everyone from the average eater at Empanada Joe’s to the Latin American Studies major to Professor Spivak herself wrestles with. When it comes to cuisine, authenticity becomes an even trickier, more subjective word than ever.&nbsp; But the organizers behind New York Authentic Mexican Restaurant Week (9/8 -9/15) hope to guide the unworldly patrons of Blockheads, Chipotle, Empanada Joes away from the culinary comfort of their familiar haunts and test out the flavors, aromas and textures of city’s finest and most traditional Mexican restaurants. Participating restaurants are scattered throughout the city and offer three course, prix fix menus. 
 Columbia cannot get enough of presidential candidates. The Spec is reporting that former candidate and New York Senator Hillary Clinton will be holding a press conference on pay equity at Barnard this Monday. The conference itself will be held at 2 p.m. in the Sulzberger Parlor, with a live feed for students in the James Room. Spec also reports that the negotiations for this appearance only started on Friday. So where does Columbia go from here for speakers? Somehow, Bwog doubts that John Edwards is next.&nbsp; 
 There’s nothing Columbia students love more than an event they can’t get into.&nbsp; This week’s Obama/McCain event, PrezBo’s&nbsp; periodic fireside chats, and the Heights on just about any Thursday night all come to mind.&nbsp; Fall Fashion Week is about as exclusive as it gets, and that the week's runway shows and collections have largely gone under Columbia’s radar is more telling of our campus style than it is of the popularity of the event.&nbsp;&nbsp; This aside, some patterns have emerged: Little Black Pointy Shoes &nbsp; Move over Tory Burch. Think of these saddle-shoe inspired booties as a replacement for your trusty flats. They go well paired with black stockings and a skirt for a fancier look or with just shorts or jeans for a more tousled appearance. More after the jump. Vests Columbia students have embraced the nonfunctional vest.&nbsp; From the vintage cowboy-inspired vests to the shrunken suit coat vest, most do little in the way of actually providing warmth.&nbsp; But practicality be damned, vests are key ensemble pieces this fall. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Plaid and Grandaddy Cardigans&nbsp; There’s no sassier way to rebuke the preppy back-to-school staples (shrunken blazers, popped oxford collar) than to wear a crumpled lumberjack print and your Gramps' oversized Izod cardigan. Moth holes welcomed. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Backpacks They're finally in again, if they were ever out... This fall, students have been seen sporting beaten up Jansports, Eastpacks and the like. Top pick goes to the jumbo L.L. Bean monogrammed packs, circa 1993. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog on a Budget, your wallet-friendly guide to living in the city returns this week, with a fall shopping guide for discount points of destination in and around the city. Discount Department Stores Don’t let the promises of Dolce and Gabana and Manolos fool you.&nbsp; Invariably, you will search through piles of strewn polyester before you find any of the aforementioned treasures. Caveat emptor: low ceilings, dim lighting, and checkered linoleum floors induce migraines. Century 21 On a good day you might find some Betsey Johnson or Diane Von Furstenberg styles from last season for cheap.&nbsp; Any other day you’ll just find very long lines and very small communal dressing rooms.&nbsp; 22 Cortland St. at Broadway Filene’s Basement There is never a good day at Filene’s.&nbsp; Its only appeal is its proximity to the 79th St. 1 stop. 2222 Broadway at 79th St.&nbsp; Loehmann’s Discount Department Store. Located on Broadway and 73rd St., Loehmann’s is a bit farther from campus than Filene’s is, but the additional travel is worth it. With better lighting and wider aisles, Loehmann’s is the most palatable of all discount department stores. 2101 Broadway at 73rd St.&nbsp; Barneys Warehouse You’d think that because it’s Barneys, the shopping here would be a cut above the rest, but don’t let the store's clout fool you. The semi-annual sales require inhuman stamina, and while half-off on a pair of Miu Miu pumps sounds like a bargain, keep the original $900 dollar price tag in mind.&nbsp; 255 W. 17th St. Between 7th and 8th Avenues. Flea Markets: Bring back bartering! That’s the M.O. at most of the city’s outdoor flea markets.&nbsp; Although there are many used/vintage clothing markets throughout the city, Brooklyn’s flea markets tend to be less picked-over and, given the open air setting, also tend to be less claustrophobic and more manageable than most the discount department stores mentioned above. Park Slope Flea Market.&nbsp; Every Saturday and Sunday caravans arrive filled with absurd tchotckes, inordinate amounts of used costume jewelry, and Americana-inspired styles. And for girls who’ve yet to get their ears pierced, the vendors at the Park Slope Flea Market offer an alternative to the generic clip-on selection at Claire’s Accessories for about the same cost.&nbsp; PS 321 School Yard 7th Avenue between 1st and 2nd Sts Brooklyn Flea.&nbsp; Although it only occurs on Sundays, the Brooklyn Flea in Fort Greene is nearly triple the size of the Park Slope Flea Market. Each week over 150 vendors sell vintage clothing, jewelry and collectibles in addition to a smattering of local artisans' work.&nbsp; Bring your shopping cart and be prepared to haggle.&nbsp; A little gumption will get you far. Bishop Laughlin Memorial High School at Lafayette Ave between Clermont and Vanderbilt Aves Salvation Army When shopping at the Salvation Army and other New York City thrift stores, it's important to remember that these places are meant to provide affordable clothing to people who actually need it, not just cheap college kids looking for funky throwbacks.&nbsp; So if you feel slightly out of place shopping here, it’s okay, you probably should. 96th Street Salvation Army There are many Salvation Army outposts around the city and it's difficult to distinguish one from another, but this one is relatively quiet and accessible to Columbia students.&nbsp; There is also one on 125th St. between Fifth and Madison Avenues, but its central location makes it a busier and more picked-over venue to shop at than its 96th St. counterpart.&nbsp; 268 96th St at Broadway Used Clothing Stores The difference between used clothing stores, thrift shops, secondhand clothing stores and vintage shops is nebulous.&nbsp; To avoid spending lots of money, stay away from the vintage shops. Embrace these used clothing/thrift shops/second hand stores instead. Beacon’s Closet Think of Beacon’s Closet as the Gap of New York's used clothing shops. With reasonable prices and reasonable styles, it has something for everyone, from faded polos to classy Ray Ban knock-offs.&nbsp; Interspersed amongst it all are often some second-hand treasures. Also their buy, sell, and trade policy is pretty sweet. 88 N. 11th St Williamsburg; 220 5th Ave Park Slope Buffalo Exchange Like Beacon’s Closet, Buffalo Exchange also offers a buy, sell, and trade clothing policy, but the prices are consistently lower.&nbsp; The collection of clothing here is broader than at Beacon’s, and for that reason can be more difficult to sift through.&nbsp; Due to its Brooklyn locale, Greenpoint, Buffalo avoids the overwhelming herds of bridge and tunnel types, which is a good thing. 504 Driggs Ave between 9th and 10th Sts, Williamsburg&nbsp; Housing Works Housing Works is a not-for-profit organization that uses the revenue it makes from its various thrift stores to provide clothing, employment and housing for people living with AIDS. Although there are many locations around the city, including a bunch close to Morningside Heights, in terms of selection and organization, the one in the West Village is by far the best. It is small and almost boutique-like in style.&nbsp; The collection varies from fun spins on practical basics, to higher end collectible fare. Depending on what you’re in the market for, the final receipt will vary.&nbsp; But not to worry if the bill seems higher than what you’re used to paying at thrift shops, you’re probably purchasing something distinctive and you’re definitely supporting a good cause; 225 W 10th between Bleecker and Hudson Sts No Relation Vintage The East Village is littered with secondhand stores, but No Relation stands out.&nbsp; It is far larger in scale than most used clothing stores and the collection consistently emphasizes fun, but not kitschy, men’s pieces over the frilly women's clothing that often clutters used clothing stores. But given the range of styles and sizes, ladies will have an easy time finding stuff for themselves on the men’s racks. Despite its claims to vintage notoriety, the prices remain in the secondhand ball park.&nbsp; 204 1st Ave between 12th and 13th Sts 
 Exciting news for heartbroken Kim's devotees: Bwog just spoke to a lady at the Butler reserves desk, and it seems many movies from the ill-fated video store are being re-located to Butler's media collection.&nbsp; The Butler employee says she's not sure what exactly they're acquiring and when, but does think it's going to be "a lot of DVDs."&nbsp; 
 Reason magazine has a recent interview with "King of Vegas" Libertarian Vice Presidential nominee Wayne Allyn Root (the fellow at right who appears to be marrying his own dog) in which he demands fellow CC '83 grad Barack Obama release his Columbia transcript. Join us, as we take a look at some other baseless accusations, demands, and racist nonsense. First, you should all be aware that "A vote for Obama is four years of Karl Marx, and no one should be happy about that." Root goes on to point out that Obama's mother was also a communist, because obviously such things are hereditary.&nbsp; Also, Root didn't know Obama at Columbia, and neither did anyone Root knows. Except black people: "If you track down a couple of black students, they'll probably know him. But nobody white's ever heard of this guy," he said. In conclusion, Root's GPA was probably better than Barack Obama's because Root never saw the guy. In fact, Root is willing to wager "a million dollars cash" that Obama gained entry to Harvard Law School "based on the color of his skin." 
 Yes, you read that right. Sources confirm that representatives from the CC, GS, and SEAS student councils, in conjunction with SGB, the College Democrats, CQA, CPU, the Hamilton Society, and the College Republicans, have been meeting since school began to discuss plans for a student referendum on the return of Naval ROTC to campus. At this time, Bwog can also confirm that one current version of the referendum could have three answers: 1.) yes to allowing ROTC 2.) yes to allowing ROTC (provided it stops employing the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy) 3.) no to allowing ROTC. But according to a student representative, the ballot could also be a simple yes/no. The referendum, if it passes the undergraduate councils, will be held after the national presidential elections. If the initiative passes the student vote, it will then move to the University Senate. The last referendum on ROTC occurred in 2005, and was struck down by the University Senate, 51 to 11 53 to 10, with 5 abstentions. Planning for this began last May, and several meetings have been held since the start of the school year. The Obama-McCain double endorsement of ROTC (and subsequent national media attention on Columbia's ROTC ban) only accelerated the process. Bwog will keep you updated with more developments as they happen. UPDATE 9:34 PM: For those curious about Barnard's students, there are BC students on the commission and the details of Barnard's involvement are unclear at this point. 
 At tonight's CCSC meeting, the CCSC announced its first-ever set of official referendum protocol -- until this point, nothing on student polling had ever been formalized, at least within CCSC.&nbsp; According to the memo passed out at the meeting, CCSC is developing a committee to set poll regulations. According to VP of Policy Adil Ahmed, who -- along with 2011 President Learned Foote -- presented the Referendum Protocol at the meeting, the creation of the committee is necessary to orchestrate the large-scale polling that the ROTC vote and Universal Swipe vote will require. Ahmed explained that the goal of creating the Protocol Committee is figuring out how to administer the poll(s) fairly and universally. As for the Barnard-ROTC question, Bwog spoke with SGA President Sarah Besnoff, who only responded that she "will be attending the next meeting of councils and leaders discussing this issue -- and we'll go from there." (At this time, the New York Sun has also reported on the upcoming ROTC vote.) Ultimately, of course, this polling is just a barometer on student opinion and doesn't necessarily have any effect on the actions of University Senate. Other stuff happened at the CCSC meeting too. The senior class council is--as per usual--pushing to get Barack Obama as class day speaker, and according Class Rep Colin Felsman, Obama was initially receptive to the idea of speaking at a campus event. Also, Lerner Pub will start on the 18th, so bring your seven forms of ID and a DNA sample, and those two beers are all yours. 
 The Good Ship Spectator seems to have updated every section but News. So, with that in mind, let's read and arts and sports and the like: Pisticci is a partisan restaurant! So, about Obama's stance on ROTC... Oh, right, ServiceNation. &nbsp;Men's tennis is lookin' good And a preview of everyone's favorite football team, the University of Pennsylvania Quakers! Roar, Lion, Roar. 
 Compared to last year's all-star lineup (Ian Buruma vs. Martin Amis! A master class with Robert Hass!) this year's New Yorker Festival is oddly underwhelming. In any event, there are some things that should prove interesting and worthwhile. Here's what we think they are, not including things that are sold out: Friday, October 3: Race and Class in America With Barbara Ehrenreich, Thomas Frank, John McWhorter, Leslie Sanchez, and Cornel West. Moderated by David Remnick. 7 p.m. Town Hall ($20) One of the wonkier of the Festival's events, the New Yorker editor himself will moderate the panel of Nickel and Dimed author Ehrenreich, Baffler-founder and author of What's the Matter with Kansas? Frank, market researcher Sanchez, linguist and Sun columnist McWhorter, and Princeton professor (and Matrix star, kind of!) West. Saturday, October 4: Richard Brody on the films of Jean-Luc Godard 4 p.m. IFC Center ($25) See apparent winner of Allen Ginsberg look-a-like contest Richard Brody, who's a staff writer at the magazine, discuss the films of Godard. Bonus Breathless showing. Chuck Hagel interviewed by Ryan Lizza 4 p.m. Acura Stage at Cedar Lake Theatre ($25) The New Yorker's latest New Republic-import Lizza speaks to the Republican Senator from Nebraska. Expect a discussion of the election, but Hagel (who's served in the Senate with McCain for 20 years and traveled with Obama to Iraq) has refused to endorse either candidate. Art Spiegelman: “Breakdowns: Comix 101” 4:30 p.m. Ailey Citigroup Theater Joan Weill Center for Dance ($25) Upperclassmen might recall applying to the Maus-author's spring 07 American Studies seminar. They might also recall being rejected (over 70 students had applied.) It's your second chance to see Spiegelman in person, and in this case, there are no end-of-semester essays. Sunday, October 5: Literary Criticism With James Wood. 4 p.m. Festival HQ Metropolitan Pavilion ($35) Premier literary critic and author of How Fiction Works will now tell you how criticizing fiction works. 
First-year correspondent Jason Kruta went to the Lower East Side yesterday to check out the 8th Annual International Pickle Day.&nbsp; The New York Food Museum sponsored the Eight Annual NYC International Pickle Day bonanza in the Lower East Side. Pickles of every shape, size and type abounded, from your run of the mill Kosher Dill to the deliciously exotic pickled Mongolian cantaloupe. Booths were plentiful, each with a moderate line that lead to bowls of sample pickles and jars for sale. Also present were several Best Buy booths, a trumpet-electric guitar-accordion trio,&nbsp; a farmer's market, a rendition of Twelfth Night in the style of Victorian Cockney and delicious bratwurst and Bavarian pretzels. One pickle stand was turning a killer profit by selling Dr. Brown's soda, which, on an extremely hot and humid day like yesterday, was sweet nectar from the gods of something other than pickles.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's a little late with this item, but we didn't want any more time to go by without congratulating the Columbia men's soccer team on their 3-1 victory yesterday over UC Santa Barbara, who were ranked 6th in the country (and who won the national title two seasons ago). Despite being outshot 22-7, the Lions held on to bounce back from their Friday night loss to SUNY Stony Brook. Sophomore Bayo Adafin (pictured at right in a photo by Columbia University Athletics) scored all three goals, and has recieved several national and regional awards, including being named to the College Soccer News National Team of the Week. The team's next game is at LaSalle on Wednesday, and their next home game is on the 26th against Quinnipiac. Also, we recommend Adafin get in touch with some European clubs - some of them could use forwards for the Champions League this week.&nbsp; 
 Welcome to the first in a series of analyses designed to determine the best in a category of chosen food product! In the coming weeks, we'll be taking a critical eye toward such controversial delicacies as ice cream, espresso, bagels and margaritas. But today, we're going to talk a little bit about miso soup, and the three main Morningside miso-distributors: Tomo, Swish, and m2m. Tomo: Tomo's miso has more sodium-per-ounce than the Atlantic Ocean. Maybe more. That said, the soup is reliably hot, and tofu is appropriately silken. The seaweed count is a bit low, especially for a (comparatively) high-end establishment. Plus, the seaweed that is in the soup tends to be scrawny and tasteless, and there's nary a scallion to be found. Swish: Swish's miso is unchallenging, but comforting (the most "miso soup for the soul" of the three)&nbsp;and usually not served hot enough for Bwog's taste. That said, its taste is enjoyable in the way that Tomo's salty fare never could be. Swish is also free of the seaweed problems that plague Tomo: the former's seaweed is plentiful, fresh-tasting, and of an appetizing consistency. Tomo and Swish have nearly identical tofu, in terms of silkenness and quantity. m2m: m2m's miso features big chunks of tough, firm tofu that simmer in scalding hot broth. There are long strands of thick and tasty seaweed, and the servers will happily provide you with extra if asked. The broth is salty, but not overwhelmingly so. m2m also regularly adds generous heapings of scallions to the the seaweed mixture, which give the soup and tofu more flavor.&nbsp; In Conclusion: Winner: m2m. Silver medal to Swish, with an honorable mention to Tomo, for valiant effort. &nbsp; 
 Hey, welcome to this liveblog of Hillary Clinton speaking about pay equality at Barnard. Bwog's thankful this thing is starting late, because we were a little late getting to the James Room in Barnard Hall, where about 60 students are now watching a livefeed of the podium at which Clinton will speak on a large (but not Obamacain large!) flat-screen TV. 2:16 PM: Still nothin'. Somone who was not Clinton stepped behind the podium to check the sound. It seemed to be working fine.&nbsp; The podium has a sign that says "Fair Pay for Working Women." We're officially 15 minutes behind schedule. 2:25 PM: 25 minutes behind schedule. 2:33 PM: Oh, okay finally. Here we go. It's D.Spar, talking about "how working women juggle their lives." 2:35 PM: D.Spar mentioned Wellesley, and looked at Clinton, who is one lady to her right. Oh, topical: She just said what it means to be working and female in America is "not the stuff of Saturday Night Live skits." 2:35 PM: Ana Oliviera, the President of the New York Women's Foundation is speaking first. "Women in New York now are more likely to be poor than they were 20 years ago." 2:37 PM: "Federal measurement of poverty is woefully inadequate measure." Oliviera is throwing out a lot of statistics about the current financial crisis. D.Spar is mouthing something to the woman next to her, which made students in the James Room giggle, but Bwog is no lip-reader. 2:40 PM: So Oliviera is done, and now it's a woman from the Women's Center for Education and Career Advancement. This organization developed the sulf-sufficiency calculator. 2:41 PM: Now she's giving examples of compensation discrimination. Though it's illegal, "the wage gap continues to be a problem." 2:43 PM: "Men, of color in particular, are affected by the wage gap in much the same way as women." 2:44 PM: She urges the Bush administration to enforce the laws already on the books. 2:45 PM: So now Sonia Ossorio is up. She's the President of New York City Now. She's talking about maternal profiling, which is where companies avoid hiring mothers. "This is a huge problem." 2:47 PM: Talking to students now: "You'll probably start your career making 80% of what your male colleagues make." She's done too now. These speeches are short and snappy and to the point. They're great. 2:49 PM: It's 14th District Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. She says Martha Stewart is active in her district. Martha Stewart went to Barnard. This, for some reason, is a reason to giggle. Oh, and then Maloney says Barnard has a close relatioship with Columbia and people laugh at this too. 2:51 PM: Maloney says she did a report on the glass ceiling! She must have found 18 million cracks! Maybe Clinton will elaborate.&nbsp; 2:53 PM: Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act has passed in Congress. "Fortunately our lioness is back on the job." 2:53 PM: It's HRC! Loud clapping. Oh wait, what's this? Maloney is back, talking about a book. "She earned 18 million votes," she's talking about Hillary. "I say she won the debates." 2:54 PM: Hi, HRC! She's a graduate of Wellesley, and she thinks women's colleges are a "necessity." HRC says D.Spar has been on the job for 62 days -- we'll take her word for it. 2:55 PM: On the trail, women told HRC that they believed things like pay discrimination were things of the past. HRC says this is unfortunately not true. 2:57 PM: HRC just plugged Maloney's book. 2:57 PM: "Women, and particularly women of color and particularly mothers are not getting their fair share for the work they do." 2:58 PM: It's an issue for everyone, not just women. It's an issue for the whole nation. "The Equal Pay Act (1963) has never been adequately enforced." 2:58 PM: "The GAO report is a rining indictment of the Bush administration." Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is "an oxymoron" under Bush. 2:59 PM: HRC is not surprised. Not one bit.&nbsp; 3:00 PM: She mentions the Paycheck Fairness Act, which passed the House and met a filibuster by the Republicans in the Senate. 3:01 PM: Oh, she's now talking about the market, which did not have a good morning. 3:02 PM: Women and men working for financial services industry and "facing some very tough times." Bush "pursued a reckless ideological agenda," which allowed firms to take enormous financial risks. 3:03 PM: HRC wants you to know that "we can restore confidence" and "prevent a downward spiral." She's talking about the terrible economy. 3:05 PM: She wants Bush to convene an economic summit. "We've got to put everyone together on one page." Oh and now we're a team. We're one team -- the American team. HRC says it's the fourth down, and we need to get across the goalline. Roar, Lions, Roar! 3:08 PM: She's calling for leadership. "Pay equity is a critical issue but having the jobs underlying that pay equity is essential." Well, yes. 3:10 PM: "Hopefully come January we will have a new team," she said, but doesn't mention Obama by name, which is conspicuous. It's all over, and now she's taking questions. 3:10 PM: Oh, here, she just mentioned "Senator Obama" in response to a reader question that those of us watching from the Big TV could not hear. She's talking about how pay equity is a distinction between McCain and Obama. 3:12 PM: There was just a funny question. "I do not think that's an accurate reflection," HRC says, laughing. We do not know what this inaccurate reflection was. 
Tonight marks the second Blue and White and Bwog joint meeting of the year. Interested parties new and old are encouraged to attend -- especially those with a knack for writing, artistry, business-savvy, editing, and technological know-how. We'll be assigning stories and accepting pitches. 9:30 PM, in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. We look forward to the pleasure of your company. If you're unable to attend the gathering, but are interested in either the magazine or the website, email bweditors@columbia.edu to get the meeting's notes.
 Oh look, the Spectator has launched its latest venture into the blogosphere. This one's called Spectacle, and it's an arts and entertainment blog. Ahoy, Spectacle! (Fun fact: years ago, Spec's entire A&amp;E section used to be called "Spectacle.") So far there's been disparate chatter about movies, video games, and food, among other things. Fare thee well, Spectacle. May you be spared the terrible fate of Splogs past. 
 Hillary Clinton at Barnard, Spars for pay raises. In debut, Sparing nothing for Clinton's Barnard speech. The Mothers of Harlem trusted Mr. Rangel. That girl's shoes are totally hideous. Halloween, Ricky's (neé Kim's) are a girl's new best friend. 
 It's not often Bwog takes pity on the young masters of the universe of the Columbia Business School. They're territorial with small spaces, and not terribly warm to the idea of mere undergraduates purchasing food in Uris. But still, this week is not a good week for the b-schooler. Here, observe as they stand in Uris and watch updates about the banking collapse.&nbsp; Things are not looking good -- they can have those group study rooms. &nbsp; &nbsp; Photo by Lydia DePillis 
 In front of the Lerner piano lounge is a well-stocked churro bar (with guacamole, sour cream, salsa, chips and the like), courtesy of Live at Lerner. It is a delight.&nbsp; There's also a cooler with complimentary Arnold Palmer -- that's half lemonade, half iced tea. 
Welcome back to Ask Bwog, a feature in which we answer burning questions about such disparate topics as Juicy Campus (ha, remember that?), PBK, and how to become gainfully employed by celebrities. We return this week with an important question about the Lerner ramps and Your Safety. One CC senior, who is not fond of heights, is nervous about the strange discolorations on the ramps (see architectural oddity in question below.) She's worried they're pressure marks of some sort, and Lerner's ramps are headed for collapse. Do the markings on the ramps foretell terrible disaster? By all accounts, no. Bwog just spoke with a custodian in Lerner, who assured us that this was not the case. He explaind that the strange white abnormalities were the aftermath of some spilled cleaning solution. (The ramps have been tinted since a few years ago, when it became apparent that transparent glass and skirts were a rather unfortunate combination. UPDATE: This is a Columbia urban legend, according to Lerner's architect.) "Just stains, yeah." Have burning questions about campus, social etiquette, technology or anything else? Send them to bwog@columbia.edu. 
 Just in case you haven't been keeping up with your favorite tech blogs as of late or compulsively checking your Twitter on your new Blackberry or whatever, Bwog's resident techies are here to fill you in on some exciting news in the tech world courtesy of some Columbia entrepreneurs.&nbsp; Buzzable.com, the LaunchboxDigital brainchild of Columbia seniors Satjot Sawhney and Ashish Kundra (You might remember them from their LionCard days), has officially launched.&nbsp; Basically, this thing is Twitter's doppelganger, in that it's another way to stay in touch with friends, on-the-go and throughout the day.&nbsp; Oh, except unlike Twitter, Buzzable is open only to Columbia students. Bwog has a profile on Buzzable too, so Tweet or Buzz or IM or telegraph us and we'll do the same for you. 
 An eerie calm descended on the usually bustling Low Plaza early this afternoon when a group of Bhutanese monks performed a demon subjugation dance ritual known as Tum Ngan.&nbsp; Intended to eliminate evil spirits in the surrounding area, the ritual comforted many still shaken by the presence of a Jumbo McCain while frustrating Ghostbusters enthusiasts for "totally stealing their glory." More details after the jump. The full performance consisted of two dances involving traditional garb, demon masks and daggers.&nbsp; While not very technically impressive, the ritual seemed to induce much of the sizable audience into a therapeutic trance. The ritual is usually only performed once a year in Bhutan, but a vaguely British man informed the crowd that they would continue to perform throughout the city.&nbsp; If you missed it today, try to catch them before their moves get co-opted by some fools on America's Next Best Dance Crew. &nbsp; - Evan Omi &amp; Jon Kaplan 
 The CPU and College Dems are co-sponsoring an event in which Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) will be speaking this Sunday at 4 PM in Lerner Cinema. She's going to talk about her legislative goals and the like, plus there will be a Q&amp;A to follow.&nbsp; 
 One professor is miraculously able to be an academic, administrator and mother&nbsp;- without a Time Turner. Another professor, after being educated around the world, pushes the limits of the normative, breaks ground on the topic of globalization, and successfully uses buzzwords while talking to the press. Men's soccer pushes the limits of the acceptable win percentage in a Columbia athletic program that does not involve sabers. Columbia extending the football season might just be adding to the loss column, but at least we'd make some bucks! Columbia's still pushing their northern limits.&nbsp; And some people are (still) not too excited about the idea. 
 Oh my, how time flies. Our 12s have only been on campus for about three weeks, and it's already time for them to decide amongst themselves which of their kind should ascend to the glory of CCSC Class Council. Campaigning doesn't start until September 22nd -- so don't jump the gun 12s, you will be penalized -- but Bwog's received a list of group names, which are always the best part anyway. Let's meet your CCSC hopefuls: New York Connection Vision 2012 Candor Party Woof Party Real Party (the three person council) Liberty Party (the party of the independent representative) The gumption! The spunk! We like them all, and look forward to seeing the names of the candidates released on the 22nd. Elections themselves are not until October 6th and 7th. 
 Remember when hundreds of Upper West Side five-year-olds and their parents stormed Morningside Heights last year in a grand showing of support for reading, cheesy bands and Target?&nbsp; Well, friends, it's happening again on October 5th and once again you will be able to hear bands, including They Might Be Giants and their child-appropriate repertoire (think "Why the Sun Shines," not "Your Racist Friend"), and stories read by television and theater stars.&nbsp; Bwog is especially excited for Justin Roberts &amp; the Not Ready for Naptime Players, known for their uke skills and cute faces! 
 An astute tipster informed Bwog today that he noticed odd hours at staple campus eateries Ferris Booth and JJs Place.&nbsp; After a quick phone call to Dining Services, Bwog was able to dig up last year's hours for comparison.&nbsp; Indeed, much has changed and no longer is it possible to make 3am romps to JJs from Butler study-forts in order to replenish diminishing Red Bull supplies.&nbsp; More to come on the administration's reasons for these changes and cut-backs.&nbsp; Full comparison of hours of these two locations after the jump. Last Year's Hours JJs Monday-Thursday 8pm - 4am Sunday 3pm-4am Ferris Booth Monday-Thursday 9a.m.-7p.m. Friday 9a.m.-5p.m. &nbsp; This Year's Hours JJs Monday-Thursday 6p.m.-2a.m. Sunday 3p.m.-2a.m. Ferris Booth Monday-Thursday 11a.m.-8p.m. Friday 11a.m.-2p.m. 
 After Sunday's news about the ROTC referendum under consideration by the student councils and various student groups, more student groups will be sending representatives to Wednesday night's meeting in the SGO. The new groups include the Black Students Organization, the Student Organization of Latinos, the Asian-American Alliance, and the United Students of Color Council. ABC has also been invited as the governing board overseeing these groups. The meeting will include one representative from each group, two from each council and governing board, and the university senators. However, "anti-war" groups (ISO, CCAW, Lucha, Students for Justice in the Middle East, and others) remain uninvited to the meeting. Bwog has been told that at least one of these groups was originally invited, but that the invitation has since been rescinded. Some of these groups' leaders have expressed frustration, with one telling Bwog that "groups like SOL and USCC have a very different set of constituents and interests...Our concerns are largely about transparency." Another said, "Although the meeting is supposed to be purely logistical, I feel that a number of groups that have a stake in the discussion are being left out." Student council leaders told Bwog they remain "optimistic." 
 Bwog's been tipped off to a free food opportunity of sorts, happening now in the James Room on the 4th floor of Barnard Hall. Cuisine is unknown, but if you go and discover what specific treats the EcoReps are offering, let us know.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's all about tech-entrepreneurs these days: yesterday we posted on Buzzable (Columbia's answer to Twitter), and today, it's CampusPlaybook that's struck our fancy.&nbsp; The all-encompassing campus calendar is the brainchild of Dan Gendler and Daniel Heyman, both CC '09. It looks clean and professional, and it's easy to browse and register. Each campus group that signs up receives its own page, plus, users can browse events by type, date, etc. Also, there's a function that filters specifically for events with free food, because how else are you supposed to decide whether to go or not? According to the Dans, over 40 groups have signed up already.&nbsp; 
 "I can't say it was the best decision" Press releases: an overworked reporter's best friend Homelessness: nobody's best friend School spirit: still sort of lacking (unless it's for water polo) Plus: Columbia's Safire on pimple-toms and booby caresses! 
 ...who apparently are the heroes behind this bold endeavor, which seems to have ceased publication but is still the most wonderful blog devoted to a vending machine that we have ever seen. Columbia, meet Robby. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Glory be to James! (and gold-medal punnage) "When Marc Jacobs’ superb show moved me to tears, I was reminded of why I really wanted my position." War, sex, and religion&nbsp; The shame! The indignation! "...creamy cheesecake with a slight tang of goat cheese pervading the sweet, thick texture...a drizzle of caramel with a hint of rosemary" 
 Why is Google so biased against the Columbia University College Republicans? A furtive, anonymous tipster, known only as "Dispose Me," just informed Bwog of some foul play at work within the liberal search engine. "The Columbia Republicans site appears to have been plagued with viagra ads. And penis elargments. It's also quite visible when you google search for 'columbia college republicans'. For the lazy." Also, according to well-places sources, this very Viagara-riddled website ceased to be the official online home of the CUGOP when Kulawik graduated. Apparently he didn't leave the new board instructions on how to access and edit the site. (Note how he's still listed as President). The new site, for those who want to keep their student group bookmarks updated, is here. 
 The student councils and a newly-expanded list student groups met last night in the SGO to continue their discussions of the NROTC referendum. Despite the now-public nature of their plans, the meetings remained closed to the press with notes being sent to campus media organizations. The meetings are still focused on the process behind the referendum, rather than the debate itself. Most importantly, the vote will no longer be a referendum, but a "survey," a less formal version with the same procedures. Among other effects, Bwog notes that the vote can now go forward without waiting for the results of the "referenda committee" that was presented at both the CCSC and ESC board meetings this past week. As for scheduling before the vote, there are currently plans for "information sessions" about the history of NROTC and Columbia, and two town halls, one at Columbia and one at Barnard, with panel discussions followed by an open floor. However, other details about the exact date(s) of the survey and number of answers remain unresolved. More, including GS's absence and EAAH's rebuffed attempt to enter, after the jump. UPDATE (1:20 AM): The media notes themselves are now posted after the jump. No GS representatives attended the meeting (though there were representatives from Barnard), but other student officials say GS was invited, and will remain part of the process. The councils have committed to remaining neutral until the survey is conducted. Finally, a small dispute broke out last night when Everyone Allied Against Homophobia tried to attend the meeting. According to EAAH co-president Ira Stup, his co-president Ryan Kasdin attempted to attend the meeting. Because the group had not been invited, he was asked to leave by several representatives in the room. The presidents distributed a statement&nbsp; to each representative at the end of the meeting, calling it "completely unacceptable that the self-selected student groups organizing tonight’s meeting arbitrarily picked one out of the seven campus LGBT groups as the representative voice of a crucial constituency in this critically important discussion...LGBT voices at Columbia cannot be represented by a single campus group." EAAH demanded that "all further meetings and conversations surrounding ROTC on our campus be completely and utterly transparent." Student Body NROTC Survey Planning Meeting September 17, 2008&nbsp; Attendees:&nbsp; Emily Kenison – Barnard Senator Monica Quaintance – CC Senator Rajat Roy – ESC Senator Rishika Samant – CC Senator George Krebs – CCSC President Adil Ahmed – CCSC VP Policy Peter Valerias – ESC President Prishantha Dunstan – ESC VP Policy Sarah Besnoff – SGA President Activities Board at Columbia (ABC) Asian American Alliance (AAA) Black Students Organization (BSO) College Democrats Columbia Political Union (CPU) Columbia Queer Alliance (CQA) Columbia University College Republicans (CUCR) Hamilton Society Student Governing Board (SGB) Student Organization of Latinos (SOL) United Students of Color Caucus (USCC)&nbsp; Purpose/Overview:&nbsp; The purpose of this meeting was to bring all the attendees to the same page with regard to the recent discussion of NROTC (Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps) and Columbia University.&nbsp; The attendees were selected to provide a group that represents as much of campus as possible while maintaining a small meeting size to facilitate planning.&nbsp; The end goal was to provide for a survey mechanism to gauge undergraduate sentiment on NROTC/CU but also to provide for education on the topic, its history and its implications for the Columbia community.&nbsp; &nbsp; Personal opinions on NROTC and Columbia were not discussed at the meeting; the focus was on how to best educate campus and how to lay the framework for a greater discussion in which all undergraduates and undergraduate student groups can participate.&nbsp; &nbsp; It is important to distinguish that the discussion focused on NROTC, not parallel programs through the Air Force (for which a program exists at Manhattan College) or the Army (for which a program exists at Fordham University).&nbsp; Referendum vs. Survey:&nbsp; Contrary to what had elsewhere been suggested, the discussion centered around the possibility of providing for a survey of the undergraduate student body, not a binding referendum.&nbsp; There is currently no provision for a universal referendum in either the rules of the Senate or the Councils.&nbsp; A survey is therefore useful to provide a general sense of student opinion without the difficulty of creating a procedure for a binding referendum.&nbsp; &nbsp; The University Senators for the undergraduate schools cannot be bound by the results of a survey, though they stated that they will pledge to represent the results of the survey in the Senate, which would then make recommendations to the Trustees of the University, the body which would be ultimately responsible for making policy on NROTC.&nbsp; &nbsp; General Scope:&nbsp; &nbsp; There was consensus on the need to have informational programming prior to the eventual survey date.&nbsp; Discussion focused on how to best program and how to ensure that as broad a spectrum of opinions were presented in the campus-wide discussion as possible.&nbsp; It was decided that the University Senators would provide an unbiased history of NROTC and Columbia in “information sessions.”&nbsp; These would be followed by a pair of “town halls,” one on the Columbia campus and one on the Barnard campus, which would feature a panel debate/discussion followed by a general open floor for the audience.&nbsp; &nbsp; The Councils have pledged not to make policy statements on NROTC until a survey is conducted.&nbsp; Survey Logistics:&nbsp; Specific questions as to (1) the wording of any potential survey question, (2) the timing and format of the information sessions and town halls, (3) the date of the survey and (4) the use of the survey results were tabled for the next discussion. 
It's your last weekend before the autumnal equinox, and apparently a beauty--time to store up some sunlight before your skin gets slack and pallid! Here are our picks for events around town; for on-campus stuff, refer to the handy sidebar to the right. Friday and Saturday Manhattan Cask Ale Festival noon - midnight Chelsea Brewing Company (Pier 59, Chelsea Piers, 212.336.6440) Over 45 brewed beer casks, and BBQ. Pay as you go. New York City Short Film Festival Showtimes at noon and 8PM on Friday and Saturday Choose from a smorgasbord of films adapted for your 21st-century attention span. And only 20 blocks south! Price: $11 Saturday The New York City Spelling Bee 8Pm. Housing Works Bookstore Café An adult-friendly spelling bee! You know because of the cash bar. Lawrence of Arabia at Film Forum Showtimes: 2:00, 7:00 pm. 209 W Houston St, Below 14th St. (212)727-8110 Adult: $10.00; Child: $5.00; Senior: $5.00 Earnest Sewn Jeans Sample Sale Women’s jeans for $75 (reg. $198), denim skirts for $60 (reg. $198), men’s for $75 (reg. $210) Sept. 20-28, 8 a.m.-8 p.m. 831 Washington St., b/t Gansevoort &amp; Little West 12th Sts. (212-242-3414). Saturday and Sunday Queens County Fair 11am – 6pm, Queens County Farm Museum You know you need to re-grow your soul a little bit with some honest-to-god livestock and pie and other farmy things. Besides, when else are you going to go to Queens? After Nature at the New Museum of Contemporary Art Closing Sunday! 235 Bowery at Prince St. Get thee downtown for visions of apocalyptic beauty. Goth Glamour at the Fashion Institute of Technology Museum Closing Sunday! Seventh Ave. at 27th St. See the inescapable high school clique reimagined as...haute couture? Sunday Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night at MoMA Opens Sunday, closes January 5, 2009 Starry Night times a million! Coney Island Circus Sideshow Sideshows by the Seashore 1208 Surf Ave (at 12th St) Coney Island, Brooklyn Tickets: $7.50 Self explanatory… Democracy in America: Convergence Center at Park Avenue Armory Park Avenue Armory (643 Park Ave, 212.616.3930) In celebration of the election year, Creative Time and the Nation Institute have organized Democracy in America: The National Campaign, a performance and installation art exhibit on current politics and stuff. &nbsp; 
 Class of 2009, you have officially reached the point at which the school will buy you a Bud Light--and all it asks in return is that you please, please hang out with the rest of your class. In Lerner Party Space. With faint music playing on someone's iPod speakers.&nbsp; By mixing you together with moderate amounts of alcohol and an atmospheric disco ball--a ritual known as Lerner Pub, tonight and for many Thursdays hereafter--Columbia hopes to forge you into a unified body that will scream itself hoarse at graduation and fondly remember Alma when those first big checks come rolling in. You will start by realizing how many of those people you don't know, how many you once knew and decided you didn't like, how many you knew peripherally but will never really become friends with. People will stroll in with posses, regally descending the central staircase, while others will take refuge from awkwardness-producing ambushes by glueing themselves to the wall. You'll fight through to the front of the beer mob to claim your Solo cup, and then wend your way back to the light by hopping from island to island of familiar faces. But not for too long--you've got other places to be. This was just the pre-game. Welcome to the rest of your life! - LBD 
 Community Board 9 discusses their views on the economy. Nick Sprayregen starts sharing his views online. Researchers now view the Hudson's water as “much, much better.” New state driver's licenses will make bouncers view your fake with even more skepticism.&nbsp; A blogger puts forth his view on the Massad tenure fight. The Spec editorial board decides news articles no longer need to precede writing their views. 
 You read the title correctly - sports coverage on Bwog. Stop pointing at the pigs above us. We know they're there. With the start of a new school year, we felt it was time to turn over a new leaf in the Bwog-sports relationship. In the past, we've generally only reported on sports either as champions or, more often, as a punchline. There are hundreds of our classmates practicing day after day, though, and there's a lot of great stuff to cover in their efforts. We'll be doing our best to give them some coverage, and we ask that you do your best to help us in our occasional ignorance at the intricacies of some of the less well-known sports. On to the what's up this week in the land of sport. Football: The Lions open their season tomorrow at home against Fordham. The teams have split the last two games, with coach Norries Wilson winning his debut 37-7 in 2006, but then losing in 2007 27-10. To win, the Lions will have to do better on the ground, both on offense with the running back duo of senior Jordan Davis and junior Ray Rangel, and from the whole defense, which gave up 353 yards last year against Fordham. Unfortunately, the team may be without junior wide reciever Austin Knowlin (led the team with 988 yards and 11 TDs in 2007) and junior linebacker Drew Quinn (second in tackles in 2007) - both have been left off of the starting lineup in the media guide. For a more in-depth preview of the team and the rest of the Ivy League, the Spec has a football supplement. Field Hockey: The field hockey team opens their Ivy League play tomorrow at Brown at noon. They enter the match undefeated, after beating Quinnipiac 3-2 last week. Sophomore Caitlin Mullins's winning goal was her second, and she was named Ivy League Player of the Week. Men's Soccer: Hot off their big win over UC Santa Barbara, the men's soccer team (2-2-1) went to Philadelphia Wednesday night, and beat LaSalle 2-1 in double overtime. First-year midfielder Mike Mazullo scored the winner in the 110th minute, after senior Felipe Castrillon had tied it in the 74th. The team's next game is next Friday the 26th at home to Quinnipiac. Women's Soccer: Coming off an unlucky weekend where they drew and lost in overtime, the women's soccer team (2-2-1) plays twice on their last weekend before Ivy League play begins. Tonight, they play American at home at 7 p.m., and on Sunday they travel to Stony Brook for a 1 o'clock game. Men's Tennis: The men's tennis team spends this weekend at the ECAC Championships in Flushing Meadows, New York. They hope to build on some momentum generated by transfer student Mihai Nichifor, who won the consolation final at the last weekend's Virginia Invitational. The ECAC championships will include all eight Ivy League schools along with a number of others from the east coast. Women's Tennis: The women's tennis team begin their season at home this weekend in the Columbia Classic, which runs the entire weekend.&nbsp; Volleyball: The volleyball team (3-1) heads to Saint Francis University for the Saint Francis Invitational. After three wins over Coppin State, Lafayette, and Quinnipiac last weekend, the team hit a road bump in losing at Army mid-week. Ivy League play begins October 4. Cross Country: The cross country teams are off this weekend (though runners are never really off during the season, we suppose), but they placed well last weekend at Penn State's Spiked Shoe Invitational, where the men finished 2nd out of 14, and the women finished 3rd out of 14. Next weekend, they head to the Quinnipiac Invitational. 
 Being Columbia students, and therefore not drivers, Bwog doubts you all pay much attention to parking spaces. Today until 7, though, students have turned two parking spaces along Broadway into public parks, as part of Park(ing) Day NYC. The initiative sees people take over parking spots around the city (about 50 this year), and turn them into public parks, to show how much space parking takes up. Outside Barnard's entrance, the Barnard eco-reps have taken up one spot, and were last seen playing with some neighborhood kids. Down outside Pinnacle, Nate Morgante CC '09 and Boris Mindzak CC SEAS '09 (best known for their work with Free Culture, though they say this is not a Free Culture event) have turned their parking space into a quasi-cafe, complete with drinks that look like wine from a distance (but are really Orangeade, Lemonade, and Berryade), plus cheese and crackers. Earlier there was even musical accompaniment. Morgante tells us that, though they still have cheddar and some other common types of cheese, students have managed to eat all the gouda, despite the cheeses being mixed together. Color us not at all surprised. 
 You may remember that almost-dearly-departed Kim's bequeathed its media collection to Columbia. Some have wondered whether this huge collection (40-50,000 titles) will lead to Butler actually allowing students to take DVDs and videos out of the library. Currently, the Butler media desk keeps your ID instead, and&nbsp;free rentals haven't been allowed in at least a few years. Now, though, a Bwog tipster confirms that it is likely that at least part of&nbsp;the collection would be checkout-able. However, first the administration will have to work out a system for checking out the DVDs, giving them call numbers, and finding storage space. Not surprisingly, this could take time. Until then, you'll just have to rely on your family's Netflix or less, um, legal methods. 
 It's the coldest Friday of the year so far, but nothing warms you up like good free (or almost free) food. Here's some options. The College Democrats are hosting their rescheduled BBQ on the Van Am Quad from 5 - 8. It does cost $2, but then it's all-you-can-eat. If you can wait an hour (or you like your food non-partisan), Live at Lerner is also hosting a BBQ on Low Plaza starting at 6. Food is free to everyone with a CU ID. Postcrypt is hosting a summer photography show from 8-10 p.m. in the basement of St. Paul's, with live music and free wine and snacks. 
 The Return of Cooking with Bwog – no cooking involved! The end is of summer is imminent (Monday, officially), which happens to nearly coincide with tomorrow's Morningside Heights Farmers Market.&nbsp; So, to celebrate the season’s end, Bwog recommends a no-cooking-involved summer salad. It also keeps well in your mini-fridge, so you’ll have ample opportunity to savor the season after it's past.&nbsp; The preparation is fun: Bwog recommends indulging in the the imagined bucolic nostalgia of shucking corn and the aggressive release of dicing vegetables. Or, alternatively, invite some friends over and make it a cooking party.&nbsp; INGREDIENTS 15 oz can blackeye peas 1/2 lb zucchini, trimmed 1/4 cup finely chopped scallions (about 4) 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh dill 3 tablespoons red vinegar 3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 tablespoon coarse-grain mustard 1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1/2 teaspoon cayenne 2 tablespoons salt 1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil 1 1/2 cups fresh corn (from about 2 ears) 1 cup tomatoes coarsely chopped 1 lb frozen shelled edamame (thawed, optional) PREPARATION Cut zucchini, tomato and fennel into 1/4-inch dice. Whisk together scallions, dill, vinegar, lemon juice, mustard, pepper, cayenne, and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt in a large bowl. Add oil in a slow stream, whisking until emulsified. Add zucchini to dressing. Rinse and drain black-eyed peas. Cut corn off ears using a large, sharp blade.&nbsp; Add corn and peas to salad and stir to combine.&nbsp; Refrigerate for at least one hour.&nbsp; Serve cold or at room temperature. &nbsp; Garnish with tomato slices and fresh dill sprigs. &nbsp; NOTES How to cut corn off cob:&nbsp; Cut enough off the tip of the cob to create a flat top. Stand the cob on its flattened top on a plate or wide bowl. Holding the stem end, cut downwards through two or three rows of kernels with a sturdy, sharp knife. Repeat until all kernels are removed. Choice of tomatoes: Anything – pick whichever colors look best to you! 
 An easy way to save money is avoiding stuff that costs money. But since pretty much everything costs money, the key to balancing a normal lifestyle and your budget involves avoiding unnecessary expenses.&nbsp; Haircuts can fall into the unnecessary expenses category for a while, but not forever.&nbsp; And although you may only get a haircut twice a year, there’s little sense in spending a ton at an overpriced salon. So if you’re short on cash and in need of a trim, don’t let your roommate do it.&nbsp; Instead, take a look at the following suggestions.&nbsp; The prices and ambience vary for each, but they are all reliable. &nbsp; Astor Place Hair Located in the basement of a building just off Broadway, Astor Place is a New York landmark. What the décor lacks in style—no windows, naked light bulbs and lots of mirrors covered in headshots, autographs and newspaper clippings—the employees make up for in friendliness and expertise.&nbsp; The stylists are quick, friendly and good at what they do. There’s never a line and the cost of wash and cut rarely exceeds thirty dollars. No appointments.&nbsp; No credit cards. 2 Astor Place at Broadway; 347 535 1844 Bumble and Bumble University If you’re more adventurous and willing to wait, apply to be a model at Bumble and Bumble University, a salon whose purpose is to train student hairstylists.&nbsp;&nbsp; Don’t recoil at the word "student," all stylists are well trained and highly responsive to their clients’ wishes.&nbsp; And it is absolutely free.&nbsp; The only drawback is that it usually takes about two weeks to process your application. 415 West 13th St between 9th Ave and Washington Street; 1 866 BUMBLE 7&nbsp; Aveda Institute If you’re more adventurous and not willing to wait, book an appointment at the Aveda Institute.&nbsp; Like Bumble and Bumble, the Aveda Institute offers discounted cuts for people willing to be the guinea pigs for stylists-in-training.&nbsp; Unlike Bumble and Bumble, Aveda charges twenty dollars and is known to be a slightly less trustworthy and slightly more snooty.&nbsp; But the Rosemary Mint shampoo smells so good. &nbsp; 233 Spring Street between 6th Ave and Varick Street; 212 847 1492 Dop Dop Dop Dop was once, and perhaps still is, one of New York’s trendier salons.&nbsp; And while hairstyles come and go, the quality of cuts here has remained the same. Modeling on Monday is a weekly program that gives both student and professional stylists a chance to practice new cuts and techniques.&nbsp; It costs thirty-five dollars, but there is no application process and walk-ins are welcome. 170 Mercer between Houston and Prince Street; 212 343 1897 Heart One way to save money is to skip the salon and go straight to stylist’s home. This may sound sketchy, but hairstylists are a relatively gentle breed.&nbsp; And Bwog recommends Heart, who has no surname and is as invariably warm and friendly as her name suggests.&nbsp; Her apartment is a bit overwhelming at first -- pink and red wallpaper, crushed velvet and cheetah print -- but not only does she pay attention to what you ask for, she is able to recommend styles that enhance your features and natural hair type. W 26th St between 7th and 8th Aves Apartment 1R; 212 741 2934 266 
 This week's New York Times Magazine features a bunch of professors dressed up in really expensive clothing. Why? "These professors make academia look good," was the explanation proffered. Anyway, naturally this thing is called "Class Acts" and as you can imagine, it is wonderful.&nbsp; Plus, one of the models is Columbia's own anthropology professor Michael Taussig (right), dressed to the nines in a dandyish Alexander McQueen cardigan. 
Today Saturday September 20th, Morningside Heights will lose one of its finer establishments.&nbsp; You have less than three hours to pay your final respects to Kim’s Video and purchase the last of your Criterion Collection.&nbsp; Doors close for good just after six. &nbsp;
 The Columbia football team's season got off to an unfortunate start this afternoon, as the team fell at home to Fordham 29-22. The Lions exploded for 22 points in the second quarter, including a 56-yard touchdown pass from Shane Kelly (10-20, for 170 yards and 2 touchdowns) to Austin Knowlin, and an interception return for a touchdown by linebacker Drew Quinn (who also had 16 9.5 tackles). But Fordham was able to hold the Columbia offense for the rest of the game, and Rams running back Xavier Martin (155 yards, 4 touchdowns) scored twice in the fourth quarter to gain the victory. The Lions play next week at Towson University in Maryland. On to happier news: the field hockey team continued its undefeated start by winning its first Ivy League game, 1-0 over Brown in Providence. Junior Catherine Campbell scored the only goal of the game, and senior goalkeeper Gena Miller (first team All-Ivy in 2007) posted her second shutout of the season. Finally, the women's soccer team ran over American University on Friday night, 5-0. Freshman forward Ashlin Yahr scored twice, and Sophie Reiser, Nora Dooley, and Keri Nobil also tallied. 
As Janice May Udry once said, “A poem is nice.” Actually she said “A tree is nice,” which is actually a poem.&nbsp; But the point is poems are nice.&nbsp; So in honor of nice things and nice September afternoons, Bwog honors the 125th Birthday of William Carlos Williams.&nbsp; Although the actual date of his birth, September 17th, has passed, the celebration continues.&nbsp; All weekend long, aspiring poets, ancient troubadours and bibliophiles alike will convene just ten miles west of Hamilton Hall in Rutherford, NJ (Williams' hometown), to sing praises of the man and his work. Bwog offers some of its favorite Williams’ poems.&nbsp; Feel free to share your own suggestions.&nbsp; Danse Russe If I when my wife is sleeping and the baby and Kathleen are sleeping and the sun is a flame-white disc in silken mists above shining trees,-- if I in my north room dance naked, grotesquely before my mirror waving my shirt round my head and singing softly to myself: "I am lonely, lonely. I was born to be lonely, I am best so!" If I admire my arms, my face, my shoulders, flanks, buttocks again the yellow drawn shades,-- Who shall say I am not the happy genius of my household? The Botticellian Trees The alphabet of the trees is fading in the song of the leaves the crossing bars of the thin letters that spelled winter and the cold have been illuminated with pointed green by the rain and sun –- The strict simple principles of straight branches are being modified by pinched-out ifs of color, devout conditions the smiles of love-- . . . . . . until the stript sentences move as a woman's limbs under cloth and praise from secrecy quick with desire love's ascendancy in summer-- In summer the song sings itself above the muffled words-- 
 Bwog food editor Jon Hill heads to Galaxy Global Eatery to overcome culinary phobias and beyond... Unless you’re a regular sushi eater or a fan of “Eastenders,” eel is most likely not a familiar foodstuff. The reasons for eel's scarcity here in the States are not hard to ferret out if you’ve ever seen a live one: they’re ugly and look like snakes.&nbsp; Overseas, of course, eels are considered quite innocuous as far as seafood goes. The British are famous for jellied eels, the Baltic states have several varieties of smoked eel, and the Japanese put eel in everything from sushi to soda. While I admit I was not quite ready to consume eel in beverage form, I was prepared to conquer both a lifetime of cultural anti-eel bias and apprehension. That’s why I decided Friday to head downtown to Galaxy Global Eatery to try eel in a form most Americans would find very familiar – as a burger. Tucked away into a small corner space in Gramercy, Galaxy Global Eatery is far from galactic in scale. Its dining area is about the size of Café 212 and no meal is complete without receiving a few hip checks to the back of your chair from passing waitstaff. But claustrophobia aside, the menu actually does approach a global scope. Dishes combine elements from culinary traditions on every continent with a particular emphasis on vegetarian and vegan cuisine. There’s also a distinctive counterculture current in the cooking, suggested most obviously by the frequent inclusion of hemp products in the ingredients. Galaxy Global Eatery’s main attraction for me, though, was its smoked eel burger. Whoever created this dish was rather clever – because eels live in cold waters, their tissue has a high fat content, and that makes eel the perfect meat candidate for a burger patty.&nbsp; Those oils keep the patty juicy under the high heat of a grill while also bringing out rich, meaty flavors. And, indeed, the smoked eel burger was juicy, but best of all, it was not fishy. Similarly oily seafood like bluefish and mackerel can make you smell like you’re fresh from the beach, but the strong fishy flavors I expected from the eel were actually subtle and non-dominating. &nbsp;The smoky sweetness left by the eel curing process probably also covered up some of these more overwhelming ocean aromas.&nbsp; Nonetheless I would have enjoyed a slightly stronger flavor given that this eel’s taste had a faintness reminiscent of button mushrooms. Meanwhile, the texture of the ground eel meat was soft and fine, not rubbery or slippery as I feared, and I was happy to learn breadcrumbs had not been added. &nbsp; I ought to note, however, that the true conversation piece of the entrée was not the burger but the sides, cucumber-seaweed salad and beet fries. Both were unusual enough to earn the most attention from my dining companions, despite the kitchen’s uneven execution – the noodle-like seaweed was an excellent partner for the crispy cucumbers, but the beet fries were greasy enough to lubricate an engine. The fusion of American, Japanese, and Eastern European cuisines that went into my smoked eel burger proved to be a quite palatable expedition into adventurous dining. Among the rapids of unusual foods, Galaxy Global Eatery rates about a class 2, “nothing too weird.” Those just beginning to expand their gastronomic frontiers might find a good start here.&nbsp; WHAT IT IS: Smoked eel burger WHERE IT IS: Galaxy Global Eatery, 15 Irving Place (Gramercy) HOW MUCH IT IS: $12.00, with cucumber salad and beet fries on the side HOW TO GET THERE: Take the 1 train to Times Square and transfer to the N. Get off at Union Square, walking a block east on 15th Street. &nbsp; 
 The worst part of not having a yacht used to be not being able to wear Sperrys.&nbsp; But thankfully things have changed:&nbsp; This fall, those soft leather little loafers are appropriate for everyone. So go wild! Go on a Sperrys spree!&nbsp; And it’s not just about the traditional brown either.&nbsp; Hanging out on College Walk, Bwog has seen spins on Sperrys in all shapes and colors. While brown Sperrys and pair of Madras shorts is the uniform of choice among the preppier set at Columbia, a worn-in pair of white or red Sprerrys complements skinny jeans perfectly and can be a welcome alternative to Vans this fall.&nbsp; Here are the styles we’ve found in about campus this week:&nbsp; UPDATE 7 PM: Shocking News concerning your boat shoes, from a Greek life insider: Apparently, last night four freshman boys were denied entrance to a Sig Ep-thrown, country club-themed party, at which, our tipsters notes, there were "boat shoes all around." One of the spurned freshman yelled "nice boat shoes, bitch!" which naturally led to violence and the subsequent arrival of the police. &nbsp; Red &nbsp; Flashy, futuristic silver &nbsp; &nbsp; Yellow &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Classic white, or what remains thereof - MEQ 
 The good people at Ferris Reel want you to know that Ferris Reel is back, again, but really! There's "new leadership" and "lots of fun ideas," according to Colin Drummond, who is one third of the new leadership. The first screening of the semester is Thursday at 9 PM, and it's going to be WALL-E, which we guess will probably sell out fairly quickly. Other upcoming events include a Halloween marathon, an Alpinist-magazine sponsored festival, and free screenings and the like. 
 Columbia's new mascot James Franco hosted Saturday Night Live last night, and as many of you have told us, his opening monologue was all about life as a celebrity at Columbia. Bwog's been searching for this video online, but thus far we've been unable to find it. Still, here's what we know: Franco was greeted by his RA (Jason Sudeikis) who sympathized with Franco about being a celebrity on campus. Apparently the RA is in the Funk Tones, "Columbia's most popular non-tryout, non-lesbian a cappella group," and can't walk into Cafe 212 without being lavishly praised for his beat boxing skills. There was also something about Franco's CUID. Again, we're trying to find this thing online, so if you know where it is, let us know too. (bwog@columbia.edu). 
 Nick Sprayregen may be the loudest Manhattanville holdout, but he's not the only one. Meet Gurnam Singh, owner of two gas stations on 125th Street. He's the other holdout to Columbia in Manhattanville, though he's declined to speak publicly about the wrangling until this month. In an exclusive with the New York Times published Sunday, Singh finally shares his side of the story after years of unsuccessful negotiations with Columbia. It's a tale of immigrant success mixed with recent woe—Singh bought the stations in the 1980s after immigrating to the United States from India, but the past year has brought his family frustration, exhaustion, and one case of stress-induced shingles blisters. Read the story for the full details. Also keep an eye out for a surprise cameo by Sprayregen, who Bwog speculates may possess a hotline phone to the NYT Metro desk. - JYH 
Last night, Culture Editor Tony Gong went to CCSC's massive multicultural event "Passport to Columbia," and returned a little more appreciative of diverse foods, arts, and Columbia, the nation. His account of the night follows. Some people (naysayers and cynics, mainly) don't think you need a passport to go to Columbia. "Columbia is a university, not a country," they may argue. Well, last night, the CCSC Campus Life Committee finally showed us that Columbia is actually a country with over twenty smaller countries inside of it. Correspondingly, we've got a pretty kickass flag (see picture to the right). And yes, you do need a passport to enroll, naysayers. More proof and pictures after the jump. &nbsp; The first thing I learned about Columbia, the mega-country is that our food is both fantastic and free. Every constituent culture showed us the best of its chefs, conveniently available for our trial in multicultural aluminum trays. Some of the most popular aluminum trays were provided by the Muslim Students Association, from which I enjoyed delicious fitir (Egyptian spinach and cheese pie), stuffed grape leaves, and kebbe (Lebanese meatballs, a little firmer and more smokier than American meatballs). Here, taboule (Lebanese salad), basbousa (Egyptian dessert), and humus with baba ghannough are pictured: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I eventually went on to fill my plate with scorched egg (slices of hard-boiled eggs covered and baked in minced meat) from the African Students Association, chicken kabob from Organization of Pakistani Students, kugel (a tasty dessert made with egg noodles, I think) from the Columbia/Barnard Hillel, and egg yolk moon cake from the Hong Kong Students and Scholars Society. My multicultural plate in its full glory: &nbsp; As the citizens of Columbia, the mega-country grew fuller from government-subsidized foods, we progressed onto the performance portion of the night. CU Bhangra, the Punjabi (Punjab: a region of India and Pakistan) dance group, started off the performance schedule and demonstrated superhuman dance abilities that defied all camera shutter speeds. Next, the Chinese Students Club's Lion Dance troupe put on a colorful performance of jumping, dancing, and roaring to heavy drums and hand percussion. It seemed for awhile there to involve in a thirty-second makeout session between the two lions, but turns out the lions were just trying to pull out the Chinese Students Club banner. &nbsp; The energetic dance culminated in the lions smashing heads of Chinese cabbage together -- a symbolic activity of spreading the wealth and fortune to the citizens of Columbia the mega-country. However, the cabbage remained on the stage for the rest of the performances, and a poor student frantically attempted to sweep it all off the stage between acts. Fortune was not in everyone's favor that night. Other performance highlights that my photographer wasn't around for included: Sasha Thompson's lovely and emotional vocal performance of Alicia Keys' "How Come You Don't Call Me Anymore?" Ayse Buket Coskuner's Turkish dance performance Pizmon -- Columbia/Barnard Hillel's a cappella that I'm pretty sure featured multiple air guitar soloists CU Raas -- a vivid dance group of Western India Gaith Adhami -- an Islamic spoken word poet Ahmed Eid -- a solo a cappella performer who sang verses from the Koran Orisha -- a Caribbean dance group that featured large hand drums, taunting of the audience, and colorful dresses Stone Forest Ensemble -- a fusion rap freestyle/beatbox/string orchestral/hand drum group that made me want to take up any of those activities. Overall, it was a wonderful night that probably increased patriotism and passport applications for Columbia, the mega-country. But of course, it wasn't altogether accurate. The citizens of our mega-country don't just eat, sing, and dance. We also like to mark the constituent countries from where we came, nostalgically remembering those days of our fatherland: And sometimes, homework can't wait until Sunday: &nbsp; - photos by Evan Omi and Michelle Pena 
 Bwog's Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann actually sat through the Night of 1,000 Speeches, or ESC's 2012 candidate forum. His report, and some admittedly sub-par cameraphone pictures, follow. &nbsp; Gimmicks and costumes dominated the Engineering Student Council forum today, as each of the first year candidates concluded their campaigns with formal speeches. This year’s parties were: FuReal, Red, White, &amp; Fu, Super Fu, Pirates of the SEAS, and JK. There were also unaffiliated candidates running in each category. The predominant themes of the speeches were expanding campus WiFi, improving food/dinning services, and building up the Columbia/SEAS community.&nbsp; Some quick observations, by the numbers: 0: Female presidential candidates 2: Male vice-presidential candidates 4: Candidates in costume (Spiderman, Arthur the Aardvark, and two pirates) 1: Gandhi quote 1: AWOL candidate (apparently complications stranded our hero in New Jersey) Your president: Nathan Lee (FuReal): Promised to promote and maintain community within both the SEAS community and the larger Columbia community. His (and his party’s) strongest point was the idea of a SEAS student mentoring program: freshmen students could seek help from upperclassman for anything from hard problem set to trouble making friends in a new environment. Nathan Levick (Red, White, and Fu): Promised better WiFi around campus, more research/internships for freshmen students, and more CC/SEAS interaction. Derrick Fu (Super Fu): Began by telling how Super Fu came into existence; his story involved a dark night, elevators, canned beverages, and ninjas. Proposed later Butler hours, more CC/SEAS interaction, better/cheaper John Jay food, longer JJ’s Place hours, Better WiFi, and microwaves on all Carman floors. Described self as “devilishly good-looking.” Gregory Feldman (Pirates of the SEAS): Wearing a pirate hat and an eye patch, this presidential hopeful promised to lead us through stormy seas (get it?) by eliminating early fire drills, opening the often-closed fields in front of Butler, and proposed class-wide study breaks with “boat-loads of free food” (get it?). Joseph Barakat (JK): Given his “Why so serious?” posters, Bwog was surprised he was not in costume. However, he had made solid points by promising to improve class registration so SEAS students are not forced out of electives because of pre-registered classes.&nbsp; Also promised breakfast stations in Carman and Furnald, better pest control, and call ahead at JJ’s. Says he’s serious about change. Benjamin Malec (Unaffiliated): Only candidate who wore a name tag. Promised beautification (“Mudd, as beautiful as it is, it isn’t really that beautiful”), culture, and efficiency. Said he wanted to improve SEAS pride, fix slippery steps at Butler, put staplers in the computer labs, fix Hartley pool tables, and allow curtains in the dorms. When Q&amp;A rolled around and candidates were asked about funding for WiFi, curtains in Mudd, breakfast stations and the like, most fumbled for specifics. There were mentions of LiveStrong-type bracelets and bake sales. Your vice-president: &nbsp; Fatima Dicko (FuReal): Proposed engineering lotteries for necessities, such as TI-89s. Also promised to help break down CC/SEAS barrier and create a food delivery service during exam week. David Gu (Red, White, and Fu): Described platform as one for “comprehensive change.” Two major initiatives were to upgrade the Columbia technology network to defeat the “monster that is the Ethernet cable,” and to build a more comprehensive research program for undergrads. Jessica Wu (Super Fu): The ninja in her running mate’s story, she promised more cross majoring and cross registration between SEAS and CC students, and a better transfer process between SEAS/CC because, “we’re 18” and we don’t know exactly what we want to do. For stress-busting brainstorming activity, she noted she liked swimming, and NYU's Milk and Cookies club, and suggested ESC combine the two for a stress-busting milk and cookies swimming party. Katherine Chan (JK): As was consistent with the JK party platform, she pushed for environmental initiatives. She also said she'd deal with the bedbug problem (of which she herself was a victim) and install change machines in the laundry rooms. Anmol Gupta (Unaffiliated): Wore a full body Spiderman costume to signify what he feels Columbia is missing most: school spirit. Also, provocatively said the lack of WiFi is good because it forces people out of their rooms and causes them to meet people. Your reps (two will be elected): Judy Kim (FuReal): Promised screens in dorms, cheaper textbooks, and multiple swipes for the same meal. Says she feels she would best help the community as a representative. Ryan Mulvey (FuReal): Promised to voice all student complaints to administration, looked forward to working on sponsorship committee to help build up community and implement his party’s upper-classmen advising program. Eric Tang (Red, White, and Fu): Said his, and his party’s, platform points were: a better learning environment, WiFi, and better events. He describes himself as someone who is a “disgrace to Asians everywhere” because he can't play Frisbee, and admits that he has no sense of time (what became apparent when the moderator cut him off). Mailing Wu (Red, White, and Fu): AWOL. Eric Hams (Super Fu): Promised more SEAS pride, identity, and unity. Says he understands how to serve his community well. Also promised to get more SEAS-specific merchandise for the bookstore. Xin Zhang (Independent): Came in singing theme from Arthur and Friends (you probably watched it when you were younger; if you don’t remember it, Google). She claimed we were all “Busters, Brains, Francines" (those are friends of Arthur's). Also proposed improving food quality in John Jay. As is traditional in freshman elections, many of the candidates spent a great deal of their allotted time rattling off their resumes, making the rookie mistake in overlooking that we all got in to Columbia, we all worked hard, we all had to balance SATs with clubs and schoolwork. &nbsp; Because of student council rules, the campaign does not officially end until 11:59pm tonight, so it appears candidates have decided to dedicate the last few hours to plastering their posters over their competitors’. Voting takes place on September 24th and 25th. 
 Earlier this afternoon, Bwog made our way to the fifth floor of Lerner for a discussion with Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. While Senator Klobuchar didn’t exactly draw Jumbotron-sized crowds (the audience numbered less than fifty), the always smiling senator made a gracious effort to shake everyone’s hand and learn their names.&nbsp; She began her talk by introducing her family, and described her initial move in her “husband’s small Saturn” to our nation’s capital after she was elected to the Senate. Because this was not "nonpartisan" like Obamacain, she then railed against John McCain and President Bush for allowing financial deregulation on Wall Street, which she blamed for America’s current economic problems. “There was too much greed and too little fear on Wall Street, and that’s the situation we’re in today,” she said. She also sided with both Obama and McCain and endorsed the return of ROTC to campus.&nbsp; It was only when the name "Sarah Palin" was mentioned that Senator Klobuchar’s smile disappeared: “If you want four more years of President Bush’s failed policies, of failure on the war, on the environment, on energy independence, on healthcare, then you should vote for McCain and Palin. I think the country will make the right choice, elect Barack and put the country in a new direction.” She ended her discussion by declaring that she was a big fan of fellow Minnesotan Prince. The event felt more like an interactive, engaging seminar than a one-way lecture. Bwog asked the Senator if she had any aspirations for the presidency someday; she replied, “I’m happy right where I am in my day job, but thanks for the compliment.” - Will Leonard 
 Throwing the baby out with the... bathtub? Even though it is called the Freedom School, there is still homework. Barnard steals fancy new financial aid director from... Columbia! Celebrating forks, knives and spoons. Celebrating Keira Knightley's new period drama. ...and the traditional freshman editorial about being satisfied with imperfections. Welcome to the canon. 
 The list of all the 12s running for 2012 CCSC class council has been announced this morning, as campaigning began about an hour ago. Come, let's meet them, in alphabetical order! And then stick around later, and we'll check out the groups' Facebook offerings. The Candor Party Rolando Rodriguez, President Jasmine Senior, Vice President Alana Tung, Representative Akito Terasaki, Representative Suhaydee Tejeda, Representative The Liberty Party Syed Hossain, Representative New York Connection Gavin Newton-Tanzer, President Alice Zhang, Vice President Brandon Chrisotphe, Representative Susan Thomas, Representative Keith Miao, Representative Real Party Erik Kogut, President Hannah Wilentz, Vice President Diego Arango, Representative Vision 2012 Mason Fitch, President Cindy Pan, Vice President Sarah Chai, Representative Noruwa Agho, Representative Kenny Durell, Representative Woof Party Sahil Gupta, President Saahil Patel, Vice President Sanjiv Mehta, Representative Holly Dykstra, Representative Richard Huang, Representative &nbsp; 
 Satow Room Bureau Chief Martha Turewicz reports on last night's CCSC meeting, which included grim new details about the War on Food. In the words of jovial President George Krebs, “Welcome to another delightfully wonderful evening." Krebs continued to dispense with the pleasantries throughout, lending a lightheartedness to proceedings that were markedly more officious than those of last year.&nbsp; Virtually gone are the days of idle chitter-chatter: the opening updates have been cut to a "strict two minutes" (Krebs again), with any and all questions relegated to a later time slot.&nbsp; Class reps rattled off updates in a similarly clipped manner. Another new feature of the meeting: a tear-and-submit evaluation of its efficiency at the bottom of the schedule- was meant to take, in the words, once more, of Krebs, "no more than 90 seconds" of everyone’s time.&nbsp; That being said, the meeting ran about 10 minutes overtime, despite what one of the reps told me prior to its beginning, when he speculated that it would finish 20 minutes early.&nbsp; Also different from last year was the relatively high number of students in attendance. The bulk of these turned out to be aspiring Class of 2012 reps, who claimed a row and a half of seats. As Krebs greeted them, he noted that their campaigning begins tomorrow, at which someone seated near him quietly advised the 12s to "get some sleep now." This same discreet commentator was perhaps the source of the gasping following the Shocking Revelation -- delivered by Learned Foote speaking on behalf of Library Services -- that studiers’ items will be automatically removed from certain Butler rooms during closing hours. He or she may also have been among the chorus of "oh noes!" that greeted the news that all drinks, including water, have been banned from the picturesque 301 study room of that same library.&nbsp; Then, the CampusPlaybook boys were ushered in and presented their project, a website that conveniently lists all campus events, categorized by event type and clubs/student groups. After the presentation, they were loudly applauded and commended for their effort. And naturally, after they had left the room, discussion turned to their possible personal motives in starting such a site. &nbsp; Towards the 9:20 minute mark, Krebs announced to the freshmen “If this meeting has so thrilled you with the juicy morsels we have, you can stay.” Obediently, only one or two left.&nbsp; The rest quietly slunk out in a pack 5 minutes later. &nbsp;
 In response to widespread concerns over access to the ROTC survey planning meetings that have been going on amongst student groups, the next meeting will most likely be moved to Friday, and be declared open to all groups, pending a vote from the current coalition of group and council representatives. The move was pushed for by CCSC VP for Policy Adil Ahmed, who, in an email to student council and group leaders, said that the councils want to be "completely transparent." At last Wednesday's meeting, representatives from Everyone Allied Against Homophobia tried to enter the closed meeting. They were asked to leave by representatives there, and EAAH handed out a statement at the end of the meeting. In addition, the university senators who had previously been involved were specifically kept off of the email announcing the new proposal. In the email, Ahmed claimed that the action was because "the Senators are primarily there to advise us..." Despite long-time speculation that senators were the principal supporters of an ROTC survey, then, it seems that the councils (or at least CCSC) are controlling the survey process. Bwog will continue to keep you updated as more details are confirmed. 
 A School of the Arts third year writing student named David Harrington is receiving some attention today from the New York Daily News in response to his famous internet invention, the Sarah Palin Baby-Name Generator. The Daily News loved their new Palin names so much that certain reporters even used them as bylines. Bwog played around with this thing by entering in several of Columbia's most recognizable names. Here's what happened: Lee Bollinger: Shaver Razorback Palin Bruce Robbins: Steak Leather Palin James Franco: Moose Roadster Palin Roaree Lion: Snooker Hinge Palin Austin Quigley: Recoil Mush Palin Gayatri Spivak: Plop Hero Palin Plus, it's not just random: entering in the same name twice will result in the same Palin name both times. Oh, and in case you were wondering, Bwog's actually quite partial to our Palin name: Ladel Torque Palin. 
 Bwog received the following email a few minutes ago from Richard Adams, the (outgoing!) GSSC VP for Student Life. "I believe stands on its own merits," he wrote somewhat ominously. Except the letter is nearly incomprehensible, and Adams seems to be simultaneously resigning and calling for a vote to determine whether he should resign. According to Adams, he learned of his own resignation in an email sent to him last Friday from GSSC President Brody Berg. This "alarmed" his colleagues because... what? Anyway, he takes the opportunity to lambast the GSSC, calling it "a body that is increasing out-of-touch with and irrelevant to the needs and concerns of the GS student body. It has become almost obsessively concerned with the needs of the Council rather than the constituency it needs to serve." And then he resigns! And might do so again tomorrow! Full letter after the jump. September 22, 2008&nbsp; Dear Friends and/or Colleagues:&nbsp; I learned that I had resigned from the General Studies Student Council by way of an e-mail from the GSSC President on Friday afternoon, and that another Councilperson was in place to assume my duties. In reaction to that e-mail, I have placed an item on the agenda of the September 23, 2008 Council meeting which asks that there be a vote to decide whether or not I should continue in my position as Vice President for Student Life of the GSSC, a position I was elected to by vote of the student body. While I had discussed my stepping down earlier on Friday with the President, I had not yet submitted my resignation. When fellow Councilmembers contacted me, alarmed by the President’s communication, I was taken aback by this bizarre (and possibly unconstitutional) action.&nbsp; I believe that this situation – more than likely caused by mis-communication rather than any attempt by the President to treat me unfairly – is indicative of a troubling tendency within the GSSC. It is a body that is increasing out-of-touch with and irrelevant to the needs and concerns of the GS student body. It has become almost obsessively concerned with the needs of the Council rather than the constituency it needs to serve. It diverts energies away from initiatives that could tangibly improve the lives of GS students and channels these energies into resolving internal political and personal conflicts within the Council. In short, GSSC has marginalized itself into irrelevance.&nbsp; Given all the above, and considering the fact that my working relationship with the President of the GSSC has been irreparably damaged, I resign from my current position on the GSSC, and will decline to accept any future role on Council. I wish all of you success in pursuing the goals that caused you to seek a position on Council, and, in particular success to the new Vice President of Student Life as (s)he strives to bring quality and relevant programming which served the needs of the students of the School of General Studies.&nbsp; Richard L. Adams 
 White House Bureau Chief James Downie continues his dispatches from the trail: "Six weeks. Four candidates. Two winners. It all comes down to this." If I were a bad copy writer like those who seemed to be advertising and writing last night's Emmys (cheers to Glenn Close and Zeljko Ivanek for Damages!), that's how I'd lead in.&nbsp; And while that would be hackneyed, cliched and overly dramatic (also known as "Heroes-like"), it would be wrong to think that nothing will change as the campaign ramps up to the first of three debates this Friday, and the last six weeks of the campaign. Whatever ground lost must be made up almost immediately, as the candidates jockey for the position of favorite heading into the debates, and then Election Day. And now, the news: Friday Night Debate: The first of three debates (not counting the Obama-McCain service extravaganza) takes place at Ole Miss this Friday. Unfortunately for McCain, the polls have shifted back into Obama's favor, meaning that he goes into the debate needing to reclaim momentum (if the debate had been held last Friday, people would be seeing Obama as the one who needed to do well). The debate will be moderated by Jim Lehrer of PBS. Chris Cillizza of the Washington Post breaks down the respective strategies, while the New York Times breaks down the debate over the debate rules. It's Mathematical!: As always, numbers are available here, here, here, and here. We're Gonna Do Stuff: The presidential candidates both have been scrambling to lay out their plans for dealing with the Wall Street crisis (down 375 points today!). Unfortunately for John McCain, Obama's camp grasped the direction of the debate more quickly, already rolling out a plan on Monday while McCain was still declaring "the fundamentals of our economy are strong." Still, their plans probably won't matter much come January, as they'll be restricted to whatever plan the Democrats will let pass the Congress. As of writing, what that plan will be remains unclear. But There Might Be Other Stuff: Mark Halperin of TIME lists non-Wall Street factors that will be important over the next six weeks. Reason No. 6 Why Democrats Always Lose: Heading into last weekend, there were numerous stories about how Democrats were worried that Obama was blowing his summer lead. Of course, your correspondent agrees with 538.com, who outlined the two-week period of ties as simply how a basic "convention bounce" works. The sad lesson Democrats have to take from this is that there are numerous so-called "strategists" who apparently have no clue what a convention bounce is. No worries, though: it's only the most documented phenomenon in presidential polling. Nuances like that surely aren't necessary knowledge in a national campaign. He's A Machine!: Politico outlines the many gaffes of Joe "told a man in a wheelchair to stand up" Biden. Can You Hear Me Now?: 538.com tries to gauge the effect of including cell phone-only users in polls. No news on a separate iPhone effect. Barack's Got Your Gun(s): Or at least he will take it (or them), says the NRA. In other news, NARAL plans to tell voters that John McCain will personally kill all abortion practitioners. Nothing New Here: Steve Schmidt declares the New York Times a "pro-Obama advocacy organization." Your correspondent is forbidden from commenting on merchandise he gets for free. Back From the Land of Cancellation: Maureen Dowd enlists President Bartlett to give some advice to Obama. 
 Earlier today, as part of the World Leaders Forum, President Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson of Iceland addressed students in an almost-full Low Rotunda. As was appropriate for the President of Iceland, he spoke enthusiastically about how small countries can battle worldwide problems. He stressed that even though much of the world is still locked in a mindset that small countries have little power, they still have enormous potential to affect policy changes. Because, as the friendly Grímsson said, small countries can pose no military threat, there is no reason not to be friends with them. (Really -- go Friend him!) He also said that world leaders need to stop being afraid of proposing initiatives that may fail. "The world needs leaders who can afford to lose face." But the primary focus of the President’s talk was renewable energy. In this respect, Iceland has become a laboratory for the world -- almost all of the country’s electricity is generated from hydroelectric and geothermal sources. Plus, electric cars are already in the process of being deployed. Though he admitted he is an optimist, he still believes there is no reason why the Iceland's ecological successes cannot occur in larger countries too. When asked which American presidential candidate would help America become greener, he tactfully refused to endorse a candidate, and said that either would improve America’s stand on climate change. He concluded by thanking the University and telling the moderator, John Allegrante, that he hoped he was less trouble than our last guest, He Who Must Not Be Named.&nbsp; -- Sean Zimmermann 
 Iceland's President keeps his politics cool, and then in a snowy flourish, he was gone. Radio Perfecto came and went... and now it's time for something completely different. Columbia's Capital Campaign gets a boost. Battle of the Editorials: It's Kwame vs. Ariel! Battle of the Books: It's Barnes &amp; Noble vs. Book Culture! 
Bwog's guide to Movie Rentals has returned! We're not sure where you're going to actually rent these films (Butler?), but we hear the Internet has a nice selection for downloading. Film correspondent Mark Hay reports. Every time I launch Firefox, I cannot escape the face persistently plastered all over my homepage. Sarah. Palin. Palin, Palin, Palin. She's inescapable. So, in light of the media's constant attention to the good Governor and her life: Three Movies Sarah Palin Might Want to Ban from Your Video Store (or, a list to get yourself on the bad side of every College Republican). Limbo (1999): Welcome to rural Alaska, home in our minds to stunning vistas, independent living, and Governor Sarah Palin. Oh boy! A movie about small-town Alaskan life! How folksy; how rugged; how American spirit-esque! Except that's not the picture Director/Writer John Sayles creates in this unexpected saga of intertwining lives, stagnation and tragedy. Sayles uses the blossoming romance between Joe (David Strathairn), a local boy ground down by a harsh life leading nowhere, and Donna (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), a struggling singer hitting rock bottom, to reveal a grim Alaska of flailing industry hidden from tourists behind the thin veil of trees left by the lumber giants. And then all romance and commentary grind to a halt with the arrival of Joe's brother Bobby (Casey Siemaszko). Bobby convinces Joe to take him on a "business trip" and Joe eagerly invites Donna and her troubled daughter Noelle (Vanessa Martinez). Suddenly Joe, Donna and Noelle find themselves thrust into a fight for survival in the most potent and chilling depths of isolation and Alaska. &nbsp;Though dark, this film retains a glimmer of hope, if one chooses to seek it, in an ending that may inspire some to punch straight through their television screens in simultaneous exasperation and awe. Perhaps a little dark for the work week, but any film that can seamlessly transition from domestic comedy to introspective thriller deserves a golf clap and some due attention. Lake of Fire (2006): Google Palin, and within a minute, you'll be informed of her solidly pro-life stance on abortion. One either sees this and nods in approval or recoils in pro-choice revulsion -- there's almost no middle ground. But do we truly understand the repercussions of either side of the debate? Or are we mainly isolated, limited in scope to facts that only reinforce our own stance? Director Tony Kaye (of American History X fame) must have asked these questions when he set out upon this seventeen year project chronicling the evolution and extremes of both the pro-life and pro-choice camps. Kaye's keen attention to balance and his brutal realism may lead any fervent supporters on either side of the fence to question their beliefs. The film introduces us to the most absurd and violent, as well as the most calm and rational, assessments of either side, and both views leave the viewer almost numb with sensory overload. At times the sheer fact of the film may become overwhelming -- hard to stomach, hard to view. Kaye accomplishes his mission, though, presenting us with as many facets of the argument as he can find. He traces their consequences and developments, cradles them into a 150 minute bundle and leaves them on our doorstep to unpack and process, free of any clear bias from the filmmaker. The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (1994): Perhaps Lake of Fire doesn't fit your bill for a weekend movie. But how about Agent Smith of The Matrix, General Zod of Superman, and the protagonist from Memento (whatshisname?) as Australian drag queens? This Australian blitz-hit by Writer/Director Stephan Elliott chronicles many universal tensions of homosexuality (urban and rural reception, differing approaches to life within the gay community, the development of family, personal questioning) through the tale of three drag queens in Sydney. The elder of the group, Ralph/Bernadette (Terence Stamp), after suffering great loss and midlife crisis, jumps at an opportunity to play a show in middle-of-nowhere Alice Springs at a casino operated by fellow drag queen Tick/Mitzi's (Hugo Weaving) ex-wife. The two of them, joined by the campy and flamboyant Adam/Felicia (Guy Pearce), decide to set out on a journey of self-discovery and social commentary across the outback in a school bus painted lavender and christened Priscilla. Ultimately heartwarming and unexpectedly comically successful, Priscilla is probably the happiest and most digestible film on this week's list. 
 Room Hopping returns this week with a special look inside the seedy underbelly of a Carman Beer Pong Mecca. Eliza Shapiro reports, with photojournalist Liz Naiden in tow. Bwog sucks at beer pong. We came to Columbia hoping against hope that we would not have to be subjected to fruitless hours of waiting for our respective rounds, only to eventually disappoint our teammates and be mocked by our friends. Oh, what fools we were.&nbsp; “Beer pong is very central to college life,” explains Anonymous Carman Miscreant Number One, leaning against the makeshift table he and his roommate have made the centerpiece of their double. The beer pong table making process was “easy,” and the ingredients simple: a penchant for the game, disdain for closet doors, screwdriver, two desk chairs, and a spare five minutes. Miscreant Number One simply unscrewed his door from his closet, balanced it over the two rocking desk chairs provided to him and his roommate, and the job was done. Serendipitously, Carman closet doors measure roughly 7.5 X 1.5, almost the same as the 8 X 2 table that the World Series of Beer Pong has decreed official regulation size.&nbsp; The young juvenile delinquents have hosted three highly successful beer pong tournaments in recent weeks. Anonymous Carman Miscreant Number One commented that his skills have “noticeably improved” though freely admits that he is one of the unlucky ones whose adeptness at pong decreases the more he drinks. &nbsp; Number One jovially tells of one recent instance during a tournament when he found himself shirtless, with the words “Beer Pong” scrawled across his neck. The RA roaming the halls knocked on the boys’ door and asked “if there was anything going on.” Half-naked, with his collarbone bearing an explanation of exactly what was going on, Number One simply replied “No,” and the RA continued on his rounds. &nbsp; Exhausted by our own admiration, Bwog left our favorite pong-ers shuffling their desk chairs back into their intended positions for the workweek and placing the table in the corner, muttering about the beer-sticky linoleum floor. &nbsp; 
 Oh look, here is a depressing thing: Duane Reade has already begun stocking up on Christmas decorations. In hopes that these were actually just leftovers from last year, Bwog checked with the salesperson who confirmed that yes, these are new for the season. So if you're looking to start your Christmas paraphernalia collection early, at least they're really cheap, what with this being September and everything.&nbsp; 
 Today, the MacArthur Foundation announced this year's recipients of its famed Genius Grants, and one winner is the Mailman School's own Wafaa El-Sadr. El-Sadr is a clinical researcher, specializing in such noble pursuits as studying alternative treatments for patients who can't tolerate certain therapies and developing gels that inhibit HIV transmission. She is also chief of infectious diseases at the Harlem Hospital Center.&nbsp; El-Sadr receives $500,000, no strings attached, meaning the money is not necessarily designated for any specific project. Oh, and bragging rights, she's won those too.&nbsp; 
 Bwog is looking for a daily editor or two to join our staff. So, the job: On your designated day, you'll write QuickSpec, various news and culture pieces and free food listings. Plus, you'll chronicle "Stephan's" every move: it's the stuff of dreams!&nbsp; So here's what to do -- send us the following: 1. Five (5) QuickSpec headlines for any issue from this week. 2. One (1) previous Bwog post you liked and why. 3. One (1) previous Bwog post you didn't like and why. 4. A list of five (5) ideas for future posts and/or consistent features. 5. A mock Bwog post on any topic of your choice, not to exceed three hundred (300) words. Email these things to bwog@columbia.edu by Sunday, September 28th at 11:59 PM. Email any questions to this same email address. 12s are encouraged to apply too! (And as always, we're always looking for contributors of all sorts.) 
 Exciting news concerning your Milano Market! Starting this Thursday, it will start accepting Flex Points. According to a Milano cashier, the "exchange rate" will be 1:1 and all products will be Flex-friendly. 
 Ever made your way over to Lerner's iconic ramps for a midday break only to be inundated, upon arrival, by the wafting of piano scales?&nbsp; Bwog has also encountered those mysterious etudes on a number of occasions, but today we were in for quite the surprise.&nbsp; While taking time away from surveying the cracks and stains in the ramps this afternoon, Bwog had the pleasure of nestling down on the far end of the large, red, and suede swirly chair in the Lerner Piano Lounge to take in, for a brief moment, the second incarnation of "Music on the Ramps," (the first was last week).&nbsp; Courtesy of a free music and food event hosted by the appropriately named new student group Live at Lerner, the smell of fresh churros coupled nicely today with the sweet sound of music, ensuring that the almost-daily rendition of Beethoven's "Sonata Pathetique" would have to wait, if only temporarily. &nbsp; Free churro and tortilla chips in hand, Bwog enjoyed a merry serenade courtesy of Jacob Friedman, devoured a selection from the New Congress's repertoire, and delighted in the&nbsp;soulful strums&nbsp;of Tony Gong's guitar.&nbsp; Just in cased you missed out on Lernerpalooza, Bwog's received footage of the New Congress's performance, courtesy of our talented videographer Jason Alarcon!&nbsp; 
True fact: Sarah Palin doesn't eat babies. Cars don't run into you in Riverside Park. The stock market crashed!&nbsp; Now what? Fight Club was released nine years ago.&nbsp; Don't you feel really old?&nbsp; Like, over nine years old? Columbia wants to demolish and rebuild in every direction!&nbsp; Watch out Lincoln Center. Columbia students may not like lines in John Jay, but they sure do like to spend their parents' money! 
How many restaurants can you say birthed the greatest intro sequence to a television show, spawned the digital music revolution and has the most expensive french fries since the Potato Famine?&nbsp; According to Suzanne Vega in the Times, Barnard '82 and folk singer, Tom's is more than just a refuge for overpriced appetizers.&nbsp; Apparently, she wrote a song about how great it was that she got half-full cups of coffee and then some British producers really liked it, so they looped it up and made this dance hit (below), which is remarkably different from the original.&nbsp; The original, because it was a single voice singing a capella, was so warm that the creators of the MP3 in the early 2000s 1990s thought that it would make a fantastic test subject.&nbsp; When Vega heard the MP3 version, she decided that she still liked the vinyl better, much to the chagrin of the engineers whose blood, sweat and tears created the music format that would make Napster and all of its subsequent legal troubles possible.&nbsp; Hurrah Morningside Heights! &nbsp; 
 Princess Ghida Talal of Jordan, PrezBo and scholars from around the world are in Lerner 555 today discussing academic freedom in places where scholars are imprisoned, executed and oppressed in other ways.&nbsp; Bollinger began the event talking about the precarious nature of scholarship in the world and on the other side, Columbia's commitment to the study of human rights (with the creation of the CSHR in 1978).&nbsp; Some governments, even democracies, he said, are geared towards allowing only a few viewpoints and that limits the scholarly project to seek truth.&nbsp; Novel ideas from the academy, by their very nature, commonly conflict with the traditional views that these governments hold and in a fight between the government and the scholar, the government always wins.&nbsp; Allan Goodman, president of the Institute of International Education, described the Scholar Rescue Fund, a project that finds intellectuals under persecution and makes safe havens for them around the world.&nbsp; This is where Princess Ghida comes in--she worked with an offshoot of the SRF, the Iraqi Rescue Fund, to find places for hundreds of persecuted Iraqi academics in Jordanian universities.&nbsp; She, a scholar in her own right (she holds two degrees from Georgetown), described the purpose of keeping the scholars in the Middle East to prevent the kind of brain drain that is occurring around the world where academics head to Western Europe and the US. After these introductions, a panel of scholars from the SRF spoke about their experiences in persecution and the fragile state of academic freedom in the world today.&nbsp; 
The Freshman elections for Columbia College Student Council approach (Bwog is sitting on its hands for October 6th and 7th) and in order to keep you the voter informed, here is a recap of the six parties running and why they think you should vote for them. Candor Party Facebook group size: 76 Website: Features a predominantly beige, grey and blue color-scheme and details on social events and some class-wide and school-wide changes that they want made. Naive idea: "Pull the Plug Night" hopefully isn't going to involved Columbia cutting out its power-grid. Analysis: Definitely one of the front-runners in this election, at least in the highly inaccurate world Facebook polling, but elections are won by votes, not slick websites with cute pictures.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Liberty Party (only Syed Hossain for Representative) &nbsp;Facebook group size: 16 Analysis: Not much information on his platform on the Facebook group and no website that Bwog could find, but LE:MON Party last year showed that Representatives can be elected even if the whole party does not, so we'll have to see if Hossain is able to pull bullet votes for a victory.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; New York Connection Facebook group size: 81 Website:&nbsp; An old-school, paper design is attractive, however almost all of their policies focus on New York City and they do not offer many on-campus ideas.&nbsp; All in all, they seem very focused on a few issues as opposed to a broad spectrum. Naive idea: Unlimited swipe during brunch and dinner.&nbsp; Although it would be a good way for 12s to make friends with hungry, broke upperclassmen... Analysis:&nbsp; They need to convince people that they will be working for them for all aspects of their scholastic lives, not just getting them in touch with the city..&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Real Party Facebook group size: 79 Naive idea: Open JJ’s Place on Weekends...Bwog is holding its breath and joining the HamDel VIP instead. Analysis: They are making a popular organizational effort in trying to organize their policy goals under larger umbrella goals of Quality of Life, Social Life, and Academic Life.&nbsp; If they can convince Freshmen that they can get at least some of these things done, they have a good shot at being successful in October. &nbsp; &nbsp; Vision Party Facebook group size: 67 Website: The comic book theme gives Vision a more playful appearance than the other, more professional-looking websites.&nbsp; Naive idea: Create the freshman committee on admissions.&nbsp; You were just accepted, be happy with that Fresh-folk! Analysis: If they can get across that they will get the job done (and not just take beauty shots) their skill at bolding important words and dressing sharply might be what they need. &nbsp; &nbsp; Woof Party Facebook group size: 22 Naive idea: Equal opportunity for freshmen class registration.&nbsp; Someone didn't get into Music Hum... Analysis:&nbsp; While it seems like a great idea to say that you want everyone's ideas, the reason that people vote in council members is because they themselves are too lazy to want to come up with their own ideas.&nbsp; And if you want to "bark" at the administration, there's not too much chance that they'll listen. -JJV 
 Bwog just received an email from CCSC VP of Policy Adil Ahmed that announced there are two ROTC forums in the works&nbsp; -- one at Barnard, one at Columbia -- designed to serve as platforms for different groups to present their views on the issue to the campus. These forums will be open to the public.&nbsp; On Friday, there will be a planning meeting -- "not a political debate" -- to determine who will be presenting during these forums. As for the the University-wide referendum, it seems this thing will be written by to-be-determined members of the four undergraduate councils. The authors of the referendum will be identified once it is written, and "no groups will write the questions." Full email after the jump. Dear Campus Groups, As you know by now, the question of bringing an NROTC program has been raised and is being entertained by the undergraduate University Senators. The student councils (CCSC, ESC, GSSC, and SGA) will be conducting a survey to gauge student opinion on the issue. We will disclose the members of the councils who draft these questions, and will seek the assistance of our SDA and CAO advisers during the survey drafting process. No groups will write the questions. We will be working closely with the University Senators to provide the campus with a timetable / history of ROTC activity in the past, and hosting two forums for groups to present their respective views to the campus. One forum will be held at Barnard and one at Columbia so that all students have an equal opportunity to attend and learn about NROTC. The purpose of the meeting on Friday is so that we can gauge interest in participation on the panels during the forums. It is a planning meeting, not a political debate. If your group would like to be involved, please send one or two representatives from your group to the meeting on Friday. We would also like to learn which groups are planning to organize together so that the forums can be planned accordingly. This will be a great opportunity for you to meet and talk to other student groups who are also planning to educate the campus about their perspectives on a possible Columbia NROTC program. Of course, you are free to organize however you wish outside of our planned forums but please be respectful of your peers and our larger community. Location: Earl Hall Auditorium When: Friday, September 26 from 7 PM - 9 pM Sincerely, CCSC, ESC, GSSC, and SGA
 Alan Brinkley, who has served as University Provost for the past five years, will be stepping down from the position at the end of this year.&nbsp; The news was announced in an e-mail this evening to the Columbia University community. In the email, Brinkley writes that "I feel that it is now time for me to return to research and teaching." He also says he will serve until a successor is named.&nbsp; Brinkley joined the faculty in 1991, and is probably best known to students for his extremely popular history lecture classes. The current iteration, "U.S. History 1919-45," is meeting this semester in the famous 309 Havemeyer lecture hall. Brinkley also has contributed to or written numerous books, including two widely-used high school textbooks. His time as Provost has been perhaps most recently marked by the tenure controversies surrounding Nadia Abu El-Haj and Joseph Massad. More importantly, though, he is the most popular Columbia professor on Facebook. The full e-mail is pasted below the jump. UPDATE (9:25 PM): President Bollinger has released a short statement of thanks, also posted below the jump. &nbsp; For the past five years, I have had the great privilege of serving as University Provost.&nbsp; Columbia has always been for me not only a workplace, but a home, and it has been an honor to have played a part in an eventful period in the institution's life.&nbsp; But I feel that it is now time for me to return to research and teaching, and so I have informed the President that I will be leaving the provostship at the end of this academic year.&nbsp; I will of course continue to serve until a successor is named. I am deeply grateful to President Bollinger for giving me the opportunity to serve the University and for the tremendous pleasure of working with him.&nbsp; I am grateful as well to our remarkable Trustees, to our great deans, and to my extraordinary colleagues in the central administration who make it possible for this great institution to function and flourish.&nbsp; I have been blessed with a selfless, hardworking, and extremely talented staff in my own office.&nbsp; And I owe a particularly important debt to the many faculty, students, and alumni who have helped me so often over the last several years.&nbsp; Columbia is extremely fortunate to have so many talented and generous people ready to serve the University, and I have been fortunate to have had the chance to get to know and work with many of you. Whatever I have helped to achieve in my time as provost has been the result of the indispensable support of President Bollinger and the creativity and commitment of my colleagues in the Columbia community.&nbsp; Together, we have made significant progress on some of the most important issues facing the University:&nbsp; among them strengthening of the quality and diversity of our faculty in all our schools, increasing attention to undergraduate education, creating new opportunities for housing and schooling for Columbia families, enhancing the arts in the life of the University, internationalizing our academic programs,&nbsp; strengthening the institutions serving the humanities, improving our important relationships with our partner institutions, Barnard and Teachers College, and launching the first new Morningside science building in almost twenty years.&nbsp;&nbsp; This has been an exciting and momentous time in the life of Columbia as we have planned for a significant expansion of our space and resources and have imagined an even greater future for this great institution.&nbsp; I am fortunate to have been a participant in this period of exceptional achievement and of progress toward new goals.&nbsp; I will leave with enormous confidence in Columbia's future, and I look forward to rejoining the faculty. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Alan Brinkley Dear fellow member of the Columbia community: I have loved working with Alan as Provost.&nbsp; The University has benefited tremendously from his extraordinary intelligence and enormous good will.&nbsp; We should all be thankful.&nbsp; In due time, I will announce an advisory committee to help me identify Alan's successor as Provost. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President &nbsp; 
 Bwog's Latin American Bureau Chief David Berke attended this afternoon's installment of the World Leader's Forum, starring Shakira! Making the World Leaders Forum feel small and inadequate by comparison, professor/man's last best hope Jeffery Sachs hosted The Children of Latin America: A Future Without Poverty, this afternoon, taking full advantage of the world leaders stuck in New York for the UN General Assembly.&nbsp; Shakira, best known in academic circles for finding that the center of all truth is in hips, was joined by Alejandro Sanz (who my Spanish-speaking friends inform me is also a big deal). Oh yeah, also, the presidents of Paraguay, El Salvador, Mexico, Argentina and Panama were in attendance. Sammy Sosa and Roger Waters of Pink Floyd, along with numerous foreign dignitaries, sat in the audience. Each Latin leader laid out his or her country's current programs for alleviating child poverty, discussed future plans for its eradication and expressed hemispheric solidarity with the others onstage.&nbsp; The southern quintet also promised, as per Shakira's wishes, to put child poverty on the agenda for the next Ibero-American leaders conference.&nbsp; ALAS, Shakira's child poverty organization, advocates for the welfare of children ages 0-6.&nbsp; ALAS' reasoning is that stability during early development is critical to a child's entire future. The most notable speech came from Paraguay's Fernando Lugo, a former priest and political neophyte who won the presidency about a month ago from entrenched political powers.&nbsp; This trip to New York was his first international trip as President.&nbsp; Lugo's speech was impassioned and given with Obama-like charisma.&nbsp; He won over the audience -- though he professed total ignorance of both Shakira and Alejandro's oeuvres. The other highlight?&nbsp; After Shakira finished her opening remarks, Jeffery Sachs, channeling Wyclef Jean, told the audience: "She makes a man want to speak Spanish."&nbsp; 
 PrezBo doesn't know quite what to do without Brinkley None of these men are quite as sexy as Brinkley&nbsp; Brinkley thinks ROTC wouldn't want to come back anyway!&nbsp; Not news to Brinkley (...or anyone, really) We're not sure whose side is right here, but we're almost certain Brinkley's on it&nbsp; OK this doesn't fit the Brinkley theme but is nonetheless worth mentioning &nbsp; 
Bwog is receiving reports of free food and yoga today at noon in the Broadway Room of Lerner. Limber and fatten yourself up -- all conveniently in one place!
 There's been much commotion surrounding the possibility of a "Stephan" endorsement in the CCSC 2012 Class Council elections -- three whole comments' worth and a Facebook group update, to be exact! Would "Stephan" keep things nonpartisan? Would he suspend the pregaming... lol to go to Washington, and fix the economy? Bwog spoke with "Stephan" who had the following to say: "Just about every party SEAS and CC alike have asked me to endorse them. After a thorough analysis of all the groups, I have decided to officially endorse New York Connection in regards to the CC election and SuperFu for the SEAS. I firmly believe that these two parties will help take our class to the next level. Thank you for your interest." Oh and what's this? A bonus SEAS endorsement for reasons unknown? Hooray! Update, 11:15am: Mason Fitch of Vision 2012 would like it to be known that his party was not among those who sought "Stephan's" endorsement. "Hooray for us," he adds. 
 Anne Hathaway, collegiate role model Let me tell you about the time I got an internship An "interview" with the guy behind an actually really cool blog&nbsp; Stereotypically railing against enforced gender stereotypes "We put not only the lipstick on the pig, but a dress, and we give it a tampon" &nbsp; 
 Bwog does not normally do non-Columbia political news, but we thought this was of enough local interest to mention. Congressman Charles Rangel, who represents part of Harlem and some Columbia students, is being investigated by the House of Representatives "Committee on Standards of Official Conduct". Among other allegations, Rangel is being investigated for&nbsp;the acceptance of "several rent-stabilized apartments from a Manhattan developer" and not paying back taxes on income from a Puerto Rican villa. Also, Rangel has apparently already paid back $10,000 in back taxes, "explaining that the mistakes in his taxes were inadvertent oversights." We wish we could miss $10,000 in our taxes... For what it's worth, the Washington Post wants him to stay. 
 Haven't seen this one before: Chabad is luring passersby with challah dough, which you can mix with raisins, cinnamon, and chocolate chips to bring home and bake for midafternoon deliciousness. The challah-pushers seemed a little crestfallen to hear that Bwog wasn't actually Jewish, but we feel sure that Gentiles wouldn't be turned away. Meanwhile, the banging sound from College Walk comes from&nbsp; the College Democrats, who are protesting the handing out of dough in much larger quantities: $700 billion to Wall Street. They want you to call Sen. Chuck Schumer to tell him to get behind Chris Dodd, who has put forward a plan to regulate the bailout -- better call now, because the deal's almost done anyway! 
Finally, finally, Columbia has gotten some recognition for its dogged drive towards greenishness: a good-enough-everywhere-but-Columbia grade of A- on the third annual Sustainability Report Card for American colleges. The decision ties us with 14 other schools (including four Ivies, none of which were in New Haven, not that we care about that or anything). And it’s probably the most drastic improvement we’ll ever get in a national ranking, up from a B grade just last year. Why the change? The graders liked how transparent Columbia is with its $7 billion, responsibly-invested&nbsp; endowment, and campus green groups got a nod for the eco-rep program and helping bring local food to John Jay. Columbia also scored points for joining the Mayor’s PlaNYC 2030 program for action on global warming (although PrezBo has yet to sign the President's Climate Commitment, which sets different standards for carbon emissions reduction). Under the terms of that agreement, the school conducted an inventory of its carbon emissions, which hasn't been released yet -- look for some concrete numbers down the pike. One school that won't be taking its report card home to mom -- the New School, which got an overall grade of D-, despite having launched a new environmental studies program this fall. - LBD 
A sharp-eyed tipster has alerted us to a rather curious job posting on Columbia’s openings database. It seems that the University’s General Counsel has stepped down -- right now we’ve only got an interim -- and they’ve retained a headhunter to land us someone truly exceptional. Consider some of the sought-after traits, translated into plain English: Must be cerebral as well as pragmatic. (Think, but don’t think too much). &nbsp;Must be resilient in the face of numerous urgent priorities and interaction with many strong personalities within the University community. (Our administrators are a pain to deal with.) Adeptness at working in a highly nuanced environment with varied constituencies. (Our bureaucracy puts the Labyrinth of Knossos to shame. And the aforementioned bureaucrats are fiercely territorial.) &nbsp;The natural ability to rapidly prioritize as well as execute while exhibiting a sense of urgency, superb judgment, compassion, wisdom and a sense of humor. (Be everything our administrators aren't.) Impeccable academic credentials, which include a J.D. from a top tier law school. (We need to have the same in-jokes). A pragmatist who speaks and writes in plain English that can be readily translated into other languages, when needed. (But you shouldn’t be so educated that you use big words). Intellectual zest and curiosity. (Even though you won’t have time to indulge it.) A pronounced sense of urgency. (You will work your ass off.) Now accepting applications! 
 It's been a busy day for NROTC survey planners, as usual. This afternoon, President Bollinger sent an email to the Columbia community, stating his thoughts on ROTC: First, PrezBo declared that "Columbia University has a long and continuing tradition of making special efforts to open its doors to men and women with military service." He mentioned on GS and its commitment to military veterans. Second, he wrote "it is inaccurate to say that Columbia students do not have ROTC available to them.&nbsp; In fact, the University has continued to facilitate the participation of interested students who, like their peers at almost every other New York area college, take part in one of two regional magnet ROTC sites at Fordham and St. John's." He expressed skepticism that an ROTC program at Columbia would increase participation in ROTC. Finally, he defended the University Senate vote in 2005, declaring it a vote purely against discrimination, and not against the military. He closed by writing that "we should always welcome discussion, but we should also always try to live up to the ideals we agree on." Not only does the email make PrezBo's position fairly clear, but, unfortunately for the NROTC planners, the email also shows that PrezBo has not been paying attention to their efforts. Contrary to Bollinger's claim, there is no Naval ROTC program for Columbia students. The only Naval ROTC program on Manhattan in New York City, SUNY Maritime, serves only students at Fordham, Molloy, and SUNY Maritime itself -- the program does not have an official contract with Columbia (to recognize scholarships and so on) which is necessary for participation. The council survey, then, is focused on the one program that is unavailable to Columbia students. The full email is posted after the jump. Dear fellow member of the Columbia community: Now that the glow, and the dust, of the nationally broadcast ServiceNation Presidential Forum has settled just a bit, I want to respond to one issue that emerged in the discussions, namely the role of ROTC and the campus. First, let me say that Columbia University has a long and continuing tradition of making special efforts to open its doors to men and women with military service.&nbsp; For example, there are more than 50 veteran service men and women currently enrolled in our School of General Studies, many of whom have recently returned from active duty in Iraq and Afghanistan, including 19 incoming students this year alone.&nbsp; The School of General Studies was founded in 1947 largely to enable veterans of War World II to secure an Ivy League education.&nbsp; While we certainly have many veterans attending the University's many graduate schools, we are very proud of the fact that General Studies continues actively to recruit military veterans as part of its mission of providing a Columbia education to a wide diversity of nontraditional undergraduates. Second, as some of you may already know, it is inaccurate to say that Columbia students do not have ROTC available to them.&nbsp; In fact, the University has continued to facilitate the participation of interested students who, like their peers at almost every other New York area college, take part in one of two regional magnet ROTC sites at Fordham and St. John's.&nbsp; These Columbia students receive the same scholarship benefits as those at schools that formally host ROTC. Third, it should be noted that, as the Wall Street Journal reported last year, the Department of Defense (DOD) has, for its own fiscal reasons, instituted a policy of aggregating small numbers of ROTC students in urban areas into pooled programs on a limited number of campuses.&nbsp; Currently, five Columbia students are enrolled in the New York regional ROTC program at Fordham.&nbsp; As a result, it is not at all clear whether a change of policy would have any impact on the current practice of having our students travel to one of the other campus ROTC sites, as do virtually all other students at New York area colleges and many others across the nation. Finally, in 2005, the University Senate voted overwhelmingly against formally inviting ROTC onto campus.&nbsp; Senate members may have had a variety of reasons for their votes, but the record and official reports make it reasonably clear that the predominant reason was one of adhering to a core principle of the University:&nbsp; that we will not have programs on the campus that discriminate against students on the basis of such categories as race, gender, military veteran status, or sexual orientation.&nbsp; Under the current "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy of the Defense Department, openly gay and lesbian students could or would be excluded from participating in ROTC activities.&nbsp; That is inconsistent with the fundamental values of the University.&nbsp; A number of our peer institutions have taken a similar position. In closing, let me just say that this issue is a serious one deserving of our full and continuous attention.&nbsp; The University, as such, does not take positions on major public issues, except as they pertain directly to our own policies, so that is not the question at stake here. The University must, however, operate according to its basic norms and principles in fulfilling our mission of research, teaching, and public service.&nbsp; Along with everything else, these, too, are open for robust discussion and debate--including how we define, articulate, and apply those principles.&nbsp; &nbsp;We should always welcome discussion, but we should also always try to live up to the ideals we agree on. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President 
Bwog's Poland Bureau Chief Sara Jane Panfil caught Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski's Harriman Institute talk. This morning, the Foreign Minister of Poland, Radoslaw Sikorski, drew a packed crowd in room 1501 of the International Affairs Building as he discussed the changing political climate in Eastern Europe and reflected upon Poland’s place in world history over the past seventy years.&nbsp; 2008 is a big year for Poland: it’s been seventy years since World War II, twenty years since the collapse of the USSR, ten years since it joined NATO, and five years since it joined the European Union. Plus, this year Poland and the US reached a monumental agreement for a U.S. military base to be built on Polish soil. Additionally, the EU has successfully prevented war from breaking out on the continent for the longest period of time in world history. Sikorski attributed much of Poland’s success to its absorption of Western ideals, and enthusiastically referenced his nation’s continued geniality with the United States and the rest of the West.&nbsp; This is not to mention Sikorski’s friendliness with Columbia itself: the University awarded his wife, Washington Post/Slate columnist Anne Applebaum, a Pulitzer Prize in 2004, and he is also working on an endowment for the creation of a Polish Studies chair.&nbsp; But in spite of prosperity in Poland and Sikorski's Columbia pride, his talk inevitably turned to the big red bear of the East. In that uniquely diplomatic-but-I-mean-business kind of tone, he said that Poland would consider any further Russian acts of aggression to be an “existential challenge” that would require the use of “proportionate action.”&nbsp; Which is okay, since Poland has a modern military now; even Sikorski made the joke, “I never thought I’d see Poland become a military super-power.”&nbsp; But indeed it has: Poland has enthusiastically participated in every NATO military endeavor, and its national defense programs continue to grow with the blessings of its more benevolent neighbors. &nbsp; According to the Foreign Minister, Poland is now an active player on the world stage, and plans to assert this role positively and proactively.&nbsp; The nation has certainly moved away from the past, and hopes that, one day, all of its neighbors will make the same ideological shift.&nbsp; He even referenced Karl Marx, of all people: “History repeats itself, first as tragedy, second as farce.” 
 PrezBo hates on ROTC; student council people hate on each other. We all hate lawsuits, right? Well, this one's gone! Does CCSC hate the internet? This man hates organized food in supermarkets. The hatred of eminent domain continues, but now it has dates. 
 Bwog's Latin American Bureau Chief David Berke continued his tour of the World Leaders Forum, now not starring Shakira! In World Leaders Forum event number two, Leonel Fernández, president of the Dominican Republic, and his first lady participated in a town hall-style colloquium this evening in Low. Fernández is currently serving his third term as the country's leader. Prezbo started the evening, explaining to the audience that when Fernández, a former New York resident, was living on 95th and Broadway in the late sixties, Prezbo was living a block away on 96th. With Bollinger having established the neighborly connection, the official introductory speaker, former Columbia professor Ronald M. Schneider, decided it was time to share the love (and the marketing potential). Schneider called Fernández "a truly political leader," and the best current leader in the entire Western Hemisphere. Before allowing the apparently unparalleled President to speak, Schneider showed his homemade Fernández propaganda video, which ended by hawking Schneider's book on Fernández. The sycophantism and marketing complete, Fernández was set to speak, until moderator John R. Gagain Jr. felt the need to add more fluff to the evening. The moderator's speech, during which he promised "provocative" questions ended with Gagain asking, in essence, why are you so much better than all the Republic's past leaders? The follow-up went to Mrs. Fernández, with Gagain asking her what motivates her to do such good work, her husband or her own intrinsic wonderfulness. When President Fernández was finally permitted to expound on substantive issues, his responses were engaging. With 85% of his country's exports going to the US and over 10% of his nation's GDP from remittances (mostly from US immigrants), Fernández had plenty to say about the American financial crisis. He also commented on relations with Haiti, the democratic process and social progress in his Republic. Sadly, the substantive time was cut short by the pre-game long-windedness. 
 Bwog presents its wrap-up of the week, and preview of the weekend in Columbia sports. Football: After a tough loss to Fordham last weekend, the football team travels to Towson University in Maryland. The Tigers (1-3) lost 31-3 to Coastal Carolina last weekend, and have had trouble defending the run this year, giving up over 300 yards a game. A young offensive line has also made run offense difficult for Towson. The key matchup could be between Columbia's pass defense and a Towson passing game that has averaged 286.7 passing yards. Field Hockey: The field hockey team will play Cornell (3-3, 1-0 in Ivy League play) tomorrow at Yale University's field (the game having been moved from Columbia's field). The team looks to remain unbeaten, after having defeated Fairfield 3-2 on Wednesday behind goals from Julia Garrison, Maggie O'Connor, and Catherine Campbell. Women's Soccer: Last weekend saw two great results for the women's soccer team, as the Lions beat American 5-0 and Stony Brook 4-0. Junior midfielder Sophie Resier was named BigAppleSoccer.com's player of the week for her three goals and one assist, while first-year forward Ashlin Yahr was named to the Soccer Buzz National Elite Team of the Week for her three goals and two assists. This weekend, the team opens Ivy League play at home to Cornell tonight at 7, and then takes on Mahattan College on Monday. Men's Soccer: After eight days off, the men's soccer team plays two games at home this weekend, first against Quinnipiac this afternoon, and then against Long Island University on Sunday. Golf: We apologize to our golfing friends for leaving them out last week, but that of course did not stop them from competing. The men's team, though defending Ivy League champions, had a difficult weekend, finishing 16th out of 16 teams at the University of Michigan Invitational. They play this week in the Cornell Invitational. The women's team, after finishing 4th out of 16 at the Princeton Invitational last weekend, will play this weekend at the Yale Intercollegiate Invitational in New Haven. Tennis: The men's tennis team will be at Princeton, competing in the Princeton Invitational. The women's team is coming off a successful Columbia Classic, in which senior Marlena Hall won the 'B' flight singles title. This weekend, the team will split up, with some competing in the Cissie Leary Invitational in Philadelphia, and others competing in the Eastern Championships at West Point. Volleyball: The volleyball team (5-2) travels to Cornell this weekend for Saturday games against Robert Morris and Cornell (1-6), the latter being the Ivy League opener for the Lions. Last weekend, the team beat NJIT on Friday, before splitting with Akron and Saint Francis on Saturday. Cross Country: After an off weekend, the men's and women's teams compete at the George Mason Invitational in Virginia. 
 Internet Television Critic Rob Trump returns after a brief sojourn from Bwog's series on web series. Well, I'm back, after a few weeks hiatus of just basically forgetting to write this and nobody noticing. I promised several weeks ago that I would review the other major CollegeHumor webseries, The Michael Showalter Showalter, so that is on the docket now. The Michael Showalter Showalter, is, like The Jeannie Tate Show, a sketch-like riff on talk shows, where the central&nbsp;joke is how unlikable&nbsp;and terrible the talk show host actually is.&nbsp; In Showalter, the titular's&nbsp;host self-parodic character&nbsp;isn't mugging and&nbsp;self-satisfied like Tate, but instead passive-aggressive and cruel.&nbsp; And instead of a minivan, Showalter takes place in a studio, where half the footage is of the actual interview taking place, and the other half is filmed by "behind the scenes" cameras that usually highlight the "real-life" tension between Showalter and his guests. The guests, by the way,&nbsp;are straight from the A-list of hip comedy, with episodes featuring Showalter's The State/Stella-mates Michael Ian Black and David Wain as well&nbsp;ones with guests&nbsp;Paul Rudd, David Cross, Andy Samberg, and Michael Cera, among others.&nbsp; Showalter takes a slightly different tack with each guest, like needling Black about his VH1 appearances and Sierra Mist commercials, or confusing Samberg with Adam Sandler, or demanding that Cera sign loads of merchandise for him.&nbsp; They're all variants on "Michael Showalter is a jerk," but hey, jerks are funny, and every episode so far has gotten at least one laugh out of me. The somewhat repetitive progression of each episode -- Showalter's guests get madder and madder until they inevitably hit their breaking point and flip out in one way or another- -m akes it a little hard to watch more than a few episodes in a row without the schtick getting tired, but spread them out a little, and they're all worth watching.&nbsp; This goes double if you're a fan of Showalter's other work or a fan of asshole-comedy in general. (I am, to both.)&nbsp; Try my favorite episode, with Black, to see if you'll enjoy the series: 
 Even if Rosh Hashanah isn’t on your radar, any weekend can make a good holiday!&nbsp; Here are our picks to help you make your own high-times for this weekend:&nbsp; Friday, Saturday, Sunday:&nbsp; Free Bike Weekend Friday 10am-5pm, Saturday and Sunday 10am-7pm. Governor’s Island (ferries leave from the Battery Maritime Building, 10 South St., at Whitehall St.). Free bikes, free kites, free island. &nbsp; Art Under the Bridge Festival Various DUMBO locations. The eccentric elements of Brooklyn crawl out of their studios and strut their stuff on the streets (and in the river).&nbsp; For free. Here's the daily schedule. Saturday and Sunday:&nbsp; Amazing Maize Maze 11am-4:30pm (every weekend until October 26th). Queens County Farm Museum, 73-50 Little Neck Pkwy (718.347.3276). A corn maze… in New York!&nbsp; Price: $8.00&nbsp; NYC Anime Festival Jacob Javits Convention Center 655 W. 34th St. at 11th Ave. This may be something that most of us would go out of our way to avoid, but if you're into that kind of thing, get the anime out of your system early at this two-day extravaganza. Tickets required. Campaigning for President at the Museum of the City of New York 10:00am - 5pm With campaigning suspended until the economy gets straightened out, you might as well take the hiatus to learn about how this kind of thing has happened before. It's a peaceful, largely empty little place on museum mile--you've been meaning to go there anyway. Saturday:&nbsp; Lit Crawl NY 6pm-? Lolita Bar, 266 Broome St (212.966.7223) An alcohol-aided tour through bars of New York literary interest, complete with readings and talks.&nbsp; Pay for drinks; readings and talks free.&nbsp; Open Air Book Fair 10am-6pm Housing Works Bookstore, 126 Crosby St (212.334.3324) Cheap books and CDs, expect quality and selection far above your average Morningside Heights book vendor.&nbsp; Pay as you go.&nbsp; Gotham Girls Roller Derby 6:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Hunter College Sportsplex B3 Gym &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Lexington Ave. and 68th St. If you haven't seen New York's all-girl roller derby league in action, better hurry up--this is their second-to-last meet of the season, with the Brooklyn Bombshells facing Montreal and Manhattan Mayhem taking on Providence. Plus, there's a pre-bout party if you really want to make a night of it. &nbsp; Sunday:&nbsp; Fort Tryon Medieval Festival 11:30am-6pm Fort Tryon Park, 1838 Riverside Dr The city’s dungeons-and-dragons dreams come true!&nbsp; For free!&nbsp; Brooklyn Record Riot! 11am-6pm Warsaw, 261 Driggs Ave (718.387.0505) Record collectors and vendors congregate to exchange record/DJ shop talk, trivia, and of course, to hawk their rare wares.&nbsp; Come to this Greenpoint event for the music, stay for the kielbasa.&nbsp;&nbsp; Price: $3.00&nbsp; 
 Bwog's White House Bureau Chief James Downie live-blogs the presidential debate. For those of you who want to watch the debate with your fellow Columbia students, the Dems, Repubs, and CPU are hosting a watch party in Tasti Lounge at 9 p.m. 10:37: The debate comes to an end. Overall, it's probably a missed opportunity for McCain: the unique circumstances of this debate have made him only stay about even with Obama, and this was supposed to be his best chance to score a knockout blow. Also, it was a much smarter debate than in recent campaigns, with much of the night focused on policy, even if it wasn't the current crisis. 10:35: McCain says Obama's not ready for the presidency, also claims he'll "love veterans and take care of them." Obama closes by evoking his father's admiration of America, and contrasting that with the current foreign views of America. He says "we need to send a message to the world" to change perceptions. 10:33: After McCain declares America much safer since 9-11, and Obama focuses on nuclear proliferation, following Al Qaeda outside of Iraq, and world perception. McCain signs off by saying Obama doesn't understand something else, while Obama ties America's standing in the world back to attitudes at home. 10:27: Yet another question McCain pauses on before answering. The gap in preparation hasn't been huge, but it's been perceptible, and one has to wonder how much better McCain would've done with more preparation and more foreign policy questions. 10:25: Is it really helpful to Obama is to "correct the record" every instance that McCain strays a little bit? 10:23: McCain is doing better on these non-Iraq questions, at least partly because he is not closely associated with the surge. Too bad the debate's about to end. 10:19: Columbia alum shout-out as McCain commends Saakashvili. Both candidates want to be tough with Russia while clearly treating them differently from, say, Iran. 10:15: "Oh please" sighs McCain. The "young whippersnapper" effect grows. 10:13: Every time McCain says "what Senator Obama doesn't understand," he comes off as arrogant and sneering. 10:07: Obama brings up negotiation instead. McCain butchers Ahmadinjad's name three times in going after Obama's openness to negotiation without preconditions. 10:05: McCain's tying almost every foreign policy question back to Iraq, without any pushing from Obama. He must be really confident that Americans are with him on the surge. 10:03: It's almost as if McCain didn't expect the Iran question, and he's jumped right to forming a league of democracies, blaming Russia, and protecting Israel. 10:01: It's the battle of the bracelets now. 9:58: McCain's favorite person in the 80s was Ronald Reagan? Subtle! 9:57: Obama accuses McCain of being impulsive as well, "singing songs about bombing Iran," and defends his Pakistan strategy. Obama calls it a 20th-century mindset. McCain, in his response, chides Obama for not being around when Pakistan was first dealt with. 9:54: Obama argues for increasing more troops. McCain hints at staying in Iraq for longer, but he also goes after Obama for suggesting being tougher with Pakistan. 9:50: There are so many possible frames an undecided voter can take out of this Iraq section, depending on whether they think the whole war, the surge, or the current situation is most important. For news clips, though, Obama's "you were wrong" will probably do well. 9:45: Obama fires right back, saying McCain is "acting like the war started in 2007." He's done his best to take it to McCain. 9:44: Obama: "we have to use our military wisely, and we did not use our military wisely in Iraq." McCain says the next president will only be focusing on the current situation, not the past, and focuses on Obama rarely visiting Iraq. 9:41: "What are the lessons of Iraq?" McCain says that the surge has worked, and that America will succeed leading to a stable ally/fledgling democracy in the region. It's a more precise answer than the ones he's given during the economy section. How well will Obama pivot? 9:38: McCain says that he will best control spending; Obama fires right back that he voted for all the Bush administration's budgets. It's almost 9:40, and we've just hit the foreign policy section. 9:35: For those of you who are interested in live focus group reaction, check out MediaCurves.com, which has live dial-based reaction. 9:34: McCain suggests that we should seriously consider a spending freeze, which seems a bit of an overreaction considering that he didn't mention it the first time he answered the question. 9:31: McCain focuses on the size of government, talking about waste. Lehrer points out that they aren't changing anything. 9:28: Obama uses a question about what he'd have to give up for the bailout to outline plans on getting off of foreign oil, college affordability, and infrastructure. Obama's lead answers have been very compact and detailed. 9:25: This has been 25 minutes on the economy, but the last 15 have been about things that aren't related to the Wall Street crisis. 9:23: The first instance of candidates talking over each other, and we're only 23 minutes in. 9:21 - The debate's been about tax cuts and earmarks, hardly favorable ground for Obama, though he's trumpeting the "95% will lose" figure. Obama accuses McCain of supporting tax loopholes. Lehrer is really encouraging them to go at each other. 9:19: Obama better start moving this debate off of earmarks soon - McCain's public image is heavily wrapped up in fighting earmarks. Instead, he's challenging McCain on them. Also, a photo of the Tasti Lounge crowd is below the fold. 9:17: Obama meanwhile is trying emphasize how he'll help the average American. 9:15: McCain criticizes his own party and earmarks. Each of his responses seems to be focused on integrity in some way or another. 9:13: Lehrer pushes Obama to say his response directly to McCain; McCain jokes that it's because Lehrer thinks he's deaf.&nbsp; 9:11: McCain deflects the question, and promises accountability in his administration. Obama responds that we need more responsibility, "but not just when there's a crisis." He brings back the "Wall St. vs. Main St." theme.&nbsp; 9:10: Lehrer pushes them on whether they will support it. Obama points out that they haven't seen the language yet. 9:07: McCain's answer is not nearly as tight as Obama's, but he's also putting on the sympathy more than Obama. 9:05: Obama blames the crisis on the Bush administration, "which Senator McCain supported." He is coming out swinging. 9:03: First question is on their thoughts on the financial crisis. Obama calls it the "worst crisis since the great depression." He looks directly into the camera, bashing executives and pushing "Main Street." 9:01: And we're on. For the record, Bwog is watching PBS's coverage. The first thing to note is that, unlike previous debates, Jim Lehrer can actually ask follow-up questions. 8:51: It's unlikely that there has ever been a crazier run-up to a debate, nor a more decisive event so close to an election than the banking crisis of the past week. What most voters will miss tonight is that, while McCain and Obama will have to formulate some sort of plan to tell viewers, the plan that Congress and the White House agree upon will be what they'll have to accept. 8:48: Let's get right to it. Tonight's debate comes to us from Ole Miss. It will run for 90 minutes (broken down into nine nine-minute sections), and will be moderated by PBS's Jim Lehrer. The debate was originally supposed to focus on foreign policy, but, given the events of the past week, both campaigns have acknowledged that there will be economic questions as well. 
 Tonight's NROTC Forum Planning meeting revolved around the logistics of the two community forums concerning NROTC on campus, to be held -- according to CCSC VP of Policy Adil Ahmed and SGA President Sarah Besnoff -- hopefully the last week of October. (Though Besnoff said again and again, with growing frustration, that the Councils were reluctant to confirm any dates.) Here's what's been decided: As already mentioned, there will be two forums, one at Barnard, the other at Columbia. Both will be open to all students, and as of now, none will be open to non-CUID-holders. (Besnoff said that Fox News' presence is a legitimate possibility, but to "assume at the moment we're saying 'no.'") The forums will occur in the week before the Survey is sent out, and their purpose, as described by Besnoff and Ahmed, will be to educate and inform the student body about issues surrounding NROTC on campus. Each forum will have three designated pro-NROTC on campus panelists and three designated con- panelists, totaling twelve total panelists. Later this week, the Councils will be sending out emails to the student groups and governing boards to solict interest in representing either side of the debate at the forum, either as an individual or as representing a student group. In terms of who will actually participate as panelists, the Councils will be encourging the pro- and con- sides to organize and self-select the six students who would be representing them. The panelists will be asked to-be-determined-at-another-meeting "target questions" by an unbiased moderator, possibly someone from ROOTEd. Students will also have the opportunity after the Q&amp;A to ask questions of panelists. As for the survey itself (the official language is now "survey," not "referendum" -- Peter Valeiras pointed out that "referendums don't do anything"), the questions will be written by the Councils. As for their wording, Besnoff said, "This is a huge separate issue with a separate meeting." The Councils will also be sending out nonbiased information packets to students about the history of the ROTC on campus, which will highlight both sides of the issue. -- JNW 
 Welcome back to the Best of series in which Bwog analyzes the best in a category of chosen food product! This week, we take a critical eye toward perhaps the only apolitical Middle East controversy on campus.&nbsp; Join us as we debate the virtues and vices of three of Morningside's falafel-purveyors: Amir's, the Cart on 110th and Broadway, and Jerusalem Restaurant. Amir's: You don't have to worry about staining your shirt when you eat a falafel at Amir's.&nbsp; The tidiness of the sandwich here, however, is not necessarily a good thing, as Amir's falafels tend be on the dry side.&nbsp; While the fried falafel ball itself is crispy, its crunchy exterior overpowers the moist doughiness of the interior. The veggie condiments also give the sandwich an additional crunchy fresh kick, but overall there's no messy, sauciness that makes falafels so savory. The Amir's chefs tend to be pretty stingy with their tahini allotment. And don't bother jazzing up your falafel with the hummus and babaganush: they're bland and homogenous in taste. That said, the service is reliably fast, the location is convenient and the prices are cheap ($4.25 for a sandwich, $6.75 for a platter), and the fries and Flex-friendliness are added bonuses. The Halaal Cart on 110th and Broadway: Proximity to lower Broadway shopping and the downtown 1 stop makes the cart an ideal and affordable place to take a break from an afternoon of purchasing at American Apparel or Rite Aid. &nbsp; The falafel itself is basic.&nbsp; Although chickpea ball is usually not served hot enough for Bwog's taste, the piping hot toasted pita is valiant attempt to compensate. But the temperature disparity is evident nonetheless. &nbsp; The sauce quotient here is high, but it tends to leave the abundance of iceberg lettuce and diced tomatoes soggy. In addition, the server ladles on sauce liberally and thus avoids the dryness problems that plague Amir's. Be sure to ask for extra napkins. Jerusalem Restaurant: Bwog likes to think of the Jerusalem Restaurant as a hidden gem.&nbsp; Admittedly, that's probably a misconception. But whether you've heard of it or not, Jerusalem Restaurant serves up a substantial falafel. The service might be slow but that's because the falafel balls are made and fried fresh to order.&nbsp; And each order comes with an amuse bouche -- which is French for "hooray! free sample" -- of toasted pita and hummus. Extra hummus or babaganush can be added for no additional charge.&nbsp; And you'll want to add more hummus: it's thick and flavored with just the right amount of garlic and a touch of lemon.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Although its bit of a hike to 103rd and Broadway, the sandwich here is worth the distance, and at $5.50 for a falafel platter it's even slightly cheaper than Amir's. Plus there's baklava and Turkish coffee for dessert. In Conclusion: Winner: Jerusalem Restaurant, Silver medal to Amir's, with an honorable mention to the Cart on 110th. -- MEQ 
 Yesterday, the Columbia Community received an email from James McShane announcing the release of Public Safety's Annual Report. Bwog's Crime Bureau Chief Jon Hill crunched some numbers and compared Columbia with Duke and U. Chicago (our peers in U.S. News rankings) on their levels of per-student (full-time enrollee) crime. Says Hill: "The University of Chicago comes off looking like Munchkinland. Their crime reports are full of zeroes, with the total number of incidents reported bottoming out at about 20 percent of Columbia and Duke. Considering U. Chicago's main campus is on the city's infamous South Side, though, I have a feeling that these numbers do not accurately reflect the level of campus crime. Duke and Columbia are about on par when it comes to crime. Duke has far more alcohol/drug/weapons-related incidents, but this is not unusual given Duke's suburban campus (security officers more likely to notice students drinking, fewer off-campus bars, etc.). Schools may also vary in their level of enforcement for these types of incidents. As for non-vice crimes, Columbia has more incidents reported but a lower count per student. Also, the numbers from James McShane do suggest a "War on Fun" -- drug and alcohol incidents are up 325 percent over last year." THE FINAL RANKING School Incidents (per 1,000 students) Surrounding City Incidents (per 1,000 residents) 1. Duke 32 incidents 66 incidents (Durham) 2. Columbia 18 incidents 25 incidents (New York City) 3. University of Chicago 5 incidents 61 incidents (Chicago) &nbsp; &nbsp; For those interested in a more finely detailed comparison, Bwog has also prepared the following&nbsp;table. All rankings are based on per-student counts.&nbsp; BREAKDOWN RANKINGS OF CRIME (BY TYPE) Property and Violent Crime Vice Crimes Aggravated Assault Arrests for Alcohol 1. Columbia 2. Duke 3. U. of Chicago 1. Duke 2. Columbia 3. U. of Chicago Burglary Discipline for Alcohol 1. Columbia 2. Duke 3. U. of Chicago 1. Duke 2. Columbia 3. U. of Chicago Motor Vehicle Theft Arrests for Drugs 1. Duke 2. Columbia 3. U. of Chicago 1. Duke 2. U. of Chicago 3. Columbia Sex Offenses Discipline for Drugs 1. Duke 2. Columbia 3. U. of Chicago 1. Columbia 2. Duke 3. U. of Chicago Arrests for Weapons Rankings are given in order of most incidents reported to least. Shading indicates which school was highest ranked for that category. Crime categories with no incidents reported at any of the three schools have been omitted. 1. Duke 2. Columbia 3. U. of Chicago 
 Scandinavian and Latin American Bureau Chief, David Berke continues his tour of The World Leaders Forum with the PM of Hamlet's Homeland.&nbsp; Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Prime Minister of Denmark (and someone who is probably sick of all the Hamlet jokes), did his part for the World Leader's Forum, addressing a full house in Low library.&nbsp; The dashing Dane discussed climate change and energy, two topics on which Denmark has been a global leader.&nbsp; As Bollinger pointed out in his introductory address, Denmark, which depended on oil imports for 99% of its energy supply at the time of the OPEC crisis, is now energy independent.&nbsp; The next UN summit on climate change, scheduled for fall of 2009, will be held in Copenhagen. Rasmussen was aggressive but complimentary towards his host country, imploring the US to reassume its role as an international leader and lead the sustainable development charge, the "industrial revolution of the 21st century."&nbsp;&nbsp; Though never confrontational, Rasmussen contended that, while Denmark's alternative energy conglomerates are facing fierce competition from new companies in China, no major US competitors have emerged.&nbsp;&nbsp; Rasmussen also argued that, if the US were as energy efficient as Denmark, it would be able to decrease its oil imports by 80%, saving $300 billion dollars per year.&nbsp;"The sooner we make the move, the lower the costs and the greater the oportunities," Rasmussen urged. Rasmussen also laid out his ambitious plans for the 2009 conference, at which he hopes to convince attendees to decrease their carbon emissions to 40% below 1990 levels by 2050. 
Lecture Hop correspondent Eliza Shapiro attended Dr. Danilo Türk's speech on the European Union. Her report follows.&nbsp; “There’s nothing left but loneliness / there’s nothing left to fear” were not the first words Bwog expected to hear upon entering Low Rotunda to hear the President of Slovenia speech's on the European Union, but those were the words we got. The music bleating out of the speakers was a genre of easy listening so bleak as to be aggressive, and succeeded in sedating the sizeable audience. Bwog noticed one young man seated behind us dozing lazily. &nbsp;It was a tremendous relief when the music was silenced so that the Director of Columbia’s Harriman Center, Catherine Theimer Nepomnyashchy, could introduce Dr. Danilo Türk. She provided some bibliographic information, an alliterative claim that Slovenia “stands as a shining success story” among the 29 Eurasian nations, and expression of gratitude to Dr. Türk for continuing Columbia’s “long association with Slovenia,” of which Bwog and those seated near us seem to have been unaware. Dr. Türk delivered a thoughtful and comprehensive address on the current state of the European Union. He discussed Slovenia’s achievements as President of the EU Council in its first semester of this past year. Dr. Türk explained what he called Slovenia’s “inevitable” move during its EU presidency to be the first former Yugoslavian country to recognize Kosovo’s independence and spoke about strategies on negotiating a successor to the Kyoto Protocol after its first commitment period ends in 2012.&nbsp; Dr. Türk dedicated a large portion of his speech to the Georgian Crisis, tracing its origins back to the 1994 Moscow Agreement and calling for a review of the regimes that govern the Eastern European nations. The President used Georgia as a jumping-off point to highlight more general issues in the Caucasus region, chief among them energy, trade and communications. Referring to the build-up of the Georgian Crisis, Dr. Türk made the claim that the 1990’s “optimistic era of globalization” and Unipolarity has ended and noted the introduction of a new reality of regional partnerships. He spoke diplomatically about Russia’s role in the Crisis, making clear his belief that the EU must not allow a single issue to determine the nature of relations between Russia and the rest of the continent or the rest of the world. Dr. Türk also outlined some major current goals of the EU throughout his address, most significantly the EU’s strides towards building stronger trans-Atlantic partnerships and working to make Syria a more important player in the Middle East Conflict. After a brief Q&amp;A session, Bwog hurried out of the Rotunda into the rainy afternoon before the powers-that-be could blast the sad sap songs again.
In celebration of the beginning of High Holidays, Bwog offers a roundup of the city's finest nosh purveyors.&nbsp; Spice up your Rosh Hashanah spread with some alternatives to Zabars. Russ and Daughters If Westside's lox doesn't do it for you, then head to the Lower East Side for delicious smoked salmon in addition to a wide selection of other fish, including stable, sturgeon and other standbys. The prices are high, so order carefully. This is also a great place to stock up on more affordable treats like tsimmis, kugel and herring. Barney's Greengrass Barney's claims it's the city's sturgeon king, but Bwog disagrees; your best bet is a Corned beef and sliced onion triple-decker. Prices tend to be high -- $12 for a sandwich -- but you're getting a lot of meat. Kossar's Bialys Filled with cooling racks, industrial size mixers, and floury haze, Kossars is also the oldest bialy bakery in the country.&nbsp; Unquestionably the best spot in the city for fresh, hot bialys. Not surprisingly they also make great bagels too. Liebman's Deli Liebman's deli stands out as one of oldest city's strictly kosher, mashigiach (a kosher food inspector/local rabbi representative hybrid) supervised delis.&nbsp; The pastrami and hot-dogs here are good, but probably not worth the trek to Riverdale. Come Rosh Hashanah, however, this is the place to go for Kasha Varnishkes, a savory and slightly sweet onion and pasta casserole. Artie's Deli Though lacking in old-New York charm, Arties's Deli acts as an acceptable alternative when you're need a bowl of mushroom barley or matzoh ball soup. Ignore the gimmicky diner décor and in a pinch it will do. Hungarian Kosher Cuisine The simultaneously pasta-like and pudding-like consistency of kugel may be an acquired taste, but if you're in need of this sweet side dish at your Rosh Hashanah table, your best bet is Hungarian Kosher Cuisine in Borough Park section of Brooklyn. It's a long way to travel, but if kugel's your thing, it's worth it. Moishes Kosher Bakery Usually it's hard to decide between their all the Bobka, hammentashen and rugelach, but for Rosh Hashanah opt for their seasonal special honey cake. (And the challah isn't too bad either.) Best of all their prices are far cheaper than Zabars, Blue Ribbon and other bakeries.
 RUN! Stir fry and rice at the Lerner security desk! Hurry before it absorbs too much Lerner air.&nbsp; Quell those&nbsp; drunk munchies before they start! 
 Yesterday, in search of relatively cheap and relatively nice-looking dorm room staples, Bwog spent the dreary afternoon at Ikea, Red Hook's biggest and brightest mega-store. And while the Ikea Red Hook was a sight to behold, the overall experience was a minor success for Bwog's dorm room and major's set-back for Bwog's budget.&nbsp; Here are the pros and cons: Pros Ikea is located in Red Hook, the best and last of the city's industrial docks.&nbsp; Think On the Waterfront. Ikea delivers to your dorm. Ikea Red Hook is accessible by Water Taxi and B77 bus line. This spunky red side table sells for just $12.99. The heyday of inflatable furniture returns with this inflatable frog ottoman ($15.99) Bwog purchased three boldly colored 8' x 11' frames for $1.99 each. And also 12' x14' wicker storage basket for $12.99 $0.50 hot dogs for lunch! &nbsp; &nbsp;Cons The floor plan of Ikea Red Hook includes a labyrinthine series of aisles and a nearly unnavigable stockroom.&nbsp; Bwog liked the Ektorp Jennylund chair but not its price tag, a whopping $170. Bwog really didn't like the Ektorp Jennylund slip cover for an additional $80. The dimensions of all Ikea rugs exceed the standard 110 sf Wien single.&nbsp; The views at Ikea Red Hook are more scintillating than its showrooms.&nbsp; Bwog's final receipt tallied to a total of $369.57.&nbsp; -- MEQ 
 Oh damn, this financial crisis is ruining just about everything, including your World Leaders Forum. Today's issue of The Australian—Bwog's preferred Australian daily—reveals that Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd had originally planned to attend the WLF, "but instead met privately with a selection of private financiers and the New York Federal Reserve." 
 Bwog just received the following Shocking Report from Lecture Hop editor Pierce Stanley, who's currently staked out in Butler: "There is a pigeon in the reference room right now, flying around trying to get out and walking alongside the books on the walls. Everyone is sort of watching and laughing." Quickly! What should we name him? Stanley suggests Webster, "in honor of one of the most seminal reference books ever." And if you're in Butler and you have a camera, snap a picture of this delightful avian distraction and send it to bwog@columbia.edu. UPDATE 9:14 PM: Saakashtweety it is! 
 Bwog correspondent Coogan Brennan caught up with chess legend Garry Kasparaov in Harlem this afternoon. United Civil Front&nbsp;leader and former world chess champion Garry Kasparov made an appearance at the Harlem Children's Zone&nbsp;today starting at around 2 PM. Kasparov is the fifteen-year reigning chess champion who also currently holds the highest ranking of any living chess player anywhere in the world. Children's Zone CEO Geoffrey Canada introduced Kasparov, referring him as "an individual who led the fight against the autocratic regime of former President Vladimir Putin." The gymnasium at Promise Academy was packed with chess boards, clocks and players, all of which were encircled by enraptured onlookers. A hearty-looking senior man challenged your Bwog correspondent to a blitz match in the midst of the mayhem. Feigning intrigue and intelligence, your correspondent managed to seem like a master for the first eight moves. Later, the senior man walloped him on the diagonals, resulting in a sound endgame for your correspondent's opponent. Mr. Kasparov strolled in about two-thirds of the way through the program, at which point players were told to abandon their boards and stop all games. After Canada's introduction, Mr. Kasparov entered into a circle surrounded by twenty boards and hundreds of onlookers. Obsessively making sure each piece was in its place, Mr. Kasparov began by arranging the pieces, shaking his opponents' hand -- sometimes the opponent had to stand up due to his diminutive stature -- and playing either a King's Gambit or Queen's Gambit, alternating with each opponent.&nbsp; Once the crowd caught on to the trick, it wasn't long before people began to move out of the gym and into miserable weather, preferring to perfect their own games by playing each other rather than watching a world grandmaster. 
 Oh hooray, it's time for a Homemade Ice Cream Sandwich Study Break, courtesy of Students For Substance Free Space. It's happening now until 8 PM in the first floor suite of McBain. There will also be free t-shirts, in case you stain the one you were wearing with a delicious homemade ice cream sandwich. 
As a response to his own resignation, GSSC Vice President resigns. &nbsp; Presidents, presidents, presidents… and Shakira, Shakira!&nbsp; Endorsement... lol Brinkley stepped down, and a cryptic PrezBo email followed The NROTC debate continued, and a cryptic PrezBo email followed McCain violated the number one rule of presidential debates: never wear a striped tie on camera.&nbsp; We enacted our revenge on Yale, as payback for summer's Gossip Girl slight. -- WSL 
New parks! New restaurants! The future of Manhattanville organizing! Bwogger-about-town Lydia DePillis reports (with apologies for the sub-par cell phone photos). It's taken 20 years and $20 million, and the Harlem Piers waterfront park still isn't quite open. But a troupe of students got a surprise sneak peek today, as part of a tour featuring expansion from a north-of-125th-St. perspective. Those who skidded through the rain to the shore near Fairway got through the chain-link fence with the help of Savona Bailey-McClain, chair of Community Board 9's Waterfront Economic Development committee, who fielded questions about what exactly people will be able to do there. "This is really not a park. It's a wharf," she said, explaining the absence of typical park features, like stages and athletic fields. "It will feel like a park, it will look like a park, but it's not." The wharf-park is a slender 1000 feet by 80 feet, part of an extension of the circum-Manhattan bike path that now stops at 125th and picks up again about 10 blocks later. There's a fishing pier, a revenue-generating "excursion boat", a small squirty fountain, and plenty of benches for meditating on the distant Jersey shores. Bailey-McClain, a short woman gazing out from behind gray Versace glasses -- and still wearing stickers from campaigning for Obama in south Philadelphia -- is one of a corps of organizers who have been working to gain access to the waterfront for normal people. One reminder of dogged neighborhood involvement loomed in the background as she spoke: Riverbank State Park, built in the late 1980s on top of a sewage treatment plant on the insistence of community activists. The rest of the tour was led by an activist on the slightly less politic, more rhetorical end of things. CB9 member Vicky Gholson -- Dr. G., as she introduced herself -- made it clear that she would be telling it like it is. "We keep it as real as possible," she said, cutting a distinctive figure in her oversized Nickelodeon polo shirt and unlaced white tennis shoes. Gholson theorized that the city had gotten Columbia to serve as its development agent for West Harlem, rather than doing the dirty work itself, while reminding the assembled students to follow the money, remember the children, and don't trust the Man. Despite the sermonizing, the tour was a useful counterpoint to Columbis's chipper PR gloss. Gholson told us about the thousands of tenants being forced out of large low-income housing complexes, as landlords work to flip rent-stabilized units, and the sky-high asthma rates brought on by a disproportionate number of bus storage facilities sited in the area. "The area was desolate. Nothing was going on here," Gholson said of the 12th st. corridor, echoing one of the Columbia administration's lines about the larger development area. But the new "restaurant row," including a brick-oven pizzeria and the Thai-Latin Talay, keeps jobs and business lunches in the area. The tour was organized by the Student Coalition on Expansion and Gentrification, in the process of reinventing itself now that its original leaders have graduated and the community board's planning blueprint -- the group's main vehicle for activism -- is no more. CCSC VP Policy Adil Ahmed has been enthusiastic about working with the SCEG, and the College Dems say they'll be getting involved post-election. Meanwhile, they tour, and send emails. 
 Barnard is a "flower garden of women."&nbsp; Barnard is the former home of the star of Even Stevens who is not Shia LeBeouf.&nbsp; Relive all of Friday's exciting NROTC details. The 12s are this much closer to CCSC and this much closer to having the power to make decisions that might, in some capacity, affect other students. PrezBo knows of the lies you carry in that red Solo cup! More elevators, more problems. 
 Satow Room Bureau Chief Martha Turewicz attended last night's CCSC gathering, during which a move was made toward granting all student council reps voting rights. President George Krebs started last night's CCSC meeting off with a bit of tough love, declaring, “Like it or not we’ll start at eight o’clock and everyone who’s late will suffer the embarrassment of being late.” Fortunately nobody suffered this terrible embarrassment, with the added benefit of not having to suffer sitting thorough an overly long meeting, as last night's affair ended at 9:16 PM sharp. Beyond his iron-fisted control of the schedule, Krebs also exhibited his more laid back side -- a side we're quite familiar with -- in announcing that in the coming weeks, he will host a party which is "fully on the record." As for other events, a senior class rep quasi-announced what “may or may not be an event at Havana Central, that may or may not be called Senior Night, and that may or may not be sponsored by Universal Studios.” The technology department was also beset by uncertainty, as evidenced by the tech director's report that:“We sort of have a functioning website now, we’re waiting on content.” He also referred to a non-functioning image ("stress nonfunctioning") but optimistically spoke of shooting for something "more ambitious." The director of technology came once more to the floor with his proposal for a constitutional amendment that would make his position an elected one. Opinions were split on the matter, and gave rise to some rather frank feedback. Quoth Monica Quintance: “I’m going to be a wet blanket on this parade... I don’t think this is a unique enough position to be elected.” When time came to vote on the proposal, one representative who voted against it assured the director of technology “I’m not opposed to you.” But the tech director kept his chin high: “I don’t care.” The meeting was not without its important moments; the delegates voted in approval of a proposal to take steps towards granting all student council representatives voting rights, and thus necessitating their attendance at all CCSC meetings. In the words of Krebs: “If this was a moment-in-time thing, if we could stop time -- this is a big, monumental step for CCSC. This is a large movement on our part.” Clapping ensued. On a lighter note, 2011 class rep. Sean Udell suggested a sponsored Frosted Flakes eating contest in honor of the upcoming face-off against Princeton ("it’s eating tigers"), of which Bwog is fully in favor. 
 Bloomberg has an article today highlighting the salaries of some of the city's biggest names in arts and culture. One name on the list is your president Lee C. Bollinger, who takes home a "$1.42 million package, which included $911,284 in base pay and $500,610 in benefits." This puts PrezBo's salary a little under that of Northwestern's President, whose $1.7 million paycheck is the largest among "private, nonprofit educational institutions." Both salaries are just below the average price of a Nussbaum &amp; Wu product. 
The battle for frozen yogurt dominance is one that has savagely torn through Morningside since Pinkberry's arrival in the summer of 2007. Today, we offer a comprehensive look at Columbia's bitter -- well, sweet -- rivals in hopes of settling this thing once and for all. (Full disclosure: Your Bwog editor went on a rather unfortunate Tasti bender some years ago, but harbors no ill-will at the current time.) Tasti D-Lite: Tasti D-Lite is located right in the heart of Lerner Hall, and is fittingly central to the Columbia froyo identity. It's Flex-friendly, it's right here, and it's been around forever -- in froyo years. There are four different flavors each day, the roster of which varies daily. Some appear more than others: Dulce de Leche, French Vanilla, and Tres Leches are perennial favorites. There's an old saying around the Tasti Lounge that the first bite is always the best, and this is certainly true. Three or four spoonfuls in, all selections have the same flavor: cold. Toppings are nothing to write home about, just sprinkles, peanut butter cups, Oreos, and other mainstays. Still, Tasti provides the illusion of the taste and feel of ice cream without actually containing any of its ingredients in a way that Pinkberry does not. Pinkberry: Since its appearance on the scene two summers ago, Pinkberry has swept through Morningside like a hot fad, or like a terrible plague, depending on your point of view. Eschewing the Tasti Model of offering dozens and dozens of rotating flavors, Pinkberry has settled on three: plain (which tastes like tart-y mixture of vanilla and lemon sorbets), coffee, and green tea. But Pinkberry's strengths are in its expansive and delightful topping selection: fresh fruit -- including blackberry, kiwi, and pineapple -- plus cereals like Cap'n Crunch and Coco Puffs, the novelty of which has yet to have worn off. Pinnacle: Yes, Pinnacle. A dark horse in this race, but a competitor to be reckoned with nonetheless. Toppings, like those at Tasti, are minimal and standard, and flavors are that way too -- it's peanut butter, vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry. But there's caramel sauce, and real-ish chocolate syrup, and it's much cheaper than Tasti or Pinkberry. Plus, it approximates the Platonic ideal of frozen yogurt more so that the other two, whose consistences are tastes can be nebulous and dynamic. We're going to give this to Tasti, followed by Pinkberry, with Pinnacle in third. Disagree? Make a convincing argument in the comments and maybe we'll reconsider. 
 When we analyzed Public Safety's newly released Annual Report, a few commenters noticed the curious absence of hate crimes in the year 2007. 2007, you'll recall, was the Year of the Hate Crime -- with graffiti in SIPA, Lewisohn, and a half dozen meetings in response to the incident. So what's with the row of zeroes? Bwog just got off the phone with Jim McShane, Associate Vice President of Public Safety and breakout star of the 114th Annual Varsity Show, who directed our attention to a few key passages in the appendix to the Annual Report. Appendix 1 of the report lists and defines all "reportable crimes." You'll notice that vandalism, desturction of public property, and all their variants are not on the list. McShane explained that even if the graffiti in SIPA or Lewisohn was motived by gender, religious, or racial bias, it doesn't count as a hate crime because it's not actually a crime, at least according to Public Safety's rubric. "We call those "bias incidents,'" said McShane. Have another burning question? Send it along to bwog@columbia.edu. 
Hey look, that student center located in the transparent cube thing between Furnald and the J-School is on the verge of opening. It's not serving yet, but the facilities appear to be ready to go and it's no longer under construction. The interior looks like what someone in 1983 might imagine a cafe in 2008 to look like. -- Photo by Lydia DePillis 
 Bwog's White House Bureau Chief James Downie files another dispatch. Before I dive in, I'd like to extend my sympathies to any New York Mets fans reading this. By this, I mean I'd like to, but I can't: as a Washington Nationals fan, I consider any season with a sniff of the playoffs to be a success. Speaking of close-run things, we have only just begun the series of debates that could make this election as close as 2000, or could blow it wide open as in 1980. The campaigns are playing harder and harder as the number of undecided voters shrinks. Then, of course, there's the whole Wall Street crisis. And now, the news: Debate Redux and Reax: Friday night's debate between Senators John McCain and Barack Obama was a close fight in the media's eyes. Focus groups, though, such as this CBS poll, gave the debate to Obama by significant margins, many saying that his emphasis on the middle class and clear competence in standing up to McCain helped him. The past few hours, though, have seen far more important news. Be Afraid. Be Very Afraid: This afternoon, the House of Representatives rejected the $700 billion bailout 228-205. Democrats voted 140-95 in favor, while Republicans voted 65-133 against. More importantly, though, House members in close re-election races got cold feet, and overwhelmingly voted against the bill. The Dow responded with its greatest single-day point-decline: 778 points. More worryingly, the House has adjourned until Thursday (perhaps to let the Senate take the lead for the next two days), but many worry that a vote will not come quickly enough. Also, the two parties actually tried to blame each other for the vote failure; all your correspondent has to say is "really?" Questions, Questions: Many media outlets have said that the public overwhelmingly opposed the bailout package. 538.com shows that it just matters how the pollster framed the question. It's Number Time: As always, numbers are available here, here, here, and here. Let's just say it is good news for Obama. Backstage: Want to see how lonely it is before a nationally-televised debate? The Obama campaign photographer took some pictures just before and after the debate. Unfortunately, he was unable to confirm if Obama was in fact prepping by humming "Eye of the Tiger." Then There's No Interest: The New Republic asks what you may be thinking as well after seeing the latest numbers: why is the media pretending the race is close? Palin-tastrophe: As Marc Ambinder of the The Atlantic outlines, the other fast-approaching catastrophe is Sarah Palin as the GOP nominee. Late last week, she gave an interview to CBS's Katie Couric which can only be described as underwhelming (and the damage from that interview might not be over). Her poll numbers have nosedived as well, and media expectations for her Thursday night debate are unbelievably low. Your correspondent could come up with a punchline, but that would just seem unfair at this point. Beware - Lots of Blinking: SNL shows part 4 of that Couric-Palin interview that has Republicans so worried. The scary part, though, is that your correspondent is pretty sure Tina Fey prepared her accent just by watching Fargo...and somehow that worked. But It's There: The New Yorker also has fun at Sarah Palin's expense. And they've always been successful with their covers this election season. Now He'll Be Making Awkward Blonde Jokes: Yet another Palin item - her stand-in at Biden's debate prep has been Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm. "Hey, I Heard That!": John McCain is so used to the campaign trail, he spins even when he doesn't even know anyone's listening. 
 Students in President Bollinger's Freedom of Speech and Press class were met with a surprise this afternoon when their esteemed preceptor eschewed his normal rapid-fire Socratic inquiry and instead launched into an hour-long elucidation of the ongoing financial and economic meltdown. After warning us that his cell phone might start ringing during the lecture, he first reminded us that he serves on the NY Federal Reserve Board, although he acknowledged that economics was by no means his area of expertise. After ascertaining that not many students' professors had been discussing the banking collapse, Bollinger commenced a 45 minute-long history of the events leading up to the current crisis, touching on everything from petrodollars to the wisdom of Warren Buffett, whom PrezBo knows personally, he would have you know. Students were taking notes and asking questions as if the subject matter were directly relevant to the course. Bollinger commented that the University is "not immune" to the crisis, and looked strained when one pupil mentioned that student loan interest rates had skyrocketed. "That's major," he said dejectedly. As for our futures, he expressed similar pessimism. Many of us, he surmised, would be applying to law and medical school instead of seeking employment. We chuckled nervously. As a glimpse of his perception of student life, he said that we surely were still going "to restaurants, to the bookstore, out in the city" but that we should be wary: ordinary life was "dissolving" all around us. Although, he added, we might emerge from this unscathed, happy we had escaped a "near death experience." He implied this was unlikely. But surely his area of expertise had some relevance to the day's lecture. The press, Bollinger concluded, had failed to foresee and clarify the economic crisis much as it had failed to question officials during the leadup to Iraq. Although, really, are they in any position to perform valiantly? -KER 
 For city council, kiss those term limits goodbye! "Basically the President of the EU" warns Columbia students about the future.&nbsp; Drastic times call for drastic measures.&nbsp; Barnard changes Econ requirements. Forbes's love affair with Ratemyprofessors.com.&nbsp; Are you skeptical? Budget deficit means even fewer reasons to accept MTA's fare hike. QuAM runs with scissors. 
 Hooray, the 2012 Class Council election results for ESC and SGA are here. Meet your new teams: ESC: President: Derrick Fu (SuperFu) Vice-President: Jessica Wu (SuperFu) Representative: Eric Harms (SuperFu) Representative: Judy Kim (FuReal) SGA: President: Charlie Dinkin Vice President: Bo Yun Park Treasurer: Astrika Wilhelm You might recall that "Stephan" did endorse SuperFu.&nbsp; And probably would have endorsed Charlie, Bo, and Astrika had we asked for an SGA pick. 
 A politically active tipster clued us in to CountMore.org, a neat website that allows your to figure out whether it makes more sense to vote here, in New York, or in your home state. (Though chances are it's probably going to make more sense -- or just as much sense -- to vote in the latter.) Anyway, it's great because then it provides you with stuff like absentee ballot deadlines and the 2004 election's margin of victory. 
 It's time today to say goodbye to the New York Sun, which has been a diligent and dedicated chronicler of the life and times of Columbia and its faculty. Come, let's relive the memories. Way back in 2006, the Sun dutifully reported on the Joseph Massad and Nadia Ab El-Haj Tenure Battles. And then the following year, there was extensive coverage of the visit a certain Iranian President, which included some rather unflattering pieces about Coatsworth &amp; Friends. Then was that time that 70 prominent professors published a "statement of concern" in the paper, accusing your President Bollinger of stifling academic freedom.&nbsp; Oh, and then there was that other time when the Sun reported that a bunch of professors were going to Iran, to apologize to He Who Must Not Be Named. And then when Current-founder Bari Weiss, CC '07, signed on earlier this year as a freelancer, there came thorough coverage of the ROTC debate and PrezBo's bizarre emails about the ROTC debate. The New York Sun was devoted to coverage of the city and its institutions, and the quality of its local and arts coverage was a testament to that unwavering commitment. But one Blue and White staffer poses an interesting question: "I wonder if people should stop namng newspapers 'The New York Sun'? This is the second time a paper of that name has died." 
 Running With Scissors author Augusten Burroughs headlined the Queer Awareness Month opening reception Monday night in Roone Arledge Auditorium. Bwog arrived early enough to snag a choice seat in the front—although not late enough to miss a series of lengthy introductions from various student leaders—and thoroughly enjoyed Burroughs' keynote address. Dressed in a baseball cap, leather jacket, and jeans, a noticeably slimmed-down Burroughs greeted the audience with a reading from his soon-to-be-published collection of holiday essays titled, You Better Not Cry. "Christmas is my favorite holiday," he explained about his new book. "But each one has been fucking horrible." The essays span his lifetime of Christmas experiences, including a particularly mortifying episode from his mid-20s that inspired the chapter he selected for the reading. "It's short, but it's CRUDE," he joked with the audience before beginning the excerpt, a reflection on his drunken barroom seduction by an older man dressed as Santa Claus. Burroughs took several paragraphs to hit his stride as a reader, but the audience quickly warmed to his clever retelling of the event, which indeed was not the stuff of a Rankin/Bass animated special. Question-and-answer time followed, although the evening's audience was unusually bashful. A long, awkward silence fell over the auditorium after Burroughs opened the floor to questions, forcing him to fill time and eventually remark, "This is going well..." One voice finally piped up from the seats asking about Burroughs' dog, Bentley, and that broke the ice to a dozen or so more questions about his writing process, his latest book, A Wolf At the Table, his legal troubles, and his life. Interestingly for a keynote speaker at Queer Awareness Month, Burroughs downplayed his sexuality as having a minor role in his everyday life. "I never think about it, ever," he said. "I'm right-handed. It's like the same thing as that." He later went on to share that the death of a close friend—Pighead, who appears in his memoir, Dry—also changed the way he related to the outside world. "I don't care about the same things now and that's one of them. I don't care what people think of me." Burroughs signed books afterward for a long line of fans, a motley group he described during his talk as "smart girls with glasses, their boyfriends, their parents, a few lesbians, and one gay guy." While Bwog believes those demographic estimates were probably a little off for Monday night's crowd, Burroughs' brutal wit and keen spirit were otherwise spot on.&nbsp; -- JYH 
 Hey guess what? We've made a Google Group, and it's called Bwog Freelance! So here's the deal, if you're interesting in reporting on -- or taking pictures of -- lectures, theater performances, cultural events and campus happenings, send an email to juli.weiner@gmail.com saying so. You'll be put on the listserv, and will soon begin to receive weekly emails about all the exciting things happening on campus that we'll need people to cover. You can then volunteer to report on these things, using the Google Group. Hooray! 
 Remember American hero and proud Business School alum ('97) Roy Den Hollander? The self-described antifeminist who sued Columbia for failing to offer a "men's studies" course? Whatever, anyway, he's back! And he's suing mad, specifically about ladies' nights at bars because what else? This month, Hollander is arguing that when nightclubs offer all the ladies reduced-price drinks, they are discriminating. He then went on to conclude that since nightclubs get their liquor licences from the state, it's not only the clubs but New York that is discriminating against him, Roy Den Hollander, and all of his kind. The lawsuit was dismissed and Hollander called the judge a "feminist." The end. 
 According to an article by everyone's favorite authority on colleges, US News and World Report, Columbia was nipped ever so slightly by Harvard this year for the top honor of being the university whose name appears most in global print and electronic media.&nbsp; Hey, at least we trounced the rest of the Ivies, as Yale, Princeton, and Cornell were the only other Ancient Eight schools to appear in the top ten. Rounding out the report's top five were Michigan, UC Berkeley, and Stanford.&nbsp; For the rest of the results (as well as a different ranking for the number of appearances of liberal arts colleges in the media) check out this New York Times-evoking report courtesy of the Global Language Monitor. Who knows, maybe this post will push us over the top! Or maybe not! 
 Mayyyyybe Bloomberg will run for reelection Gamers: beware of exceeding University bandwidth caps, but only sometimes.&nbsp; In fact, for most of the things you'll be doing online, you will be fine. Perhaps the University Senate is a place where debate within the University should take place.&nbsp; As opposed to debating with kitchen knives. Wait a second.&nbsp; Local bars might allow students in occasionally?&nbsp; Freshmen: Maybe you should forget what classroom in Hamilton your next club meeting is in, walk into a debate between two warring heads of state, reconcile their differences and then walk out with your Nobel Peace Prize. 
There's currently a fire in Dodge, and a nervous professor is running through the stairwell yelling to anyone who will listen, "This is not a drill." Also, the area surrounding Dodge smells like smoke. Check back for more updates. UPDATE: According to Public Safety, there wasn't a fire, just a "smoke condition" caused by an overheated transformer. -- Photo by Cliff Massey 
 We are on the eve of midterms and many students are preparing sleeping bags, dry foods and canteens of Redbull for their first Butler camp out of the year.&nbsp; But alas, in his email to the Senior class, Mark Johnson has informed us that The Powers That Be have decreed that every room in our beloved library shall be evacuated daily for cleaning and removal of camping gear.&nbsp; The full notice is after the jump. Attention Butler-goers! Rooms will be closed daily for one hour and unattended personal items will be MOVED!&nbsp; In an effort to cut down camping in Butler, library administrators have created new policies that have gone into effect this semester.&nbsp; Each room will close for one hour, and any unattended items left in the room will be removed to allow for proper cleaning. Additionally, swipe access will restrict non-Columbia University students from entering in the evenings, and a staff member will patrol the building from 12-8am every Sunday to Thursday to report camping activity. To find out more information, pick up a pamphlet at the main entrance of Butler or view a more detailed description of the guidelines at: and the room cleaning schedule hours at: . Finally, If you have any questions, suggestions or comments, please feel free to send an email to butler@libraries.cul.columbia.edu &nbsp; 
Bwogger Jon Hill recently came across this hilarious tidbit on Columbia's favorite muscle-milk consumer.&nbsp; Apparently some movie fans have confused Northrop as Jeffrey Hunter, an actor who shared the screen with John Wayne, Henry Fonda and Sean Connery and played the captain in the original pilot episode of Star Trek.&nbsp; Bwog is not exactly sure how the site got JHN II mixed up with Hunter, who died almost forty years ago, but we do see a bit of a resemblance... &nbsp; 
 Over a month ago, CU Dems made plans to visit Northern Virginia to help push Obama and House and Senate candidates over the edge to victory.&nbsp; Bwog has now heard that the Republicans will be going to campaign in New Jersey on Election Day. Both trips will be funded entirely out of the groups' own pockets, as it is against University Regulations -- an argument originated last year by former CUGOP president Chris Kulawik -- for Columbia to fund any partisan campaigning, as it could jeopardize their 501(c)(3) IRS tax status. 
 In this whole hubbub about NROTC forums and referenda,&nbsp; the Wall Street Journal has raised its voice once again. Yesterday, in an article centered around future Marine and Junior Austin Byrd, columnist William McGurn said that PrezBo better straighten out his act and grant the ROTC access to Columbia's campus.&nbsp; After all, McGurn wrote, even Barack "the most liberal member of the United States Senate" Obama said that Columbia was out of line that one time when he bothered to come back to campus!&nbsp; The article also called Bollinger on his slip-up about who instituted Don't Ask Don't Tell (Congress, not the DOD) and claimed that the administration was "throwing up side issues" when most students, famous alumni and an adjusted JFK quote are all against him.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's Teachers College tipster has forwarded us an email saying that on October 21st Obama and McCain's education advisors will debate over "Education and the Next President" at Teachers College and will be moderated by TC President Susan Fuhrman.&nbsp; Don't expect any heartbreaking lotteries this time: only TC faculty, students and staff are allowed. But Bwog is hopeful that there will be alternative viewing arrangements for the rest of us.&nbsp; Stay tuned, we will update as more information comes in.&nbsp; Until then, the full email is after the jump. To the TC Community: On Tuesday evening, October 21st, at 7 pm, in the Cowin Conference Center, Teachers College will host "Education and the Next President," a debate between Lisa Graham Keegan, education advisor to Senator John McCain, and Linda Darling-Hammond, education advisor to Senator Barack Obama. TC President Susan Fuhrman will moderate. Online registration for seating in the Cowin Center will begin Tuesday, October 7th, at 10 a.m. To register at that time for your FREE seat (one per registrant), click on www.tc.edu/edadvisorsdebate. &lt;http://www.tc.edu/edadvisorsdebate.&gt; &nbsp; (A reminder note with that link will be sent to you at 9 a.m. on the morning of the 7th.) The link will go live at that time. By clicking on the link, you will be taken to a special registration site. Because a limited number of seats are available, seats will be reserved, online, on a first-come, first-served basis. To register, you must be a currently registered TC student, a TC staff member or a member of the TC faculty. VERY IMPORTANT: If a seat is reserved for you, you will receive confirmation ONLY at your Columbia email (i.e., &nbsp;the email address that combines your initials with a number and ends in "columbia.edu") rather than at your TC exchange or personal email. ALSO VERY IMPORTANT: You will be asked to present the confirmation notice at the box office for entry on the evening of the debate. No exceptions will be made. Additional seating to watch the debate via remote as it occurs will be made available on a first-come, first-serve basis (no ticketing required) in other locations on campus. In addition, the debate will be Webcast via both the Teachers College Web site and the Web site for Education Week/edweek.org (more details to follow). Joe Levine Executive Director External Affairs Teachers College Columbia University 212 678-3176 jlevine@tc.columbia.edu &nbsp; 
 Remember that subprime mortgage-induced liquidity crisis and the subsequent slight dip in the markets as a result of the bailout plan being rejected? Us too.&nbsp; Prior to Monday's rejection of the $700 billion plan, a letter was sent by economists around the country urging Congress not to adopt the plan set forth by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. This petition included 13 signatures of Columbia professors, all of whom work in the Business School and range from those holding named professorships to non-tenure track positions on the faculty.&nbsp; From a cursory look into their after-school jobs, it seems as if, like most b-school professors, those who signed on appear to generally back the Wall St. establishment: Christopher Mayer is a real estate expert who moonlights with a hedge fund while Wei Shang-Jin is a vocal supporter of outsourcing and globalization.&nbsp; In the letter, they stressed a long-term solution that was fair to taxpayers and investors.&nbsp; The full list of Columbia professors is after the jump.&nbsp; Michael Adler, Professor David Beim, Professor of Professional Practice Maria Guadalupe, Associate Professor Andrew Hertzberg, Assistant Professor Gailen Hite, Curriculum Specialist Robert J. Hodrick, Nomura Professor of International Finance Charles M. Jones, Professor Christopher Mayer, Paul Milstein Professor of Real Estate, Senior Vice Dean Tomasz Piskorski, Assistant Professor Wei Shang-Jin, N. T. Wang Professor of Chinese Business and Economy Morten Sorensen, Associate Professor Maxim Ulrich, Assistant Professor Daniel Wolfenzon, Professor 
 The cover story in this week's Village Voice is an interview with Columbia's Klaus Jacob, geophysicist and adjunct professor of international and public affairs.&nbsp; Jacob is a big time disaster expert: in the 90s, his research on earthquakes convinced the city to change its building codes. And when he worked for President Clinton, he was the first to lead a national study on the effects of global warming. Nonetheless, Jacob has been trying to warn Columbia for four years about the possible dangers inherent to the University's blueprint for Manhattanville. Columbia, as it tends to do from time to time, is not listening. For one, he believes that the new campus is located right in the heart of a flood zone (Think about the valley where the 1 train comes above ground. In fact, there's Jacob over there to the right, standing in this very valley.) And thanks to global warming, the possibility of flooding due to hurricanes is only going to steadily increase over the years. What troubles him most is the 17 acre basement -- which Columbia says will be used for heating, ventilation, and maybe a bus depot -- that will eventually be 8 stories deep. Jacob wants the University to build a floodgate, but Columbia argued that this isn't the first basement of its kind in New York, so there's no reason why they should build it. And because this is an article about Manhattanville, there's a Nick Sprayregen cameo too. Manhattanville's most famous resident agrees with Jacob about the dangers of the basement, and has even sued the University for not properly investigating the flooding risks. (Jacob refuses to join Sprayregen's legal crusade.) Jacob tells the Voice that for his warnings to the administration have gone unanswered for years. "I was naive enough to think that by mentioning something, I could make something happen," he said. 
 "If all of us were to suddenly vanish, most of the country probably wouldn’t even notice" Paying the rent: still a bitch&nbsp; College students: still poor and hungry!&nbsp; Columbia football has only won games in the future. An 18-fold increase in enforcement for alcohol offenses?&nbsp; Tom DeMott is Spec opinion's go-to person on rent regulation&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 If this Craigslisting is to be believed, it appears as though Cafe Fresh on 121st and Amsterdam -- the School of Social Work hangout known for its beautiful location and slow-as-molasses service -- could be up for sale. UPDATE, 12:26pm: A call to Cafe Fresh reveals that it is not, in fact, selling itself. So the ad is either a prank, or there's another corner cafe that started 2.5 years ago selling coffee and American fare on Amsterdam avenue in the 120s. The post says the place makes $550,000-$600,000 per year, but no word on how much they're asking. Hey, now seems like a good time to get into the restaurant business! Also while knocking around on everyone's favorite internet marketplace, we found a benevolent reverend studying at Columbia advertising his (or her) marriage officiation services for FREE. So get off your ass and pop the question already; this offer may not be around forever 
 There's a vintage clothing and jewelry fair happening right now on Barnard's Lehman Lawn. There are baubles, trinkets, and pleasantries in which to take delight! Oh, and coats, bags, and posters. It's happening until 5 PM, but all the good stuff usually sells out around 3 PM.&nbsp; 
 SEAS girls, this is your life Gardening: not just for housewives! So this one time, at Space Camp... "Through uncertainty and turmoil, we can at least dress confidently and demonstrate our power through a self-assured silhouette." Good women drink bad coffee&nbsp; 
 Low Plaza has played host to some divergent causes in the past, but today might just take the cake: the Church of Jesus Christ and Latter Day Saints is singing and handing out Books of Mormon in the shadow of Queer Awareness Month’s helium-filled rainbow arch (with a small bake sale against the bailout off to the side, as well as the odd voter registration booth). Both groups seem to be coexisting peacefully thus far. Of the LDSers, Elder Parkka, from Finland, and Elder Miller, from Utah—both 20—are more than happy to tell you about how they found God. Should you be questioning, find more information here. The QuAMmers, by contrast, are more than happy to tell you about First Friday Homecoming(OUT) dance, which is tomorrow in Lerner Party Space. There’s a whole slate of events lined up for this month, including a Masquerade Ga(y)la, a Genderf*ck Party, as well a smattering of study breaks and talks. The full schedule is expected to be uploaded here soonish. 
The cotton candy line is long out here on South Lawn, but CUMB is here with their inflatable penis, there's a bigger inflatable thing that you can actually bounce around in--and the music's just getting rolling (now featuring Bwog's own Tony Gong!). Swing by CCSC's Homecoming Carnival on your way to whatever.
 Hello! And welcome to Bwog's exciting liveblog of the Vice Presidential Debate, brought to you by White House Bureau Chief James Downie and Bwog Editor Juli Weiner. Okay, let's go. 9:05 PM: They're both excited to be here. Palin wants us to ask ourselves if it's a "good time or bad time" for the economy. Palin brings up John McCain's warnings about Fannie and Freddie. 9:06 PM: Oh, god, Palin mentioned how McCain suspended his campaign and there were Partisan Laughs in the Piano Lounge, where your Bwog correspondents are stationed.&nbsp; 9:07 PM: Biden reminds everyone that McCain said the "fundamentals" of the economy are strong, just two weeks ago he said this thing. 9:08 PM: Palin said McCain has a "team of mavericks." 9:09 PM: Ifill says Palin "didn't really answer that last question." Huge Partisan Laughter. 9:10 PM: Both at least have made sure to mention/credit the top of their tickets in every answer... 9:11 PM: Hockey moms and Joe Sixpack mention #1 9:12 PM: This debate has significantly tighter rules than the presidential debates, which many thought would help Palin. Actually, it may help Biden more, because he'll have to shut his mouth. 9:13 PM: Biden is talking about his friend named "Joey" who doesn't even know how much it costs to fill up his own gas tank. 9:14 PM: Biden said Obama supported deregulation across the board. First sharp argument of the debate. "I may not answer the questions the way moderator wants to hear, but I talk straight to the American people." 9:15 PM: Why is Palin arguing on the "not answering the question" charge? Politicians normally ignore it. 9:16 PM: Biden says no one making less than $250k will see their taxes raised. "That seems to be simple fairness." Biden is calling McCain "John." 9:17 PM: Palin directly addressing Biden to try and equal the stature field. Saying he and Obama are taxing small businesses is straight out of&nbsp; GOP Talking Points 101. 9:19 PM: Biden says "I don't know where to start." He says a list of places he's lived. He says 95% of small business owners make less than the aforementioned $250k. Biden calls McCain's health care plan an "Ultimate Bridge to Nowhere." There is clapping, and "oooh-ing!" in the Piano Lounge. 9:21 PM: Though that was a zinger, Palin's managing to stick to her script and not do too terribly. Biden stumbles through "characterize." 9:23 PM: Palin tries to reverse the standard narrative by claiming she took on the oil companies as governor. 9:24 PM: Palin says her area of expertise is "energy." She says, "How long have I been at this, like five weeks?" 9:25 PM: Biden says Obama voted for the energy bill because there was real support for alternative energy. He says McCain is adding $4 billion in tax cuts for "the Exxon-Mobils of the world." Biden says that he and Barack want to give money back to America like Palin has been able to do for Alaskans. 9:26 PM: On to the economy. Palin is talking about the "corruption and the greed on Wall St." She brings up McCain and Fannie and Freddie again. Why does she keeping bringing up that McCain suspended the campaign? 9:27 PM: Biden kind of avoids a question about a bill he supported that Obama didn't. He says they both support bankrupcy courts being allowed to adjust the interest rates and principal rate on mortgages. He says he thinks McCain and Palin don't support this too, but he's "not sure." 9:29 PM: Uh, Palin refuses to discuss the economy and says she wants to talk about energy independence. 9:30 PM: And the focus group lines crater. What will the media think tomorrow about her constant refusals to answer the question? They don't like getting pushed aside. 9:31 PM: Ifill bites back with "Let's talk about energy issues." Palin tries to thread the needle on global warming, and the focus group lines don't actaully move that much. 9:32 PM: Palin says she "doesn't want to argue about the causes of climate change," despite this being the exact question she was given. &nbsp; 9:33 PM: Biden thinks the cause of climate change is man made. He says McCain has voted 20 times against funding alternative energy. He wants to export clean coal technology to China and other places. 9:34 PM: Palin says the chant is "drill baby drill." What is she talking about? Who chants this? She says that Biden and Obama think offshore drilling is "raping" the intercontinental shelf. 9:35 PM: Biden and Palin both support clean coal technology. 9:36 PM: Now we're on to same-sex benefits. Biden supports it. He says that the Constitution supports this, there is scattered clapping in the Piano Lounge. 9:37 PM: Palin says she'll be "tolerant," claims being gay is a choice, a "lifestyle people choose for themselves." 9:38 PM: Biden nor Obama support "redefining from a civil side what constitutes marriage." 9:39 PM: Okay! On to Iraq. Palin says we have a plan for withdrawl but we do not need "early withdrawl." She says "we've got to win in Iraq" and says the Surge has worked. 9:40 PM: Biden says there must be a timeline for withdrawl. Obama says it's time for Iraq to spend their own money. 9:42 PM: Palin to Biden: "Your plan is a white flag of surrender." Yet the focus group numbers just went from very positive for Biden to really negative. 9:43 PM: Biden has also figured out generally that he can take shots at McCain because Palin hasn't fought back until the most recent exchange. 9:44 PM: Palin uses "another story" phrase to describe Obama twice in about ten words. 9:45 PM: Greatest threat? Nuclear Iran or unstable Pakistan? 9:45 PM: Biden says they're both threatening. He says Iran getting nukes would be "very destabalizing." He says that McCain continues to tell us that the central front for the war on terror is in Iraq. Biden thinks it will come from al-Qaeda planning in the hills in Pakistan. 9:47 PM: Palin pivots away from the question, cites support for Iraq strategy fighting "the leader of Al-Qaeda there." Then she rambles into an answer on Ahmadinejad and "the Castro brothers." 9:48 PM: She still will probably beat expectations though. 9:49 PM: Biden clarifies Palin's statements about meeting with Ahmadinejad without preconditions. Ahmadinejad doesn't control nuclear weapons in Iran, he says. 9:50 PM: Biden says McCain will not even talk with adversaries. He says McCain wouldn't even sit down with the government of Spain, that has troops in Afghanistan with us now. Biden: "I find that incredible." Claps, and Partisan Laughter! 9:51 PM: Palin says a "two state solution is the solution." She's talking about Israel, and how she doesn't want to "see a second Holocaust." 9:52 PM: Biden refers to himself in the third person and says that no one has been a better friend to Israel than him, Joe Biden. 9:53 PM: Biden said that we should have moved NATO forces into Lebanon. We didn't, and now Hezbollah is a presence there. Biden says we must back Israel and stand with them, and no insist on specific policies like Bush. 9:54 PM: "I'm so encouraged to know that we both love Israel!" Palin gushed to Biden. 9:55 PM: Palin respects Biden for respecting McCain. Biden wants to know how McCain's policies are different from Bush's. 9:56 PM: He keeps saying the phrase "same as George Bush's." This is comical! 9:56 PM: Ifill: What should be the trigger in terms of when we should use nukes? 9:56 PM: She says that regimes should not be allowed to acquire weapons. "Can we talk about Afghanistan real quick also?" Well yes, we are. She's talking about the success of the Surge, and implmenting it in Afghanistan. 9:57 PM: She says we're building schools for children and fighting terrorists in Afghanistan. And this is when we should use nuclear weapons! 9:58 PM: Biden says that commanding general in Afghanistan said that the Surge will not work in Afghanistan. 9:59 PM: Biden purposefully repeats himself two separate times in one answer. He seems like he's starting to share McCain's disdain for his debate opponent. 10:01 PM: Palin and Biden disagree on whether the commanding general said this thing. 10:02 PM: Biden is talking about his recommendations for Bosnia. "The end result was it worked." Now there is a stable government there. Biden is talking about how the President said he needed to keep sanctions on Iraq, not go to war. 10:02 PM: "We should rally the world to act" re: Darfur. 10:03 PM: Palin says she's not "used to the way you work." 10:04 PM: Like last time, the deeper the debate goes into foreign policy, the better one candidate does. This time it's Biden. Also, the format of this debate has forced talking points to take precedence over policy explanations, unlike the first debate. 10:05 PM: Biden says he never supported McCain's stance on the war and suggests you go to JoeBiden.com and see for yourself! 10:06 PM: "John McCain was lockstep with Dick Cheney about how this was going to be easy." 10:06 PM: Palin disagrees. "John McCain knows how to win a war. He knows what evil is." 10:07 PM: What if your running mate died while in office? 10:07 PM: Biden would "carry out Barack Obama's policies" and goes about naming them. 10:08 PM: "Most important election we will ever have voted in. In essence I agree with every major initiative he has suggested." 10:09 PM: Palin: "What do you expect? A team of mavericks -- we're not going to agree on everything." She winks. 10:09 PM: She wants to get rid of greed and corruption. "A little reality from Wasilla Main St." 10:10 PM: Biden says he spends a lot of time in Home Depot. Just like your dad! 10:11 PM: He says the middle class has gotten the short end. Barack Obama will change this. 10:11 PM: "Say it ain't so, Joe!" Palin says in a ridiculous southern accent. 10:12 PM: Oh, damn. Palin says Biden's wife Jill's "reward is in heaven" for being a teacher. On a related note, Biden's first wife died in a terrible car crash. 10:13 PM: Palin says Ifill's remark was a "lame attempt at a joke" because no one got it. 10:14 PM: Biden "has a history of getting things done in the Senate." 10:16 PM: According to Palin, the founding father's were "flexible" in their definition of the responsibilities of the vice president."&nbsp; 10:17 PM: Biden: Cheney has been the most dangerous vice president. Clapping and cheering in the Piano Lounge. 10:18 PM: Much as some in the Piano Lounge roll their eyes at "small-town America" talk, Palin does well when she can stick to that. CNN putting each question on the screen probably hasn't help her dodge questions though. 10:21 PM: Biden chokes up a little while talking about worrying bringing up kids, given the death of his wife. 10:22 PM: Palin's repeating her talking points. 10:23 PM: Biden "Let's talk about the Maverick." McCain voted four times for Bush's budget. "He has not been a Maverick." McCain has not been a Maverick on virtually anything that people talk about around the kitchen table." 10:24 PM: Ifill: Issue that you are forced to change a long-held view to usher in change? 10:24 PM: Biden is talking about his time at the judiciary committee. Palin is talking about times she didn't veto budgets. "There hasn't been something that I've had to compromise on." 10:26 PM: Ifill: How do you change the partisan tone? 10:27 PM: Biden says he learned a lesson from Mike Mansfield about this thing. It's a story about Jesse Helms and what if he adopted a child with special needs? Uh, what if? Anyway moral of the story: don't question people's motives. 10:28 PM: Palin says the "proposals have to speak for themselves." 10:29 PM: Biden's been able to close this debate strongly with several personal stories that have matched Palin's ability to empathize with "small-twon America." 10:30 PM: Palin closes by saying she and McCain will "fight for America" and for freedom. Ends the debate on a very negative note, warning of the end of "freedom." 10:31 PM: Biden sticks to the Obama campaign message by emphasizing the need for change. He ends with a shout-out to Scranton values, "dignity," says Obama and he will reassert those values. 10:32 PM: The debate's over. Enjoy the partisan pundits afterwards! 
 Students feel the economic crisis.&nbsp; Columbia's Manhattanville PR continues to struggle, and accidents won't help. Local Dems can't avoid shouting at the TV. One student tries to deal with Ramadan's slow slide into summer. If a struggle is successful, why not continue it? 
 Bwog presents a special Homecoming edition of its Friday sports roundup. Football: The football team will play its Homecoming game, and Ivy League opener, against Princeton tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. Free shuttle buses to the game will be provided to fans starting at 11 a.m at the 116th and Broadway gates. For those of you who can't attend, the game will be broadcast on 970 AM and WKCR. Bwog will also bring you live coverage starting tomorrow at 1 p.m. Last week, the team lost to Towson University on a last second touchdown, 31-24. Despite holding Towson quarterback Sean Schaefer to 193 yards in the air, the team's rushing defence again was weak, giving up 134 yards on the ground. For Columbia, the big stars were quarterback Shane Kelly (19-32 for 281 yards and 2 touchdowns) and cornerback Kalasi Huggins, whose 4.5 tackles led him to be named Ivy League Rookie of the Week. Interestingly, Columbia has had 12 of the last 22 Ivy League Rookies of the Week, and the last two Rookies of the Year. Against Princeton, the rushing attack and defense will have to start working again: against Towson, running backs Jordan Davis and Ray Rangel only rushed for 29 yards together. On the defensive side of the ball, Princeton's Jordan Culbreath is a dangerous runner who could put up big numbers if the Lions don't clamp down. Women's Soccer: The women's soccer team was one of the the few teams that had a good week. They won their third and fourth straight games last weekend, including a comfortable 3-1 win over Ivy League opponents Cornell (goals by Liz Wicks, Sophie Reiser, and Ashley Mistele), and a 2-0 win over Manhattan (Sophie Resier and Liz Wicks again on the scoresheet). This weekend, the team rolls into Providence on Saturday to take on Brown, before playing Long Island at home on Monday night. Men's Soccer: It was a tough week for the Columbia men's soccer team, as they dropped three games, including two in double overtime. On Friday, the team fell 2-1 to Quinnipiac (the one goal scored by standout sophomore Bayo Adafin) in double overtime ("the second half of golden goal extra time," for Europhiles), and on Sunday they lost again in double overtime, 1-0 to Long Island. Their toughest loss, though, came on Wednesday, 3-0 to Monmouth. Hoping to right the ship, the team plays its Ivy League opener at Brown tomorrow evening. Volleyball: The volleyball team dropped its two games last Saturday, against Robert Morris and Ivy League opponents Cornell. This weekend, the Lions play Long Island University tonight at 7 p.m., and then have a shot at revenge against Cornell tomorrow at 5 p.m. Field Hockey: The field hockey team had a tough loss last Saturday against Cornell, 4-3. After Cornell took a 3-0 lead early in the second half, 4 goals followed in the next 8 minutes, and Columbia cut the lead to 4-3 behind goals from Christine Buszczak, Maggie O'Connor, and Ariel Leon. However, Cornell was able to hold on, and Columbia fell to 1-1 in the Ivy League. This weekend, the team starts a three game homestand with another Ivy League game against Princeton tonight at 6 p.m., before playing Sacred Heart Sunday afternoon, and Lafayette on Wednesday night. Tennis: The men's team, and particularly junior Jon Wong, met with success at this past weekend's Princeton Invitational. Wong defeated teammate Mihai Nichifor in the 'A' bracket singles finals to win the title, and then joined senior Bogdan Borta to win the 'A' doubles title as well. The men's team is already in Oklahoma for this weekend's All-American Tennis Championship. The women's team, after a successful weekend for some of their doubles pairs (two finalists) at the Eastern Championships and Cissie Leary Invitational, have the weekend off. Golf: The men's golf team finished third at the rain-shortened Cornell Invitational, with first-year Brendan Doyle finishing third individually as well on a score of 70. The team beat out all Ivy League opponents in the tournament. The women's team's weekend at the Yale Invitational was rain-shortened as well, and they finished 7th out of 19 teams. Both teams play in the Alumni Tournament today. Cross Country: Unfortunately, Bwog's calendar got all messed up last week when looking at the cross country teams' schedules, and so we reported a week early that&nbsp; they will be racing this weekend in the George Mason Invitational. In other words, they will be racing this weekend in the George Mason Invitational. 
Bwog's Film Rental Guide returns! Film correspondent Mark Hay rolls with the new mood. At first it seemed just a series of fleeting, disparaging, sensationalized headlines. Wall Street crash. $700 billion bailout. Bailout failure. Soon enough the crisis broke upon us and here we are, bemoaning our current financial affairs and preaching gloom and doom. And it's hard not to get just a little concerned about the situation, but then I realize that life could be so much worse. So, to take the edge off, some schaudenfreude for the weekend. Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984): An unfortunately overlooked film for a frighteningly overlooked specter, Nausicaa offers a sample of the style of writer/illustrator/filmmaker Hayao Miyazaki (Princess Mononoke, Spirited Away) before he discovered the art of subtlety. Miyazaki envisions a world a millennium after the destruction wrought by giant, industrial bio-weapons of the ancients, known as the God Warriors. In this world, only small pockets of humanity remain, isolated by necessity as only small alcoves shielded from the winds can sustain life. The winds carry spores from the toxic Sea of Decay, a poisonous jungle spreading over the rest of the earth, and the spores spell instant death for all men. One of the more successful shelters, the Valley of the Wind, remains a less chaotic and desperate land than the rest in the hands of the young and compassionate Princess Nausicaa (American voice provided by Alison Lohman). Nausicaa spends her days exploring the edges of the Sea of Decay, communicating with its insect guardians, the Ohmu, while her mentor, Lord Yupa (Patrick Stewart) searches the world for the messianic 'Man-in-Blue' of legend who can stop the spread of the toxic lands and save humanity. Then, an airship containing an excavated God Warrior crashes in the valley. The rightful owner of the behemoth, Queen Kushana (Uma Thurman) arrives to reclaim it, revealing her plan to use the beast to burn down the Sea of Decay and taking Nausicaa and several others hostage. En route, they are attacked by an enemy gunship leading to an emergency landing in the jungle, Nausicaa's escape, and a union with the prince of another kingdom threatened by Kushana, Asbel (Shia LaBeouf). Lost and beleaguered, scrambling for life and answers, the two must attempt to save their lives, if not the world in this fancifully thoughtful tale.Though coarse in exposition and stiff in dialogue, the film carries a thread of hope through tangles of admonishing despair. Chasing that glimmer and exploring the lush realities of Miyazaki, one cannot help but become enamored with its blunt charm. Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964): A quick newsflash: the threat of immediate nuclear annihilation is no less real now than it was forty-four years ago. Yet we shrug off Iran and North Korea, loose nukes and centrifuges, as if they were merely issues of foreign policy. This cavalier attitude to our individual fates and connections to global happenings lends Stanley Kubrick's Cold War black comedy a perpetual relevance to our lives almost half a century after it was made. Kubrick bluntly introduces us to Brigadier General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden), newly insane commander of a fleet of US bombers. Suffering from paranoia of the Communist plot to deprive Americans of their "precious bodily fluids," he orders a nuclear strike on the USSR. Group Captain Lionel Mandrake (Peter Sellers) has to attempt to stop Ripper's orders, while President Merkin Muffley (again, Peter Sellers) tries to diffuse the situation with the Soviets, passing off the order as a governmental faux pas. Much to the president's chagrin, his advisors - the lusty warhawk General 'Buck' Turgidson (George C. Scott) and the inexplicable Dr. Strangelove (guess who? Peter Sellers) - inform him that the USSR has a Doomsday Device, which cannot be disarmed and will ensure total destruction of the earth if a nuclear strike is issued against the nation. Struggling for survival against bombers with their radios disabled, continual distrust between the two superpowers, and a host of personal shortcomings, the film descends into absurdity. Facing this world, reductio ad absurdum, we laugh until we recognize our own faces and then no longer know whether to cry or merely continue laughing. Delicatessen (1991): For those who hate the straightforward, finger-pointing rhetoric implicit in most post-apocalyptic films, writer/director Jean-Pierre Jeunet (of Amélie fame) offers a meaty character piece packed with endurance, resignation, humanity, and barbarism - with a dash of archetypes for the English majors among us. &nbsp;Right from the get-go, the strikingly isolated vistas of ramshackle townhouses set against dreary skies of almost perpetual sepia tone suggest that something is not right in the country of France.&nbsp; For reasons unknown, all food production has stopped, and humanity has withdrawn into tight groups, gradually accepting a fate of cannibalism for survival. The particular community of the movie, still equipped with daily amenities such as television and toymakers, operates through an "honorable" code, with the local butcher, Clapet (Jean-Claude Dreyfus), luring in outsiders with the promise of work for room and board, using their manpower until they grow strong, and then slaughtering them for the town's food. All the inhabitants, seeking their own survival and rationalizing their new world, come to accept the system until Clapet lures in Louison (Dominique Pinon), an circus clown of indomitable spirit wandering lost since the death of his partner. Through charm and principle, Louison wins the heart of the timid and subdued Julie (Marie-Laure Dougnac), Clapet's daughter. She, then, faces the question of whether or not to warn Louison of her father's intentions and break the system, jeopardizing their tentative existence for the sake of love, or to simply give in to the pains of the collective gut. Moving in its assessment of human willpower, adaptation and emotional fortitude, Delicatessen blends perfect parts darkness and light to create a cannibalistic work of art more whimsical and entertaining than Sweeney Todd. A worthwhile film for Jeunet enthusiasts and first-timers alike, and yes, the description of this movie as "meaty" was an unfortunate pun. 
 If you've been on campus today, you may have seen groups of parents wandering around. Then you've realized that these groups of parents are particularly large, and that not all of them have kids with them. Plus, it's a chilly weekend to be taking college tours, so what gives? Yes, it's that long-forgotten first-year ritual of Parents Weekend, which is the same weekend as Homecoming each year. Nervous parents of first-years travel to campus "just to check in" on their&nbsp;darlings in the big city, and each year, it's only the parents of first-years who come. If&nbsp;you are confronted by these bands of parents, Bwog reminds you that they are mostly harmless: answer their questions politely and&nbsp;try not to&nbsp;mention fake IDs or beer pong tournaments—it'll only upset them.&nbsp; The most important reason we mention this, though, is that there will be receptions for the parents in Lerner Hall and elsewhere. The appetizers&nbsp;there are often&nbsp;really good, and really free. 
 Midterms are starting up for many students. Actually,&nbsp;if you're in&nbsp;all the science classes that don't understand it is impossible to have more than one midterm,&nbsp;midterms have started up&nbsp;for many students. So there will be plenty of student-teacher email exchanges about missing classes, studying for the test, and&nbsp;other forms of electronic begging.&nbsp; Just make sure your email does not end up on this forum, a long running-thread on the Chronicle for of Higher Education's website of professor's "favorite" student emails. Equally impressive to the hilariously&nbsp;pompous and/or&nbsp;illiterate requests from students are the really angry prof reactions that show that professors are just as bitter and cyncial as&nbsp;you are during midterms. &nbsp; 
 Since the folks are in, treat them to the best that New York has to offer.&nbsp; Or, get them lost in the Book Culture and sneak out yourself.&nbsp;We won't judge. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday: New Yorker Festival See schedule of events for times and locations A wild intellectual ride of panels and talks and Q&amp;As.&nbsp; Tickets are required—popular events are probably already sold out.&nbsp; Sometimes you get lucky with stand-by.&nbsp;&nbsp; Views from the Avante Garde See website for showtimes If you're interested in going where no moviegoer has gone before, check out these mind-bending adventures in cinematic experimentation. Price: $11 for the public, $7 for students with ID Friday and Saturday: Taste of Korea 2008 Daily, various locations, see website for details Bibimbap, what's that?&nbsp; Check it out!&nbsp; It's delicious! Price: Varies, $7-25 lunch and dinner prix fixe specials Saturday: Margaret Cho at Radio City Music Hall Saturday 7:30pm, 1260 6th Avenue (212.307.7171) Outspoken, stereotype smashing, super-funny Margaret Cho comes to town for one night of poignant hilarity.&nbsp; Price: $30-65 Jenny Lewis at the Apollo Theater Saturday 7pm, 253 W 125th St (212.531.5300) Indie-popper-alt-country-rocker comes to town.&nbsp; Indie kids, take note.&nbsp; Price: $30 Sunday: Pulaski Day Parade Sunday 12:30pm, route runs along 5th Avenue from 31st Street to 53rd Street Come in your most festive red and white to commemorate dear Casmir!&nbsp; Some of your classmates will be marching, so come and cheer them on.&nbsp; Polish heritage not required. Price: Free! Atlantic Antic Street Festival Sunday 10am-6pm, Atlantic Avenue from Hicks Street to 4th Avenue in Brooklyn Local Brooklyn business-owners bring their wares onto the streets for all to enjoy.&nbsp; Grab a slice of diversity! Price: Free to enter James Wood at the 92nd Street Y Sunday 11am, 1395 Lexington Avenue (212.415.5500) This decidedly non-boring academic gives a talk on analyzing and reviewing fiction.&nbsp; If your stand-by schemes don't work for the New Yorker Festival, this event is a good bet.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Price: $40 
 Whether you plan on going to the Big Game or not, Bwog recommends taking advantage of the pre-homecoming breakfast taking place in the EC 2nd floor lounge this morning at 11:00.&nbsp; &nbsp; It's free! School spirit not required. 
 Those roguish pranksters from Princeton's marching band have done it again. The band stopped by the Butler Library lobby just a few moments ago to blast Columbia midterm studiers with a drumline routine and plenty of brass honking. Although it's possible the Princetonians were simply lost, Bwog chalks up the visit to pre-homecoming game merrymaking. They have since departed and appear to be touring the campus, at one point serenading hungover freshmen in Carman. Now, we would admit that Princeton got us this time, but when your prank requires that you wear orange plaid and porkpie hats, Bwog has to wonder exactly whom the joke is on. 
 Here are some more activities to keep Mom and Dad busy because Bwog loves you and your parents and because Bwog has secret tour guide aspirations.... Wallach Art Gallery Columbia has its own mini-museum in Schermerhorn! Who knew? The Wallach Gallery's classy digs will undoubtedly impress your parents. Maybe you'll even impress them with your Art Hum skills. Except the gallery is currently exhibiting Delight in Design: Indian Silver for the Raj, which doesn't fall into the masterpieces of Western Art category. But it's free and that's always a crowd pleaser. &nbsp; Inwood Park&nbsp; If you're going to the Baker Field for the football game, be sure to pass through Inwood Park on your way back.&nbsp; Located just beyond the stadium, Inwood Park is a lovely copse-filled plot of land on the very tip of Manhattan island.&nbsp; The northern edge of the park offers views of both the Hudson and Harlem Rivers and makes a great place for a picnic.&nbsp; For additional fun, try to spot the Columbia boathouse and the big 'C' rock. The Cloisters Another museum nearby is the Cloisters.&nbsp; If you haven't been yet, take advantage of the free transportation your family's car offers and head on up to Fort Tryon Park for an afternoon of medieval art and monastic stuff. &nbsp; Use your CUID and get in for free! Your parents will think you are so cool. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory If you're not into football or museums, take a trip to Columbia's Earth Institute research center on the New York Palisades.&nbsp; It's just a twenty minute drive from campus and today LDEO hosts its annual open-house.&nbsp; Indeed it's a quite an opportune time for you and your parents to learn about current and how Alma Mater's is contributing to sustainability initiatives.&nbsp; It might be one of your only chances to learn first hand what a seismometer vault does... Tour of Columbia's Migration Uptown So we all know that Columbia was founded in 1754, but your parents, and maybe even some of the unlearned first-years among us, may not know that Columbia actually held its first classes at Trinity Church all the way downtown at the intersection of Broadway and Wall St.&nbsp; Trinity Church is worth a visit not just because of its affiliation with Columbia, but also because it is a national historic landmark.&nbsp; After wandering about the church and its environs (keep your eyes peeled for Alexander Hamilton's gravestone!) head up to 49th St and Madison Ave, where the university lived from 1857-1897.&nbsp; There's not too much evidence of CC left in midtown, but not to worry from this point you're just a short train ride away from Morningside Heights where the Columbia spirit thrives in all its architectural glory! Northern expansion is in our blood, Manhattanville here we come! &nbsp; Historic Landmarks on Campus&nbsp; If Wall St is too far for you and your folks, you're in luck because there are plenty of historic landmarks here on campus.&nbsp; Pupin is not only home your physics recitation, but also was once home to the cyclotron, Columbia's much loved and much missed particle accelerator. The cyclotron was used in some of the experiments that led to the development of the atomic bomb and in 1966 was designated a national historic landmark in recognition of the atomic research undertaken there. Wrapped up in less lore, but certified all the same, St. Paul's Chapel is another historic landmark on campus.&nbsp; The why and wherefore of its historic claim to fame is ambiguous, but just tell your parents it was the first building on campus not designed by McKim, Mead and White and you'll sound savvy. &nbsp; 
 Welcome back to the Best of series in which Bwog analyzes the best in a category of chosen food product!&nbsp; There are few things that are as much fun and as thirst-quenching as a margarita.&nbsp; And after a weekend of being nice to your parents or studying for midterms, there are few things as much sought after as a good margarita.&nbsp; Here, Bwog's Best of returns with a non-definitive guide to Morningside Height's best margaritas.&nbsp; Blockheads Theoretically Blockheads should be the perfect place to get a margarita. The clientele is loud and rowdy; the decor is a kitschy amalgam of Christmas lights and party streamers; and the price is just right.&nbsp; But when you're paying just $3 for a margarita, something's got to to be missing.&nbsp; What's missing in a Blockheads margarita is enough alcohol and enough fresh lime juice.&nbsp; It's questionable whether there's any lime juice at all because these cocktails are so saturated with syrupy margarita mix.&nbsp;&nbsp; Instead of&nbsp; a nice icy crunch, the consistency of Blockhead's margaritas is a slushy, unsalty mess, which definitely comes out of a can.&nbsp; Given the low alcohol quotient, you'll need about nine dollars worth of margaritas to start feeling saucy.&nbsp; To add insult to injury, Blockheads serves up their drinks in cheapo six-ounce plastic cups with no mini-umbrellas, cocktail-stirrers or swivel sticks.&nbsp; Not even a fun straw. Toast Toast touts itself as a purveyor of 'truck stop gourmet,' which doesn't sound like Bwog's kind of place and really doesn't sound like the kind of place to get a good margarita.&nbsp; But don't let the semantics fool you. Truck stop gourmet translates to really good margaritas.&nbsp; The seven dollar price tag for a margarita on the rocks at Toast might not seem worth it at first, but upgrading from a plastic cup to a pint size cocktail glass is just one of of a Toast margarita's many merits.&nbsp;&nbsp; To give their margaritas an added kick, the bartenders at Toast add a splash of blood orange juice, which gives the drink some extra sweetness without masking the lime flavor.&nbsp; The frozen margaritas sell for six dollars and come in a slightly less fancy glass, but you can liven up your cocktail with fresh fruit purees, options include blood orange, raspberry and mango.&nbsp; Whether you go for frozen or the rocks, these margaritas taste tart and salty without any lingering stickiness or canned aftertaste. The Heights There is little difference between the margarita offerings at The Heights and Toast in large part because the owners are the same.&nbsp; The drinks have almost the same ingredients and the prices are exactly the same.&nbsp; The Heights might be a whole lot closer than either Toast location, but the restaurant's proximity to campus easily could be its greatest pitfall.&nbsp; The clientele at Heights is an generic mix of athlete types, CCSC campus characters and barflies, which occasionally makes for a good time but often is rather unstimulating.&nbsp;&nbsp; Although the place is often busy, the surly bouncer mans the door with strict no nonsense ID policy on weekends, which means those without proper or improper IDs should head elsewhere.&nbsp; The margaritas may be better here than at Blocksheads, but the food is not.&nbsp; If you serious about your margaritas and don't mind spending extra or running the risk of having your fake ID reprimanded, try your luck at The Heights. In conclusion: The winner: Toast, silver medal to The Heights, and an obligatory honorable mention to Blockheads 
 Bwog presents its first sports liveblog: Columbia vs. Princeton in the Homecoming game and Ivy League opener for the Lions.&nbsp; Afternoon, sports fans. We've got the first big game of the Columbia football season for you, and we'll keep you updated as the game goes on. 4:09 PM (End of game): And that's your heartbreaking final, as Princeton runs out the clock. Princeton wins 27-24. Final stats: Shane Kelly passed for 221 yards from 19 completions on 25 attempts, and ran for 54 yards as well. Jordan Davis (11 attempts for 64 yards) and Ray Rangel (13 attempts for 57 yards) added to Columbia's total of 191 rushing yards. Despite the fumble, Mike Stephens did have 7 receptions for 95 yards. Finally, you have to ask: what if Columbia hadn't faked the field goal at the end of the 3rd? That was the margin of victory (though, in fairness, the lead was only 3 points because of a missed extra point). Overall, just a very tough loss. 4:03 PM (1:19 4th): FUMBLE! Mike Stephens, who has been so clutch during the game, fumbles the ball at the Princeton 32. Princeton then gets a first down, and this game is, in the most unfortunate of ways, over. 4:01 PM (1:43 4th): Rangel gets another first down. Kelly looks deep, but the ball falls incomplete. 3:59 PM (3:14 4th): Austin Knowlin has woken up, drawing a pass interference call, and then making a big catch. Ray Rangel then runs the ball for a first down at the Princeton 49. 3:57 PM (3:44 4th): Columbia takes over with only 3:44 to go. Can they pull off the big victory in regulation? 3:55 PM (5:10 4th): Big 3rd and 4 for Princeton at the Columbia 49 leads to a Columbia sack! The defense comes up big, and Princeton will have to punt. 3:50 PM (7:10 4th): Kelly's 3rd down pass is broken up, and Columbia has to punt again. Big play time for the Lions defense. 3:47 PM (8:39 4th): Princeton touchdown. After standing tough for so long, Columbia's defense gives up another big pass. This time, it's a 52-yard bomb from Anderson to Trey Peacock, and Princeton leads again, 27-24 (thanks to an unsuccessful extra point). 3:43 PM (9:04 4th): Before we update you about this great game, another set of score updates: in finals, Penn beat Dartmouth 23-10 in the other Ivy League game, Yale defeated Holy Cross 31-28 in double overtime, and Cornell won over 25-24 over Lehigh on a last second touchdown. The other two Ivy League games are both in the 4th quarter: Brown trailing Rhode Island 23-13 and Harvard leading Lafayette 24-13. 3:40 PM (10:35 4th): COLUMBIA TOUCHDOWN!!! Ray Rangel jumps over the blocking pile from the 1-yard line to give Columbia a 24-21 lead! 3:36 PM (13:48 4th): Princeton has to punt again, and Mike Stephens returns it to the Princeton 49 yard line. Austin Knowlin makes a big catch to bring the ball to the 35-yard line. 3:28 PM (1:05 3rd): Two straight plays for losses lead to Columbia attempting a fake field goal. It fails, and the Lions turn the ball over on downs at the Princeton 20. Will that come back to haunt the Lions? 3:24 PM (3:00 3rd): Just as I type that, Austin Knowlin makes a big catch to bring the ball to the Princeton 26. 3:22 PM (4:30 3rd): After Kelly runs for 11 yards, Mike Stephens gets another big reception and gets the ball to midfield. He has 93 yards on the day, which has been particularly crucial with star reciever Austin Knowlin being so heavily covered. 3:18 PM (5:30 3rd): The Lions defense stops Princeton even though the Tigers took over at the 40-yard line. Both quarterbacks have been excellent today: Anderson is 10-11 for 147 yards and 2 TDs, while Kelly has been 13-15 for 151 yards.&nbsp; 3:14 PM: COLUMBIA TOUCHDOWN! (7:33 3rd) After a false start, Kelly throws to Davis for 6 yards to get them to the Princeton three, and then Ray Rangel runs the ball in on the next play for his first touchdown of the game. 3:12 PM (8:30 3rd): Another big completion! Shane Kelly to Taylor Josephs for 22 yards, and the ball is on the Princeton 4-yard line! 3:11 PM (9:55 3rd): Shane Kelly makes another big completion to Mike Stephens to push the Lions into Princeton territory again. A score here would be critical. 3:07 PM (11:31 3rd): Princeton touchdown. Princeton immediately drives into the Columbia red zone, after Brian Anderson gets out of a long 2nd down with a 34-yard completion. On 2nd and 13 at the Lions' 17, Anderson throws to Will Thanheiser for a touchdown. 3:01 PM (15:00 3rd): Princeton will recieve the kick. 2:47 PM (Halftime): Here are your halftime stats: Shane Kelly (9-11, 85 yards, 1 rushing TD), Ray Rangel (5 rushes for 30 yards), Jordan Davis (7 rushes for 45 yards), Mike Stephens (4 receptions for 39 yards), Taylor Joseph (4 receptions for 38 yards). As a team, Columbia has 85 yards in the air and 94 yards on the ground. 2:46 PM (Halftime): Scores from around the Ivy League: Penn beating Dartmouth 20-10 in the 4th, Yale handling Holy Cross 21-7 in the third, Cornell holding off Lehigh 13-12 in the third, Harvard leading Lafayette 24-13 at the half, and Brown sputtering against URI, down 13-0 at the half.&nbsp; 2:41 PM (Halftime): And that's halftime, with the score 14-10 Princeton Tigers. Excluding that big pass completion by Princeton early in the 2nd quarter, Columbia's probably been the better team. At the very least, this is a much better game than last year's 59-28 homecoming loss to Penn. 2:30 PM (0:26 2nd): Columbia Field Goal! The drive stalls on the Princeton 8, and the Lions kick a field goal to cut the Princeton lead to 14-10. Even though it is not the touchdown they would have loved, that was still a fantastic drive: 12 plays, 91 yards, and 7:01 used up on the clock. 2:26 PM (2:45 2nd): With 2nd and 3 on the Princeton 29, Kelly throws deep to Mike Stephens, leading to a pass interference call on Princeton. Columbia 1st down on the 15. 2:22 PM (4:01 2nd): Princeton has to punt again, and the punter manages to stick the Lions at their own 1 yard line. Shane Kelly is back in, and he deals with the awful field position superbly, as the team drives into Princeton territory while the half winds down.&nbsp; 2:16 PM (7:27 2nd): The teams exchange punts, and then Columbia again has to punt back to Princeton. While the offense has sputtered since the 1st quarter, the defense has been tightening up at least. On that last drive, Coach Wilson also put M.A. Olawale at quarterback. 2:02 PM: As we end the first quarter, an update on the other Ivy League game today: Dartmouth leads Penn 10-7 in the third quarter. 1:56 PM (0:22 1st): Princeton touchdown. Princeton's Brian Anderson completes a deep pass to Will Thanheiser, who gets pushed out at the 9. Running back Jordan Culbreath runs in his second touchdown two plays later for a 14-7 Princeton lead. 1:54 PM (2:26 1st): The Lions drive stalls at midfield after a botched quarterback bootleg and they have to punt. Princeton takes over at their 17. 1:47 PM (6:20 1st): Princeton touchdown. Princeton responds right back with an 11-play, 60-yard drive for the score. The Lions defense gave up 41 yards on the ground that drive...not a good sign. Score is 7-7 1:38 PM (11:38 1st): Columbia TOUCHDOWN!!! On the opening drive, quarterback Shane Kelly shows his versatility by running 15 yards for the touchdown. 7-0 Lions! One drive, one touchdown, mostly on the ground. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Tacos de chapulines Bwog's food editor Jon Hill looks south for a south-of-the-border culinary adventure. I accidentally swallowed a fly when I was in the fifth grade. I was riding a bicycle at the time, and other than that intensely unpleasant experience, I do not eat insects. Unlike some who choose not to eat lamb, veal, or rabbit, my aversion to eating insects is not about their cuteness. I mean, I saw A Bug’s Life, too, but remember Hopper? He was one ugly guy. In fact, that’s precisely the problem. Insects are too ugly to eat. Compound eyes, six legs, exoskeletons—let me know the moment a cow sprouts antennae and then maybe I’ll rethink steak, but bugs are too far out on the phylum branch for me. Imagine, then, how I felt when I looked down at my plate of grasshopper tacos last night at Toloache, an upscale Mexican bistro in the Theatre District. Listed on the menu as tacos de chapulines, the insect-based dish is a specialty of the house. “Chapulines” is the Nahuatl-derived word for a type of grasshopper common to Mexico’s Oaxaca, and they are usually roasted with salt and citrus juice until they become as crispy as potato chips. Some Oaxacans even eat them like potato chips—little two-ounce snack bags are sold in markets there like Lay’s Wavys are here, except that chapulines are much lower in fat, much higher in protein, and a whole lot leggier. Toloache serves its chapulines sprinkled over guacamole and jalapeño on a soft corn tortilla. While chicken or beef might work well in this combination, the gooey green filling forms a rather problematic backdrop for the grasshoppers, which begin to look like they have been smashed by the kitchen help. &nbsp; &nbsp;One of Toloache's roasted grasshoppers, sporting a dab of guacamole Indeed, the presentation is not for the faint of heart or stomach. The grasshoppers are not tucked away beneath a crust or disguised in a stew—instead, they sit on the top in plain view, almost threatening to jump off the plate. This sight was unsettling to my dining companions, but for adventure-seekers, it’s invigorating. The first bite opened with a definite crunch. These chapulines were small, so each forkful carried three or four. Immediately, the onion in the guacamole sets the dominate flavor, followed by the kick of the jalapeño and then the avocado. Only after several chews can one perceive the grasshoppers’ sharply salty and smoky taste, a flavor not unfamiliar and surprisingly like roasted peas or dried soybeans. &nbsp; The biggest challenge is chapulines’ texture. You know you’re eating a bug, so your imagination does its worst whenever you feel something fibrous or woody. Having chewing gum or a toothbrush handy for afterward does help calm the nerves. Do not fear any strong, unexpected tastes from the grasshoppers, though. Tacos de chapulines are a bigger treat for the eyes than the tongue, and at $11 a pop, they are likely to remain a novelty on the dining scene. Grasshoppers just aren’t very filling and, well—I can inhale insects for free. &nbsp; WHAT IT IS: Grasshopper tacos WHERE IT IS: Toloache, 251 W. 50th Street (Theatre District) HOW MUCH IT IS: $11.00 for two tapas-sized tacos HOW TO GET THERE: Take the 1 train to 50th Street. Exit on the southwest side and walk a block west on 50th. 
 If you're trying to study in Butler right now, you probably already know that there's a giant children's reading party going on out on the lawns--it's part of the Times-sponsored Great Children's Read, and a zillion tiny people have turned out to ensnare you on your way to midterms purgatory. If you're able to escape, They Might Be Giants are going on at 3:10 PM. And meanwhile, there's a certain amount of schwag to be had, including those delicious little greek yogurts. Update, 2:15pm: The view from a Butler denizen:&nbsp; Adorable photos of frolicking children the jump. &nbsp; - -- Photos by Liz Naiden 
 Shocking Report from Bwog tipster Hillary Busis: The fire alarm in East Campus has gone off three times in about thirteen hours. According to Public Safety, it's not a fire drill, just a malfunctioning alarm. And they have "people working on it."&nbsp; Stay strong, EC. 
 Autumn, the year's most magical season, is finally upon us. To celebrate the changing of the leaves and the cooling of the air, Bwog will be suggesting different autumnal activities that are designed to increase your appreciation of the season.&nbsp; About forty minutes north on the Palisades is Dr. Davies Farm, a produce stand and designated apple picking area. You'll notice it right away because it's an unassuming barn and farmhouse surrounded by about 47 Audi station wagons. The occupants of said station wagons are families from New York and New Jersey who've brought their kids for the hayrides, pumpkin patch, and other child-friendly outdoor activities. There will be a lot of kids, and they'll be fussy -- hay is itchy -- but you're here for the apple picking. $32 buys you and Apple Grabbing Claw Thing (see below) and a huge plastic bag (though of course what you're paying for is less the actual bag and more the privilege of being about to fill it with up 25 lbs of apples.) &nbsp; Behind the farmhouse are fields and fields of apple trees that are organized by type of apple. When Bwog visited yesterday, there were two varieties of apple in season: Red Delicious and Cortland. Since it's already relatively late in apple season, most of the good fruit hangs off fairly high branches, which is where your Apple Grabbing Claw Thing comes in. Or, live dangerously and climb the tree. Back towards the farmhouse, there's a produce stand with fresh squash, zucchini, lettuce, etc. There's also Old-Timey candy like sugar sticks and homemade caramels. Oh, and there are apples for sale. How to Get There: ZipCar. There's unfortunately no public transportation nearby. Tips: Wear boots. The ground is covered with apples in various stages of decay. -- JNW 
 Hey Columbia, meet Columbia 311, CCSC's latest problem-solving apparatus. It's like a giant customer service hotline where you can dump all the ideas and complaints you've ever had onto one brave soul a small number of brave souls, including Ali Raza, CC '09 and Director of Technology for the CCSC Executive Board, who has already sent his email.&nbsp; Raza promises that if contacted, "about any issue pertaining to life at Columbia, I will make every attempt to reply back within 48 hours either answering your question directly or providing you with the contact information of somebody who can." Raza's full email after the jump. Dear fellow Columbia students, The Columbia College Student Council (CCSC) has just launched the Columbia 311 program. &nbsp;Columbia 311 is your personalized, comprehensive connection to Columbia University. &nbsp;Modeled after and similar to NYC's 311 service, every student, part of student group or not, can feel comfortable contributing their ideas to our campus and engaging the council. Want your favorite area restaurant to accept Flex? Columbia 311. Need help with a fellowship or internship for the summer? Columbia 311. Wondering how to check if campus printers are functioning? Columbia 311. Disappointed they took away the Chicken Club at 212 or Spicy Chicken strips at JJ's? Columbia 311. An idea or an issue that once seemed completely out of your hands will be in the hands of a student council that can get things done. &nbsp;No issue is too big or too small for Columbia 311. &nbsp;(However, I suppose Columbia 311 cannot be used as a dating service or to find you a party on a weekend night.) My name is Ali Raza and I'm a senior in the College. &nbsp;I am the Director of Technology on the CCSC Executive Board and I will be your personal CCSC representative for your needs. &nbsp;I'm also a Biology major (and more or less pre-med). I live in Texas right now, but I grew up bouncing around several states in the South and jumped at the chance to attend college in NYC. Also, I just joined CCSC this year. As more or less of an outsider to CCSC, I completely understand if you are hesitant or skeptical about the council. However, don't let that stop you from using me as a resource, as a fellow student if not as a CCSC representative. If you contact me at asr2120@columbia.edu about any issue pertaining to life at Columbia, I will make every attempt to reply back within 48 hours either answering your question directly or providing you with the contact information of somebody who can. &nbsp;I hope you will utilize the Columbia 311 system by contacting me when an issue arises. &nbsp;Please hold on to my contact info and shoot me an email whenever you have a question, concern, or comment. &nbsp;For general information about the Columbia 311 program, please contact VP of Communications Ian Solsky (ibs2102@columbia.edu). &nbsp;Hope you're enjoying the semester so far. Best, Ali Raza PS: &nbsp;Although you will receive no more than two unsolicited emails per semester from me as part of the Columbia 311 system, if you would like to be removed from this program, please let me know and you will not receive any future emails. 
 Over the past few days, the presidential campaign has become even more negative.&nbsp; Now, hot on the heels of the Senator Barack Obama campaign's announcement that they would play up Senator John McCain's part in the Keating Five, Marc Ambinder of The Atlantic reports that McCain's campaign has a new target: Columbia professor Rashid Khalidi. For several years, Khalidi has been a controversial figure both at Columbia and in New York City for his views on the Israeli-Palestine conflict. Before coming to Columbia in 2004, Khalidi knew Obama during the latter's years in local Chicago government, which overlapped with Khalidi's time the University of Chicago. Khalidi and his wife held a fundraiser for Obama in 2000, and Obama spoke at a goodbye party for Khalidi in 2003.&nbsp; The relationship has already drawn enough questions on the internet to merit several citations in Khalidi's Wikipedia article, but this is the first time that the McCain campaign plans to mention it. As for the substance of the attack, Ambinder writes that the McCain campaign will try to paint Khalidi as a former Palestine Liberation Organization spokesperson, a charge that has been made several times before, with little evidence to back it up. Khalidi denies ever having been a spokesperson, though he was an advisor at the Madrid Conference of 1991. 
Earlier this weekend, Culture Editor Tony Gong attended Liga Filipina's inaugural "Taste of the Philippines." Between bites of crispy lumpiang and creamy flan, Tony found a few golden moments of serenity brought on by an atmosphere that could only have been: the Philippines, a.k.a., Lerner Party Space. Never one to pass up an inexpensive meal or a chance to broaden my cultural lens beyond M2M (no offense, M2M - you my dawg), I decided to check out "Taste of the Philippines," the first Liga Filipina (translation: league of Filipinos) event of the semester. For those readers who are not as good at navigating Wikipedia as I am, the Philippines is a collection of thousands of islands that constitute a small country in Southeast Asia, known for its unique confluence of Hispanic, Indian, Chinese, urban, and indigenous cultures. Its vice president is Noli De Castro. ...And my favorite dish, after the jump! The centerpiece of the night was its food, which aimed to bring a sense of national unity to the different cultures that the Philippines has come to embody. To that end, the dishes that Liga Filipina offered were among the most universally enjoyed in the country. My plate, loaded with some of the most popular Filipino favorites - lumpiang shanghai (a fried chicken roll, with several sauces to select from), bistek (a sirloin beef dish, garnished with onions and a citrus-y flavor), pancit bihon (thin noodles, somewhere in between the flavor of pad thai and the Chinese stir-fried noodles my mom makes sometimes), and rice (a popular cereal grain): The selection would have left few unsatisfied. The pancit bihon (which was offered with both meat and vegetarian) was light enough to enjoy alone, and the lumpiang, with some well-placed bites of rice ate like a snack. Meanwhile, steak-lovers would be happy with bistek, which, while dry at times, balanced nicely with the fresh onions and some lumpiang sauce that I got mixed in accidentally. Other dishes not tried were pancit canton and chicken adobo, which, judging by their names and my dramatic use of italics, were probably pretty good too. The boss dish, however, was dessert: delicious leche flan, made personally by Liga Filipina prez Monica Qua Hiansen. It was creamy without being too thick, and sweet in a way that still revealed the egg yolks that were carefully scrambled to make it. It was better than Fruit Roll-Ups during 2nd grade snack time. Here was my serving, enjoyed in one of the smallest plastic cups I have ever seen: &nbsp; &nbsp; By the way, when did Lerner Party Space get so baller? Just sayin'. I mean check out these orange couches: Sweet. 
Economy remains not-so-hot; PrezBo begins to "cut back in a lot of little different ways," no big deal. College Democrats and Republicans gather in same room, give each other silent treatment. Wait, being an English major is worthless?!? Camels roam streets, Spec reporters kissed by llamas, all just a few short blocks away! Queer sex controversy at Barnard like you've never seen it before! As if you've ever seen it before! 
 Columbians, ready yourselves: only 7 short days until the very campus you call home is featured on the greatest television show in the history of the world. Next Monday’s episode promises to be full of grand, sweeping shots of Earl and what looks like the Math Lawn, the only catch being that Columbia isn’t Columbia at all in Gossip Girl world: it’s Yale!&nbsp; The kids head up to “New Haven” (hey, Cecily von Ziegesar, if that is your real name, what’s wrong with Morningside Heights?) for a college weekend that the seizure-inducing preview touts is “worth the price of admission.” This seems a fair approximation— there will be a Skull &amp; Bones kidnapping of some sort, bitchy glares galore, girls throwing things at each other, and a make out scene! Bwog thanks the CW for providing all obligatory snark in this post by actually naming the episode “New Haven Can Wait.” Here’s to hoping we can too. &nbsp; 
 Bwogger Jon Hill was perusing The New Vision -- Uganda's leading website! -- and noticed that your Columbia is opening up a peace institute in Gulu, located in the Gulu District of Uganda. The University is partnering with five NGOs (including UNICEF and the Christian Children's Fund, among others) to open the Institute, which will be located in Gulu High School. &nbsp; According to Paul Kellner, a researcher at the Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health, the institute is designed to teach conflict solving skills. 
 America's favorite lasagna-loving cat hated Mondays, and he didn't even have a week of midterms ahead of him. If you're still mourning Columbia's loss at Homecoming this weekend, stayed in Butler till dawn, or are just generally bummed out because the week is always a long one, check out our list of worthwhile stuff to look forward to this week.&nbsp; Monday: Remember in 2003 when you were totally obsessed with Seth Cohen and Regina Spektor? Head to Radio City to see Death Cab, hope for an Adam Brody citing, and show up early to see St. Vincent, your new Regina. 50th Street and 6th Avenue, 8 PM, $39.50-$44.50. Or, be a little more 2005 and go see Andrew Bird at Hiro Ballroom on 16th Street and 9th Avenue, 8:30 PM, $30. Ever wondered why Americans vote the way they do? Well, we sure have! Find the answers to all your questions, both mathematical and existential at the Red State, Blue State, Rich State, Poor State lecture this afternoon from 4:30-6 in the International Affairs Building, Room 801. Sign up by calling 212-854-9489. Tuesday: Stay on campus and listen to Nobel Prize winner Amartya Sen give a lecture on Reasons for Justice. 6:15-8:15 PM, 417 Altuschul Auditorium in the International Affairs Building. Free, no tickets required. Revenge of the Book Eaters at the Town Hall. We know it's expensive, but it's all your favorite old man crushes: Dave Eggers, Ira Glass, Jon Stewart, even Paul Simon. And all for a good cause: it's a benefit event for 826NYC, which sponsors free writing workshops for NYC kids. 123 43rd Street between 6th Avenue and Broadway, 8 PM, $46-101. Wednesday:&nbsp; It's mid-week, and you could use a healthy dose of empowerment. Go to the Who Do You Think You Are? lecture on Feminist Memoirs. Second Floor Common Room of the Heyman Center for the Humanities, 6:15-8:15. Free, no tickets required. Go to the Met after class, see the New York N. Why? exhibit, a collection of NYC street scenes from the 1930's, by photographer Rudy Burckhardt. 82nd Street and 5th Avenue, free with student ID. Thursday: Stay in the general Columbia realm (tour the Med School in between acts!) and head up to the beautiful United Palace Theater to see Beck perform with everyone's favorite ex-Wesleyan Ecletic members, MGMT. 175th Street and Broadway, 8 PM, $49. There's another show on Friday night, same time. See a movie in French, bask in 2-ish hours of Francophile bliss! Can't be beat for convenience and price. Maison Francaise, 7:30 PM, free 
 White House Bureau Chief James Downie returns with an early prediction on who will win the White House. Recently I was rewatching the most recent season of the hit BBC show Top Gear. For the non-Anglophiles among my reader(s?), Top Gear is technically a car show, but it's really much more about three middle-aged British "blokes" clowning about, driving fast cars, and staging epic stunts/races (including one to the North Pole) -- with all the top production quality of the best American television. Anyways, last season they staged a race across Japan (which starts at 6:10 of this video), with one driving, and the other two taking the famous bullet train. After several hours, one side won -- by only three minutes. Sometimes, races are really that close. Most races, though, never reach the dramatic heights in the closing stages that the pre-race hype suggests they will. In fact, sometimes it is the blowout that becomes news. In politics, pundits have been blessed over the past eight years with two amazingly close presidential elections, and the greatest primary season since primaries began. This October, though, the only drama is on the baseball diamond. Barring a scandal of Lewinsky proportions, Senator Barack Obama will win in November. It's now the same question that we had with Usain Bolt and Michael Phelps: Obama will win, but by how much? Due to Bwog space restrictions, you'll have to read below the fold to find out why. And now, the news: In the Bag: Obama supporters can be reasonably confident just by looking at the national polls, which continue to show 6-7 point leads for Obama. But that's not the measure that elections are decided by - it is the electoral college. According to their calculations, Obama has 269 electoral votes in states he is projected to win by five points or more. That is before adding in states like Nevada, Ohio, Virginia, New Hampshire, and Florida (all five of which are looking more and more favorable to Obama), as well as North Carolina, Indiana and Missouri (which remain just barely in McCain's column). McCain has to win all of these to even get a tie, an almost impossible feat. You Can't Add What Isn't There: There are three more factors that should have McCain supporters worried beyond just the poll numbers. First, almost every poll will be underestimating Obama's numbers at least a little. Why? Because the pollsters will not account for youth and minority turnout, which have spiked significantly this election, and will favor Obama immensely. One example from early voting: in Georgia, blacks are making up 40% of early voters; if that number held, Obama would actually have a good chance at winning Georgia. It's The Best Kind of Criticism: Let me interrupt myself for this Onion news bulletin on Obama's latest ads. Just No Comparison: Factor #2 - there is no comparison in the turnout machines of the two campaigns. Thanks to voter enthusiasm, the experience of the primaries, and smart operatives, the Democrats are far ahead. Salon's Walter Shapiro compares the two campaigns in Wisconsin. So...We Don't Chant "Defense?": Factor #3 - most importantly, McCain is no longer trying to win any state that went Democratic 4 years ago, except for Pennsylvania. As his Florida numbers have dived (and therefore have needed more money to move back up), McCain has had to pull out of Michigan entirely, and pull back in other 2004 Democratic states like New Hampshire. Rumors are now swirling that he'll also have to pull out of Pennsylvania as well, making it impossible to win any Democratic-leaning states without a gaffe by the Obama camp. The Talking Heads Start to Notice: No, not those Talking Heads. Anyways, much of the media is still trying to portray this race as close, but hints of admission are starting to sneak in. On the Democratic side, former Hillary Clinton campaign spokesman Howard Wolfson, now at The New Republic, declared the race done yesterday, and, on the right, Karl Rove's election map gives Obama 273 electoral votes already. About That VP Debate: The Biden-Palin showdown last Thursday was the most watched debate since 1980. Pundits on both sides of the aisle thought their candidate did extremely well, with some thinking that Palin has set herself up for 2012. Viewers, though, gave the debate to Biden by a similarly large amount to the first Obama-McCain debate, and the debate has had little effect on polling numbers. The Long-Awaited Comedy Break: SNL's take on the VP debate, in which both sides get their fair share. Serious Free Viewing: Frontline's quadriennal series "The Choice" premiers tomorrow night on PBS (and online as well!), and is highly recommended as the best portraits of the candidates you will see all year. 
Oh what do you know, this Saturday regrettable-costume emporium Ricky's opened. And just in time for you to buy something special for Halloween. This afternoon, Bwog wandered inside the rabbit hole. Join us, as we try to make sense of this thing. First of all, upon entering and snapping a few pictures, a Ricky's employee approached Bwog and told us that it was "against the law of Ricky's" to take pictures. Camera in pocket, we advanced past the front of the store's collection of kids costumes and masks and towards the "costumes for playful adults," as their packaging announced. The two brands of costumes most represented included the instructively named "Forplay" and the cryptic "Leg Ave.," which is maybe some sort of trashy underworld euphemism for "skirt." Who knows. There was also your typical selection of Unchaste Soccer Player, Sexually Indiscriminate Dallas Cowboys Cheerleader, and Wanton Race Car Driver, etc., but there were also some surprising variations on the theme of Thing Which Is Not Usually Suggestive But Is Made To Be. For example, Ricky's boasted Sexy Ghost Buster and Sexy Corpse Bride costumes. There are also plenty of the wigs, glittery things, capes, and makeup that you'd come to expect from a Ricky's, assuming you've come to expect anything from a Ricky's.&nbsp; Bwog spoke with an employee and asked if business had been booming since Saturday's opening. "I guess so. I just got here." 
 Soul food lovers who enjoy not walking very far from campus to obtain your soul food, rejoice! Relatively recent neighborhood addition Rack&amp;Soul has just reopened after a brief period of dormancy. The popular chicken and ribs purveyor has moved right next door to a smaller location on 109th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam. Their new digs, with dark wood paneled floors and a curved saloon-style bar, are distinctly classier than their old Tom's Restaurant-variety ones. The nice man behind the counter explained that the rent was too high at their original location, prompting the move. Bwog welcomed him to the Upper West Side, where every vacant storefront becomes a bank or Duane Reade eventually, and skipped off into the lovely fall afternoon. Photo by Liz Naiden 
 Bwog headed to Roone Cinema this evening ready for our daily dose of lively intellectual discourse, today's source being the first of three debates between the College Democrats and Republicans on issues pertinent to the upcoming election. We settled into our cushy seat surrounded by a vast sea of argyle sweaters and watched the games begin. Tonight's debate, hosted by the CPU, focused on foreign policy and energy solutions. Each side was told to stick to their respective party platforms, even if their personal views differed. The Dems kicked off the night, using their precious 120 allotted seconds to discuss the various failings they found with the Bush Administration, calling the War in Iraq "stupid" and explaining the economic policies of the Administration as forming a collective "wrecking ball to the economy." The Dems and Repubs engaged in some back-and-forth about Iraq, the Repubs noting that Obama's "cut and run" would lead to "defeat." Both sides acknowledged that Iranian possession of a nuclear weapon would be the "sum of all fears." The Dems and Repubs differed greatly on their views about the role of the U.N, the young freshman Republican in a finely tailored suit argued that the U.N is "quite simply, not working" while the increasingly flustered Dems called for the U.S to maintain its active role in the U.N and abide by U.N sanctions.&nbsp; Discussion of energy inevitably lead to discussion of foreign oil which lead in turn to a discussion of this summer's Georgian Crisis. One Dem debater admitted that Russia's actions were both "over the top" and "pretty outrageous" but maintained that it was a time for level-headed talks with both sides, prompting the response from the Repubs that Russia was simply "the aggressor" in the Conflict. The debate continued with its fair share of political cliches to warm us up for tomorrow's second presidential candidate debate -- McCain was said to "walk the walk, but not talk the talk." Bwog couldn't help but notice a fair amount of smirking at the Republicans' table, and mouthing-along and wild gesticulating between partners on the Democrats' side. The show was over a little after 9 PM, at which point the Democrats had firmly established that McCain's record in the Senate is "not good" and the Republicans heralded their claim that our country "faces unprecedented challenges that we've never faced before." Bwog gave all involved a hearty round of applause and left Lerner, our minds abuzz. The next College Dems vs Repubs debate will be October 15, followed by a watch party for an actual presidential debate. Photo by Liz Naiden 
 Econ profs bring crisis to the classroom. City food pantries and soup kitchens feel the pinch. Columbia professors, always bailing you out. Manhattanville saves Cotton Club, gobbles up old gas stations. Hurrah! Enjoy your holidays while you still can. 
 The Observer is reporting that Columbia has agreed to pay $14.8 million (or $235 a sq. ft.) for a 62,000 ft. warehouse on Broadway between 130th and 131st. Despatch Moving &amp; Storage, the owners of the warehouse, had agreed in 2007 to sell to the University but the two parties have only now settled on a price. Gurnam Singh (he of two gas stations) and Nick Sprayregen continue to remain unswayed by the charms of your President Bollinger. 
 The Center for Student Advising is throwing a free pizza party for the Terrible 12s right now until 2 PM on the Lerner Ramps. We doubt anyone is checking IDs to make sure only 12s are grabbing slices, but if anyone looks at you suspiciously, just mumble something convincing-sounding about your 240,000 point SAT. &nbsp; 
 The alcohol-fueled, after-bar emailing session! A venerated tradition that's worse than a drunken phone call because it involves spelling and it's archived, forever. But, as Gawker reported, one American Hero/Gmail Engineer has designed a program that will prevent you from sending drunk emails.&nbsp; It's called "Mail Goggles" and it harnesses the power of simple arithmetic to keep you from embarrassing yourself. When activated, Mail Goggles will gently remind you that "it's that time of day," and will then ask you to solve a series of math problems before allowing you to send an email. You can set it to only do so late at night, and even switch around the difficulty of the problems. And speaking of brilliant Google features, the company has honored their tenth anniversary by bringing back their index from 2001. Put in a search, and it responds like it's 2001. For example: Meet a young upstart from Illinois named Barack Obama.&nbsp; 
In which Bwog newcomer Anish Bramhandkar keeps you up to date on the latest news in the strange and quirky happenings of the lives of Columbia's finest.&nbsp; Beware, in some cases connections to our fair alma mater may be otherwise dubious or somewhat circumspect. UPDATE: Columbia Economics professors hijack today's New York Times Op-Ed page to wax about the bailout and their expectations for tonight's Presidential debate. CU Researcher Quantifies SEAS Sex Appeal That Peter Bretter even dated Sarah Marshall to begin with is a mystery CU Business School assistant professor (and MIT graduate) Leonard Lee has solved, according to the Calgary Herald. According to Professor Lee's research, men are just as "superficial" as women, but women let their perception of their own appearance limit their dating pool.&nbsp; Men, on the other hand, will date just about anyone.&nbsp; The figure of men being 2.5 times more likely to accept date requests just about summarizes the situation in the Carleton Lounge, Bwog figures. PrezBo's Alter Ego Recieves Promotion Lorraine Bolsinger was named CEO of GE Aviation Systems today, according to BusnessWire, via MarketWatch.&nbsp; She started at GE 27 years ago, roughly at the same time that PrezBo first discovered his magnificent hair style.&nbsp; In her previous position, she helped her division with its nearly $14 billion in revenue, compared with Bollinger's paltry $1.4 million salary. Luckily, GE put a Columbia graduate in her old spot.&nbsp; Steve Fludder, man of an unfortunate name, will now be head of Ecomagination, the sustainable business strategy division.&nbsp; Fludder was at Columbia sometime in the late 1970's, Bwog estimates. Columbia Assists in Vague Plan to Assess Greenness According to China Daily, Columbia is helping China develop a system to monitor "environmental performances at provincial levels."&nbsp; According to the VP of Chinese Academy for Environmental Planning, China has "criteria" but lacks a method of assessment.&nbsp; For example, you ought to be able to breathe in Beijing, but officials can't tell if that's possible. After this undefined system (actually a collaboration between Columbia and, of all places, Yale) has been developed at an undetermined date, the group will publish unscientific numbers about unclean air as an incentive for uncorrupted officials to undo the damage.&nbsp; Bwog remains unconvinced. Stick Figures Explain the Universe Columbia's Brian Greene, String Theory's uber-proponent and researcher, was included by Bwog's hero Randall Munroe in today's XKCD comic strip. Bwog's friends, who are taking his class, wish he would spend more time teaching and less time knitting.
It has come to Bwog's attention that the Federalist Paper (aka the Fed), Columbia's perennial bastion of jokedome, has published its second issue of the year.&nbsp; Bwog encourages you to have a laugh or two as you try to shake off that midterm angst by reading the new issue entitled First Years and Last Temptations. Jesus, CC 20 AD, a quiet cool Columbia student that not too many people remember.&nbsp; Sound familiar? Slackers host strike to make Core Curriculum easier.&nbsp; Nothing gets done. The death of David Foster Wallace, a footnote by no means. A Fed exclusive interview with Stephan Vincenzo.&nbsp; Yes, that "Stephan." The definitive Obamacain liveblog.&nbsp; Are you sure you want to read it? &nbsp; 
Barnard's annual tradition of giving away a free sub the length of the circumference of the Earth or whatever is happening tonight, starting at 7 PM on Lehman Lawn. Check back for details about the sandwich and more coverage of this historic event. 
 At approximately 7:05 PM, just five minutes after the scheduled start of Barnard's annual free sub giveaway, the sandwich was completely gone. What lay in its wake were scattered martini glasses filled with beaded necklaces and troupes of inordinately disappointed sub-seekers. "I just got here and all the sandwich is gone!" bemoaned one, to no one in particular.&nbsp; But oh, what a sandwich it must have been. The theme for this year's event was "Sub and the City." (Tagline, because of course, "It's Bigger Then Big.") To be fair, it was quite large! So large, in fact, that Barnard provided a map of all the sandwich's 709 ft. Favorites like ham and cheese and cheese and tomoato were feet 0 - 125, while Kosher tuna and Halal turkey were resigned to feet 500 - 709. According to a friend of Bwog who had managed to procure a coveted egg salad segment, the theme music for Sex and the City had been playing on repeat since she had arrived. The song also played for the entire time Bwog was present. -- JNW, Photos by Emily Cheesman 
 The highly anticipated second Presidential debate of the 2008 election commenced mere moments ago.&nbsp; Tonight's affair should prove to be quite the slug-fest, as both camps have turned up the heat with nasty smears and negative ads as of late, with just under thirty days until election day.&nbsp; Also, tonight's debate from Belmont University in Nashville, TN will prove to be extra-interesting as it features the first and last time that Obama and McCain will square off in a Town Hall-style format. In typical fashion, the Columbia Democrats, College Republicans and the CPU (and LionPAC!) have teamed up to turn the Lerner Piano Lounge into the campus debate-watching hub.&nbsp; So, stop by and grab a lime-green seat, a corner of the suede swirly thing.&nbsp; If you can't make it out to the Piano Lounge this evening, Bwog's got you covered with news from around the blogosphere. Be sure to follow the New York Times politics blog, "The Caucus" for up to the minute updates.&nbsp; Bwog also recommends checking out Ben Smith and Jonathan Martin's Politico commentary for round two of the debates, what they have termed "a veritable Belmont Stakes."&nbsp; If watching live video feeds from your Rosnecrans Reading Room cubicle while you "study" for that midterm tomorrow is up your alley Bwog recommends CNN's streaming coverage. Enjoy the post-game punditry! 
 On this cold fall night, Bwogger Anish Bramhandkar was lucky enough to make the trek over to East Campus to sit in on the most recent incarnation of President Bollinger's Fireside Chat.&nbsp; While the mood was decidely somber in the President's Mansion because of the state of the economy, it seems that PrezBo was also in a hurry to go watch tonight's Presidential debate. Tonight was PrezBo's own "Big Block of Cheese Day," in which he took in tens of Columbia students into his palacial party space to listen to them chirp about the same things as last time, and to give them a long-needed lesson in economics.&nbsp; Upon leaving his dusty jacket in the dimly lit foyer and ascending the magnificent marble staircase in his battered sneakers, Bwog happened upon a lacy table set out with bits of dead animal.&nbsp; Meat on a stick, meat on a bun, cleverly disguised cubed meat, and deep-fried meat with meat-based sauce.&nbsp; Oh, and some dry vegetable skewers and classy PB&amp;J finger sandwiches. His sudden appearance from an inconspicuous side elevator brought a hush upon the crowd.&nbsp; PrezBo shook hands with those immediately around the elevator (Bwog's first!) and slipped into the "parlor," wearing a light yellow sweater that only a man of his hair could pull off.&nbsp; The first part of the discussion was "PrezBo's History of the World Economy since 1990," with interjections about freedom of the press.&nbsp; Bwog found it to be one of the most comprehensive explanations of the current financial crisis it has heard in a while. Good at provoking discussion (he preferred to call it "controversy"), Bollinger stated that whether or not a market economy is the best way to organize society is a "very live question."&nbsp; In addition, we ought to consider whether major institutions have failed this type of economy, and to be aware of the tendency for human excess.&nbsp; On a broader scale, why is it that the world continues to fail on the big problems: genocide, poverty, and new superpowers.&nbsp; Poising his hand delicately on the stool next to him, he proclaimed, "These are the vicissitudes of human society." An exchange student brought up Bollinger's reception of Ahmadinejad for the gadzillionth time and PrezBo wearily responded with the same talking points about academic freedom and public debate.&nbsp; He later defended America's "dual" educational system of private and public institutions, saying private institutions boast academic excellence and public discourse, whereas public institutions uphold the American principle of universal education. On Manhattanville, PrezBo drew chiselled fine lines in the pavement about eminent domain and precedent-setting and on financial aid, he promised us that Columbia was already "stretched" with its expanded aid program in anticipation of donations that may no longer arrive, due to the economic crisis.&nbsp; He's increased our yearly donations by $300 million since he started as president, making us third after Stanford, but there are still some "adverse economic effects on the University." &nbsp; Despite these problems at home, he wants to work to make Columbia a more international institution in a more globalized society.&nbsp; He named a number of initiatives and projects Columbia has going in other countries, while defending Columbia's decision to not open international satellite campuses, saying they are "limited" in scope as they are often in developed countries that can afford them. On a lighter note, PrezBo didn't sign the Amethyst Initiative to lower the drinking age to 18 because, frankly, he "didn't feel any great passion or strength of position" on the matter.&nbsp; However, he concedes that the drinking age "should probably be 18."&nbsp; Plus, we'd probably binge drink anyway, we admitted. Tired of repeating himself and depressed about the ugly brown carpet covering the gorgeous wood floor, PrezBo peppered the crowd with questions about the upcoming election, and why everyone supports Obama.&nbsp; "Not only is he a CU grad, but he's all into that like global citizen stuff and yeah," we responded.&nbsp; Appropriately, the debate was scheduled to begin in forty-five minutes, so PrezBo then sent us off into the crisp night. 
 According to CCSC: 20% of Columbia student council members favor swipe access reform -- 84% of Barnard students find the current swipe policy inconvenient. According to Bollinger: Few students understand financial crisis; students are generally happy. According to Career Center rep: Career fair attendance went up 84% this year. According to the Spectator Editorial Board: 3-1-1 needs to actually work in order to...work. According to me: Last summer, my dad spoke to our dog more than he spoke to me. 
 As you well know, Columbia has a long history of Nobel Laureates, and now the presitgious group can also claim Martin Chalfie, Chair of the Biological Sciences Department, who, along with a professor from UC San Diego and a professor emeritus from BU Medical School, won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry today.&nbsp; Their Nobel nod came after they discovered the gene for the protein that makes jellyfish glow -- the protein is the tricky looking thing at right. The protein, which has become famous as Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), has since been used in a myriad of important experiments looking at cellular development in neurons and cancer cells.&nbsp; Good luck trying to get into his class -- this semester he is only teaching a Genetics class for Biology Ph.D. students.&nbsp; The Biological Sciences Department also has a more jargon-y explanation of Chalfie's work. 
 Welcome to Bwog's latest feature, "In Defense Of..." Here, a writer defends something that most students consider useless, inferior, or downright loathsome. In doing so, Bwog hopes to bring you a new perspective, and give the subject the appreciation it deserves...or not. For our first installment, we'll stay close to home: Bwog daily editor Justin Vlasits defending English majors.&nbsp; English majors get a really bad rap.&nbsp; Why study a language that you already know?&nbsp; Do English majors self-select because they cannot succeed in the sciences, whether they are hard, soft or social?&nbsp; Do they just read books for fun and only take the classes because it is something that they enjoy doing? It's true, English majors are a special breed, although not homogeneous by any means.&nbsp; Among us, to name just a few, are the theorists who are keen to analyze the ideological spins on texts; the close-readers who pick sentences apart with only their personal copies of the OED; and the anthropological readers who seek to understand the culture through the texts that they read.&nbsp; Common between all of them is that the critical, analytical gaze that they all take towards texts.&nbsp; Yes, we are bibliophiles, but our love of books is not as simple entertainment.&nbsp;&nbsp; Reading as an English major is different from reading for any other kind of discipline because, whether you are reading papers in physics, psychology or philosophy, the goal of the author is to tell explain an idea so that others in their disciplines can understand them.&nbsp; But in fiction, drama and poetry, the main divisions in literary studies, the author does not explicitly state their purpose.&nbsp; Central to understanding English majors and literary criticism is this, the unpacking of metaphor, the analysis of structure and then the synthesis of themes within works and connections to other works.&nbsp; Being critical in literature is not just making arguments once presented with facts, it is exploring a text as an organic whole and trying to find out just how it ticks.&nbsp; What is the ultimate goal, you might say, of this synthesis?&nbsp; It doesn't seem produce anything for anyone.&nbsp; When speaking about the feminist critique of male-dominated lanuguage, late comedian George Carlin said, "We do think in language and so the quality of our thoughts and ideas could only be as good as the quality of our language."&nbsp; What literary criticism does is analyze our language and analyze our thoughts in ways that linguists and psychologists will never be able to do.&nbsp; The biggest problem with neuroscience today is that it can explain how so much happens in your brain and in your thoughts, but it cannot tell definitively tell you what your thoughts really mean.&nbsp; Literary criticism tries to understand those thoughts.&nbsp; What is memory to Cather?&nbsp; What is the nature of cause and effect in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead?&nbsp; No matter how far the sciences ever progress, they cannot understand Ophelia's mental breakdown or the thoughts of Julius Caesar when he sees Brutus stab him and merely utters "Et tu, Brute?"&nbsp; To be a successful English major is to ask those tough ontological questions, to try to answer them and get some kind of idea about people's thoughts and emotions and about the nature of the world we live in.&nbsp; Our questions are not a matter of entertainment, but in order to study English, one must love to read and love to think.&nbsp; We don't produce machines or marginal utility graphs, we digest words and come out with thoughts.&nbsp; And I sincerely hope that it isn't useless.
 Bwog passed the Carman gates at 114th Street and was happy to find representatives from Seattle eager to bequeath $5 Starbucks Cards as well as Tazo Tea and their replacement for adderall to students harried by midterms.&nbsp; All you have to do is put your "name" and your "address" onto a postcard that you are sending to your "parents."&nbsp; Enjoy! &nbsp; 
That new weird cubical cafe between Journalism and Furnald has opened, and it's kind of sterile-looking, just like our initial impressions led us to believe! See if you can tell the difference between photos of the new Toni Stabile Student Center and random stills from the Sims. Answers after the jump. A.&nbsp; B. C. D. E. &nbsp; F. G. &nbsp; Answer Key: A, C, D, F are J-School Cafe; B, E and G are Sims 
 There's a "Welcome Back SEAS"-themed ice cream social/study break happening now in Lerner's ramp lounge. There are various flavors of ice cream, plus the sprinkles and chocolate sauce you were hoping for. And then outside this thing there is a table with Starbucks coffee, in addition to milk and sugar. It's not free -- the coffee-providing group is asking for donations for a health clinic in Haiti -- but it's for a good cause! 
 In response to the recent increased frequency with which McCain has been criticizing Obama's friendship with Weather Underground co-founder and TC '87 Bill Ayers, over 1600 professors and academics have signed a statement of support for Ayers. "It seems that the character assassination and slander of Bill Ayers and other people who have known Obama is not about to let up. While an important concern is the dishonesty of this campaign and the slanderous McCarthyism they are using to attack Obama, we also feel an obligation to support our friend and colleague Bill Ayers," states the petition.&nbsp; Columbia professors who signed include Rashid Khalidi (he of his own troubles with the McCain campaign), John Coatsworth, Mahmood Mamdani, light of Bwog's loins Bruce Robbins,&nbsp;Gil Anidjar, Neni Panourgia, Paul Strohm, Mona Khalidi, Kenneth Frampton, Maxine Greene (who signed twice, actually), Thai Jones (son of Weather Underground cofounder Jeff Jones and current CU Ph.D. candidate), Victoria de Grazia, Saskia Sassen and others. And that's just the first sheet. And speaking of Obama, the National Review's blog the Corner has a theory about why Obama tends to avoiding mentioned your University. (Hint: this too has to do with Bill Ayers.) According to the Corner, Obama studied under Edward Said (that's them to the left, above the caption that says "Obama in conversation with Edward Said.") Said was in contact with Ayers when the latter was at TC and both had a mutual respect for each other's work.&nbsp; The Corner suggests that Obama did not meet Ayers in 1995 as he has previously attested, but instead knew him through Edward Said during his time at Columbia. Of course, there is no evidence for such a thing, only the Corner's bizarre implication that because Ayers and Obama both knew Said, they must have known eachother. Anyway, this is why Obama will not be your Class Day speaker. The end. 
 Midterms are here and procrastination season is in full swing, so Bwog wants to help you make the most (make the least?) of your wasted time. We've created a bingo game for everyone studying in Butler to play. The game board is&nbsp;filled with&nbsp;25 of Butler's most common annoyances and quirks&nbsp;around exam season. Everyone is eligible—simply click the screenshot of the game (right) to open up the game board. If you're in Butler and you see something happen that's on the board, reply to this post with a comment describing what you saw and where. Bwog staffers will then check off squares and update the ButlerBingo board as the comments roll in. Can Columbia score a bingo? It's up to you, loyal Bwog readers! (Oh, and try to get some studying done, too.) 
 WKCR got the money ($270,000) Chalfie got the money ($1.5 million) Columbia got the money ($150 million) Columbia might lose the money ($7.2 billion)! "Uncle Ronnie" got the money ($700 billion) Plus: the War on Fun part bazillion &nbsp; 
 Bwog Editor Juli Weiner spent the night in the land of Brobdingnag. Names and details have been omitted to protect the innocent. Last night, twenty of the largest people Bwog has ever seen stood assembled in suits outside Butler. Passersby stopped to stare at the group, as it is not often persons of this width or height are seen in one place, outside the context of athletics that is. The boys were instructed to yell that they were pledging the "best frat," PKA. But they weren't pledging PKA, this was a Test of Their Commitment. Next, a similarly large person instructed the group that they then must collectively ask five girls for their phone numbers. It was at that moment that twenty of these man-giants looked upon your Bwog editor, who was the closest girl at the moment. We politely declined, and the group headed toward Lerner, toward the womenfolk. During the walk, some proffered ideas about how to accomplish this feat. "Why don't we just write down our own phone numbers?" suggested one. But soon enough, the roving band of business casual demigods found five numbers. Their master told the men that they must lunge to Amsterdam, which only ended up being 114th street, but still! Lunge they did. Spirited lunges too--many raised their arms up in the air mid-step. They reached the gate at 114th. Their next mission was to shout a chant during their walk to Amsterdam. They didn't have to lunge, just repeat: "I don't know what I've been told/Eskimo pussy's mighty cold." Spirits were never so high as when the men sang this song, and a few continued humming it after the challenge ended. Nearing the giants' brownstone, the leader told the men to stop singing and just scream. Scream anything, but make sure it's loud. They did this thing, all the way home, and then were quickly ushered into their brownstone. 
 Can you miss the good old days of something you never actually experienced? Everything I know about politics I learned from Stuyvesant High School Why can't Broadway be just like it used to Wherefore art thou, print media! Catwalk it back to Venus de Milo, she says 
For our next installment in a series on the best of what Greater Morningside has to offer: bagels (with apologies to those celebrating Yom Kippur). In order to maintain at least the pretence of fairness, in choosing bagel places to review, I stuck with those that either explicitly define themselves as bagelries (meaning they probably make them on site) or that feature bagels prominently. For the sake of uniformity, I have based my judgments on the whole wheat or multigrain option, usually with plain tofu cream cheese (I eat what I like, ok?). And finally, be advised that the best time to get a bagel anywhere is going to be in the morning, when they're freshest. I have tried to rate the lunchtime bagels, so as to avoid unfair staleness differentials. Lenny's Bagels – 98th Lenny's, a small New York chain like Pinnacle and Strokos, is a little bit of a shlep - and although it's not a bad option if you happen to be down in the 90s for whatever reason, you can certainly do better. The bagel itself, while properly chewy on the outside, has a drier consistency inside and is somewhat unevenly shaped, throwing the schmear-to-starch ratio out of whack in places. They do have an adequate array of spreads and bagel varieties, including a few unique items such as a delicious-looking bagel called the Ali Baba, involving walnuts and chocolate chips. The inside feels dingy and dark; take your bagel to Riverside a block down if it's sunny. Nussbaum &amp; Wu – 112th Nussbaum is Morningside’s all-purpose refueling station that is actually bearable to sit in for any length of time, and though the star of the menu might be the paninis, bagel baskets against the back wall start full and are empty by the end of the day. These specimens are a little crusty for my taste, but more than serviceable, especially if you’re hungry—they’re not quite as large as Pick-a-Bagel downtown, but still the biggest in the hood (read this 2003 Times piece for more background on the bagel size debate). Besides the basic spreads, Nussbaum has a variety of sandwich fillings on order, although eating these things sandwich-style is more than this reviewer can handle. Broadway Bagels – 103rd Despite the neon sign promising HOT BAGELS, my first Broadway Bagels experience was disappointing—a big, bready thing that felt like a project to get through rather than a meal to enjoy. A subsequent trial has redeemed the place, although I now feel that the bagel is smaller than necessary, and slightly card-board like. Not entirely unappetizing, but also suspiciously erratic. Furthermore, the bagel accoutrements are not attractively displayed, and I certainly wouldn’t want to stay long in the cavernous, diner-like seating area. I think Broadway Bagel’s problem might be trying to do too many things at once: photographs outside display egg dishes, waffles, everything but the circular form I seek. There is little evidence of a commitment to the food item for which the place is named. Absolute Bagels – 107th When I started out to do this review, I knew that I was wasting my time: ultimately, there’s really no point in comparing anything with Absolute Bagels. For the sake of open-mindedness, I’ve given other places a fair shake, but long ago concluded that Absolute’s perfectly sized, exquisitely textured, delicately flavored starchy rounds are the alpha and omega of Morningside bageldom. The shop itself is frighteningly efficient, dispatching even the long line that spills out the door on Sunday mornings with relative speed. Its shiny, brightly-lit deli case has every type of spread you could dream of, from chicken salad to veggie tofutti. This is a bagel joint in its purest form, with the ovens visible in the back and no menu fripperies to detract from the main event. And for proof that not everything good in New York is overpriced, these come cheapest of all bagels I’ve reviewed so far—just two bucks for a multigrain with tofu (less for regular cream cheese). The only problem is wanting another when you’re done with the first. Other places to get your fix nearby: Hamdel, Morton Williams, Hot &amp; Crusty (ugh, that name), Westside, and occasionally Starbucks have bagels. Street carts bagels can also do in a pinch—probably the cheapest, best form of caloric intake you'll find in the area, Koronets excepted.&nbsp; Worth investigating further south: Tal Bagels on 96th and the famed H&amp;H at 76th. - LBD 
 Over two years ago, Bwog noted the appearance of a Lactation Room in Carman. It actually appears that there are seven such rooms of requirement scattered around campus, the most recent of which--for the women of SEAS--is the first one yet for an undergraduate school. Are the recesses of Mudd better suited for procreation? Or are female engineers just more fertile than their left-brained sisters? Mysteries, all! 
 The people of Postcrypt are advertising for an event tomorrow night by -- how else? -- erecting an homage to the Eastern Bloc, right on your College Walk. According an email from the club, the makeshift Berlin Wall is here for you to draw on, the theme for tomorrow's show being "Propaganda."&nbsp; There's even a watchtower, just like a real military boundary. This thing is only standing until 5 PM, at which point David Hasselhoff will perform "Looking for Freedom." Photo by Anish Bramhandkar 
 About half the College freshman class turned out to vote on Tuesday for this year's 2012 leadership, and after a short hiccup created by switching over to a new electronic voting system (Miami-Dade here we come?) results are out! The REAL Party - headed up by President Erik Kogut and VP Hannah Wilentz - won with 34 percent of the vote, beating out their closest rivals, Mason Fitch and Cindy Pan of Vision 2012, by a comfortable 14 points. It's a surprise win over the early-peaking New York Connection, which came out narrowly ahead about three weeks ago in the Facebook Primary (and REAL didn't even have a website - see their platform here). Rounding out the Kogut-Wilentz administration are Reps Diego Arango of the REAL Party, Akito Terasaki of Candor, and Sarah Chai of Vision 2012. This year for the first time, first-years were able to indicate their choices of President and Vice President separately. Although the votes were then totaled for the final results - meaning that candidates of different parties could never end up in the same administration, a la Obama-Palin - it does shed additional light on the popularity contest. In this case, Kogut actually won 38 percent of presidential votes, while Wilentz only garnered 31 percent. "We're trying to pick up as much of the student body wants," explained Elections Board chairman James Bogner.&nbsp; - LBD Full results posted after the jump. President 187 | Erik Kogut &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; 121 | Mason Fitch &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 105 | Rolando Rodriguez &nbsp; &nbsp; 61 | Gavin Newton-Tanzer &nbsp; 22 | Sahil Gupta &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Vice President 154 | Hannah Wilentz 115 | Cindy Pan &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 98 | Alice Zhang &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 94 | Jasmine Senior &nbsp; 31 | Saahil Patel&nbsp; Representatives 169 | Diego Arango &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 137 | Akito Terasaki &nbsp; &nbsp; 134 | Sarah Chai &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 128 | Kenny Durell &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 121 | Keith Miao &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 103 | Susan Thomas &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 97 | Brandon Chrisotphe &nbsp; 95 | Alana Tung &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 78 | Noruwa Agho &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 55 | Holly Dykstra &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 32 | Suhaydee Tejeda &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 28 | Syed Hossain &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 24 | Sanjiv Mehta &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 21 | Richard Huang&nbsp; 
You may have tests and essays as far as the eye can see...but then again, it's supposed to be unbelievably gorgeous this weekend. Decamp yourself from Butler and discover joy again.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday I Kiffe NY: French Urban Cultures Festival&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Various times and locations through Oct. 28th&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Go be thuggin', French-style.&nbsp; More thick gold chains and Euro-style hip-hop than berets, though. Science Barge&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Various times through October 30th, Riverside Park South (Pier 1 at 70th street and Riverside Dr.)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Take a 45-minute guided tour of the New York's totally carbon-neutral floating farm! Friday Next Level 7:30pm, New Museum 235 Bowery (212.219.1222) If you think that Oregon Trail is a piece of art, check out a discussion that will explore what that exactly means in today's gaming and artistic worlds. Price: $8.00&nbsp; Will People Believe Anything? 6pm, Princeton (and Columbia!) Club 15 West 43rd St (212.596.1200) Dr. Thomas Gilovich delivers a talk on judgment and decision making, illuminating why otherwise rational people can make such silly choices.&nbsp; Business casual attire only.&nbsp; Price: Free, RSVP online &nbsp; Saturday Off the Wall: Destroy+Construct+Construct+Destroy 7pm-10pm, Deity Lounge 368 Atlantic Ave A party! An art opening! A party and an art opening for graffiti art! The price is starving artist friendly—free!&nbsp; Against Me! 6pm, Webster Hall 125 E 11th St (212.353.1600) Remember that high school angst?&nbsp; Feeling a little wound-up lately?&nbsp; Just let it out; any band with an exclamation point in their name is probably a good outlet. Price: $22.50 in advance, $27 at the door&nbsp; Sunday Bike Shorts 7 7pm, Solar One 2420 FDR Drive Check out New York City's finest cyclist-cinematographers at this film festival all about the wide world of biking.&nbsp; Price: $5.00&nbsp; - Sara Jane Panfil 
 How can we have an election without voters? Let's register! What if we want to start a holiday early? Let's have a carnival! What do we do now that a radio station isn't on the dial anymore? Listen online! What happens when we wait for a new president? Speculate! What if I want to follow in Obama's steps? Learn how to speechify! &nbsp; 
 Many of you no doubt perked up in late August when the U.S. News &amp; World Report college rankings were released. Others pretended they were too cool for those rankings, and then snuck in a peek anyways.&nbsp; Well, now, the Times of London has released its own rankings, and, unlike the America-only U.S. News rankings, this version includes universities from all over the world. The Times ranks Columbia 10th overall, and 6th among American universities (behind Harvard, Yale, Caltech, MIT and UChicago). Overall, Harvard remained in first for the fifth consecutive year, followed by Yale. The rest of the Ivy League is ranked as follows: Penn 11th, Princeton 12th, Cornell 15th, Brown 27th, and Dartmouth bringing up the rear at 54th. 
 Bwog once again presents the Friday Sports Roundup, now with national media attention! Women's Soccer: We are giving women's soccer the top slot today, both because of their stellar record, and because of the national media attention they've drawn. Last weekend, the team won its fifth and sixth consecutive games. On Saturday night, reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Week Ashlin Yahr scored the winning goal in the 95th minute to defeat Brown. On Monday, Yahr added two more goals as the team throttled Long Island 4-0. Yet Yahr has not been the biggest star this week. In fact, that goes to her partner in scoring, junior Sophie Reiser. In addition to scoring the first goal against Brown on Saturday, and providing three assists against LIU on Monday, Reiser was profiled by ESPN's Graham Hays, who began by writing "At the risk of venturing into hyperbole on a Big Apple scale, I haven't seen anyone this season who is a demonstrably better soccer player than Columbia's Sophie Reiser." Finally, that was not the only mention of Columbia on the website of the "Worldwide Leader in Sports": Hays wrote a heatwarming story about the team's adoption of a six-year old with a rapidly growing brain tumor. The rest of sports after the jump. Football: After a tough Homecoming loss to Princeton, which Bwog liveblogged, the football team looks to get its first win of the season at home against Lafayette. Junior quarterback Shane Kelly will hope to continue his stellar play after generating 275 yards (passing and running combined) last week against Princeton. Lafayette comes into the contest having lost to Harvard 27-13, but they defeated Penn 24-17 earlier in the season. A first win of the season would greatly boost the Lions' confidence. Men's Soccer: The men's soccer team lost its Ivy League opener to Brown, 2-1 in Providence on Saturday. After the Bears took the lead, first-year defender Ronnie Shaban found the net off a corner kick to tie the game 66th minute. Brown was able to show why the team is currently ranked 24th in the country, as they scored a late (also off a corner kick) to send the Lions home with a loss. This weekend, the Lions are away again, playing at Penn on Saturday night, before facing Adelphi at home on Tuesday. Volleyball: After losing to LIU 3 games to 0 on Friday, the team opened Ivy League play with a tough 3-2 loss to Cornell. This weekend is crucial for the team, as they face Princeton and Penn at home tonight and tomorrow. Cross-Country: Both the men's and women's teams came second at the George Mason Invitational last weekend. Sophomore Brendan Martin and senior Megan Lessard were Columbia's highest finishers, coming in 4th and 3rd respectively. Today, the teams race in the Metropolitan Invitational in Van Cortlandt Park. Golf: After both teams played in an alumni tournament, the men's golf team plays at the ECAC Invitational, while the women's team plays at the Spider Invitational in Richmond, Virginia. Tennis: Those of you hoping to catch the men's tennis team in action can do so this weekend, as they play in the Columbia Classic at the Dick Savitt Tennis Center Friday - Sunday. The women's team resumes play at BJK National Tennis Center Invitational in Flushing Meadows, New York. 
 As some of our more movie-savvy readers have noticed, Hermione Granger (also known by the alias of "Emma Watson") is currently touring the Ivy League, having already made stops at Harvard, Yale, and Brown (?), and provoking geeky analogies that Bwog certainly will not engage in. Though, just for the record, we would like to point out that Hermione's crusade on behalf of house elves would fit right in here. Just saying... Regardless, given that her partner in wizardry is currently&nbsp;parading around in the nude&nbsp;on&nbsp;Broadway, we would not be surprised if she visits our fair campus on her southbound Tour D'Ivy. We ask our dear readers to please keep a lookout for her, and let us know if she is spotted. Without your help, we might miss her: after all, she can apparate. 
 It's time for another chapter in the sorry tale of Madonna Constantine, the TC psychology professor who found a noose on her door and later found herself the subject of a plagiarism investigation. Anyway, she's back, and she's suing Columbia for wrongful termination. She had planned to appeal her termination, but that having apparently not turned out in her favor, she's now looking to the State Supreme Court to reverse her firing. She's arguing that her being let-go was "arbitrary, irrational and unauthorized." Columbia's not commenting.&nbsp; 
Oh, good morning! Look, it's the Columbia men's swim team, doing their part to give prospective students the Best. College. Tour. Ever. More photos -- because look who's suddenly so interested in Columbia athletics! -- after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Emerging from Fortress Lerner just now, Bwog was nearly mowed down by a swarm of young white male skateboarders, like a Critical Mass for the four wheeled set. They went on for minutes upon minutes -- what could this be? Where do they come from? Do they have some kind of skateboarder phone tree? If you know, please enlighten us! UPDATE: Thanks to commenter #2, we now know this was the Broadway Bomb, "the worlds most dangerous Longboard Skateboard race."&nbsp; Today's race was from 116th and Riverside to Bowling Green. 
 This week Saturday Styles spotlights the biker and bomber jackets.&nbsp; This fall, Columbia students have thrown their concerns for animal rights to the wind and have embraced the leather bomber/biker jacket. And really how better to fend off the blustery October winds than with a sharply fitted leather jacket? Both Bwog and our friends over at the decidedly more sartorially-inclined blog&nbsp; I am Fashion agree: As the October chill settles, eager bomber babes and studs alike have broken out their leather jackets in all styles and shades.&nbsp; Take a look at what caught Bwog's eye this week: &nbsp; The Studious Biker: Lots of pockets and heavy metal zippers are downplayed here with a soft scarf. &nbsp; Another jacket with fanciful labels was spotted outside Barnard. In this look, the heavy metals zippers are accentuated by a bright top. &nbsp; SIPA student channels the young Marlon Brando. &nbsp; For an effortless, yet fashion-conscious look pair a tight-fitting leather bomber with black leggings or jeans. For a softer take on the aforementioned style, try the bomber in a warmer brown hue. &nbsp; -- MEQ 
 You've heard of LectureHops, you've heard of RoomHops, and BarHops. Meet the latest species of the Hopping persuasion: the LibraryHop.&nbsp;&nbsp; Here, Bwog offers a guide to the NYPL's Performing Arts Library.&nbsp; Happy studying!&nbsp; O, autumn! That time of year when yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hang! This may or may not be such a great thing depending on whether you've become a part of Butler's permanent collection. But the problem with dear Butler is that it's everyone's favorite library: On any given visit you're likely crosses paths with your freshman year roommate, the TA from the poetry class you regularly skip, the entire PKA pledge class or that guy you were hitting on at Cannon's two weeks ago.&nbsp; So, in the spirit of new things and new faces, Bwog suggests switching things up and testing your luck at one of the many public libraries the city has to offer.&nbsp; Like any other savvy New York co-ed, Bwog was weary of the numerous urban legends that circulate about the New York Performing Arts Library and its reputedly under-staffed and under-funded branches.&nbsp; If the NYPL is under-staffed and under-funded, the Performing Arts Library at Lincoln Center shows no sign if it.&nbsp; The well-endowed library houses three galleries, an auditorium seating over 200, specialized divisions with circulating and reference collections in theater, dance, music, recorded sound, moving image and film.&nbsp; Maybe it's all the money or maybe it's the location, but the Performing Arts Library's patronage is not your regular public library crowd. Any visit to the Morningside NYPL branch between the hours of two and six undoubtedly involves gaggles of third graders, baby carriages and confused geriatrics trying to access the Inter-Web.&nbsp; Here you'll find plenty of laptop savvy thespians, arts critic-types and silver-haired metropolitan patricians all taking advantage of the library's resources, which include an impressive collection of historic recordings, videotapes, autograph manuscripts, sheet music, stage designs, press clippings, programs, posters, and photographs. It's not necessary to have a library card to enter the museum, but you do have to have to to check out any materials.&nbsp; At many NYPL branches, a library card is necessary for WiFi access, but not so at the Performing Arts Library. Here, the WiFi is relatively fast but admittedly not as fast as the WiFi at Butler. There are four main reading rooms, include two on the third floor, one of which overlooks 66th Street and the other overlooks Lincoln Center Plaza.&nbsp; The latter is Bwog's study room of choice.&nbsp; Set in loft above the second, this reading room contains three parallel light wood tables that run the length of the room, plus, it's well-equipped with power-out and USB plugs. An eastern facing glass wall provides plenty of natural light and a view of Lincoln Center.&nbsp; Again, due to major construction projects, the Plaza does boast the loveliest of vistas at the moment. But the architecture of its surrounding buildings is impressive and at the very least, a welcome change from the flat lighting of the Butler cafe. The New York Public Library for Performing Arts is located at 40 Lincoln Center Plaza and is accessible by the 1 to 66th Street. 
 Clear sunny days like today make it easy to appreciate fall, a cruel and unpredictable season. Unfortunately days this lovely are few and far between and many of us end up, somewhat unfairly, associating the season with the end of summer blues, midterms, and other decidedly unpleasant things.&nbsp; But Bwog is here to make sure you appreciate the month of October in all its blazing autumnal glory. So today on Rest of the Best Of, we're exploring one of the season's delicacies: hot cider. Hungarian Pastry Shop It takes the Hungarian employees behind the counter a moment to register that they do indeed serve cider, and it takes them longer than usual to prepare your order.&nbsp; But Hungarian's cider does exist, and it's worth the extra wait. The cider is served in a hefty ceramic mug which on a drizzly fall night is just the right size temperature and texture to wrap your hands around. The actual brew within the mug is too hot to imbibe only for a moment.&nbsp; As you gaze longingly into your steaming mug, take a moment to appreciate the cinnamony scent and rich ocher color of the cider.&nbsp; And whatever you do, don't sip to soon.&nbsp; Singed taste buds is a surefire way to ruin the cider experience. Initially, the cider is warm, spicy and delicious.&nbsp; But after the cider cools, its consistency is too thin to be satisfying. Although the warmth of the cider wanes quickly, the robust apple flavor lingers with an aftertaste of ginger, almost like homemade applesauce.&nbsp; The cooled cider goes down easily, almost too easily, and all too soon you'll find that you've finished your mug. It's only two dollars a mug, so load up on refills. Starbucks If Hungarian is too dim and dreary for your studying and snacking habits, you might prefer the safe, prefab appeal of Starbucks. It probably takes almost as long to place an order as it does to snag a seat, but if you've got some extra time between classes and are in the mood for an seasonal snack, Starbucks is the most consistent and convenient of the neighborhood's cider options. The drink, of course, is served in Starbucks' classic white and green disposable cups, complete with words of wisdom from Steve Martin and Michael Phelps among other savants.&nbsp; Regardless philosophy emblazoned on these cups, they are not appropriate for cider -- their ubiquity ruin the fun and festivity of ordering the drink. As for the cider itself, the apple flavor is far too strong, suggesting the presence of artificial flavoring. Whip cream, buttery caramel sauce and cider syrup are all additional options, but Bwog does not recommend them, given the already rather rich consistency of Starbucks' cider. At $3.50 for a grande (that's Starbucks-speak for a medium) Bwog recommends the Apple Cinnamon Spice cider only in a pinch. The Farmers Market on 114th and Broadway The farmers market is the ideal place to get your cider fix.&nbsp; Your best bet is to head past all the produce and barrels of apples to the table closest to the corner of 114th and Broadway, upon which you'll find an array of goodies ripe for fall noshing.&nbsp; The cider is served very hot, so Bwog recommends biding your time with apple cider donut.&nbsp; The crunch of the cinnamon sugar and the crispy exterior of donut are the perfect complement to the thick and thirst-quenching cider. Tomorrow is the first day of the season the farmers farket will be selling its hot apple cider.&nbsp; Make sure you specify you would like hot cider when you order, otherwise you might end up with the chilled version. This cider's only drawback is that it's only available fresh on Sundays and Thursdays. On the other five days of the week, head to the Hungarian -- or Starbucks, if you must. In conclusion: winner is the farmers market, silver to Hungarian and honorable mention to Starbucks. -- MEQ 
 Your guide to what's worth watching on the Internet returns and TV critic Rob Trump comes bearing good news for fans of Neil Patrick Harris and Joss Whedon alike. I feel like I’ve started the last three or four of these with some variant on “Well, I’m not sure that this really belongs in the category ‘web series,’ but…” Add another to that category, because Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog is perhaps too short -- it's exactly three episodes, or “acts” -- and perhaps too professional -- it's directed by Joss Whedon, he of Firefly and Buffy fame, and on an actual budget -- to be comparable to most of the other shows I’ve reviewed.&nbsp; But it debuted on the Internet, and that’s enough for me.&nbsp; Dr. Horrible is a web series, and it’s an absolutely great one. If you watch the most underrated show on TV right now -- How I Met Your Mother-- you’re already aware that Neil Patrick Harris has grown up from Doogie Howser to become one of the best comedic actors working today. And if you’re a Whedon fan, you’re already aware from the musical episode of Buffy that the man can write a solid pop/musical theater-style number.&nbsp; So a combination of the two should be gold -- and yup, it is.&nbsp; Harris stars as the titular doctor, an emotionally fragile man who aspires to join the Evil League of Evil (headed by “Bad Horse, the thoroughbred of sin”), but has yet to pull off a criminal caper that would earn his place.&nbsp; Nathon Fillion from Firefly-- another standout actor from another under-appreciated show -- plays Horrible’s nemesis, Captain Hammer.&nbsp; Fillion’s Hammer has a wonderfully smirking aplomb, which is both hilarious and contrasts nicely with Horrible’s vulnerability.&nbsp; The third central character, Penny, is the weakest of the bunch, existing mostly to be an object of romantic pursuit for the two men. Speaking musically, Horrible has about as many infectious melodies and memorable lyrics per song as you’re likely to find anywhere.&nbsp; If you’re particularly grated by the arguably cheesy “musical theater style” that Whedon goes for here (as he did in Buffy), Horrible won’t make you a believer in it, but if you’re like me, you think that one of the most desirable qualities in this type of music is cheesiness.&nbsp; Harris, with a musical theater background (he starred in Assassins on Broadway), sounds fantastic, and Fillion’s range is small, but he sounds good in everything he sings, as does Felicia Day, playing Penny. Horrible’s only serious weaknesses are in its third act, when the people involved seem not to know exactly how to wrap up all the threads they’ve created.&nbsp; I’d watch Harris and Fillion spar for seasons if this was a television show, so the relatively large amount of closure at the end seems forced to me.&nbsp; Regardless, it’s easily the most slickly-produced thing I’ve reviewed and one of the funniest and most entertaining.&nbsp; Dr. Horrible is a “must” to keep on a tab for a study break sometime during midterms.&nbsp; If you aren’t entertained in the first five minutes or so, which contains a fantastic opening monologue by Harris and a catchy-as-hell first song, you can give up both on Horrible and on liking things that I like. 
In which Bwog tides you over until Monday's QuickSpec by bringing you Columbia-related happenings from the real world.&nbsp; Some connections to our lady Alma Mater are dubious and/or doubtful. Nudist/Columbia Grad Donates Playing Card Collection Dali expert and nude hiker Albert Field's collection of 6,536 decks of cards have been archived and restored in Columbia's library, according to the AP (via Newsday). Valued at more than $1 million, the collection contains cards from as early as 1550, ranging from German propaganda ("Zeppelin Uber England"!) to Kennedy family portraits.&nbsp; Field started collecting the cards on his trip to post-WWII Europe, where the cards were the only "souvenirs" he could find. Columbia librarians, usually found explaining how to work the CUL search engines instead of being actual resources, are thrilled.&nbsp; They even used such racy terms as "wacky" and "fantastic" to describe the fortune of having multiple centuries' worth of Go Fish paraphernalia.&nbsp; They plan to visit classes to teach students the ancient game, but will likely find that students have moved on to new-fangled games like Hearts and 52-Pickup. Professor Approves Security Blankets as Midterm Antidote Hawkmedinejad could've told them that: EurekAlert reports that researchers in the lab of neuroscientist/Columbia professor Eric Kandel found that mice can be conditioned to react fearfully to a target signal. The group studied how mice reacted to this "learned fear" in the long term.&nbsp; Learned fear can lead to anxiety and depression: generally, scarily-named "psychopathologies."&nbsp; However, the mice learn to use their environment to provide security.&nbsp; For example, mice hide in holes in the lawn when Facilities mows them every third hour.&nbsp; When a hawk approaches, mice run like hell. This behavior can be extended to humans.&nbsp; Kandel elucidates, "This form of learning is not always appropriate."&nbsp; At last, we have a solid argument against midterms- they cause PTSD.&nbsp; Take that, Intro to Quantum Mechanics. Brinkley Ambivalent About Second Debate Historian extraordinaire and (soon-to-be Ex-)provost Alan Brinkley has officially shrugged in response to the second presidential debate in The New Republic.&nbsp; Calling town hall-style debates "populist gimmicks," Brinkley agreed that the second debate was, well, pretty boring. McCain was "awkward and inarticulate" whereas Obama was "charming."&nbsp; No one said anything interesting, nobody won.&nbsp; The real breakthrough was Tom Brokaw's attempt at a joke. Brinkley ended with, "I saw nothing tonight that seems likely to change the current trajectory of the campaign."&nbsp; Knowing this to be an unacceptable conclusion in a history major's world, he added, "And that, of course, is good news for Obama." CU Nobel Winner Slept Through Phonecall Turns out that it's not just English majors who sleep through everything.&nbsp; Nobel Prize-winner Martin Chalfie, of Columbia, slept through the notifying phonecall, Newsday reports.&nbsp; At sixty-one years old, Chalfie found that "the silly ring on the phone" was too quiet.&nbsp; He found out about his win Gen Y-style: stumbling across the information on the Internet, while reading about Stephan's latest hijinks. According to the HeraldSun, Chalfie said he logged on the Nobel website and, simply put, "found out I was the schmuck." 
Procrastination doesn't have to mean venturing far.&nbsp; Lectures, laughs, and lame ledes, all on campus. Sunday Photo Scavenger Hunt: Run around campus with photography nerds and try to take the most super-awesomest pictures to win an unspecified prize!&nbsp; 4:00 PM. Monday Elections and the US Media: An international panel of journalists discusses the coverage of the 2008 elections by American media.&nbsp; 7:00 PM. Tuesday The Secret Life of Bees: Free screening in Lerner Cinema.&nbsp; Dakota Fanning, Jennifer Hudson, and Queen Latifah!&nbsp; Director Gina Prince-Bythewood will be there for a post-show Q&amp;A.&nbsp; 2:00 PM. Wednesday God and Politics: Veritas Forum: The official description says it all: "David Eisenbach will challenge Colson with questions about faith, politics and social justice."&nbsp; Eisenbach's known for a mix of photo-ops and controversy, so let's see how he fares this time.&nbsp; 8:00 PM. Thursday TC Comedy Night: Venture to a Columbia affiliate to watch a mix of awkward first-timers and old comedy club hands try to be funny.&nbsp; 9:00 PM. Friday The Last Days of Judas Iscariot: The CU Players present another no-Shakespeare-no-musicals spectacular.&nbsp; Stephen Adly Guirgis mixes attorneys and Catholicism to debate whether Judas ought to go to Heaven in Purgatory.&nbsp; 7:00 PM and 10:00 PM.&nbsp; Playing Thurs-Sun.
 Want to relive some Bush administration history the day after Election Day? On November 5th at 8 p.m., former CIA counterterrorism leader and current vice-chair of Blackwater USA Cofer Black will be speaking at an event organized by the Columbia University International Relations Forum. Black became head of the CIA's Counterterrorist Center in 1999, and remained there over the next three years. He is particularly well-known/controversial for his advocacy, both before and after the September 11th attacks, of tough treatment of Al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups. He has often been accused of being one of the main supporters of the more controversial "War on Terror" initiatives, includng the secret rendition and waterboarding programs.&nbsp; Since leaving the government in 2004, Black has been the vice-chairman of Blackwater USA. He also was Mitt Romney's counter-terrorism advisor during the former governor's presidential campaign. 
Feeling melancholy this Sunday? Be daring and venture out of the confines of Butler into Morningside Park, the area's oft-dismissed sanctuary of tall trees and fresh breezes. At the bottom of the 436,232 stone steps, Bwog had to flatten itself against a wall as hordes of screaming children raced around in circles, delighted at having finally finished their midterms.  They informed us that, roughly translated from the language of Childbabble, the new playground had finally opened.  This required an investigation. The new playground has a pleasing blue-and-green color scheme that blends in nicely with the surrounding park.  It's a more free-form style than some of the old themed playgrounds Bwog remembers.  There's also a definite separation from the super-little equipment for toddlers and the more challenging slides and such for the older kids.  The playground was completely overwhelmed with moms on cellphones not paying attention to their kids, busy running into poles and climbing everything within reach. Photos and more after the jump. According to the New York Times, the $2 million playground was the brainchild of Alexander Hart, a landscape architect at the Department of Parks and Recreation.  New York City has unique requirements for playgrounds, such as components being made of stainless steel so they will be bullet proof.  In addition, the structures must be designed in such a way to keep homeless people from seeking shelter: holes in roofs to let rain through and few covered surfaces. Social conventions prohibited Bwog from trying out the playground first hand, but the visit was well worth it.  In a city where nothing ever stops, nostalgia for simpler times is appreciated. Photos by Anish Bramhandkar
 Dozens of students are in the Piano Lounge RIGHT NOW enjoying sweet, sweet rice pudding from Rice to Riches and specialty Latin American and Caribbean coffees, all to the soulful Afro-Latino jams of Bryan Vargas y Ya Esta. The band comments to the crowd: "You should all be happy you're here; there are so many kids in their dorm rooms right now playing Guitar Hero."All courtesy of Latino Heritage Month. Put down that fake guitar! Pudding's running low! 
 This morning, Allen Rosenfield, dean of the Mailman School of Public Health from 1986 until earlier this year, and a 1959 graduate of the Medical School, died after battling with ALS (also known as Lou Gehrig's disease). In an email to the Columbia University community, President Bollinger wrote that "his commitment to improving the lives of people all across the world, from our own neighborhoods of upper Manhattan to the rural villages of sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia, was the personification of everything we strive to achieve as a University community." In addition to serving as Dean for 22 years, Rosenfield was also known for his work in women's health and fighting HIV/AIDS. He began his career as an obstetrician gynecologist, and he particularly focused on HIV transmission between women and their children, and the public health issues that surrounded prevention of the transmission. He chaired various boards throughout his career, including those of the New York Obstetrical Society, the American Public Health Association,&nbsp; and the Alan Guttmacher Institute. 
 We unwillingly imitated Yale and saved the children of Gulu, dressed as sexually indiscriminate Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders. The threat of a vanishing sandwich forced Rack&amp;Soul to move -- next door. McCain wore another awful striped tie and Bollinger wore a questionable yellow sweater. Columbia gained its 70-somethingth Nobel Prize, this time in Chemistry; English majors reportedly were irate. Bill Ayers was buoyed by the many arms of Alma Mater but hid in the J-School cafe anyway. PKA pledgers were caught playing Bingo and the Big Brother Twelve screamed to tear down the wall (not really). We found love in the UK; we hoped they would visit. The men's swim team strutted their stuff; the skateboarders fled in leather jackets. 
 Congratulations to this year's creative team of the 115th Annual Varsity Show, which was announced via email mere minutes ago. Director: Thomas Anawalt CC'09 Producer: Rebecca Lewis CC'11 Producer: Darcy Zacharias CC'10 Writer: Erica Drennan CC'11 Writer: Rachel Leopold CC'10 Writer: Sam Reisman CC'10 Composer/Lyricist: Becky Greenstein BC'10 Composer/Lyricist: Matt Stauffer GS'09 Choreographer: Claire Halberstadt BC'09 Art Director: Cayle Pietras CC'09 Friends, bestow upon these talented individuals your accolades, and then your goodbyes, as you will not be hearing from any of them until May. Also, for those of you who missed last year's show, or are new to the concept of the Varsity Show, last year's show is available to stream on the Varsity Show's website. 
 Madonna Constantine sues TC, drama proves to be as eternal as Columbus' legacy...oh wait... Farewell, evil Columbus Day! Hello, Indigenous Peoples Day! New Yorkers pay a lot of money for food; seem "more than willing to enjoy a bit of gastronomic luxury." The economy, Columbia's endowment are "mildly disheartening": Spec-er has "vague impression" that&nbsp; "theoretically things could go very wrong." Students can't be sick all the time in order to do well at school. &nbsp; 
 The trek to the Gottesman Library at Teacher’s College was arduous, and TC itself a seemingly impenetrable maze.&nbsp; Initially arriving at the wrong entrance, Bwog stood for several moments at an automatic door that refused to open. The bells at Riverside Church chimed ominously. Bwog eventually sheepishly located the entrance to the building, perhaps 15 feet to our left. &nbsp; Once inside the building, Bwog was pleased to find the swipe-in process simple, and the library in a realm beyond quiet. There are no screaming whispers. There is no need for Red, Yellow and Green zones of eating and drinking here: grown-ups study here. Gottesman is quiet. It is not, however, a hostile quiet. Unlike some choice rooms in Butler, no one glared at Bwog when we unzipped our backpack. Bwog overheard a very few brief quiet conversations. Forgetting for a moment where we were, Bwog looked around for people to roll our eyes with at these breakers of sacred library code, but eventually realized that everyone around us was actually focused, and then we felt kind of guilty. The library itself is relatively small, but calm. It is not grand, there is no marble, there are no stained glass windows, but there is a lot of light, lovely nursery-school-yellow walls, and burgundy wall-to-wall carpeting. There are several group study rooms with truly nap-worthy reclining swivel chairs. There are a few small cubicles, so you don’t have to worry about – dare we say it—other people actually sitting next to you. However, the wireless – our old familiar Columbia University network – fluctuated somewhat, at one point providing us with an unacceptable two bars of internet exploring capability. The views are decent, but not distractingly (i.e Low Library, South Lawn) glorious, and conducive to actually getting work done. Sure, Procrastination is procrastination anywhere: the elderly man seated behind us browsed Craiglist for violin lessons, Russian lessons, and some less savory endeavors. We wont deny that we still scrolled through our own Facebook pictures a few times, (BINGO!) but, really, we got work done here. Hike up to 120th, wander the beautiful TC courtyards, and you, faithful Bwog reader, can too! &nbsp; The Gottesman Libraries, Teachers College at Columbia University 525 West 120th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Monday through Friday – 8 AM to 11 PM Saturday – 8 AM to 8 PM Sunday – 10 AM to 10 PM Midterm/Final Exam Periods – Library open until 1 AM Thursday, October 16th through Wednesday, October 22nd&nbsp; The Everett Library Café is located next door to the library entrance. &nbsp; 
&nbsp; CUCR is holding their annual Columbus Day BBQ on the Van Am Quad until 2 PM, and there's a "Founders Day" one happening on Lehman Lawn. Bwogger Anish Bramhandkar has immortalized the latter free-food glory in the photo on the right. 
Hans Hyttinen has just sent us his dispatch from the frontline. Apparently there was confusion as to whether it was a drill or not, as the alarm stopped sounding after a few rings. At this very moment, "a mix of pleased and peeved physics students are standing around the lesser-known sundial."
 Bwog has just gotten word that a favorite Morningside Heights character, that guy who always sits outside of Deluxe playing chess, has amassed some elementary school-aged disciples and is teaching them his craft with a group called NYC Chess. Overheard next to one young chess fiend: "you know what? That kid wins three out of four."&nbsp; Photo by Joseph Meyers 
 Welcome to Bwog's latest feature, "In Defense Of..." Here, a writer defends something that most students consider useless, inferior, or downright loathsome. In doing so, Bwog hopes to bring you a new perspective, and give the subject the appreciation it deserves...or not. In our second offering, J. Bryan Lowder offers some thoughts on a much-discussed and often unloved Core class. Alaskan Gov. Sarah Palin may soon be “a heartbeat away” from leading the United States.&nbsp; Allegedly, Palin also believes in intelligent design.&nbsp; I hope Matt Damon and I aren’t the only ones who think this is a problem.&nbsp; What may be even more problematic, however, is that Palin is not alone.&nbsp; An August 2006 article in the journal Science found that in 2005, only 40% of Americans accepted the idea of evolution, second in the survey only to Turkey.&nbsp;&nbsp; Far from a simple theological disagreement, the intelligent design movement represents an outright rejection of scientific, rational thought at a time when it is most important. This brings me to Frontiers.&nbsp; We’ve all heard the joke that Lit Hum and CC are really just preparatory courses for future cocktail parties.&nbsp; Maybe so, but I doubt that any half-sober student can leave those seminars without having been exposed to at least a few life-changing ideas. This “enlightenment by osmosis” is really the point of the Core, and so, while you may not remember how to figure the luminosity of a star (or even what that is), you should leave Frontiers at least having learned how to think scientifically.&nbsp;&nbsp; Humanities people: I already know what you’re going to say - as an English major, I’m one of you.&nbsp; Frontiers is too hard; it’s not relevant to your intellectual interests; the professors are boring, etc.&nbsp; Science people: from the perspective of a science writer, I also think I understand your point of view.&nbsp; Frontiers is too easy; it’s redundant; the humanities kids are stupid, etc.&nbsp; I suspect that the reality of the situation lies in the middle. &nbsp; The humanities majors need a dose of rationality every once in a while.&nbsp; They also need to understand what quarks are, why the stars shine, and how babies are made (Tolstoy elides that last bit, you know). I agree that Frontiers may be “too hard” in the sense that, at times, the problem sets tend to obfuscate the more interesting, “big picture” ideas.&nbsp; Other courses, such as Janet Conrad’s Physics for Poets or Amber Miller’s Intro to Cosmology, would be good models for improvement.&nbsp; As for the professors, you have to realize that scientists generally find it difficult to communicate their ideas to the layperson, hence the need for science writers.&nbsp; I would bet, however, that using your well-honed close-reading skills you could distill the salient points from a lecture.&nbsp; &nbsp; The science kids need to step-back from the equations from time to time and really think about the concepts that underlie their work.&nbsp; Perhaps it is redundant, but so are a lot of things. Artists still have to take Art Hum—welcome to Columbia. As for the humanities students’ stupidity, just remember that their tax dollars will be funding your experiment one day, so you had better get them on board now. &nbsp; The point is this: just as everyone benefits from reading Hegel, everyone is better for having sat through Helfand.&nbsp; Frontiers may not be as intellectually exciting as shooting wolves from a helicopter, but taking it will make you a more informed, rational thinker.&nbsp; And let’s face it; some of you will eventually be in Palin’s place.&nbsp; Do you really want Matt Damon trash-talking you? &nbsp; 
 Last time we checked in with our pals over at the Business School, things weren't looking too hot. Since today was the first good day in a long, long time, Bwog headed over to Uris when the stock market closed this afternoon to see what we could find. B-Schoolers were clustered around the televisions in the lobby, reading the headlines on the 11.6% gain and the European summit this weekend and chatting happily. The powers that be had wisely chosen this particular day to sell Business School merchandise, and Bwog noted long lines of students shelling out $50 for backpacks. We asked a vendor clad in a B-school T-shirt that read "we're the GBA, and we're here to serve you!" if the mood had been a little more cheerful around school today. "It's hard to say for sure," he began. We gave him a few moments, and he lifted his head after stacking another $20 bill into his collection. "But yeah," he continued, and Bwog may have seen a twinkle in his weary B-school eyes, "yeah, a definitely little bit." 
 SustainableBusiness.com reports that last week Columbia announced that it would begin to offer a Master's Degree in Sustainable Development beginning in the fall of 2009. Twelve other schools will join Columbia in offering the two-year Global Master's in Development Practice program (rolls right off the tongue) &nbsp;within the next three years.&nbsp; The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation has pledged $15 million to start up the MDP program. Surprise, surprise, Jeffery Sachs chimes in: "The new Master's in Development Practice will train professionals with the multi-disciplinary knowledge, tools and management skills they will need for success." Sachs also recently proposed a carbon tax as an alternative to cap-and-trade systems. Then saved the planet.&nbsp; 
The gods of free food have smiled happily upon Columbia University today. More tonight: hot chocolate, whipped cream and candy in the John Jay Lounge at 10 PM, and the Chinese Students Club &amp; AAA are hosting a dumpling-fest in the West Ramp Lounge in Lerner at 11 PM.
 Bwog has pretty much used up our Gossip Girl references and cliches at this point, but we were nowhere near GG-ed out enough to miss tonight's Big Episode: "The One in Which Those Kids Pretend Columbia is Yale" aka "New Haven Can Wait." We spent an enjoyable hour squealing with our friends every time we saw a glimpse of a Columbia landmark. The camera angles were tight, to be sure, but the GG crew covered much of our beloved campus: they fought, lied, hooked up and backstabbed from International Affairs to Furnald. The CW seems to have also hired somewhere in the realm of 10,000 extras all clad in plaid sweaters and horn-rimmed glasses, which we would never find in Morningside Heights, obvi, to stroll around campus. Some favorite moments from the episode after the jump. Columbia building "sightings" (GG-speak): Hamilton (by day and night!), Philosophy, Uris, Mathematics, Havemeyer, International Affairs, Kent, College Walk, Lerner, John Jay, Furnald, Van Am Quad and Gazebo (with half-naked Dan) Most memorable quotes:&nbsp; Blair hates on Brown: "Your deductive reasoning skills are perfect for a place like Brown" "A place like Brown?" "An enclave of trustafarians and children of celebrities who major in drum circles..." And then provides us with this little gem: "Everyone knows that the only real Ivies are the holy trinity: Harvard, Yale and Princeton." Blair, in an attempt to impress Yale's "dean": "I love Henry VIII, but I prefer Sir Thomas More." &nbsp;And the ultimate Serena-stab: "You know on paper you're not Yale material" Serena retaliates: "We were probably just going to grow apart in college, so why not just start now?" Finally, Bwog recommends using this line if you, like all three of the major male characters on the show, ever find yourself in trouble with Skull &amp; Bones: "I'm Nate Archibald, and I look forward to coming here next year and kicking your ass." Watch the full episode here. 
Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann attended tonight's ESC meeting. Exciting changes to your Internet are afoot! The ESC meeting this week was dominated by two website presentations. CUIT previewed the “Next Gen CourseWorks” named Sakai, while two sophomores previewed their new website ColumbiaClasses.com, which aims to be a replacement for CULPA and Columbia’s own course information pages.&nbsp; Bwog was particularly impressed with Sakai, the arrival of which has been in the works since May. The site looks easier to navigate than CourseWorks and fixes some of the more archaic parts of CourseWorks system, for example file management. Here are some of the key features: Over 100 other schools use Sakai, including Yale, Hopkins, Stanford, and MIT. Has large focus on collaboration (wikis, blogs, podcasts, calendars, document sharing) Will integrate well with existing systems, and can be customized for Columbia. Could be deployed as early as Fall ’09. There will be a time when some courses are on Sakai and others on CourseWorks, but CUIT said it would be “as seamless as possible.” CUIT is currently trying to raise support throughout the university and is asking for student representatives to sit on an Advisory Committee to oversee the deployment of the new system. Biggest Improvements: Individuals get their own personalized area (called “My Workspace”) where students have their own calendar that has info from all classes, and can sync with Palm/iPhone/Blackberry/Computer. New File Management System (can add links, text documents, etc), directly from the webpage. Can also create citation lists and search for articles using Google Scholar directly through Sakai. Groups can request Sakai sites (like courses) so their members can collaborates. ColumbiaClasses aims to create an officially sanctioned website that has all the information of the College Bulletin, but also allows student to rate and review professors. Bwog liked the system; it had some very interesting features, for instance, it could recommend courses based on ones you have already taken and enjoyed. However, in order for the system to be sanctioned by the University, it must be moderated. Users must sign-in to the system to see or post information. Though ratings and signed reviews (where the reviewer leaves his username public) are un-moderated, anonymous reviews are subject to moderator approval, and can be rejected. Users can also anonymously add their grade, so the site can show an average grade for the course (assuming enough people post). Required login makes it so only members of the community are the only ones that can view data, so the school doesn't have to worry about posting official information being posted (subject to approval), some teachers’ official university evaluations will be available on their rating page). Feedback network between students, professors, and administration. Replace CULPA Create more valid data set Rating breakdown Average grade feature Augment University’s Current System Class Recommendations Browse for classes by subject, school, or department Used book trading system (shows asking price from seller, plus price comparisons from Amazon) Site does not take commission. 
The Good Ship Spectator is in limited production this week, hibernating today in honor of midterm exams. Satisfy your desire for a daily dose of QuickSpec with a round up of Spec's ever-so scintillating splogs. Wonder what Business School Dean R. Glenn Hubbard is up to these days?&nbsp; Still think he wants to be the Fed chairman?&nbsp; Latino Heritage, invisible no longer. Cooking with Spectacle, make New York's most infamous spinach dip. Tap into your Tuesday Trailers courtesy of Spectacle and realize begrudgingly that Jean Claude Van Damme is still acting. 
 More news about that Hermione Granger maybe-visit, not that you've been anxious about it or anything. Earlier, we had predicted that the next stop on Ms. Granger's southbound Tour D'Ivy would be the City of New York. One smitten commenter directed our attention to a recent Gawker Stalker sighting of our heroine, which confirmed our suspicions. Yesterday she was spotted coming out of the Adidas store on Broadway and Houston, which means she's practically on campus already. Basically! 
 White House Bureau Chief James Downie takes a break from studying to file another dispatch: It's midterm time. For most, this time of year&nbsp; inevitably leads to at least one or two sleepless nights, and many sleep-light nights. Of course, there's always that one person who just has to brag about how little they slept, or how many all-nighters they pulled. Yes, we know you worked hard - now we have our own books to study and papers to write. Go back to your home in Butler and get lost in a stack of Red Bull cans, because we do not care. After all, for lack of sleep, nothing we do will compare to what Senators McCain and Obama, and their staffs (and the reporters covering them) are going through this month. They bounce from rally to rally, often in several different states over the course of a day (so each rally can be on different local newscasts). The candidates shake thousands of hands, while their staffs have to respond even more instantaneously (if that is possible) to the rapidly changing newscycle, not sure which little story of hundreds will lead the newscasts and newspapers that night. And everyone has to do so without making a single mistake. All this runs until the final exam on November 4, with the American people as the graders. Rest assured, the staffs will be sleep-deprived, and the candidates will be hoarse. And now, the news: I've Left You...Far Behind: Barack Obama's lead in the Gallup Poll has grown to 7 points. The only candidate who ever gained seven points in Gallup to win the election was Ronald Reagan in 1980 (thanks in part to the single debate between Reagan and Carter right before the election, a luxury John McCain does not have). The Kid's Got A Chance: In the interests of balance, your correspondent presens Sean Oxendine of The Next Right on how John McCain is still very much in this election. The Final Debate: The final debate of the season takes place on Wednesday night at Hofstra University. Bob Schieffer of CBS will host, and the debate is supposed to focus on economic questions. Schieffer outlines his approach here. Numbering The Stars: As always, numbers are available here, here, here, and here. Bulletin from the North: Governor and VP Candidate Sarah Palin was found to have "abused her power" in the firing of a state trooper, in a state commission report released (not surprisingly) last Friday evening. I'll Share If You Share: TIME's Michael Scherer and The Atlantic's Marc Ambinder share their email exchange trying to decipher the McCain's campaign's strategy over the last week. Also, your correspondent does not like The Atlantic's redesign. The Young and The (Tragically) Hip: The Onion highlights a new attack ad on Obama, plus...McCain hipsters? Drive, Organize: Zach Exley at HuffPo profiles the remarkable organizing campaign of the Obama team. Look To The Horizon: Soren Dayton shares the pessimism quickly spreading among the conservative movement. Your correspondent will only note that, three to five years ago, this would have been the scene at a liberal convention. Senate Update: Barack Obama's gains have been mirrored in Senate polls, where the Democrats have a much better, though still unlikely shot at taking 60 seats. 538 breaks it down. Calendar Correction: PBS Frontline's "The Choice" actually runs this week. Your correspondent's recommendation still stands. 
 You have probably seen an ad for Oliver Stone's new biopic "W." (starring Josh Brolin, on the right, as the sitting president) and have been unsure what to make of it. Will this be chock full of half-baked conspiracy theories? A depressing psychological portrait? Most of all, is it worth your hard-earned dollars (or download time)?&nbsp; Well, Newsweek enlisted popular Columbia history professor (and the outgoing Provost who seems to have a little bit more time on his hand these days to comment about politics and the economy) Alan Brinkley to review the film, especially on historical grounds. His verdict? "There are no conspiracy theories, no wild speculations, no paranoia. Stone's film is not hagiography. It is not propaganda. It is, surprisingly, more or less fair." That gets Bwog at least a little more interested. &nbsp;Make you own judgment when the film hits theaters this Friday, October 17th. 
It's a good week for free food.&nbsp; Counseling and Psychological Services will be hosting a study break tonight from 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM with free pizza and giveaways (which Bwog assumes will also be free).&nbsp; That's 112a Hartley, for those of you who don't visit very often.
 Hooray for associate professor of history Pablo Piccato, who has just been named as the new Director of SIPA's Institute of Latin American Studies, a position which he'll occupy until 2011. Piccato is a scholar of Mexican history and has taught at the University since 1997. According to the email announcement, he's previously "served as director of undergraduate studies in the history department, associate director of the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, member of the University Senate, and an executive committee member in the departments of Spanish and Portuguese." He's also been described by a Bwog colleague as "adorable." Full email after the jump.&nbsp; NEW YORK, October 13, 2008 — Columbia University has announced the appointment of Pablo Piccato, associate professor of history, to lead the Institute on Latin American Studies at the School of International and Public Affairs. Piccato is a distinguished historian of Mexico with a focus on the modern intersection of crime, politics and culture. He will lead the center through July 2011. &nbsp; “Professor Piccato has played an active role at the institute since joining Columbia’s history department in 1997,” said John Coatsworth, dean of the School of International and Public Affairs. “His intellectual stewardship will be important in reestablishing the institute’s reputation as a leading center for the study of Latin America in the United States, and his administrative leadership will be crucial for implementing our new master’s degree program in Latin American and Caribbean studies.” &nbsp; Piccato has served as director of undergraduate studies in the history department, associate director of the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, member of the University Senate, and an executive committee member in the departments of Spanish and Portuguese. He is an advisory board member at the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California, San Diego. He has taught at Morelia, Xalapa, and Culiacán Universities in Mexico City. He was a member of the editorial board of Signos Históricos and is a member of the editorial boards of Law and History Review and Hispanic American Historical Review. &nbsp; “Columbia already has one of the strongest and most diverse groups of experts on Latin America in the United States,” said Pablo Piccato. “I hope to be able to serve the development of their research agendas and make the institute a shared space for the discussion and teaching of Latin America. Columbia is the ideal place to achieve this: our student body is increasingly interested in the region and New York itself is, in many ways, a Latin American city.” &nbsp; Piccato graduated from the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México in 1989 and earned his Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin in 1997. His published work includes City of Suspects: Crime in Mexico City, 1900-1931 (Duke University Press, 2001) and Congreso y Revolución: El parlamentarismo en la XXVI Legislatura (Cámara de Diputados, 1991). &nbsp; Forthcoming books include Mexican Crime Stories: Case Studies, Causes Célèbres, and Other True-to-Life Adventures in the Social Construction of Deviance, with Robert Buffington (University of New Mexico Press), and The Tyranny of Opinion: Honor in the Construction of the Mexican Public Sphere (Duke University Press). He is currently working on a political biography of poet Salvador Díaz Mirón and on a history of Mexican civil society’s responses to crime from the 1920s to the present. 
 After the extravaganza that was the Obamacain ServiceNation Forum, other presidential candidates apparently could not help but get in on the action. According to McClatchy, three third-party candidates will be debating at Columbia this Sunday. Ralph Nader (independent), Cynthia McKinney (Green), and Chuck Baldwin (Constitution) will all participate in a debate moderated by Amy Goodman of Pacifica Radio. Libertarians will be disappointed to learn that nominee Bob Barr will not be participating. According to McClatchy, "Barr said he has a scheduling conflict, but debate organizers say he wanted to appear only with Nader." The debate will be carried on C-SPAN and www.thirdpartyticket.org. UPDATE (7:55 PM): The debate is being sponsored by CPU, and will take place in 417IAB at 8 p.m. As for tickets, CPU Communications Director Lauren Salz tells Bwog that CPU is "making every effort to reserve as many seats as possible for CUID holders. Registration details will be announced as soon as possible, probably sometime tomorrow." 
In which Bwog Lecture Hop Editor Pierce Stanley braved his way through the masses in the IAB elevators to make it to the ultimate floor and IAB's most spectacular conference center for a talk on Literature and Terror hosted by the Institute for Religion, Culture, and Public Life. The Columbia Institute for Religion, Culture, and Public Life continued its blazing emergence onto the academic scene tonight with its second event in an on-going series entitled Literature and Terror.&nbsp; This evening, graduate students of the Arts packed into the ornate Kellogg Room at the top of IAB to join a handful of undergraduates, religion professors, and fans of one of today's most accomplished young writers, Philip Gourevitch, editor of the Paris Review and frequent contributor to the New Yorker, to watch as George Plimpton's protege joined Richard Locke, Professor of Writing at the School of the Arts in conversation about Gourevitch's most recent work concerning the American atrocities at Abu Ghraib, entitled Standard Operating Procedure. The chair of Columbia's religion department, Mark Taylor, introduced the participants and he posited the general questions that underpin the Literature and Terror series: how does one cast terror in political or religious terms and why and how do we respond to terror in the ways that we do?&nbsp; Gourevitch and Locke were on hand to address these basic questions, yet ultimately succeeded more in relating the role of fiction to terror and providing a number of assertions about the failed policies of the Bush administration that led to the atrocities at Abu Ghraib in the first place. Gourevitch, widely acclaimed for his 1998 best-seller We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed With Our Families, winner of a slew of prizes including the National Book Critics Circle Award and&nbsp;was the basis for the Oscar-nominated movie Hotel Rwanda, kicked off the event by discussing the role of fiction in his life. Later, he discussed the profound sense of fiction that seems to pervade the collection of narratives of American soldiers that seem to make up much of Standing Operating Procedure, immortalized recently in a feature-length documentary by Gourevitch's film-maker colleague, Errol Morris.&nbsp; While Gourevitch suggested that Standing Operating Procedure is merely a taste of what took place at Abu Ghraib and some of the insider sentiments that surrounded that iconic event, he suggested that the over 2 million words of interview transcript held in Morris's office is the place to go when seeking the true reality of the situation. While Gourevitch suggested that he can never tell the difference between fiction and reality in his writings, he nevertheless always returns to the point of view of fiction.&nbsp; Therefore, while much of his work may be nonfiction, it is ultimately characterized intensely by the elements of fiction that remain dear to him.&nbsp; Moreover, Gourevitch in the process of identifying for the viewers the impact of fiction on his understanding of the world and its political conflicts, suggested that fiction, like terror is something internal and always has political motivations. Locke, with his typical wit that been known to grace the pages of the New York Review of Books and other highbrow literary magazines asked Gourevitch pointedly, "Why are you drawn to repellent subjects?"&nbsp; Gourevitch simply suggested that his affinity for topics relating to violence and terror give the American reader, who frequently is quite detached from those realities, an opportunity to engage a part of the human experience that sometimes we tend to forget about.&nbsp; Gourevitch explained that his books expose a political side of humanity that perhaps suggests "a much cruder vision of humanity than we imagine it to be." For Gourevitch, the project of Standard Operating Procedure was one of American idealism, an attempt to write a patriotic book through a series of frames that comment briefly on the nature of "evil" without ever explicitly stating the word.&nbsp; While Locke and others seemed to be puzzled by Gourevitch's odd approach to discussing the nature of evil, for tonight's viewers this event showed the bravado with which some authors are willing to undertake even the dirtiest of political topics.&nbsp; Gourevitch's willingness to hang on to his claims about terror and the Bush administration were at times shocking to the viewer, but widely appreciated for their sincerity and apparent rawness. 
 News trucks for the local ABC and FOX affiliates were spotted outside of Ricky's, to report on a series of assaults that took place on Sunday night. Seven students were assaulted between 12:00 and 1:00 a.m. Sunday morning, between 113th and 122nd Streets, along both Amsterdam and Broadway. Only one student was actually robbed, according to ABC7's report, but all were physically assaulted. Happily, the suspects were clearly captured on video camera, which led to a picture of them (seen at right, courtesy the Department of Public Safety) in a campus alert from Public Safety.&nbsp; One suspect has been arrested. Yet, despite posters being put up in a few locations on campus, and a short report carried in the Spectator, in almost two days since the incident, Columbia University Public Safety has made no other comments to any press at this time, nor has it sent out an email alert to the campus. Bwog repeatedly contacted Public Safety for comment, but was told to talk to Public Affairs.&nbsp; We will keep you updated as more news comes in. Photo from Public Safety via Spectator UPDATE 9:43 PM, TUESDAY: As several commenters have noted, Barnard students received a security alert late last night. This email is below, courtesy of Bwog informant Robyn Schneider. UPDATE 10:56 PM, TUESDAY: Law students received a similar email late Sunday night as well. Hat tip to law schooler John Koerner. UPDATE 9:33 AM, WEDNESDAY: Columbia Public Safety has circulated via e-mail a PDF message from James McShane. Contents after the jump. UPDATE 12:45 pm, THURSDAY: NYPD Arrests 5 Suspects To the Barnard Community, The following Security Alerts have been posted by Columbia University. Photos of suspects wanted for the Assault crimes will be posted on the red security boards throughout our campus. I am sending this out as a reminder to always be ALERT and AWARE of your surroundings. AVOID distractions and ALWAYS tell someone where you are going and when you are expected back. Columbia University Department of Public Safety SECURITY ALERT: ROBBERY/ASSAULTS On Sunday, October 12, 2008, between midnight and 1a.m. seven students reported that they were assaulted in several different incidents while walking near the Morningside campus. In at least one case, the suspects took property from the victim. &nbsp;The students report being approached and/or surrounded by a group of five to seven black males ranging in age from 20-25 years old. &nbsp;The victims were physically assaulted by the group. &nbsp;The suspects attacked victims in various locations including West 113 St. near Broadway, West 114 St. between Broadway and Amsterdam Ave., West 117 St. and Amsterdam Ave., and West 122 St. and Broadway. If you have any information about these crimes or are aware of any other incidents, contact the 26 Pct. Detective Squad at 212-678-1351, 52 or 53. If you observe anyone acting in a suspicious or threatening manner, dial 911 immediately and attempt to find a safe location. Bike Owners, There has been a spike in bike thefts on the Columbia campus. Please do not use any type of wire / cable locks to secure your bike, they can easily be cut and your bike stolen. Please use a U-shape type lock to secure your frame &amp; tire to a bike rack. Please avoid securing your bike to a handrail, stairwell or to the poles and chains that separate the grass and cement on the Low Plaza or College Walk. These poles can easily be removed and your bike stolen. To see a complete list of bike rack locations on campus please visit the CU Public safety website www.columbia.edu/cu/publicsafety Campus Bike racks are for daily use, NOT for long time storage. CU Public Safety offers FREE bike registration with the NYPD &amp; CU by appointment, a unique ID number is engraved on the bike and a non-removable Police sticker is placed on the bike. Public Safety also offers discount bike locks as little as $15. The Club Ultra U-lock- &nbsp;$15 The Krytonite NY U-lock- &nbsp;$50 The NY Forgetaboutit Chain- $75 Bike locks can be purchased in room 111 Low Library Mon-Fri &nbsp;9a-5p. Morningside Campus At the Medical Center campus 24 hrs in room 109 William Black Bldg. For more information on bike registration &amp; bike locks please call 854-8513. A Message to the Columbia Community from Vice President for Public Safety James F. McShane Tuesday, October 14, 2008 As you may already know, a number of members of the Columbia community were assaulted late Saturday evening near campus. I am writing to update you on the status of this investigation and to inform you of some important Public Safety services that are available to you. With respect to the investigation, one of the suspects was apprehended that night after being identified by a witness. At this point, we believe that all of these assaults were committed by the same group of young men over an approximately 50 minute period. Our video security system has provided the police and public with essential information in the investigation. We are, therefore, hopeful that additional arrests will be made shortly. In the meantime, I would like to remind you of some important things that our Department of Public Safety has been doing to maintain the security and well being of our University community. First of all, uniformed Public Safety personnel are stationed at fixed locations throughout the Morningside area and on the uptown Medical Center campus. These include guard booths at the main gates on 116th Street at both Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue, which are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week. These posts are supplemented by foot , bicycle and motorized patrols that provide a highly visible presence in the areas around both campuses. In recent months, we have increased our foot and motorized patrols throughout the area. All of our undergraduate residences are staffed by Public Safety personnel or trained student aides who control access to these buildings on a 24 hour basis. All students and visitors are screened. We also operate two 24-hour emergency operations centers, one on each campus. On the Morningside campus, we can be reached in an emergency by dialing 212-854-5555 on any phone. For routine business, you can reach us by calling 212-854-2797. At the Medical Center, the emergency response number is 212-305-7979. There is also an extensive system of video cameras that we use to investigate crimes. In addition, emergency call boxes, that connect directly to our 24 hour operations centers, are installed in strategic locations across both campuses and surrounding areas. Last year we introduced a text messaging system which can be used to transmit emergency messages to portable devices such as cell phones. Initially, the service was available only to the student body. This year, it was made available to faculty and staff, as well. Finally, we have a staff of highly trained investigators who work hand in hand with the N.Y.P.D. to investigate matters that relate to the Columbia campuses. We are in daily contact with the 26th Precinct detectives. We also employ a number of Crime Prevention Initiatives of which not everyone may be aware. For example, we operate a Morningside Heights shuttle service that provides scheduled service throughout the Morningside campus area during the evening hours, between 7:00 P.M. and 11:00 P.M. Thereafter, this shuttle service offers on-call service between 11:00 P.M and 2:00 A.M. daily. This service ranges as far south as 103rd Street and as far north as 135th Street. Resources permitting, we supplement this service with patrol vehicles. Last semester we added an additional point to point shuttle vehicle which operates between the hours of 10 P.M. and 6 A.M. We also offer an escort service where trained students will accompany you to your door any time from 7:00 P.M. until 3:00 A.M. This service is available between 108th Street and 122nd Street. At the Medical Center, escorts are available between W. 165th Street and W. 181st Street. For this service, call 212-854-SAFE on the Morningside Campus and 212-305-8100 on the Medical Center Campus. Additionally, Operation “Safe Haven” provides 65 storefront locations across both campuses where people who may feel threatened can take refuge. The merchants will call Public Safety and/or the N.Y.P.D. who will respond immediately. Look for the “Red Lion” sticker in the window of the store. Finally, we are sponsoring a ‘Street Smarts’ seminar on Wednesday, October 29th, at 6 P.M. in Jerome Green Hall, Room 103. This seminar will feature important crime prevention presentations from members of Public Safety and the N.Y.P.D. All are invited to attend. The Department of Public Safety is here to keep you safe. We look forward to working together with all of you to keep our environment secure. I encourage anyone with a concern to contact Public Safety at 212-854-2797, day or night. For more information about Public Safety and the services we provide, please also see our annual Security Report online at: http://www.columbia.edu/cu/publicsafety/SecurityReport.pdf. 
Spec is still hibernating, so today we're giving you the best of the rest of the New York print media. The Booker Prize goes to a student with a Columbia connection!&nbsp; Move over Orhan, we've got a new novelist in town. The WSJ opines that the nationalization of the banks might actually work, at the same time it reports that profs at the B-school and the Econ department also favor avoiding a depression. The Daily News thinks that for McCain, Nam is nothing compared to Long Island.&nbsp; NY Mag reports that Trader Joe's is putting on a fur coat and moving to the UWS.&nbsp; Cheap beer and pasta to abound. NY Post tells us that maybe Michael Martin Chalfie doesn't deserve this Nobel.&nbsp; Bwog suspects this might be a case of sore-loser-syndrome. 
 We've been hearing a lot about Business School professors opposing the government bailing out Wall Street investment banks, but according to IvyGater Robyn Schneider, they have no problem bailing out their vending machines.&nbsp; They have lowered the prices of Luna Bars and Vitamin Waters so that even the poorest MBA student can afford them.&nbsp; The move has put Uris Hall into the upper echelons of campus automatic refreshment dispensers along with Mathematics and Schermerhorn, which feature the $1.50 Nantucket Nectar (the best price in Morningside until the Business School came along) and the cafe between Journalism and Furnald that sells $1 Wolfgang Puck hot chocolate. Bwog, however, will always have a soft spot for this little guy. Photo by Robyn Schneider via After the Gates UPDATE, 10/16, 11AM: The vending machines on the first floor of Mudd (the real first floor, not campus level) have joined the Defend Your Dollar program, too.&nbsp; This one might actually help people, as most Mudd-dwellers live off vending machine food and the occasional mac and cheese from Carleton Lounge. 
Columbia professor/economics all-star Joseph Stiglitz was on the Colbert Report last night. "You're not my first Nobel Laureate," Colbert informed him. Topics discussed included fellow Nobel-ers Paul Krugman and Al Gore, and the possible existence of "Nobel groupies." Of course, the bulk of the conversation revolved around the economy, and why yesterday's Dow points gain isn't the end of any crisis. Colbert asks if Iraq is the answer, Stiglitz says it's part of the problem. 
CPU has released ticketing information for the Columbia-hosted Presidential Debate that will include Ralph Nader, Cynthia McKinney and Chuck Baldwin.&nbsp; There will be 275 of the 400 seats reserved for CUID holders and you can get them either here or at the Lerner Lobby.&nbsp; The debate is this Sunday, 8 p.m. in 417 IAB.&nbsp; Full email from CPU is after the jump. &nbsp;Dear members of the Columbia Political Union, I'm very happy to announce that the Columbia Political Union will be hosting a Presidential Debate here at Columbia University this Sunday evening. &nbsp;We have invited all six candidates eligible to win the Presidency. &nbsp;We expect that most, if not all, of the candidates other than Senators Barack Obama and John McCain will attend, making this the only third party Presidential debate in this election. &nbsp;It is our privilege and honor to host this event at Columbia University. The Columbia Political Union is committed to energizing political discourse on Columbia's campus. &nbsp;As a non-partisan organization, we work to provide the Columbia community with opportunities to encounter and engage with political ideas across a wide ideological spectrum and on a wide range of issues. &nbsp;It is with these goals in mind that we have organized this Presidential Debate: to give all candidates -- either within or outside of the political "mainstream" -- the opportunity to speak directly to students and to the nation about their goals on the issues they deem critical for this country. We have reserved 275 of the 400 available seats for CUID holders in order to enable as many students as possible to attend the event. &nbsp;Tickets will be distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis. &nbsp;The debate will be televised nationally on C-SPAN, so those who are unable to obtain tickets will be able to watch from home. &nbsp;Please see the announcement below for details of the event and how to get tickets. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE Presented by&nbsp;the&nbsp;Columbia Political Union 8:00 PM Sunday, October 19, 2008 Altschul Auditorium | 417 International Affairs Building Doors open at 7:00 PM Confirmed Candidates: Ralph Nader (Independent) Cynthia McKinney (Green Party) Chuck Baldwin (Constitution Party) Moderated by&nbsp; Amy Goodman, host of Pacifica Radio's&nbsp;Democracy Now! For tickets, visit the ticket booth in Lerner Hall lobby or visit&nbsp;http://www.ovationtix.com/trs/pe/837932 -If you need special accommodations for a disability, please let us know at cpu@cupolitics.org by Friday evening at 5PM. -No bags, signs, or posters of any kind will be allowed into the auditorium. -Attendees are expected to be respectful of the candidates and fellow audience members in accordance with the University Code of Conduct. Note: This event is wholly sponsored by the Columbia Political Union, an independent, non-partisan student group. &nbsp;Columbia University does not support or oppose candidates for political office and any opinions expressed related to this event do not represent the views of the University. 
 Terrible, terrible news as Morningside standby Amir's has been shuttered due to health code violations. And it only violated 11 points' worth of your health during its last inspection in January. Bwog tried calling the ill-fated falafel distributor for comment, but after a few rings, the phone just cut off.&nbsp; Close-up of the notice and the Department of Health's list of grievances–and the fate of Amir's!–after the jump. Photos by Anish Bramhandkar Jessica Scaperotti, who works in media relations at the Department of Health, talked to Bwog Culinary Bureau Chief Jon Hill about the restaurant's specific violations, which include: Cold food being stored above proper temperatures Food not being cooled by the appropriate methods (Considering there are only so many ways to cool food, Bwog wonders what was going on) Roaches in the food storage area Evidence of a fly infestation Says Scaperotti: "As soon as the situation is rectified, they can contact the Department of Health for a subsequent inspection." 
Welcome back to Bwog's latest feature, "In Defense Of..." Here, a writer defends something that most students consider useless, inferior, or downright loathsome. In doing so, Bwog hopes to bring you a new perspective, and give the subject the appreciation it deserves...or not. This time it's Blue and White Managing Editor Katie Reedy defending camp-outs in Butler. This fall, the library staff announced they would be closing the 24-hour rooms in Butler for one hour each early morning, during which time they will dislodge the human barnacles who have spent their night drooling over tomes and problem sets, as well as any stray non-approved beverage containers and other such flotsam. Friends, they have declared a crusade against camping. After denying us access to bars and dorm parties, Columbia has robbed us of our alternative nocturnal pastime. What do they expect us to do between four and five a.m.? Surely not... sleep? Sleep is something we do on intermittent days off. Then, we sleep and sleep until we've healed our stress wounds. Or, if our schedules allow it, we sleep 'til noon on weekdays, then stay up 'til two or three. No one said Columbia was a healthy place. Camping mitigates some of the stresses of midterms and finals season. If you can manage to concentrate, camping is a great way to increase efficiency and minimize transaction costs. With all of your books and computer supplies in one place, a good stack of paper and pencils, and a never-ending supply of coffee and orange juice from Blue Java, the effective camper can conquer any courseload. Library fines got you down? No worries--you never have to bring the book outside! For the camper who likes company, group efforts--such as establishing an "alcove" or commandeering a row of seats in "the ref"--have their own benefits. A group of friends can share notes, calculators, headphones, keyboards, USB keys, aspirin, Airborne, cookies, caffeine pills, air mattresses, and water. If you pick a good group, they will help and encourage you, and stare at you disapprovingly when you wander onto Facebook. "Do you want a B-!?" one friend once asked another repeatedly, nearly making him cry. No, no he did not want a B-, and after several sleepless study sessions, a B- he did not get. Camping builds community and camaraderie. It's also a bit thrilling, as any veteran camper knows. There are hours, usually between three and six, when Butler becomes a very eerie place. Bedraggled, lank-haired denizens shamble back and forth in hallways. Small, beady-eyed law students burst into alcoves and launch tirades at horrified undergrads. People pass out on the floor, covered only with thin CU sweatshirts. The atavistic scramble and the endless parade of freaks are frightening enough to kick the lazy paper-writer into gear. After all, the intention is not to linger in Butler but to get out as soon as possible, home for the holidays or down to the business of summer. And the real benefit to camping in Butler is being able to cut oneself off from campus and society--for a night, five days, two weeks--to focus wholly on academic tasks. After all, as any reference room camper will recognize, "A man is but what he knoweth." 
 Dr. Rosalind Franklin, the woman who took the picture that provided James Watson and Francis Crick with the "critical evidence" for their model of DNA, was posthumously awarded an Honorary Horowitz Prize by the Columbia University Medical Center yesterday.&nbsp; When employed at King's College London, she worked with x-ray diffraction analysis of DNA and took the picture below, which showed the inner structure of DNA's double helix.&nbsp; Her work was shown to Watson and Crick before it was published, so they did not properly cite her in their series of seminal articles published in Nature in 1953.&nbsp; The Prize Committee chose to give the Horowitz to Franklin because of her vast contributions to the field of modern biology and so that she could be a role model to young women in science.&nbsp; Franklin, who died in 1958, was not eligible to receive the Nobel Prize because the award, given to Watson, Crick and Maurice Wilkins in 1962, is never given posthumously.&nbsp; The Horowitz was the first major prize awarded to Franklin for her work. The 2008 Horowitz Prize went to F. Ulrich Hartl, M.D. and Arthur Horwich, M.D. for their collaborative work in understanding the role of protein folding in Alzheimer's Disease. 
 Catch the final installment of the exciting presidential debate series tonight at 9 PM. Your favorite campus political enthusiasts—the CUGOP, the Dems, and CPU—will be watching this thing in Lerner Cinema.&nbsp; If you're stuck studying, try procrastinating with some liveblogs. Bwog recommends New York Times' the Caucus, Wonkette and Jonathan Martin/Ben Smith of Politico. 
So, having flubbed Spec’s tricky midterm schedule (just go read yesterday’s issue), we’re back again to Quicking something else—this time last night’s final presidential debate, conclusively won by some guy named Joe. Politico’s Ben Smith - who is obsessed - uncovers that Joe isn’t registered to vote! Slate’s John Dickerson anticipates a feud with Bob the Builder The Times’ Gail Collins: give that man a “really fancy blog”! The New Republic wonders if he’s met Joe Six-Pack E. J. Dionne says that Joe thinks Obama is a socialist McArdle worries we’re focusing too much on the fate of Plumbing Americans And Joe himself:&nbsp; “you can speak pretty, but there’s gotta be action behind it” (…although, via Wonkette, it appears he may be an impostor!) 
 It may not be as fancy as Experience Columbia's campaign site, but a CCSC 2009 class council member has tipped us off to the Council's new-ish beta site (they haven't advertised it widely, at least), which replaces the never-used, never-updated baby blue version of yore. This one, in patriotic red and cobalt, currently houses a few shreds of useful information--including an archive of resolutions presented in the last several years--and promises more. The 2009 section is a good place to go for your senior agenda, because a) who reads Mark Johnson's e-mails, and b) graduation is too freaking close for comfort. Happy surfing! 
Early this morning, local media reported that five youths were arrested for the seven assaults last Sunday. From the Daily News: Investigators captured four of the suspects Wednesday after a 17-year-old picked up on Tuesday ratted out his pals, sources said. The public also helped out by phoning in tips after police released video of the hoods walking around the Ivy League school's campus in Morningside Heights. Columbia University surveillance cameras recorded a giggling group of seven youths punching and shoving seven adults during a 20-minute spree early Sunday. Two victims needed stitches. Plus, WNBC names names. 
 A big Bwog welcome to C-Spot, "a new erotic review produced by Columbia students," which we delightedly noticed on stands yesterday. This campus has been bereft of an honest-to-god sex magazine since the short life of Outlet--which never even ended up in print, and is sadly no longer available online--as has Harvard, whose flash-in-the-pan H-Bomb also ceased publication last year. This professionally (and tastefully!) photographed enterprise features mostly African-American models (including Onyx demigod and campus character Ehizoje Azeke), as well as a personal essay on Craigslist modeling gigs, a review of strip clubs, and the truth about vibrators. C-Spot's mysterious appearance follows news that the BDSM club Convirsio Virium is launching its own "academic journal"--all Bwog wants to know is, will this sudden infusion of literotica stimulate our sex-poor existences, or just compensate for them? 
 Right now now now outside the 116th Gates is a cute little truck giving away Pom's new iced coffee product, which seems like their answer to the Frappuccino, and asking for feedback. It's a frenzy! And in approximately three hours--from 5 to 6pm--try some Hungarian wines at the almost-brand-new Vino Fino, just a few blocks north on Amsterdam. We presume they'll be carding, but maybe not, and regardless it's a classy way to start the evening for those of age. 
Right outside Lerner, the Lubavitchers are here! A caravan to bring you Orthodox cheer. The Sukkah Mobile may seem somewhat queer, but they come in peace--that much is clear. 
Hawkmadinejad, Winged Hero of Morningside, appears to have returned to campus. O, glorious return! Your bird has been spotted outside of Hamilton (correction: where he promptly devoured a pigeon), Butler (where he promptly devoured a pigeon) and Riverside and 109th. More photos of his fearfulness and sublimity below! Saakashtweety, prepare thyself. &nbsp;Photo by Lauren Weiss Photo by Hans E Hyttinen Photo by Hans E Hyttinen Thanks to tipsters John Klopfer, Lauren Weiss, Ruqayyah Abdul-Karim and Anina Hewey! 
All is not textbooks and review sessions--blow off midterm steam in the city. It's why you're here! Friday Shhhhh! 9pm-6am 3LD Art &amp; Technology Center 80 Greenwich St (212.645.0374) It’s a party, and you’ll come if you want to!&nbsp; Want to support 3-Legged Dog, that is, an experimental theater group.&nbsp; It’s an open bar with DJs that promise to hip-hop and funkify the dance floor all night long. Price: $15.00 at the door, $10 in advance Filth and Wisdom Premier Various times, IFC Center 323 6th Ave (212.924.7771) Madonna has made a movie.&nbsp; If you’re excited (or just curious), check it out. Price: $12.00 Saturday Housing Works Warehouse Sale 10am-4pm Housing Works Warehouse 48-49 35th St If you feel like your wardrobe is missing that special designer or vintage edge, put on your game face and head into the fray.&nbsp; People have been known to line up for hours in order to get first grabs—it’s disorganized for sure, but the selection can’t be beat.&nbsp; To top it off, all pieces are $20.00(!), and all proceeds go to help HIV/AIDS patients. Zombiecon Various times and locations It’s the fourth year in a row of the zombie invasion!&nbsp; It’s a flash mob of decked-out zombies that roams out into Manhattan to horrify locals and jumpy tourists alike.&nbsp; Go and see, or dress up and wander.&nbsp; Sign up on the website. Price:&nbsp;&nbsp; Free New York Cares Day 2008 9:30am-3:30pm, various locations Join over 8,000 New Yorkers to fix up NYC public schools.&nbsp; Individual registration has closed, but you can still show up.&nbsp; Price: Free Sunday National Design Week Starts Sunday and goes until Oct. 25th Cooper-Hewitt 2 East 91st St (212.849.8400) The Smithsonian's Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum opens Sunday for an admission-free week of programs and exhibits.&nbsp; See website for programming, or stop by anytime to enjoy all things design. Price: Free Joseph O’Neill: Netherland 7pm KGB Bar 85 E 4th St (212.505.3360) Sure, The Great Gatsby was good, but it wasn’t about post-9/11 New York.&nbsp; This novel has had the literary world a-buzzing—check out why. Price: Free - Sara Jane Panfil 
 The Spec returns today, and so does QuickSpec! It's...Harlem residents once again concerned about the economy. It's...a CCSC resolution on off-campus events. It's...a rather different kind of play. It's...everyone at Columbia using weird language. It's...Raskolnikov being rejected from Columbia. 
 The Friday Sports Roundup returns. Football: The football team ended its non-Ivy League play with a discouraging loss to Lafayette, 13-3. While allowing 151 yards on the ground, the Lions could only rush for 30 yards themselves, and they were only able to put together one drive that lasted more than seven plays. This week, Columbia heads to Philadelphia to play Penn (2-2) at 1 p.m, the first of its six remaining Ivy League games. Penn comes off a 27-7 victory over Georgetown, and two weeks ago beat Dartmouth 23-10. Fan buses for those who want to attend will leave from the 116th Street gates at 9:30 a.m. The game will also be broadcast on WKCR and 970AM. Women's Soccer: The women's soccer team extended its unbeaten streak to eight games. Last Friday, the Lions tied Penn in Philadelphia, 1-1. Junior Sophie Reiser scored her eighth goal of the season in the 33rd minute, but Penn tied the game in the 70th to keep the Lions at 2-0-1 in the Ivy League. On Sunday, the team pounded another non-Ivy League opponent, defeating Marist 6-1. First-year Nora Dooley had two goals, and Reiser, junior Ashley Mistele, first-year Ashlin Yahr, and sophomore Keri Nobil all added to the tally. Reiser capped the week by being named to two national teams of the week. The Lions now have four Ivy League games left, starting tomorow against Princeton at home at 4 p.m, as part of Soccer Homecoming. Men's Soccer: The men's soccer team continued their up-and-down season this past week, with a big win in conference play and a disappointing midweek loss. On Saturday, the Lions won a huge game over Penn, 2-1, for their first win in Ivy League Play since 2005.&nbsp; Senior Scott Strickland scored his first goal of his career just as the first half was ending, and sophomore Bayo Adafin would add his fifth goal of the season in the 69th minute to put Columbia over the top. At the time, Penn was ranked 19th in the country, making the game the team's second win over a ranked opponent this year. On Tuesday, though, the team had a difficult 2-1 loss at home to Adelphi. Sophomore Pepe Carotenuto gave the Lions the lead in the 68th, but Adelphi equalized ten minutes later, and scored the winning goal two minutes into overtime. The men's team plays Princeton at home tomorrow night at 7 p.m., as part of Soccer Homecoming. Field Hockey: The field hockey team won twice this past week, with a 2-1 overtime win over Holy Cross on Sunday, and a 3-0 win over Hofstra on Wednesday. First-year Desi Scherf scored the overtime winner against Holy Cross, and junior forward Christine Buszczak set a new single-season record for assists against Hofstra. This weekend, the team hopes to turn around its Ivy fortunes when it travels to Penn on Sunday. Volleyball: Conference play has not been kind to the volleyball team. Last weekend, the team lost 3-0 to Princeton on Friday and Penn on Saturday, to fall to 0-4 in the Ivy League, and 5-8 overall. This weekend, the Lions hit the road, playing at Dartmouth today, and Harvard tomorrow. Tennis: Junior Mihai Nichifor won the 'A' singles title at the Columbia Classic without dropping a set, and he and teammate Haig Schneiderman also made it to the doubles final (where they lost to Cornell). On the women's side, first-years Eliza Matache and Emilia Monell won the Flight IV doubles title at the USTA National Tennis Center Invitational. This weekend, the men play at ITA Regional Championships in New Haven, while the women have the weekend off. Cross-Country: Both the men's and women's teams won the team titles at the Metropolitan Championships, held in Van Cortlandt Park. Junior Robert Hartnett won the men's race outright. This weekend, they travel to Terre Haute, Indiana, for Pre-Nationals, before returning home for the Ivy League championships in two weeks. Golf: The men's golf team just missed out on a first-place finish in the ECAC Championships, finishing behind Yale by one stroke. Sophomore Austin Quinten finished fourth individually. The women's team finished fourth at the Richmond Invitational, with junior Stevy Loy finishing third overall. This weekend, the men host the Columbia Invitational, while the women do not play this weekend. 
 In July, Columbia said goodbye to longtime Dean of Student Affairs Chris Colombo. Now, Kevin Shollenberger has been appointed as his replacement as Dean of Student Affairs. Shollenberger had been serving as interim dean since Colombo left. Before becoming dean, Shollenberger was Associate Dean of Student Affairs for nine years. He is best known among students&nbsp;for his role in organizing the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Office of Student Group Advising, and various other parts of Columbia's bureaucratic alphabet soup. Bwog, of course, will always love him for looking as dapper as he did at the ServiceNation summit (see picture). 
 Looking for some student theater in your life? Bwog reviews the latest production from the CU Players. Having had only a month to put the production together, the CU Players (or "CUPS," better-known for the plastic cups handed out during the activities fair) did a more-than-credible job of mixing the Bronx with the Bible Thursday night. It was tentative and cliched in the beginning, complete with the awkward hand gestures of nervous actors.&nbsp; However as the performance went on and the audience warmed to the cast, the characters quickly fleshed out and captivated the viewer. The Last Days of Judas Iscariot takes place in a courtroom in Purgatory.&nbsp; Two lawyers battle it out to determine whether Judas, Jesus' final betrayer, ought to be sent to Heaven.&nbsp; As one theatergoer put it, the theme was a "masturbatory" nod to the Core.&nbsp; Gurgis, the playwright, offers a modern interpretation of many stories related to Judas' life that are often taken for granted. The CUPlayers production put an extra spin on that modernity, adding "urban" clothing to a play already peppered with modern obscenities and slang. Whether by design or by direction, Last Days was more of a character sketch.&nbsp; And the characters were mostly superb, even the oddly overdone (but hilarious) Saint Monica-from-the-block.&nbsp; Nafkote Tamirat's colorful El-Fayoumy, the prosecutor from Heaven, bounded across the small stage and interrogated the witnesses with infectious energy.&nbsp; Her character was hindered somewhat by the accent she chose: combined with her quick tongue, many audience members had difficulty understanding what she was saying, a condition that affected several other characters as well.&nbsp; The director's choice of completely unnecessary sound effects made the listening even more difficult. The cast was fantastic.&nbsp; Morgan Childs made us shudder and pine for her supremely suave Satan, and Fergus Scully's Pontius Pilate, delightfully New Jerseian, melted into a defensive mess under the righteousness of Cunningham (Rosie DuPont), lawyer to Judas Iscariot.&nbsp; DuPont really shined in the final scenes of the play, having been rather quiet and unobtrusive for the first half, bringing a life of despair into her voice without hamming it up.&nbsp; The program noted that CUPS cast seventeen actors instead of the ten that the script called for, making for a lot of down time for many actors.&nbsp; One wonders whether any depth was lost this way. In the end, it was Jesus (Ashley Butler) -- humble, constant, confident -- who made the audience feel the weight of the story.&nbsp; The climax came quickly, almost too quickly to digest, but Butler managed to harness that energy to convey the final tones of the play. Overall, definitely try to see it. There are performances tonight at 7PM and 10PM, and Saturday at 2PM (sold out, free) and 8PM. Photo: "Concious, Judas" - Nikolaj Nikolajewitsch Ge - 1891 
 With so many&nbsp;politicians debating America's foreign policy,&nbsp;others may be wondering what they can do for international relations. For its part, Columbia's music department has come up with a cool event to interact more with friends across the Atlantic. It is partnering with the Conservatoire National de Musique de Paris and the two Berlin Academies of Music to put together a series of concerts that will be held in Berlin, Paris, and New York this fall. In each city, students and professors will work with graduate student composers on their original works, which will premier at the concerts. Professors will also travel between the various institutions to give lectures in the run-up to the concerts. Maybe it's just Friday optimism, but Bwog finds the cross-continental collaboration inspiring. The New York concert is scheduled for Saturday, November 1st (Election Day weekend), at Merkin Hall on West 67th. Admission will be free. 
 With such a short time before the election, apparently even third-party candidates are prone to last-minute cancellations. The CPU-sponsored debate between Ralph Nader, Cynthia McKinney, and Chuck Baldwin that was scheduled for Sunday evening in Lerner has been cancelled. In an email sent a short awhile ago, CPU Communications Director Lauren Salz wrote, "Due to circumstances beyond our control, several of the candidates decided not to participate in the debate at the last minute." No word on which candidates spoiled the party first. CPU's next big event will be an appearance by Nebraska Republican Chuck Hagel, next Friday at 2:45 p.m. in Lerner Cinema. The full cancellation announcement is after the jump. It is with great regret that we must inform you that the Presidential debate scheduled for this Sunday evening, hosted by the Columbia Political Union (CPU), will not be taking place. Unfortunately, the nature of planning large-scale events with multiple participants, who at times have competing interests, is that nothing is ever set in stone until the very last moment.&nbsp; Such was the case with this event.&nbsp;&nbsp; Due to circumstances beyond our control, several of the candidates decided not to participate in the debate at the last minute.&nbsp; Though the CPU Executive Board worked tirelessly over the last 48 hours to make this event happen as planned, at 5 PM today we were finally forced to conclude it was no longer possible for us to host this event. Despite the fact that this event will not occur, we believe it is a great testament to Columbia students' interest in political discourse, their sense of civic responsibility, and their receptiveness to new ideas that all 275 tickets reserved for students were sold out within a day of being made available for an event on a Sunday evening before midterm exams. The CPU Executive Board is committed to elevating political discourse on Columbia's campus.&nbsp; We work to provide members of the Columbia community with opportunities to engage with political ideas across a wide ideological spectrum and on a range of issues.&nbsp; It was with these objectives in mind that we hoped to host this debate.&nbsp; Our only interest was to give all candidates –either inside or outside the political mainstream– the opportunity to speak directly to students and the nation about the issues they deem critical for this country.&nbsp; No one is more disappointed than us that this event will not be taking place. Though we are disappointed, we have many great events planned for this year, and we will continue to pursue opportunities like this one in the future.&nbsp;&nbsp; On Friday, October 24, at 2:45pm, the CPU will be hosting Senator Chuck Hagel (R-NE) in Lerner Cinema.&nbsp; We encourage everyone to attend this event.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Thank you for your interest in this event, and for your patience with us over the past few days.&nbsp; We hope to see you at our future events. Sincerely, Lauren Salz Communications Director Columbia Political Union LSalz@cupolitics.org &nbsp; 
No, it wasn't our fair University Professor, but three religious scholars who gathered in Roone Arledge Auditorium today to discuss God, truth and the other. Bwog Daily Editor and Sophomore Justin Vlasits reports. Having a coherent discussion among lay people about religion in any contemporary university is very, very difficult. In a setting that gets its defining characteristics from an unsteady mix of Enlightenment and post-colonial theory, like at Columbia, it is much more difficult. Today we saw the best attempt at it that I have ever seen—scholars from the three Abrahamic religions came together around their sacred texts and talked about how to approach them in a university setting. In his opening remarks, Rabbi Michael Paley of United Jewish Appeal-Federation of New York said perhaps the truest thing in the entire discussion: one always gets out of a text what one is looking for in it. If you approach the Tanakh from an historical point of view, you will look at sources, and get historical information. However, if you approach it from a religious perspective, the Tanakh becomes something completely different: a nuanced story with guides on how one can live righteously and come closer to God. And, Paley said, as much as he loved the historical approach to the text, at the end of the day what inspires him is narrative, like the one in Exodus of the liberation of an enslaved people, the making of a covenant with God and the return to a promise land. Brigitte Kahl of Union Theological Seminary and an ordained Lutheran minister added to Paley's thesis, remarking that in the vast number of interpretations of the Bible, one must always seek to contextualize the book in the Jewish tradition in order that one may get any kind of meaning out of it. Speaking last and representing the last of the religions, Mehnaz Afridi of Antioch University said that in order to study Islam, you must study Judaism and Christianity. Amidst jokes about who stole which stories from which traditions, important questions were raised by both moderator Roosevelt Montás (Michael Stanislawski had the flu; don't worry, Bwog sent flowers) and the panelists discussed the nature of monotheism and the otherness that such ideas create. What was so interesting about that discussion was how all of the scholars seemed insistent on the fact that they all believed in the same God, the same parables and the same stories, despite the fact of the completely different states of their religions today and, as Paley said, “religious discrepancies have filled streets with blood”. The scholars, in their explanations of their religions and the tolerance preached by them, consciously took the oldest ploy in the theological book, justifying all of their predominantly modern viewpoints about human and civil rights as well as tolerance with ambiguous biblical passages. For example, when discussing the Tower of Babel passage in Genesis, Afridi said that God could have made one nation, but made many nations instead because that was better. In short, the discussion fell short of the kind of critical discourse that is needed in theology today—they preferred to talk about similarities between their religions than differences—but they did have discourse, which is no small step. As Paley said at the close of his talk, “in this history of the world, this is an abnormal panel”. If in the safe-haven of multiculturalism we can begin to discuss discrepancies, unities between religions poised on opposite ends of a culture war, it may be possible to resolve these tensions constructively. I'm not holding my breath, but, then again, how often have you seen devout religious people come together and celebrate each others sacred texts? 
 The B-schoolers aren't the only ones effected by the recent economic downturn.&nbsp; It turns out undergrads are too! Instead of offering advice on how to save money, this week Bwog on a Budget returns with a special money-making feature.&nbsp; The long and the short of it is simple: Bwog is broke.&nbsp; Given our economic state, there's little sense in discussing how to save money since there's no money to be saved.&nbsp; Yes, indeed the time has come for Bwog to make some money. But when the times are tough, finding work is hard. &nbsp; And finding work is especially hard for Columbia students, who not only prefer not to waste their talent doing remedial labor but also have their cumbersome class schedules to take into account.&nbsp; And while the minority of employed folks may receive a steady flow of cash each month, by October 18th, September's paycheck certainly must have diminished. Bwog's done some research and discovered that Columbia's most lucrative resource is just where you'd expect to find lucrative things and people.&nbsp; Tucked away on the second floor of the business school library is Columbia's Behavioral Research Lab. &nbsp; If you are desperate enough, Bwog understands and suggests you sign up to receive the Behavioral Research Lab's bi-weekly announcements.&nbsp; At the end of each week, the Behavioral Research Lab sends out listings of the studies scheduled for the week to come.&nbsp; Participating in the studies requires very little effort or time commitment, give or take about half an hour.&nbsp; Just think in the time it takes you to walk to the Chase on 109th and back, you could make anywhere from five to twenty-five dollars by participating in one of these studies.&nbsp;&nbsp; Fifteen minutes of your time might seem worth more than eight bucks, but consider this: eight bucks easily covers the cost of a fancy drink at Campo or any other little treasure your frugality prevents you from purchasing.&nbsp;&nbsp; Right now, your plate maybe full with midterms, but come the end of the week you'll want to celebrate and wouldn't it be nice to have an extra twenty bucks? And if you're one of those types who derives mindless satisfaction from filling out forms and checking boxes, then you might even find the studies enjoyable.&nbsp; Studies usually consist of unobtrusive activities like answering questionnaires, responding to prompts or completing easy tasks with a group of other participants.&nbsp; The aim of most of the studies at the Behavioral Research Lab is to analyze consumer trends and spending psychology, so if you don't like mass marketing and all that jazz this might not be the occupation for you.&nbsp; But if you're like the rest of us and could use some fast cash, participating in behavioral research studies offers an easy and efficient way to up your income without finding a job or anything mature like that. 
 Last night, Bwog enjoyed the literary and cuisinary culture of the Latino-Caribbean&nbsp; with the volunteers and novice poets of Voices UnBroken. Bwog arrived to the Voices UnBroken Poetry Slam a little late last night, but there were still plenty of maduros to be eaten and plenty of amateur poets to be heard. The reading drew a relatively small group of socially inclined and literary minded students to pay tribute to the work of the Voices Unbroken volunteers, whose mission is to bring creative writing workshops to prisons, residential treatment facilities, and various other transitional settings in Spanish Harlem and the Bronx.&nbsp; Despite its small size, the event lasted a solid three hours and filled the auditorium on the fifth floor of Lerner with&nbsp; the smells of what could be called pan Latino-Caribbean cuisine and the sounds of what it is to be young and of color in New York. &nbsp; Although the poetry of isolation and ethnography can often air on pedestrian side of things, last night the poets expressed a remarkable sense of honesty and cogency. The student poets embraced the open-mic and unabashedly read, rapped and sung work that ranged from highly crafted mediations to recent observations to spur of the moment improvisations.&nbsp; &nbsp; It seemed all too auspicious that moments after Bwog arrived that one Stephan Vincenzo, infamously of CC '12, stepped up to the mic to read his lengthy Bildungsroman styled poem, "Where I am and Where I would be." And indeed his poetry is as epic as his persona. &nbsp; It took a few moments for Stephan to warm up but after a couple of muddled verses and cursory missed beats he soon gained composure and emphatically rapped the story of returning to his native Colombia with feelings of alienation and latent disenchantment. Although the the consistency of his rhymes were compelling at first, after five minutes the appeal wore thin. Interspersed with occasionally overwrought&nbsp; references to the Barrio, Stephan nonetheless managed to work in some candidacy and humor with lines like, "Eyes cold like Steve Austin." Jessica Johnson, CC '11, straddled all categories when she read a poem prosaically titled, "9/27/08 Downtown 1. Destination: Columbus Circle to Return a Book at Borders." What started out as seemingly commonplace reflection on the abundance of New York City panhandlers became a passionate, if unresolved, song about the ups and downs of coming to terms with racial assumptions, loosing touch with racial identity and general urban malaise. The highlight of Jessica's performance was the repeated refrain of The Temptations' classic, "Ain't Too Proud to Beg," which she belted out with excellent timing in a deep, rich timbre. The line gave her free verse poem not just consistency, but an innovative multi-media appeal that capitalized on the tension between the spoken and sung word. Jessica's performance paralleled one given by Tim France earlier in the night. With an easy sense of rhythm and pace, Tim rapped and recited reticent observations inspired by a cross-city train ride from Crown Heights to the Bronx. The distance traversed seemed to pave the way for the numerous leaps and free associations Tim made. His performance touched on everything from the highly personal with specific references to his Haitian heritage to the broad with the abstracted references to the Civil Rights movement.&nbsp; Despite the maelstrom of subject matter and personal reflection, Tim's bravado charmed the audience and left everyone hooting and hollering along with his halting beats and foot stomps. Although the majority of the poem expressed reflections on ethnicity, others offered refreshingly open insight on feeling lonely and insecure in college. Yes, the majority of these poems were written by freshmen.&nbsp; And yes, some of them were cloying.&nbsp; But one freshmen hybridized the broken English of AIM-speak with the lyrical with impressive subtlety.&nbsp; Throughout the poem, "LMAO" was repeated, but it took the audience the entirety of the performance to recognize that "ellemayyo" was not some tuneful Spanish phrase, but the insincere abbreviation that it is. The evening ended with a brief conclusion give by the emcee and head Voices UnBroken volunteer, Dan and a perfunctory exhortation to buy club sweatshirts.&nbsp; As the gathering dispersed, audience members chattered in Spanglish and spooned up flan and seemed to embody the spirit of the night.&nbsp; 
 Studying for Music Hum midterms often can taint a student's passion for music.&nbsp; If this sounds all too familiar, take advantage of some world-class live music right here at Columbia.&nbsp; The Lewis Nash Jazz Quintet is playing at Miller Theater tonight at eight. Nash may not be one of the Masters of Western music that gets covered by the Core, but that's no reason to skip out on tonight's concert.&nbsp; And while he might not have made it into the canon yet, Nash has collaborated with Wynton Marsalis, Dizzy Gillespie, Betty Carter, Sonny Rollins, Ray Brown among other first-rate jazz musicians. And whoever said that the drummer could never be the front man of the band, certainly didn't know Nash. Tonight's concert will feature Nash on the drums along side the four other musician in his quintet playing music their most recent album "Rhythm is My Business." Culture on campus for seven bucks with your CUID! That's Bwog's kind of business. If you can't escape Butler tonight, you can sample some of his music here.&nbsp; Jazz makes great studying music! 
 Welcome back to Bwog's latest feature, "In Defense Of..." Here, a writer defends something that most students consider useless, inferior, or downright loathsome. In doing so, Bwog hopes to bring you a new perspective, and give the subject the appreciation it deserves...or not.&nbsp;&nbsp; This time, you guessed it, it's CubMail. Although google is taking over the world and accruing more and more gmail fanatics by the hour, there remain a few traditional CubMail users. I am proud to be one among them. The simplicity of CubMail is what I like best. The terseness of the email addresses it provides lends itself to people with long, cumbersome, hard to spell names. With CubMail, Maria Elena Quintana becomes a tidy MQ2139.&nbsp; To follow the gmail trend, I would have to go with some like mariaelena.quintana, which eliminates the all important space between my first and second name and leaves me with stuck with an unpronounceable string of vowels in the middle. If I threw in an additional dot, I would get maria.elena.quintana, which is more aesthetically pleasing than the former but ultimately just as confusing. In this situation, Elena could easily be mistook for my middle name, which would leave me as Maria and cause an identity crisis among other confusing things. The standard MQ is preferable to all gmail appellations for another slightly different reason.&nbsp; I, like many of my fellow Columbians, do not go by my legal name.&nbsp; As I have said, Maria Elena is a long, rather tedious and fruity name, so&nbsp; for efficiency's sake I go by Mariela, which is a Spanish contraction for the name.&nbsp; Informally I'm known as Mariela, but in classes and on paper work, I'm Maria Elena. If I had a gmail account mariaelena.quintana or maria.elena.quintana might confuse people who only know me as Mariela. Likewise if my email address were mariela.quintana, it might confuse professors and doctors and other more official types who don't recognize my shorter name. Although my name is rather aqueous with all its variations, my initials are unchanging as initials are wont to be. MQ works for everyone. Furthermore, at Columbia, the ingenious hybridization of the uni and email address maximizes efficiency.&nbsp; You don't need to memorize some cryptic code as your student ID number and each time you give your UNI to someone at your dean's office or the registrar or health services they immediately know your email.&nbsp; Another efficiency bonus point is that all public computers instantly link to the CubMail webpage.&nbsp; With CubMail, you avoid wasting time typing in the gmail url and waiting for the page to load. This is a huge help when you're in a rush to print a paper or check your email. Another perk of CubMail is the Columbia.edu part.&nbsp; Admittedly, it sometimes can feel like awkward name-dropping when you give out your email to people who don't go here.&nbsp; But there's also an element of CC pride to it too.&nbsp; Yes, indeed I'm proud to be MQ2139@Columbia.edu. Roar, Lions, Roar! 
Maven reporter Lydia DePillis contacted Bwog just moments ago with this alarming and amazing tip:&nbsp; "Chicken and rice stand on 116th--with a tv!"&nbsp; Any guesses on what the Chef is watching? Josh Brolin on SNL tonight, must-see-TV perhaps?&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Last night, Culture Editor Tony Gong attended Dimensions' South Asian food/dance/music showcase benefit concert: The Guria Benefit. Despite language barriers and unfamiliar food, Tony rocked out, and even developed a newfound appreciation for vegetarian food. First of all, the decorations at this thing were off the hook. Our hackneyed and usually depressing Roone Arledge, with red tablecloths and drapes adorning most surfaces, suddenly became bright, vibrant, and energetic. The glass centerpieces on our tables (see picture!) balanced candles precariously in water in ways that defied all current understandings of physics. Even the paper plates had flowers on them. Flowers. But would the performances and food measure up to these high standards? &nbsp; Sweet, I got you to click Read More. While hungry students all around began to bemoan the fact that we had to sit through several performances before we would reach "9:20 pm: Intermission / Dinner will be served" on our nifty timelines for the night, the performances turned out to be worth the wait. By the time the third performance finished, no one was complaining. The performances headed off with Nemanja Rebic and Bill Buchen, on guitar and tabla, respectively. Now, I respect anyone who sits on the ground to play an instrument, because that's just not comfortable. But by the 5-minute mark of their song, when Bill started to really jam on tabla, the tempo went way up, and Nemanja began complementing his smooth, Indian classical guitar licks with crazy-sexy purrs that visibly aroused several people - male and female - sitting around me, I knew these guys were legendary. Next, Shanna (no last name provided) performed a Kathak dance to a classical Indian song. Her dance gracefully crafted subtle hand movements with dramatic spins and footwork, while the hundreds of tiny bells wrapped around ankles shook beautifully and accurately emphasized the beat. Baller. Kiran Ahliwalia, with guitarist Rez Abassi next performed a series of South Asian ghazals consolidated her own genre of Portuguese fado, described in our programs: "If yearning had a musical form it would be ghazals, the Indian and Pakistani sung poetry about unrequited love. If longing was a genre, it would be fado, the melancholic Portuguese song form also based in poetry." When I first read that, I thought perhaps they weren't giving enough credit to Radiohead. But Kiran's first song "Acks" - a soft crescendo of a lonely voice, performed with the perfect degree of despair as Kiran reached out to someone only she could see behind closed eyes - justified the program for me. I couldn't understand a word of her Porteguese, but, then again, Radiohead lyrics don't make much sense either. Finally, it was time for dinner. The scale of the event yielded an equally large selection, consisting of (spelling corrections welcome): pakoras (chickpea flour, coriander, onions, tastiness), nan (bread), mattar paneer (chickpeas, cheese), jaman (sticky and starchy dessert) among other dishes. It wasn't until I was almost finished with the meal that I came to a shocking realization: my dinner didn't contain an ounce of meat in it! Now, I love protein and all the unnecessary amounts of fat and sodium that meat provides, so I was already planning my post-Guria HamDel trip in my head. But a buddy I was eating with, a South Asian food connoisseur, informed me comfortingly: "Chickpeas are like straight protein." Good enough for me. Quietly slipping my seven-star Gold Card back into my wallet, I finished the rest of my meal happily. Akshara and Sonali Skandan's dance company Jiva Dance finished off the performance for the night as we sat with much fuller stomachs, mostly due to the chickpeas. Akshara, a percussive musical group rooted in South Indian classical tradition, laid down some of the sickest beats I've ever heard, all behind a gentle string instruments. 4 minutes in, two performers the right of the stage began a haunting, syndicated syncopated spoken word pattern that I couldn't shake for hours. Finally, Jive Dance performed a dynamic final act of intensity, elegant footwork, and joy, ending the night with a message to get out there and enjoy life. Photos by Michelle Pena. 
In which we imitate Monday through Friday: CU, vaguely, is whispered about in the real world. We found fuel cells. (Ed.- wrong Columbia) You found a corporate sponsor. He found dirty money. Mom found a "neo-con". They found a sweet quartet. 
From the "Not Again" Department: Bored@Butler has internal competition. For those of you holed up in Purgatory Butler last week for midterms, Bwog'd bet that you saved a tab in your browser for Bored@Butler (boredatbutler.com).&nbsp; The site is an anonymous message board for Columbia students stuck in the library to post their thoughts. According to WikiCU, founder Jonathan Pappas (CC '06) wanted to see what Columbia students would say if the social filter were removed.&nbsp; An easier approach would be to read Youtube comments, however; even without complete anonymity, there's hardly a filter. Though the site quickly hosted thousands of posts in the days after its launch in February 2006, it has since degraded into the repetitive drivel of sex-starved students.&nbsp; As of the publication of this article, the current topics included general hate, the possibility of random hookups, and&nbsp; Stephan's hair.&nbsp; More telling are this week's "best": "Oh, I need a blowjob.&nbsp; Really" and a girl reportedly giving herself a breast exam in Milstein.&nbsp; Honestly, Bwog is amazed by the introspection shown by Ivy Leaguers. Hoping to spread the love to other schools, Pappas ("JP") launched the BoredAt network for a short time, before reverting to the original BoredAtButler site. Trying once more to capture a wider audience, the new site on the block is Faceliss.com.&nbsp; As far as Bwog can tell, it's pretty much BoredAtButler, but adapted to our new favorite theme: social networking. The site's left column is dedicated to the anonymous chat features of BoredAtButler, but now includes the option of using a nickname, similar to IRC.&nbsp; In our humble opinion, this contradicts the oh-so-clever play on words that is "Faceliss."&nbsp; The right column is home to dedicated threads, seperated into topics like "rants," "overheard," and "greek" (empty).&nbsp; There's a Digg.com-style "Vote Up" button for each thread. Bwog wasn't sure if this would turn into another BoredAtButler, so it checked the "Featured Polls" and "Featured Search Topics" at the bottom of the page: ex relationships depression girls facebook Do you pee in the shower? Fear not: students at all schools have similar obsessions.&nbsp; Faceliss is available for many schools, including our friends at Yale, MIT, and those people in the Village.
A quick summary for you of last week's goings-on. We have food!&nbsp; We have fire! We have questionable degrees! We have Yale! We have modernity! We have Hermione! and also Pablo! but not the debate! We have crime! but we have police! We have roaches! We have "porn"! We have hawks! We have Shollenberger! who's pretty gangsta! and quite poetic! We have chickpeas and chicken and rice! 
 A few days ago, when campus welcomed the returned of local hero Hawkmadinejad, Bwog couldn't help but notice how handsome your Hawk looked! Bwog Culinary and Sciences Bureau Chief Jon Hill agreed, but asked, somewhat rhetorically, "More handsome than even in his 1977 prom photo?" Hill had gone back into the Hawkmadinejad family archives and sent along a photo of said prom photo (right). Which brings us to our newest contest: Photoshop Hawkmadinejad's 1977 Prom Photo Contest. Send along a rendering of Hawkmadinejad (and hot date!) at their 1977 prom to bwog@columbia.edu. All submissions due by this Wednesday at 11:59 PM. Winner will receive an exciting as-yet-to-be-determined prize! 
 Gayava (helpfully spelled out as "The Columbia Barnard LGBTQ and Allies! Jewish Student Group") will be having cupcakes from Magnolia bakery (frankly overrated in Bwog's opinion), hot apple cider, and... Hookah! Best of all, it's all out in the open air under a legitimate Sukkah. Head over to the Kraft Center (115th bet. Broadway and Riverside) on the 3rd floor terrace RIGHT NOW from 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM. 
Examiner.com (no relation to The National Examiner as far as Bwog can tell) recently got a "feel for the current state of undergraduate education in America's largest city."&nbsp; The website has a column about their trip to Columbia, full of delightful vagueties.&nbsp; Some highlights: "here's never been a better time to live and learn in NYC."&nbsp; Perhaps they're referring to Hartley-Wallach.&nbsp; Bwog isn't sure why this time is any better than any other time, especially since admission rates are down and food prices are up. New York is "getting its last kicks" before winter's bitter coldness, much like the "frenzied squirrel" we see studying in front of Butler. Columbia has a "left-wing" "air of self-importance," with the political views of its students becoming "increasingly militant."&nbsp; Surely, they cannot be referring to that minor episode a few years back. Those "hot button social and political issues" are one thing that keep people away; the other are the two -- count them -- two required SAT II exams.&nbsp; Wow.
Procrastinate close to home. Monday Jeffrey Sachs, George Soros, Nouriel Roubini: About saving the world economy.&nbsp; Moderated by John Roberts of CNN, formerly of CBS.&nbsp; We'll LectureHop if you can't make it.&nbsp; 3:30 PM @ Miller Theater. Tuesday Men's Soccer vs. Lafayette: As Bwog noted on Friday, they've had a mixed season.&nbsp; But the uncertainty makes for a more exciting game, right?&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ waytoofaruptown. Wednesday Divided We Fall: A film about the change in American mindset towards Sikhs and Muslims in the post-9/11 world.&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ Lerner Cinema. Thursday World Leaders - Global Sustainability: Various people discussing environmental stewardship and the role of New York City residents.&nbsp; Hosted by PrezBo, moderated by Steven Cohen, Chief Operating Officer of The Earth Institute.&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ Miller Theater. 
Tonight was the third fire alarm for Carman residents in that number of weeks. The 12s were ushered out of the building at around midnight tonight and were then told to go back inside while the alarm continued to ring. According to our mysterious friends at Public Safety, the alarm was set off due to "unknown reasons." -- Photo by Sean Zimmermann 
 Pretty building on campus exists for a reason Dates set-ish for Manhattanville, something should happen somewhere possibly in Spring 2009 CU grad schools prefer if grad students take grad student classes, undergrads get fussy Feast your eyes: 800 words on why the economic crisis is actually a good thing. Finally, no CU student will want to go into finance, and we can all just sit around talking about Plato all day, everyday, forever! "Inky whirls reminiscent of jazz music", art that has "more right to exist than actual people and things," all in Dodge! &nbsp; 
 A good seven months ago, Bwog began to hear murmurs on every city and/or foodie blog that the infamous Madison Square Park-based Shake Shack was to branch out and open an Upper West Side outpost. Ladies and gentlemen, the wait is over. Beginning today, no longer will you have to consult the Live Shake Cam (we’re not kidding) in order to determine your waiting time at 23rd street – just stroll down to 77th and Columbus for your burger and custard fix (every Sunday in October is Shake Shiraz Poached Pear custard day!) The menu now boasts some UWS-specific options for “concretes," SS for "milkshake." Bwog looks forward to sampling the “Natural History Crunch-stellation” with vanilla custard, Valrhona chocolate crunchies, and caramel. The Shack will be open from 11 AM-9 PM for its inaugural first few weeks as an Upper West Sider, but will be open from 11 AM-11 PM once (we quote) "the Shack is really shakin."&nbsp; 
 Since Bwog broke the news of the ROTC referenda last month, the logistical details behind it have still been debated. However, it appears that the student councils at last have a plan. In an email sent by SGA earlier today, a letter from the four councils at the end spelled out more about the timing of, and the run-up to the survey.&nbsp; The survey itself will go out to the student body the week of November 17th. Original plans had considered late October as the most likely date, but, according to the email, "we have had to postpone the dates due to difficulties in getting the survey technology set up." The survey will have one question ("Would you support NROTC on Columbia's campus?"), though it is unknown at this time how many possible answers the question will have. The week beforehand, there will be two forums, one at Barnard and one at Columbia, in a "pro vs. con setup." The panels themselves will be composed of students as well, and students can submit questions. Deadline for participation in panels, despite the email not having reached any other undergraduate schools yet, is this Wednesday, October 22. The full email is after the jump. Dear Students, In an effort to be more transparent and get information to you about what is going on with NROTC we wanted to recap what has been happening in our planning process. First, we decided on the format for the forums that will happen before the survey. &nbsp;One will take place at Barnard and one at Columbia, with both using a pro vs. con setup. &nbsp;This means that there will be even representation for both sides of the argument and then questions about specific topics will be asked of the panel to stimulate conversation and inform the students attending the panels about NROTC. &nbsp;These questions will be submitted by each of your student groups and presented to the group again in our next meeting (TBA) so that students can prepare responses and not feel attacked. Further more, these panels will be composed of students. &nbsp;We ask that if you are interested or know someone who is, please have them email us at columbiaforums@gmail.com, stating whether they are pro or con NROTC, this way we can put all of the people who support or do not support this in contact with one another. &nbsp;This will allow all interested to meet and then select three representatives for each panel, making a total of 6 people from each side of the debate. &nbsp;It is important to remember that you can either support your entire group's point of view, or your individual point of view in these conversations and by no means does a group have to take a stance one way or another. &nbsp;Individual members can be on each of the sides if you wish. &nbsp;In the email please also put your availability so that we can help coordinate times that your side will be able to meet. From there you can consolidate all of your concerns on the questions given and present them so that the three people sitting on the panel will be able to answer any of the questions posed to them. &nbsp;The same questions will be asked at both panels so that students only need to attend one if they wish. The deadline to respond is Wednesday October 22nd. Our forums will take place the week of November 10th and the survey will go out to the student body the week of November 17th. We have had to postpone the dates due to difficulties in getting the survey technology set up. There will be one question on the survey: "Would you support NROTC on Columbia's campus?" We hope to hear from you soon. CCSC, ESC, GSSC, SGA 
 White House Bureau Chief James Downie resumes his duties. Normally, I've tried to begin these dispatches with a semi-relevant segue. Yet, as of tomorrow, there will be only two weeks left before the end of the presidential campaign. Frankly, the election at this point needs no introduction, so let's just jump right in. And now, the news: Rollin' in the Benjamins: Senator Barack Obama raised $150 million in September. $150,000,000. That is a staggering amount of money. John McCain, who is bound by public financing rules, only has $47 million left to spend in October. That sound you hear is every TV and radio in the country running Obama ads. Palin in the Big City: Governor Sarah Palin appeared on SNL last weekend, and you can see videos from the (meh) episode here. Debate Reax: The third debate was watched by 56.5 million people. Obama won the debate, according to polls afterwards, but the big news was the focus on some random man named "Joe the Plumber," who both candidates suddenly turned into "the most famous plumber in the nation." Powell Makes A Decision: Former Secretary of State General Colin Powell endorsed Obama on this Sunday's Meet The Press. Rush Limbaugh amusingly/controversially wondered what "inexperienced, very liberal, white candidates" Powell had endorsed, and your correspondent wondered if it was of quick, decisive decisions like this late October endorsement that made Powell such a good commander...&nbsp; Numbers Are Sex-ay: As always, numbers are available here, here, here, and here. Continuing the Search for Reason, Truth, and the Liberal Way: Jane Mayer of the New Yorker (whose recent book was excellent) explores why Palin was picked. Lots of horny conservative pundits, if you're into that sort of thing. "CHARLIE'S IN RIGHT FIELD!": The Onion reports on how Obama spent his Vietnam years. The Worst Case Scenario Thankfully Does Not Involve Cheese: The Next Right and Culture11 explore the worst and best case scenarios for the Right. Again, it does not involve cheese. Why would it involve cheese, you ask? I don't know; it seemed like a silly idea at the time. Frying Pan to Fire: Tampa Bay rookie pitcher David Price, who closed out the Boston Red Sox last night, will introduce Obama at his Tampa event. Insiders first worried Obama would be offending "Red Sox Nation," but then they realized one bandwagon is as good as the next. It's Filler Time: Networks are looking at how to deal with a quick end to the suspense on Election Night. From the Department of "Pundit Whoops": Contrary to the popular punditry (i.e. Clintonite propaganda) during the primaries, Obama is not doing poorly among Latinos. But Clinton supporters were right about so much else... Awwwwww: Obama takes time to attend his daughter's soccer game, and the pool reporter takes time to shoehorn in a sarcastic reference to William Ayers. 
 Daily Editor Eliza Shapiro reports from the Economics Forum today that wasn't this Economics Forum.&nbsp; "Macro people think they know everything about everything" the man seated behind us at this afternoon's Earth Institute-sponsored "Can We Save the World Economy?" lecture grumbled. Bwog nodded our heads appreciatively and applauded PrezBo alongside a Miller Theater entirely packed with Economist-reading fiends as the lights dimmed and the talk began.&nbsp; Our faithful leader introduced the participants: moderator John Roberts of CNN, and economists George Soros of the Open Society Institute, Nouriel Roubini of the Stern School of Business at NYU, and the dreamy Jeffrey Sachs, of whom Bwog is sure you are more than aware. Roberts took the stage and began by informing the audience that the Dow had risen 400 points that day and shouted "crisis averted! We're cutting you all loose for the rest of the afternoon!" The audience roared. This was to be a long afternoon. &nbsp;Soros was first to speak, and discussed at length decades-old misconceptions about market fundamentalism and the increasing loss of market equilibrium. He described former, less signifcant financial crises as "tests" of the misunderstanding that markets can be left to their own devices. This crises, he explained, was no such test. He concluded by informing us that the entire financial system had melted down, whether or not the world recognized that fact. No giggles there. Next, Roberts introduced Roubini. Attempting to explain in "real world terms" Roubini's long-held stance that this crisis was imminent, and could originate in the United States, Roberts likened Roubini to a "detective who tries to find out where the serial killer is hiding, only to discover him in his own basement!" Everyone laughed except for Mr. Roubini. Roubini was not much more upbeat than Soros, informing us that the global economy is "walking blind on a minefield, not knowing when the next mine will blow up." He also discussed the ramifications of the U.S crisis throughout the rest of the world, explaining that normally, "when the United States sneezes, the rest of the world catches a cold" and telling us that in this case, the rest of the world would get "pneumonia" awarding Roubini his only chuckle of the afternoon. Sachs, who informed us that he was Roubini's academic adviser at Harvard, was up last. He criticized Greenspan's Fed and the current government and presidency, claiming that we haven't had a legitimate form of either in years. He also denounced those on Wall Street for not heeding the warning signals, and compared the crashes occurring in the economic sector to those occurring the biodiversity sector. Sachs also claimed that students of economics are no longer trained to be skeptical, but instead to fill the parameters of a system that promotes a superficial understanding of the market. Finally, not to be shown up by Roberts, Sachs really got the crowd going when he announced that "there are poor people, too. And they need help. A lot." Nursing our splitting sides and preparing to leave, Bwog caught easily the best question of the Q&amp;A session. A woman who introduced herself as an "ecological artist" asked what role the arts would play in the new economic landscape. Sachs smoothed his hair, and let Roubini answer that one. 
Free shot glasses for CC Seniors in the Lerner Piano Lounge! Right now till around 9:30.&nbsp;
 Reports of KCST's (apparently successful!) advertising methodology have been numerous. According to a Bwog tipster embedded in Butler, around 11 PM "some guy just walked into a reading room on the third floor to stump about KCST's one acts in a booming voice. He carried on for about a minute, students looked confused, rolled their eyes. He stopped, people went back to work." Later, men wearing what Bwog informant Emily Wilson characterized as "uncomfortably sheer tights" wandered into tonight's ESC meeting, also for advertising purposes. Photo by Emily Wilson 
 As Bwog reported earlier, the ROTC survey now has official dates: the survey on the week of November 17th, and the pre-survey forums on the week on November 10th. Students have expressed concern about the proximity of the date to Election Day, and the corresponding long weekend when many students will be traveling. Furthermore, it appears that no student groups, pro or anti-ROTC, were told about the new dates. Instead, student groups found out from the same Barnard email that Bwog recieved. As of this time, there still has been no email announcement to any other undergraduate school from CCSC. The move represents a sharp shift in policy from the student councils' previous efforts to make their process more and more open. Previously, several groups had been approached at the start of the planning process, but that number expanded until the planning meetings were declared open late last month. At this time, student groups are still considering how to react to the sudden announcement. Bwog will keep you updated as more develops. 
 Obamacain economic advisers hold debate in a Columbia economic forum.&nbsp; This part is brought to you by Aleve. Obamacain healthcare advisers hold debate in a Columbia healthcare forum.&nbsp; This part is brought to you by Mylanta. Housing says bid farewell to your VingCard and its cutout Starbucks doppelganger. Change at African Institute brings instant success. Change in gifted students programs reshuffles NYC public schools. Oh yeah, CCSC finally gets one right. 
In which Lecture Hop Editor Pierce Stanley takes in the second of two economic forums held at Columbia last night. Another spectacle of epic proportions has come and passed in Roone Arledge Auditorium.&nbsp; Yet, last night’s Presidential Economic Forum courtesy of Columbia’s Program for Economic Research and co-sponsored by the Economics Department, the Committee on Global Thought, and the Business School seemed to pass quietly into the night with a whimper far more than with a bang.&nbsp; While not quite on the level of spectacle that characterized the original Obamacain affair, yesterday’s Presidential Economic Advisors Forum, which pitted self proclaimed “data hound” Austan Goolsbee, Senior Economic Advisor of the Obama-Biden ticket and former Director of the Congressional Budget Office Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Chief Economic Advisor of the McCain-Palin camp against a serious panel of Columbia Economics department heavy-hitters, including Professors Richard Clarida, Janet Currie, Joe Stiglitz, and Michael Woodford, resembled a high school policy debate round moderated by a panel of seriously pretentious judges more than a forum of any academic import with serious implications for the fate of the economy. &nbsp; The evening kicked off with a series of comments courtesy of PrezBo about the nature of the American economic meltdown and its impact on the rest of the world. &nbsp;He suggested like he does at every major event he has introduced as of late, that there is no topic more pressing to be discussed than the one being covered at that very event. With that, the respective Presidential candidates’ advisors were launched into their opening statements where they addressed the current state of the economy and presented the basic economic plans of each of their superiors. &nbsp;What started as a slow dribble of talking points and vague accelerated quickly into the expected mudslide of partisan rhetoric as the two advisors went at it over the course of the evening.&nbsp; Sadly, the Columbia economists could only look on in exasperation as their questions were flouted left and right, and the second economic forum of the evening that stressed the urgency of real solutions for the current economic crisis was reduced to a partisan bickering and a spewing of the talking points we have all grown accustomed to hearing over the last few months. &nbsp; Obama advisor Austan Goolsbee, described by fellow University of Chicago professor and PhD classmate Steve Levitt as someone “who asks questions people care about” perhaps stole the show last night with his witty presentation of the issues, but maybe not for the best of reasons. &nbsp;His ability to popularize economics to the layman via a husky voice quite popular over the airwaves, the web, and television was on display last night as Goolsbee seemed fully capable of charming the audience with clever anecdotes about Obama’s plan to ease economic woes but ultimately that all came at the expense of substance. &nbsp; &nbsp; Meanwhile the academic in Douglas Holtz-Eakin was on full display last night, as he was willing to stay on task and answer the questions in a line-by-line fashion. Goolsbee would have none of it as he clownishly reduced the McCain positions to truisms, at one point even suggesting that a portion of “this debate is courtesy of Aleve” because the McCain proposals give him such a headache.&nbsp; The only point that both advisors could more or less agree upon was the need to improve funding programs for education and provide relief to college students who have undertaken burdensome student loans to pay for four-year institutions.&nbsp; Yet, their differences were stark when detailing what seem to be quite intricate plans for balancing the budget, funding infrastructure, providing tax cuts, and alleviating unemployment quickly while rescuing the housing and lending markets. This is where the event had the most potential, yet both advisors fell into the trap of partisanship and were bitten by the asp of oversimplification. &nbsp; While last night’s event, a collection of some of the finest economic minds in the nation, had the potential of shedding some real light on the issue that matters most to voters in a time of economic urgency, Columbia’s Presidential Economic Advisors Forum was a serious disappointment because it reduced some of the most important issues of the day to simple truisms seen time and time again on the campaign trail, reductions that even Joe the Plumber can see right through. &nbsp; This Bwogger sincerely hopes that as soon as voters have pulled the lever a mere two weeks hence, these economic advisors can get off of their partisan high horses and truly begin to offer the American people, no matter who is President, some real solutions to the current financial mess we find ourselves in today.&nbsp; Until then, what I witnessed last night was nothing more than a clownish policy debate, reminiscent of my days on the high school debating circuit. &nbsp; 
&nbsp;Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann reports from last night's ESC meeting. At last night ESC meeting, many changes were afoot within the ESC you know and love. Even though CourseWorks is maybe probably on the outs, the Council's Director of Technology Kenny Rivera is developing a CourseWorks application for the iPhone—to better check that your professor didn't post the assigned reading, on the go! And then there was a bit of odd news concerning GS's logo, which needs to be replaced because it was apparently taken from a community college. You remember Gulliver, yes? ESC did not mention which community college shares GS's logo, but a quick Google Image search reveals that Harford Community College is a possibility. Later, as we've previously reported, these goings-on were interreputed by KCST's band of roving advertisements. After they left, on rep. joked to "raise your hand" if you caught to location of the one-acts.&nbsp; Finally, ESC announced that it would be creating its own Barnard swipe access survey. They promised it would be short, as its brevity might correspond to the number who actually read it. Bwog thinks they may be onto something. 
Robert McFadden, a writer for the New York Times' CityRoom blog, waxed poetic this morning about his recent visit to Morningside Heights.&nbsp; Sights include our local public library branch (conscience clearing), our fair campus (an "open fortress"), and Riverside Park ("burning yellow and russet").&nbsp; Overall, it's really just a page-long muse, but at least it's a good testament to Bwog's recent autumnal melancholy.
Last week, campus welcomed the heroic return of its illustrious talon-wielding raptor mascot and friend, Hawkmadinejad. Bwog got so excited at the prospect of an extended stay by our friend at Columbia this fall that we jumped in on all of the hooplah by creating a Hawkmadinejad 1977 Prom Photoshop Contest in his honor. This is just a friendly reminder to send along any renderings of the winged wonder and perhaps a special friend at their 1977 prom to us here at Bwog.&nbsp; So, if Butler's got you a little woozy or you can't bear studying for that final midterm any more, take a quick break, procrastinate a bit, and send us your favorite likeness of Hawkmadinejad and friend! All submissions are due by this Wednesday at 11:59 PM to bwog@columbia.edu, and Bwog continues to rack its collective brain to decide on an exciting and creative prize for the winner of this affair, one of our favorite Photoshop contests. &nbsp;
 Bwog Guide to the Weekend Editor Sara Jane Panfil attended last night's 2008 Thomas Merton Lecture about "The Problem of Evil in the Thought of St. Thomas Aquinas." Justify your midterms anguish with Aquinas! There’s no better time than midterms time to ponder the meaning and existence of human suffering.&nbsp; After all, it doesn’t seem to make much sense, logically, that an omniscient, omnipotent, perfectly good God would allow us mortals to undergo such strife.&nbsp; Especially when you’re a medieval Christian philosopher like St. Thomas Aquinas. Luckily, Thomas Aquinas was a clever guy.&nbsp; He outlined two criteria for human suffering: humans suffer when we are not able to be who we “ought” to be—when we’re not able to realize our full potentiality—and when we are kept from the desires of our hearts.&nbsp; Physical pain, the obvious candidate for a definition of suffering, isn’t a necessary component.&nbsp; After all, there are different kinds of physical pain, and not all of them are bad.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; But no matter your kind of suffering, don’t despair, says Aquinas: there is indeed a morally sufficient reason that God allows for human agony.&nbsp; The lecturer, Professor Eleanor Stump of Saint Louis University, explained it eloquently, invoking the technical and precise language of philosophy, the authority of anecdotal evidence, and referencing the overlapping research and practices common to the modern psychological and medical communities.&nbsp; In short (since the entire program took a bit over an hour and a half), God allows us to suffer because it brings us closer to our full potential and to the desires of our heart, even if it doesn’t seem that way at first.&nbsp; &nbsp; Now of course, since this is Christian philosophy, this is a theodicy that requires consistent Christian paradigms.&nbsp; Professor Stump found herself repeating this premise in the question-and-answer portion when people still weren’t convinced that there exist “good” reasons to suffer.&nbsp; She also made the point—which she ended up repeating in the Q&amp;A—that Thomas Aquinas, or indeed any philosophy about suffering, is never sufficient to explain suffering away.&nbsp; We, as feeling human beings first and foremost, must always give suffering its proper respect, and must always use our mortal powers to actively counter-act or prevent it.&nbsp; A philosophy about the utility of suffering, no matter how convincing, should never excuse us from taking action against it.&nbsp; Overall, the good-sized crowd gathered in St. Paul’s Chapel received her lecture well.&nbsp; Granted, it was a lecture of limited scope (Thomas Aquinas wrote prolifically, and the contingent nature of suffering provides infinite avenues of challenge), but certainly worked well as a concise summary on the topic.&nbsp; Thomas Aquinas has created a flexible philosophy on this and many other subjects.&nbsp; Professor Stump encouraged those in attendance to expand it; with all the different kinds of heartbreak and woe in the world, it makes for a worthy challenge.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Do like music and stuff? Well if you do, you're in luck cause this week CMJ Music Marathon returns to NYC.&nbsp; The marathon features over 1,000 bands almost all with peculiar names. Columbians probably have a slightly distorted perspective on the difficulty of making it in today’s music world due to the providential success of musicians like the guys from Vampire Weekend and Chromeo, AKA Associate Professor David Macklovitch. But for roughly 1,100 lucky, relatively talented up-and-comers, this week offers a beacon of hope.&nbsp; Starting today, October 21st, the CMJ Music Marathon returns to New York City for its 28th Season and will host hundreds of concerts all over the city featuring names you definitely know (or should know) and names you definitely don’t. The concert series will run through Saturday, but if you’re interested in seeing the bigger names you’d better plan on going out sooner than the weekend. The week’s highlights and some of Bwog’s faves include: Tuesday October 21st Louis XIV at 7pm at Terminal 5 Cool Kids at 8:00 pm at the Blender Theater Shiny Toy Guns at 9:30 at Santos Party House Team Robespierre at 10:30 at Crash Mansion Wednesday October 22nd Coheed and Cambria at 8pm at Terminal 5 (They will be playing at Terminal 5 at 8pm the remaining nights of marathon) Takka Takka at 10pm at The Red Bull Space Bear Hands at midnight at Mercury Lounge Beach House at 12:30am&nbsp; (Le) Poisson Rouge Heloise and The Savior Faire at midnight at The Knitting Factory Thursday October 23rd The Jones Street Boys at 8pm Mercury Lounge The Muslims at 10pm at Mercury Lounge Cause Co-Motion at 11pm at Pianos Crystal Stilts at midnight at Pianos Friday October 24th Saves The Day at 8:15 pm at Highline Ballroom Broken Social Scene at 9:15 at Brooklyn Masonic Temple Takka Takka at 10pm at Cake Shop The Ruby Suns at 12:15 at Pianos The Virgins at 1:00am at Mercury Lounge The XYZ Affair at 1:00 am at Cake Shop Saturday October 25th The Delta Spirit at 11:00pm at The Red Bull Space Rosebuds at midnight at Mercury Lounge For more complete ticket information and scheduling click here. 
 As many of you are aware—or, you know, not at all aware—on Thursday Deborah Spar will be inaugurated as President of Barnard. Hooray! This is an exciting thing! But did you know that in response to the Big Inauguration, Barnard is shutting down completely? It's true! Afternoon classes on Thursday at Barnard have been canceled. Oh, and also, all student services offices besides ResLife will be closed, from 1 PM - 5 PM. This includes Health Services, but don't worry, there's going to be an "on-call" number if any dissident dare chooses to have a medical emergency during the ceremony. "Should you have a medical emergency while the Inauguration is in progress, you may call 212-854-2091 and someone will return your call," wrote Dean of the College Dorothy Denberg in an email to BC students. And if you're subversive enough to have planned on getting your mail on Thursday, don't even think about it. Mail services will be open for three hours, but they're not FedExing anything, the whole day. You can take you precious mail and your selfish medical emergencies to the FexEx in 116. A collection of said emails after the jump. To: &nbsp; &nbsp; Barnard Community From: &nbsp; Alan Anderson, Director of Mail &amp; Document Services &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Doug Maget, Director of Purchasing Due to Inauguration events on Thursday, October 23, Central Receiving and Mail &amp; Document Services will have reduced hours and services. Mail and packages will be accepted at the College until noon, and deliveries to offices will take place in the morning only. The Mail Services window will be open from 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. only. No outgoing mail or FedEx items will be picked up at Barnard on October 23. USPS mail and FedEx items left in Mail Services on Thursday will not be sent until Friday, October 24. Faculty and staff who need to send FedEx items on Thursday should prepare their labels online and then drop the items off at the FedEx storefront on Broadway and 116th Street. Purchasing and Mail &amp; Document Services will close our offices at 1:00 p.m. on Thursday and resume normal hours on Friday, October 24. To All Students From Dorothy Denburg, Dean of the College On Thursday, October 23rd, all student services offices, with the exception of Residential Life, will close from 1:00 PM to 5:00 PM so that student services staff, along with all other members of the Barnard community, can attend the Inauguration of President Spar at Riverside Church and the celebration that will follow. &nbsp;Residential Life will remain open for emergencies, and an emergency on-call service will be in effect in both Counseling and Health Services. &nbsp;Should you have a medical emergency while the Inauguration is in progress, you may call 212-854-2091 and someone will return your call. &nbsp;Should you need to speak with someone in Counseling, you may call 212-854-2092, and someone will return your call. We hope to see you on Thursday. With best wishes, Dorothy Denburg Greetings Barnard, It is finally here...President Spar's Inauguration! &nbsp;All Barnard Thursday afternoon classes are canceled so that you can attend this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to welcome our new president. &nbsp;ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME. &nbsp;You do not need to have RSVP-ed in order to attend. WHEN: Thursday, 10/23, Ceremony 2 PM, Celebration 4-6 PM WHERE: Ceremony @ Riverside Church, Celebration @ Claremont Ave (between 117th &amp; 119th Sts.) SGA Executive Board 
 Bwog correspondent Liz Naiden attended last night's panel on the possibility of a "post-partisan world." The truth comes out; Provost Alan Brinkley is so desperate to return to academic life that he has announced the &#65533;death of partisan politics,&#65533; in the middle of the great election cycle of 2008&#65533;or so we thought. Brinkley first published on his new theory in the Wall Street Journal in September, and most recently headlined the panel lecture entitled &#65533;A Post-Partisan World?&#65533; sponsored by the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy last night.&nbsp; Robert Shapiro, the moderator and the most enthusiastic note-taker in the room, introduced the two faculty members who had volunteered to try to tear Brinkley&#65533;s idea apart&#65533;or so Bwog assumed&#65533;Robert Erikson, of the Political Science Department, and Esther Fuchs, of SIPA. As a few more stragglers spread out among many empty seats jammed into a small room in IAB, Bwog wondered how these opponents would challenge Brinkley other than by telling him to get out of Low every once in a while or turn on a television set. &nbsp; Of course Brinkley did not make the ridiculous display we secretly hoped for; his theory is actually quite reasoned and doesn&#65533;t clash with the current political situation. Brinkley explained that in the phrase &#65533;post-partisan,&#65533; partisan doesn&#65533;t mean passionate, or indeed obsessed, it means party oriented and party loyal. Given this measured response to her challenges, Fuchs replied &#65533;If we are moving beyond party politics, someone should tell that to the media, and someone should certainly tell that to Barack Obama.&#65533;&nbsp; Clearly the star of the night, Brinkley took this in stride and explained that people&#65533;s passion for Barack Obama often had little to do with his affiliation with the Democratic party. The panel agreed that parties had lost many of their pre-1960&#65533;s functions, and though such decline brings with it the end of the blatant corruption that characterized the early 20th century, the loss of partisanism might, says Brinkley, in some way be a &#65533;danger to our democracy.&#65533; &nbsp; The panelists took questions with poise, often engaging in dialogue with one another about the topics posed by audience members. They even humored with short but polite answers an enthusiastic but combative young man who asked &#65533;don&#65533;t candidates need a major party to get elected?&#65533;&#65533;a major point question posed and to some degree answered by both Fuchs and Erikson. &nbsp; Close to the end of the lecture, however, a Hungarian young man commented that US presidential campaigns waste an outrageous amount of time and money and that our voting system is the most complicated in the world. He had barely begun to ask whether&#65533;in the light of the post-party theory, Bwog assumes&#65533;any of these things was likely to change soon, when Fuchs let out a guffaw and chuckled &#65533;No&#65533; no.&#65533; The other panelists smiled into their water glasses and Shapiro took the final question. 
 Bwog recently received in its inbox a glimmering copy of "Sustainable Columbia E-News," apparently a seasonal update for community members of the university's most recent steps towards increased environmental stewardship.&nbsp; With information about everything from Columbia's greenhouse gas inventory to a listing of Columbia's most recent sustainability score, "Sustainable Columbia E-news" details a wide range of intitiatives to reduce Columbia's carbon foortprint and improve its long-term commitment to the environment A formal launch email from Senior Executive Vice President, Robert Kasdin, officially announced the emergence of the new e-newsletter as an update on the "broad participation by students, faculty, and staff...in the shared goal of becoming even more sustainable and energy efficient in our operations and daily lives" and perhaps adds one more of many bureacratic messages to your already flooded email inbox.&nbsp; But, its for a good cause, so you might as well read it. Bwog hopes you have a chance to give it a gander soon. 
 According to the New York Times, the long-running civil case between Saigon Grill and its workers ended on Tuesday in a $4.6 million verdict in favor of the workers. "Judge Michael H. Dolinger of United States District Court in Manhattan found violations of federal and state wage laws in awarding up to $328,000 to some of the deliverymen." Juniors and seniors with particularly sharp minds will remember spring of 2007, when protests against local restaurant Saigon Grill were the activist item du jour. In March of that year, the restaurant locked out its workers rather than raise pay and labor standards (among other abuses, the workers were only being paid $1.60 an hour for more than 70 hours a week). Columbia students quickly joined the cause, culminating in a large sit-in/protest in May (which was later uploaded to YouTube). The deliverymen, at least, are obviously happy. "'It was worth the fight because we were treated badly for so long,' added. 'I never imagined we would receive so much money.'" 
 Columbia should be post-gender...We shouldn't just have to live with people of the same sex, they were assigned to that at birth. Columbia should be a safe-haven for all minority groups...After this, the Republicans will demand their own lounge on campus. Columbians, you better read up on your Gay History if you want to fight against the Reagan Revolution.&nbsp; Step 1, buy David Eisenbach's book. To all the West Coasters among you, never go home if you care about the environment.&nbsp; Instead, take the Bus Rapid Transit system to the Bronx! Ivy League dating is so passe, go for a highly successful investment banker... 
 Media mogul John Kluge (who you may remember gave CC a ridiculous amount of money) has announced that he will subsidize yet another of Columbia's fine institutions--the Journalism School.&nbsp; A paltry $20 million of his 400 mil gift to the university will go to finishing the J-school's $100 million Second Century campaign.&nbsp; The money also guaranteed that Columbia will receive some money ($5 million) from Leonard Tow. Now that the J-school has so much cash on hand, they won't be too disappointed to look at the stock prices for the Times or the Post over the past month.&nbsp; Print journalists--beware! 
 Now that midterms are over (for some of us!), penny-savers should be quick to hit up two wonderfully delicious free food events today, which include a joint birthday party for the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Intercultural Resource Center and a Teahouse with the Asian American Alliance featuring musical guest Alice Hu (and samosas, mango lassi, and tea). OMA/IRC Anniversary Celebration 5:30pm – 8:30pm (brief program at 6:15pm) Intercultural Resource Center 552 West 114th Street AAA Teahouse 10:30pm Lerner 555 &nbsp; 
 From now until 4pm, you can go to College Walk and EarthCo will exchange 10 plastic bags (bad for the environment) for 1 Westside Market tote bag (good for the environment).&nbsp; Seems like a good deal for you and the world!&nbsp; Also, from the EarthCo email: The first 70 people will receive a new tote, but after that the rewards do not stop.&nbsp; All people who come after the bags have been distributed will be entered into a raffle to win a $20 Starbucks card, to help supplement their caffeine addiction that is flaring its ugly head during this fall's midterm season. Caffeine and environmentalism?&nbsp; No way. &nbsp; 
 In the coming hours you will receive an email asking for your participation in an annual survey that Dining Services is conducting on all on-campus dining institutions.&nbsp; Do you like them?&nbsp; Are they too expensive?&nbsp; Those are the kinds of answers they are looking for!&nbsp; To further motivate you, they're offering to donate a total of $.50 per survey handed in to Broadway Presbyterian Church's soup kitchen.&nbsp; So for every three surveys turned in, they will donate one cup of Blue Java coffee. If that sounds nice, you should join the Dining Services Facebook Group so that you can always be the first to know about frozen yogurt changes in John Jay.&nbsp; 
 While deadly pathogens like avian flu are circulating around the world, Columbia Medical Center's Department of Ophthamology has come up with a way to safely stiffen your eyeball. No, this has nothing to do with one of our other illustrious alumni but rather a solution to the blinding disease of keratoconus and possibly even glaucoma and myopia.&nbsp; The researchers found that sodium nitrite in a buffered balanced salt solution stiffens the cornea and prevents the eye from bulging too far.&nbsp; All the gory details are in the patent application. 
 It seems that Barnard's new president, whose coronation inauguration tomorrow will effectively shut down campus west of Broadway, is a "Person of Interest" in the mind of Daily Beast, who published an interesting profile, calling her a gamble (but a good one) for a woman's college, having never attended or taught at one.&nbsp; Kate Taylor thinks that she does, however, have invaluable experiences in being not only an academic (as Judith Shapiro no doubt is), but also an expert on the political economy from her time at Harvard Business who has the marketing know-how to restore Barnard's standing among liberal arts colleges.&nbsp; Only time will tell if she can make good on the predictions, but she has already been hob-knobbing with the all-important New York media, and they control the image of her fair institution.&nbsp; Bwog is just hoping that she isn't made into a Varsity Show character. 
 Oh dear, it seems our friends at Fox News have gotten their hands on an issue of C-Spot. And wonder upon wonders, the literotica has offended their delicate sensibilities! In between abusing uncomfortable phrases like "naughty bits" (shudder) and "steamy enough to wilt Ivy," Fox managed to track down two students to see what they thought about the mag. One such opinion-haver is David Billingsley, CC 09, who said that he hopes C-Spot "doesn't add to our reputation as a sex-crazed campus. Because we're not." Fox News begs to differ. 
 The Barnard-Columbia Mystery, solved! Spar's presidential legacy, seeing as she has not in fact become president, still TBD Bet it won't include tripling the endowment Barnard women need jobs too!&nbsp; In other news! Books writer comes to terms with her snobbery Columnist comes to terms with his yuppieness 
 Gimme a B! Gimme an I! Gimme a CYCLE! Blazer, jacket, messenger bag, collared shirt, sweater vest: the Eye’s guide to sartorial humanity (Wait, what just happened here) Do you know what a cooked chicken breast sounds like? South Africa has redeeming values despite its lack of a Metropolitan Museum of Art! Kate Moss gets a “hearty” congratulations for getting clean Republicans… they’re just like us! 
 There is the most mouth-watering fundraiser out on College Walk right now, thrown by the (mostly) women of the Columbia Greenhouse Nursery School. Cupcakes, cookies, muffins--it's like the platonic ideal of a bake sale! There's also a sign for "Apple Day," which apparently happened over the weekend, but which we think should happen every day anyway. 
 Rejoice! Mediocre falafel purveyor Amir's has opened back up after getting beat down last week by the Department of Health. Bwog ventured into the newly-scrubbed feeling establishment to query the proprietor as to whether his food was, in fact, safe to eat. He assured us it was, and that the issue had been "just a refrigerator problem." We hope so! 
Welcome back to our weekly-ish series, "In Defense Of", in which we get behind the most maligned elements of Columbia life. This time, it's everyone's favorite housing bogey. Wien is the ugly ducking of Columbia housing, synonymous with the worst kind of lottery luck— Rusty pipes! Institutional corridors! Vermin of all kinds! But the popular mythology has been unfair to Wien Hall. It was not first a mental institution, as the lore would have it, but rather a colonially-inspired McKim Mead and White original designed to evoke a “homey” feel for its exclusively female residents. And beyond its soft, gentle beginnings, Wien has a host of redeeming characteristics that make it a fine place to spend a year of your life. Most of the rooms are small and somewhat cell-like, to be sure—but no more so than singles in River or Broadway, and most have generously-sized windows that look out onto a serene courtyard, lending them at least the illusion of space. The corner walk-through doubles are light-filled and glorious. And no, there are no floor lounges, but a) who hangs out in floor lounges anyway and b) there’s a cavernous, beautiful space on the first floor if you must leave your room. The amenities are good and improving; recent renovations have put in new washer/dryers on the second floor and an airy computer lab that looks out through arched windows. What Wien doesn’t have, it outsources. EC nightlife is nearby, and you can leave the morning stank of barf and alcohol in their elevators. For beats-JJ’s-middle-of-the-night deliciousness, Hamdel is around the corner. Rather than Butler, you’ll end up doing work in the Law School, which is serene and sanctified by the presence of Ruth Bader Ginsburg gazing out from her portrait. Its final saving grace: We at Bwog love the PrezBo, and Wien brings you closer to him than any other University residence. Early risers might catch him heading out on a run, or walking briskly to his morning business. And from some of the bathrooms, you can actually see into his back yard, which sometimes treats you to the elegant strains of a string quartet wafting up from an evening soiree. It is, above all, a civilizing experience. Finally, you probably won't know your neighbors--composed of those jumbled together in the dregs of general selection, the atmosphere can be downright anti-social. But by the time you get here, you need to have weaned yourself (ha) from the comfy cocoon of a res hall floor. You're a sophomore, anyhow. You don't need that shit. - LBD 
 For those of you who missed it, we'll be getting you a full write-up of DSpar's inauguration in due time. But from now until 6pm, there's a proper party on Claremont full of food from at least several cultures to celebrate--do her proud! Photo by Liz Naiden. More after the jump! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; And the balloons out of place in front of the law school after the festivities ended (thanks anonymous cell phone photographer!) 
 Welcome to the latest installment of our occasional series on libraries you should really get to know.&nbsp; What with the widespread Columbian ignorance of most things further north than Appletree, you've probably never been to the library of the school of Social Work, located on the East side of Amsterdam at 121st. And with its normal people hours of about 9am to 9pm, it's not likely you night owls and procrastinators will make it a habitual Butler alternative. But for the rest of the world, take heed—this is as lovely a study spot you'll find in Morningside, and one to keep in mind when finals roll around (all too soon!).&nbsp; The primary, overarching virtue of the Social Work is its health. Floor-to-ceiling windows onto Amsterdam remind you that you are part of New York, and provide light to remind you what time of day it is. The grad students are not unattractive—although not quite as good-looking as those hovering outside Avery, or frequenting the SIPA café—but it doesn't matter, because you know they all have golden hearts. It's a small library—only a few rooms, really—but rarely crowded, and far enough away from campus that if getting away from people was your goal (one of the virtues of a cavernous library like Butler, where there's always somewhere no one else goes). There's a small Blue Java downstairs, but also the pleasant-enough Café Fresh just up the street, as well as Morningside just a block over if you need a lunch break. The main disadvantage to the undergraduate lifestyle, as mentioned above, is that it's never open later than 9pm. But there is a silver lining in the reduced hours; the place has a clean and wholesome feeling, as if frequented by people who live normal, well-adjusted lives that involve going home to a family or at least a significant other after a fulfilling day at work, rather than the groggy just-woke-up sense you get in Butler. It isn't the biggest collection, but there are two distinct upsides: first, they're about social problems that stretch your mind a little beyond your immediate problems; and two, you get them on loan for four months, if the "Due By February 16, 2009" stamp on Bwog's stack of books is to be believed.&nbsp; So get thee north, for a study experience any social worker would proscribe. - LBD 
 With much pomp and circumstance, Debora L. Spar has been officially crowned Queen of Barnard. Seriously: with this much hoopla, Spar may as well have been garbed in ermine-trimmed gown robes rather than her hot pink academic raiment. But despite the monarchical overtones, and how long it all took, Bwog enjoyed taking in the ceremony from the cheap seats. After all, it happens but once a decade, give or take. Before getting to Spar’s actual address, those assembled—maybe not the whole student body as the school had hoped, but at least enough people to fill Riverside Church to the last pew—sat through no fewer than four musical interludes and 11 speakers. Most confined themselves to academic platitudes about the grand mission of women's education, our nation’s dire need for critical inquiry, etc. etc. But the succession of speakers was not without its highlights; SGA president Sarah Besnoff charmingly struggling with her light-blue cap, a congenial and self-deprecating PrezBo, and the redoubtable Phyllis Ben, who started at Barnard as a housekeeper in 1962 (before DSpar was born!) and has stayed on since, now a Public Safety officer. Spar’s own address ranged freely through the scope of women’s history, from Zora Neale Hurston to Roe v. Wade, but always returning to the trope of choice. “We’ve gone from the Feminine Mystique to the Feminine Boutique—and I’m not referring just to shoes,” she quipped in a high-pitched but strong voice. Since women now have all the options of men, Barnard has to offer them an affirmative reason to choose a women’s college, and then interrogate what that means. To that end, she announced the launch of the “Barnard Leadership Institute,” which will study…women’s leadership. In a PrezBo-esque talking point, she outlined her goal of expanding Barnard’s reach internationally, through stronger programs abroad and a larger international student presence in Morningside. And she announced the creation of a $100,000 per year President’s Research Fund to dole out to faculty for their various projects. Throughout the address, Bwog was reminded of how young she is—more like a sister than a nurturing mother, really (or, as Trustee Anna Quindlen called her, “a dedicated mother with a pocketful of takeout menus”). And the assembled young women seemed to approve. - LBD 
New Yorkers take Halloween very, very seriously.&nbsp; So, you’d better practice!&nbsp; Get your game on with these helpful suggestions. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday WFMU Record and CD Fair Friday 7-10pm, Saturday 10am-7pm, Sunday 10am-7pm Metropolitan Pavilion 125 West 18th Street Come fundraise for WFMU by browsing through thousands of CDs, LPs, DVDs, and other kinds of music-related memorabilia.&nbsp; It’s a full-scale event with live music and endless kitschy-crafty kinds of activities. Price: $6 (for the privilege of early admission and free entry all weekend, $25) Friday Ice Skating begins in Bryant Park 8am – 10 pm Bryant Park, 40th st. between 5th and 6th It’s the first day of the season! Get on your skates before the place gets mobbed with holiday crowds, and even worse, holiday music. Although maybe they start it that early these days anyway. Saturday HERE turns 15! 2-5pm HERE Arts Center 145 6th Ave. (212.647.0202) The on-the-edge arts organization, HERE offers 15 free acts on their SoHo sidewalk this Saturday in honor of their birthday.&nbsp; Acts will include everything from puppetry to dances for salt, and refreshments will include sweets from the Treat Truck.&nbsp; Live music from Dirty Sock Funtime Band. Price: Free Photojojo presents DUMBO Street Art Photo Safari 3:30pm York St F stop, York St and Jay St It’s like a regular safari, except that you’re in search of wild street art instead of wild animals.&nbsp; Grab a camera and find the niftiest stuff—meet in a bar later where the best submissions have an opportunity to win a prize. Price: Free Pumpkin Festival in Central Park 3pm – 8pm, various locations Glorious, glorious, ghoulish gourds. And lots of kids to celebrate them. Scarecrows, hayrides, a jack-o-lantern tower—how better to celebrate fall? Sunday War of the Worlds / The Lost World 3pm Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, 2900 Campus Rd The LA Theatre Works, an acclaimed radio-theatre company, present a sci-fi double bill in the spirit of the upcoming Halloween.&nbsp; It’ll be 70 years ago this week that War of the Worlds got mistaken for an actual newscast, so take this chance to be a part of history! Price: $20-30 Champagne Brunch Sail 11am-1pm North Cove Marina, World Financial Center (212.619.0885) It’s a two-hour cruise around Manhattan with all of the luxury of brunch.&nbsp; OK, it’s a little bit of a splurge, but in terms of ambiance and decadence, it can’t be beat--and if you drink enough, it pays for itself in short order. Price: $79 - Sara Jane Panfil 
 The French department loves interdisciplinary studies. The History Channel loves complex advertising ploys. The School of Public Health loves protecting children. We loved Christia Mercer's dancing abilities, so we love that she has an award! The Spec already loves Debora Spar. 
 Bwog's Friday Sports Roundup returns. Before we get to current Columbia sports, one alumni note: Fernando Perez, CC '04, has been playing with the Tampa Bay Rays since the end of August. He's now with them in the World Series, after scoring the winning run in Game 2 of the ALCS against Boston. The New York Times profiled Perez a few weeks ago, for those who want to know more about him.&nbsp; Anyways, there are plenty of competitions for current Columbia athletes this weekend, so let's get to them. Basketball: Basketball pokes its head in, as the Ivy League preseason poll was released earlier this week. This year, Columbia begins the season ranked sixth. Defending champion Cornell holds onto the top spot with all 16 first-place votes, followed by Penn, Yale, Harvard, Brown, Columbia, Dartmouth, and Princeton. The team's first game is at Fordham on November 14. Football: The Columbia Lions could have won their first game of the season, if they had not focused so much on turning the ball over. Penn scored all of its points on Columbia turnovers, defeating the Lions 15-10 in Philadelphia. Quarterback Shane Kelly, who had played so well in the first conference game against Princeton, had a nightmare day, with three interceptions and two fumbles, three of which led to 13 of Penn's points (the other two came off of a high snap on a punt that led to a safety). On the bright side, the defense played reasonably well, holding Penn to 204 yards on offense. This week, the Lions get some national exposure, playing Dartmouth at home in the Ivy League Game of the Week on Versus. Kickoff is at 4 p.m. Women's Soccer: The women's soccer team, who had been on such a roll, finally hit a bump with a 2-1 overtime loss to Princeton last Saturday. An own goal in the 6th minute was balanced by first-year midfielder Nora Dooley's sixth goal of the season just seven minutes later (Dooley was assisted by star junior Sophie Reiser). The teams could not find a goal for the next 95 minutes, but in the 108th, Princeton's Sarah Peteraf found the net, sending Columbia to its first loss in 9 games. The Lions are now 9-3-2, and 2-1-1 in Ivy League play, and they hope to get back on track quickly against Dartmouth Saturday night at 7 p.m. Men's Soccer: It was a tough week for the men's soccer team, as they were shutout by Princeton 2-0, and then lost to Lafayette 4-1 at home. The team is now 3-9-1, and 1-2 in Ivy League play. It hopes to get back into the Ivy League mix on Saturday, with the first of four games against Dartmouth, at home at 1 p.m. Volleyball: After falling to 0-6 in Ivy League play with losses to Harvard and Dartmouth over the weekend, the volleyball team got a much-needed victory, 3-1 over NJIT. This weekend, they play Brown on Friday night and Yale on Saturday.&nbsp; Cross-Country: The men's and women's cross-country teams split up again last weekend, competing at Pre-Nationals in Terre Haute, Indiana, and the Princeton Invitational. The men finished 20th out of 40 and 4th of 13, respectively, while the women finished 19th out of 38 at Pre-Nationals. The teams have this weekend off before competing in the Ivy League championships next Friday in Van Cortlandt Park. Golf: The men's golf team has its final event of the fall this weekend - the Columbia Invitational in Galloway, New Jersey. The women's team's final event, the UAB Beach Blast in Alabama, is not until Election Day weekend. Both teams then hibernate until the spring, when the Ivy League and NCAA tournaments are played. - JCD 
From the October issue of The Blue and White, we bring you Alexandra Muhler's profile of the&nbsp;mysterious "Butler Marxist." Or, as he wishes to be known, "The Author." On Thursday nights, the crowd in Butler Café is small and dispersed. From a central table in the quiet lounge, one voice booms, fighting its way out of the biggest, most billowing beard in the room. The Butler Marxist is holding court. Though he insists he does visit other cafés and libraries throughout the city, his nightly appearance in Butler is practically guaranteed. With his mane of dandruff-laden black hair, leather-fringed apparel, and extra-long thumbnails, he has become famous, and is the subject of rampant speculation by the café’s less vocal locals. This lounge loiterer remains a mystery even to longtime observers. He is just as suspicious of you as you are of him. “A lot of people can’t tell the difference between spirits and real people,” he explains. “So the first time you see a person they might be an apparition. Then, you start to ask some questions, and if they respond appropriately, then you realize that they’re not just spirits, but an actuality.” For the purposes of this publication, the Marxist will remain a step removed from actuality. He’s bound by non-disclosure agreements with two corporate clients, you see. No identifying marks, no names, and much biographical vagueness. To the readers of The Blue and White, he wishes to be known only as the Author. The Author also considered adopting the alias the Moviemaker. In fact, he is a mid-90s graduate of Columbia’s film school, and the bevy of characters who surround him are also alumni, for the most part. His girlfriend, the Economist, recently completed a degree in the College after eight years of study. She met the Author about two years ago—in the café, of course. The crew has grown formidably from spontaneous meetings, much like the Economist and the Author’s union. “They all glom around the Author,” explains the Economist. There are regular appearances by the portly, mustachioed Architect, the aged China Scholar, and a giggly man whose unwieldy pseudonym is the-Black-and-the-White. The salon is informal, and includes countless more Sociologists, Area Specialists, Ecologists, Theorists, and, intriguingly, established Professors. But this is certainly no cult of the Author. “All my associates have their own opinions, and we have all kinds of wild disagreements,” he counters. Their group is driven by the spirit of intellectual inquiry, in the continental style, and could not exist without the lounge. “Where is a 24/7 café-salon that New York runs?” he wonders. “Columbia runs the Butler,” he says, as if “the Butler” were an after-hours cocktail bar. Apparently, it is unusual to find such a vital café culture in an American research institution, but “a lot of bibliothèques, as they call them in Europe, have this kind of place,” says the Author. Just a decade ago, the lounge in Butler was a math and science library. It was a “dead space,” laments the Architect. When the Author and his comrades are in session, the room comes alive. Over the murmur of keystrokes and idle gossip, the Author expounds on his subject of inquiry, a theory of the Cool and the Uncool. “What about the uncouth?” interjects the-Black-and-the-White, before sliding away with a silly laugh. Here, the academic discourse is fierce, but the punning is fiercer. As his associates mosey off, the Author turns to the hard work at hand. He extracts his books from an enormous, radiation-proof (so he says) Swiss Army knapsack, then stacks the table with volumes of Benjamin, Pushkin, Cervantes, Proust, de Sade— all in their respective original languages. Tonight, he will require the assistance of no fewer than three pocket dictionaries. Other than English, he speaks a minimum of seven languages, including Yaqui, the language of his American Indian ancestors. He picked up Yaqui by participating in religious ceremonies, but he didn’t grow up in the tribe’s Sonoran desert homeland—he’s a Los Angeles native. At UCLA, he minored in Slavic Studies and learned Russian. This, the autodidact insists, segued quite naturally into a working knowledge of German, Dutch, French, Italian, and Spanish. The Author’s fluency in Russian may explain some of the lounge gossip that encircles him. Is he, as his moniker suggests, a Marxist? Darker rumors suggest he is a revisionist historian of the Stalinist camp. There’s no doubt he’s a contrarian. “You convince me of horrible things!” accuses the Economist. But she’s hinting at something milder than a pro-Stalin agenda. “As a form of personal entertainment, he finds very disturbing newspaper articles and makes me read them,” she confides. The long answer to the Stalin question is difficult to muddle through. The short answer is no—he concedes that “genocide is the extinction of Cool.” In the lexicon of a man devoted to the study of the Cool, this is a stronger assertion than it might seem. Sure, he has studied Marx and Stalin extensively, but there’s little he hasn’t studied. The Economist offers a parallel vindication of her own work. Though she is employed by a major financial institution, she has what she deems “big time” ethical concernsabout standard accounting practices. Nevertheless, she explains, “if someone’s blood is poisoned, the answer is not to try and drain all their blood.” Rather, she continues, “if you’re going to fix something from the outside, you still have to know how it works.” This does not mean that the Author is an activist. Neither is he a simple researcher or philosopher. “You might call me,” he proposes, “a critical artist.” Like Sartre, he is weaving his critical theory into novel form. Three years after a joint book-andmovie deal fell through, he’s embarking on a final draft with the help of an editor from a publishing house he won’t name. The novel is about “two twins at the center of an international cult and pop sensation,” he explains. His theory directs the plot as the “characters grapple with the Cool in various ways, and they try their own approaches to the Cool, some naïve, some savvy, and in that Cool is created a Cool revolution, basically.” With the help of an international crime syndicate, the twins launch a Europop “gag” on an unsuspecting world. As our present world unsuspectingly awaits the novel’s publication, the Author digs into his cushioned booth. He knows you see him, and invites you to join. “I’m a crazy guy,” he admits. Let loose, his cackle echoes through the lounge. - Alexandra Muhler Illustration by Lorraine White 
 It looks like both of Columbia's most media-hungry legal opponents are stepping up their plans. On one side, we have Graciela Chichilnisky, who, after settling for $200,000&nbsp;over her own gender bias claims,&nbsp;is apparently pressing other female faculty to sue on grounds of gender bias, all to form a "trust" of aggrieved faculty members. One of her lawyers, Jan Schlictmann, is apparently famous for this approach. On the flip side, we have Roy Den Hollander, anti-feminist crusader, who has been contacting individual students in the hopes of finding plaintiffs for his class action lawsuit against Columbia University for its&nbsp;Women's Studies program. Strangely, Hollander seems to be contacting both male and female students for prospective plaintiffs. Bwog wonders what the university thinks of Hollander directly contacting its students. UPDATE (4:45 PM): The AP reports that Columbia has filed its own briefs requesting that the judge throw out the case. A sample e-mail from Hollander after the jump.&nbsp; Dear , I'm a graduate of the Columbia Business School and a lawyer who is currently suing Columbia University because its Women's Studies program discriminates against male students and male alumni and violates the First Amendment establishment clause concerning religion. The case is a class action lawsuit, and I am currently looking for Columbia students or organizations to join as plaintiffs.&nbsp; All expenses are being picked up by the MR Legal Fund. I can be contacted at&nbsp;&nbsp;or . Thanks Roy 
 As the fundraising for the presidential campaign wraps up, the Chronicle of Higher Education has compiled a total of all donations from "professors, college administrators, and other educators," and has found that Columbia actually ranks higher among institutions donating to McCain than ones donating to Obama. In fairness, this is only a shocking stat before one compares the actual amounts given: $267,000 to Obama (5th behind University of California, Harvard, Stanford, and UChicago) compared with only $35,000 to McCain (behind only Cal and Harvard). To the surprise of no one, as the Chronicle puts it in their headline, "Donors From Academe Favor Obama by a Wide Margin." Of all institutions in New York, Columbia accounts for just over 1/3rd of McCain donations, and just above 20% of Obama donations. Want to do your own finance sleuthing? Go to OpenSecrets.org. 
 If you bank with the HSBC branch between 102nd and 103rd, and had some late Friday withdrawls to make, Bwog suggests finding another location. Gothamist reports that the branch was robbed about two hours ago.&nbsp; How big of a heist it was, and whether it relates to a robbery an hour earlier at a Chase branch between 72nd and 73rd, is unknown.&nbsp; 
 Bwog Daily Editor James Downie was in Lerner Cinema for the least controversial speech by a Republican official since Eisenhower. In typical Senatorial fashion, Chuck Hagel was 25 minutes late to the event. In typical Columbia fashion, the room (Lerner Cinema) was too large for the event. Nevertheless, it was a refreshing and informative talk from one of the great independants of the Senate. After entering to applause, he opened by joking that "we do have colleges in Nebraska." He immediately noted that the country is in the middle of a "historical reorientation" and focused the first part of his talk on that. The first reorientation was international, as nations have come to be more and interconnected. "We are woven in this global fabric," he declared,&nbsp; "which we cannot pull apart." According to Hagel, the relationships between the US and other countries are maturing and changing at an astonishing pace, especially those relationships driven by energy resources and their owners. Energy is so powerful, he said, that it is shifting geopolitical alliances. He specifically brought up Germany's reluctance to support admission of Ukraine and Georgia to NATO, because of German dependence on Russian oil. The Senator took an unsurprisingly pessimistic view of the coming years. The next president, he said, will be faced with a "large portfolio of problems, perhaps larger than any other, certainly since Franklin Roosevelt took office." He noted that this was in an age where Americans have lost confidence in their government, noting the historically low approval ratings of the President and the Congress. "Much of what we've seen in Barack Obama's rise, and the enthusiasm with it," he suggested, "is that most Americans who favor Obama think he's a leader who will be responsible, who will face these problems." He closed the first half of his talk by noting again that America wasn't the only country going through reorientation: Germany, Russia, Brazil, and other countries all have recently changed or will soon be changing their leaders. He used the focus on change to segue into why he wrote his book: to focus on the "next chapter" of American history. He began by declaring that his generation was failing "your generation, in educating you as citizens." He pointed out the importance of leadership, and the effect that elders have on shaping people's lives. And yet, he asked in closing, who are the role models of today? Questions came in fast and furious, partly because of some attendees from the Model UN conference going on this weekend. The first question was about mandatory civil service, which he called "something to explore." A military draft was not a good idea, he responded, because of insufficient training, but a mandatory civil service program does have benefits, such as a "sense of yourself" and pride. The second question swung in a partisan direction, about the Obama-Biden ticket's ability to "restore American standing in the Middle East." Hagel said that he actually told Obama, while the two were in Iraq, that his best choice was Joe Biden, because of his "ability to think strategically." He stressed that the world wants alliances, and said he would support what he expects will be a multi-lateral push by an Obama-Biden administration. He returned to one-liner humor when asked what he would do after his retirement from the Senate in 2009, joking that "maybe he'd become a cook, but that would require an actual skill, and I don't have any skills." When asked what young people entering politics should remember, he responded "be honest with yourself" and "do it for the right reasons." He sounded a note of optimism about the Millenial Generation, predicting that November 4th would be the largest youth turnout in history, which would go a long way towards "refocusing" the country. The questioning closed with a question about experience, and who is experienced enough to be President. Hagel flatly stated "no one is ever ready to be president." The two indispensable requisites instead, he said, are character and judgment. He then showed his hand on the election, saying that the vice-president is the first test of judgement, and that "Senator Obama passed that test, while Senator McCain did not." And then, in true Senate fashion, he stayed around to sign every book and shake every hand. - Photo courtesy Christopher Chan and the Columbia Political Union 
 Bwog Fun Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann attended last night's Night Market festivities. Some pictures and a few notes follow. The tea was not free. Such was our initial thought upon first entering Night Market, the annual celebration sponsored by the Chinese Students Club during which Low Plaza is transformed into Chinese street market. However, Bwog paid up for the not-as-free-as-we-thought-but-so-worth-it food as the performers took the stage, which ranged from the Notes and Keys to Chinese Yo-Yoers. Of the acts, the most memorable was the latter, who thoroughly impressed the crowd with their performance. For the rest of the night, the Chinese Yo-Yo Club’s booth drew a crowd of students and a band of Morningside kids. The most advertised performers of the evening, PaperDoll, New York-based rockers who were so deafening that Bwog found their performance difficult to enjoy, though you could hear them clearly if you relocated to a safe distance (Butler). They were certainly an audience favorite though. PaperDoll were followed by colorfully dressed dancers, and then by Notes And Keys, one of Columbia’s a capella groups. Though Bwog wishes we brought more cash, it was a thoroughly enjoyable evening. More photos after the jump. &nbsp; 
 The celebration of Latino Heritage Month continues with reflections on last night's "Swagger Like Us," Latino Month's Cultural Showcase and Fashion Show. Last night Bwog arrived early, but as sartorially inclined soirees are wont to do, the "Swagger Like Us" Latino Heritage Month Showcase and Fashion Show started fashionably late, about forty-five minutes late.&nbsp; After the initial ecstatic rush of the complementary flan and Red Bull wore off, the audience -- a mix of predominantly Latino students, friends and family -- had tired of dancing and singing along to Kayne remixes and turned to texting. But when the lights in the Roone Arledge Auditorium finally dimmed, the audience warmly greeted the event's emcees, Cindy SugaRusH and Yamaneika, a Nuyorican comedian and a black, self-described culturally adopted Nuyorican comedian, and only groaned slightly at their exhortation to buy raffle tickets. The grand prize was a Metrocard. (Insert gallows humor about the economy here.) The emcees routine at best involved physical humor and sass and at worst resorted to volume and recurrent shout-outs to different Latino nationalities.&nbsp; But despite their occasionally uninspired antics, the pair had definite chemistry and got the crowd excited for the evening's events, which were designed to take the audience on a tour through time exploring Latin roots and confronting the new identities Latino Americans have embraced in New York City.&nbsp; In actuality, the event program only itemized seventeen performances, which spotlighted all things Latino from music, dance and spoken word to stand-up comedy and fashion shows. Although Latino and non-Latino students from both Barnard and Columbia performed the majority of the acts, other acts featured members from the greater New York Latino community. But without a doubt the audience's favorite acts included the numerous dance perfomances and three student-produced fashion shows featuring the designs of Triple 5 Soul, ZooYork and Penguin among others. &nbsp; The first performance of the night spotlighted Vanity David, BC' 10, dancing a traditional Bulerias Flamencas dance, which differs from plain old flamenco because it has a faster, more dramatic beat allowing for greater improvisation.&nbsp; The old-world Iberian lore associated with David's dance made for a historically appropriate introduction to the evening, but was not at all indicative of the ensuing performances, which by in large focused on the contemporary manifestations of Latino culture in New York City. &nbsp; The first act culminated with a performance given by Ballet Hispanico's Student Ensemble, whom Cindy SugaRusH and Yamaneika informed the audience have performed at numerous august venues including the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington DC and the Macy's Day Parade among others. But it was Yamaneika's reference to Ballet Hispanico's annual perfomance at the Puerto Rican Day Parade that won the audience over.&nbsp; The ensuing performance featured a company of well-trained ballerina/os dancing to salsa-inspired classical music.&nbsp; As the dance developed, the choreography transitioned away from its inital focus on classical ballet to a more abstracted fusion of salsa, tango and jazz. The second act opened with the first segment of the "Swagger Like Us" fashion show and featured looks from Triple 5 Soul.&nbsp; Strutting down a makeshift catwalk, student models sported skinny jeans, high-heels and bold silk-screen shirts. The second act which included two more runway shows and fabulous dance performances given by Bronx break-dance royalty, Rockefella and her entourage, a trio of tween badasses from the Hostos Lincoln Academy Step Team and Columbia's own ONYX dance team. Rockefella encapsulated the atmosphere of the evening and the spirit charging through the audience last night when she gave a pre-performance shout-out to "All yous kick-ass Latinos here at Columbia&nbsp; getting degrees, representing Nuyorican intelligence and making all of us Latinos unidos proud."&nbsp; -- MEQ 
 Bwog loves celebrating multi-culturalism almost as much as eating free food.&nbsp; But really, what Bwog loves best is Thai food, especially pad thai with those little pieces of tofu and crunchy peanuts.&nbsp; Bwog is not sure why the people at the Columbia Thai Student Association are being so generous this afternoon but it might be because they are co-chairing the event with the hospitable folks at the Tourism Authority of Thailand.&nbsp; So please share the bounty with us at 3:30 in the Lerner Party Space, 
It's TV on the Internet! Brought to you by Web-only television critic Rob Trump. This week: Toyboize. Whether you prefer the British Office or the American version--and I think a case can be made for either--you have to concede one point to the Americans: they're much better at keeping their actors employed.&nbsp; While Jenna Fischer can bounce back from a dud like The Promotion into a full-time job on a hit show, the same can't be said for, say, her British counterpart Lucy Davis, whose post-Office resume runs the gamut from the aggressively mediocre (Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip) to the downright embarrassing (Garfield: A Tale of Two Kitties, Sex Lives of the Potato Men--and no, I am not making that up). Though&nbsp;several of the other British Office stars have fared somewhat better than Davis--MacKenzie Crook was great in&nbsp;the one Pirates movies&nbsp;I saw,&nbsp;and Ricky Gervais will never be out of work&nbsp;so long as he can draw breath and write--it's the ones that shined so brightly and so briefly that interest me the most.&nbsp; Which is why I was particularly excited to learn this summer that a new web series was debuting that starred Ewen Macintosh, whose Keith (in American, read: Kevin) provided the British Office with some of its&nbsp;most memorable&nbsp;moments.&nbsp; And even wackier, it ended up also featuring the same Office's Jennifer (again, read: Jan).&nbsp;It's called Toyboize, and it's pretty funny. Toyboize centers on a five-person teen boy-band--think New Kids on the Block--whose lives since the late 80s/early 90s have been somewhat less than impressive.&nbsp; One member (Reece) has gone onto a highly successful solo career, but the rest of them have languished in menial desk jobs and dealt with the difficulties&nbsp;of everyday life.&nbsp;&nbsp;So they decide to escape the tedium by doing what any foolish person in their&nbsp;position would do:&nbsp;reunite, despite each&nbsp;being about a hundred pounds too heavy and twenty years too&nbsp;old to comfortably sing lyrics like, "And it's you I want to be with / Even though you're only nine." The band's simultaneous open jealousy and disdain for the offscreen&nbsp;Reece is&nbsp;consistenly&nbsp;one of the funniest aspects of the show, and Macintosh brings the same hilariously low energy to his character of Tim that he brought to Keith.&nbsp; The pilot is perhaps the best showcase of what the series has to offer: the documentary style is great for getting out background stories, and Nicky's desire not to make his coming out a selling point for the reunited band gets some of the smartest laughs.&nbsp; After that very impressive pilot, no other episode quite lives up to the series' promise, alternating weaker, slower&nbsp;episodes like the second&nbsp;with ones like the third,&nbsp;which is funny, but falls&nbsp;too easily in the "white guys act tacitly bigoted and minorities play straight" vein that feels well-trod by absolutely everything Gervais has ever done. Still, all the elements are there, and the six five-minute episodes (along with many other shorter clips) are worth watching if you're a Gervais fan.&nbsp; (Although Gervais isn't directly involved&nbsp;in the series, he wrote the absurdly catchy theme&nbsp;"I Like You Girl,"&nbsp;which&nbsp;was also the Toyboize's #2 hit, and his sense of humor is apparent throughout.)&nbsp; I'm waiting for it to get as good as I hoped it would based on the first five minutes, and I think it can: &nbsp; 
 Bwog kicks off Halloween early this year with a special guide to two of the neighborhood's best costume purveyors, Ricky's and&nbsp; Possibilities @ Columbia. You can divide the world in two camps: Those who love Halloween and those who hate it.&nbsp; Bwog falls into the former camp and we hope you do too. But we understand, fun is not for everyone.&nbsp; If you're a Halloween hater, a self-conscious self-customer or just not in the spirit yet, Bwog's here to help.&nbsp; Today, we're guiding you through two of Morningside Heights' most unabashed Halloween haunts, the already infamous Ricky's and Possibilities@Columbia. Ricky's is not a place for everyone. Really. Nonetheless, if you are still unsure of what your Halloween costume will be, a browse through Ricky's is an excellent way to get you thinking.&nbsp; But be forewarned: Many of the costumes will strike you as tacky, trashy or mildly entertaining.&nbsp; Shoot for the latter. Although Ricky's has a wealth of complete costume ensembles, Bwog does not recommend investing in one.&nbsp; If you show up to your Halloween bash in a Ricky's costume straight out the box, your lack of inspiration will be obvious.&nbsp; And besides, the majority of costume ensembles at Ricky's are upwards of thirty dollars. Bwog cannot stress how important it is to abstain from purchasing the your entirety of your respective costume at Ricky's.&nbsp; Instead look for the key essentials: For example, if you decide to be a witch, don't buy the purple and orange striped dress selling at Ricky's for&nbsp; twenty-five dollars.&nbsp; You probably have something in your closet that will serve equally well.&nbsp; So instead, buy the witch's hat for only thirteen dollars because you probably don't have one of those in your dorm room. Unfortunately Ricky's does not cater itself to those seeking only to purchase costume accessories.&nbsp; The majority of such accessories are poorly displayed and hard to reach.&nbsp; Furthermore, Bwog could not find a plain, black pointy witch's hat in the entirety of the store.&nbsp; There were plenty of jazzed up variations of the witch's hat but no basic witch's hat.&nbsp; This last observation is indicative of the greater shopping experience: Ricky's is not a place for the basic Halloween essentials. In addition to the the tired but true favorites -- pirates, ninjas, sexy Hermione Granger among others -- this year Ricky's collection has some noteworthy newcomers just right for its Columbia clientele. Special for Fall '08 and all CPU members, Ricky's offers an array of election themed costumes including a "boss" Sarah Palin wig ($39.99) and an "always sexy" Michelle Obama wig ($29.99).&nbsp; To complement either wig, Ricky's also sells a Sarah "Miss Alaska" costume, comprised of a bikini and beauty pageant sash.&nbsp; For men, Ricky's sells an equally droll Joe the Plumber costume.&nbsp;&nbsp; If you'd rather avoid making political statements with your Halloween costume or you already have in mind what you'd like to be, Bwog advises skipping Ricky's altogether and heading straight to Possibilities@Columbia.&nbsp; Here, you'll find the atmosphere much milder; the lighting and display is preferable to that of Ricky's which makes for an easier, less grating shopping experience. Possibilities is really the best place to go for all the Halloween basics. Think plenty of black pointy witch hats, cat ears and tail kits, devil ears and tail kits, face masks and other traditional Halloween paraphernalia.&nbsp; As opposed to the alarming quantity of female pirate costumes sold at Ricky's -- with names ranging from Pirate Vixen, Marauder Wench, Pirate Wench, Treasure Hunt Wench, Captain's Treasure Wench to South Seas Siren and Buccaneer Babe -- only two styles, Pirate's Wench and Captain's Wench, are sold at Possibilities.&nbsp; The best thing about Halloween&nbsp; at Columbia is that it comes right after fall midterms, which means a week straight of Halloween parties.&nbsp; Ricky's and Possibilities@Columbia&nbsp; provide plenty of costume options, but&nbsp; to maximize your Halloween success&nbsp; remember the best costumes are usually an amalgam of something old, something new, something borrowed, and something orange. 
 That's right, the oft-maligned football team won its first conference game in almost two years, 21-13 over Dartmouth. At a windy and rainy Wien Stadium, quarterbacks Shane Kelly and Millicent Olawale combined for 205 yards in the air, and the team also produced 193 rushing yards, as the Lions moved to 1-2 in the Ivy League. After the two teams traded long drives for touchdowns, the Lions ended the first half with a 19 yard touchdown pass from Kelly to junior Austin Knowlin. Dartmouth kicked two field goals in the third quarter, but another long touchdown drive at the start of the fourth put Columbia ahead 21-13, and safety Andy Shalbrack's interception with a minute to go preserved the victory. Next week, the Lions travel to New Haven to take on Yale at 12:30. The game will be televised on the YES network. In other sports news, the women's soccer team beat Dartmouth 3-1 on Friday night to stay in the hunt for the Ivy League championship. Junior Sophie Reiser continued her starring role by scoring all three goals. 
 Bwog's food editor Jon Hill travels this week to Brooklyn to find a taste of Australia. Almost everyone these days seems to have a beef with beef. Cardiologists blame it for clogging arteries, animal rights advocates don’t like the way it’s processed, and environmentalists resent its carbon footprint. Beef has become a bad guy in the culinary world, a symbol of the excesses and failures of the modern diet. Yet even with red meat getting such a bad rap, U.S. beef consumption has remained fairly steady. Poultry and pork have come on strong, but as far as substitutes go, we Americans have not found a good alternative to the T-bone steak. Maybe it’s time to widen the search—to Australia. The continent is home to a large land animal that is one of the planet’s most abundant (and most edible) mammals, the kangaroo. Nearly 30 million of them roam Australia, and they have been part of the traditional Australian diet for more than 400 centuries. Only recently, though, have agriculture experts zeroed in on the kangaroo’s potential to be the next major commodity in international trade. If beef represents the culinary villain, kangaroo would be the hero. It’s lower in cholesterol, higher in protein, and rich in certain anti-cancer compounds. Kangaroos produce no greenhouse gases and they require no extra food or water from ranchers. Conservationists have even calculated that increased kangaroo consumption could save the world 15 megatons of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. But could kangaroo ever compare to USDA prime? Long Tan restaurant Considering Qantas ticket prices, I was lucky I only had to travel to Brooklyn to find out. Long Tan, a popular Thai restaurant in the Park Slope neighborhood, serves kangaroo grilled teriyaki-style over salad greens. Seeing this dish’s description excited me with its purist preparation—the kangaroo would be able to strut its stuff free of heavy sauces and aromatic spices that normally accompany Thai cuisine. What I would be tasting would be sure to be the real, unadulterated Australian meat.&nbsp; When the kangaroo arrived fanned out in strips over my salad, I realized that beef and kangaroo are almost impossible to tell apart at the end of a fork. The meat’s pinkish, raw middle ringed with a darker, well-done caramel color was identical to steak, and its fragrant smell was a dead-ringer for grilled sirloin. Kangaroo mimics beef’s taste superbly, too. I expected a certain level of gaminess in the meat—especially considering kangaroo is “harvested” from wild herds—but the only note I detected of my dinner’s Outback origin was a slightly more pronounced metallic flavor. The texture, meanwhile, was supple and juicy. Such similarity works to kangaroo’s disadvantage, though, as I discovered that the meat never took on an identity of its own during the meal. No new or special flavor stood out to recommend itself again for future dinners. Instead, I was just reminded how delicious beef is. Kangaroo is the quintessential impressionist in this sense, always turning in a perfect imitation but never transcending the act. For what started out to be an adventure in dining, this meal ended up feeling strangely familiar. Beef has strong competition in kangaroo, but only from the more intangible standpoints of ecology and nutrition—tastewise, they’re evenly matched. &nbsp; And maybe that’s all kangaroo has to do if it hopes to dethrone beef. Diets will not shift rapidly or easily to a different-tasting, exotic meat, no matter how much better for people or the planet that meat may be. Beef’s replacement must be beefy to the utmost degree, and kangaroo fits that bill. What becomes of the T-bone, we’ll have to see. WHAT IT IS: Grilled kangaroo WHERE IT IS: Long Tan, 196 Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn HOW MUCH IT IS: $16.00, with Asian coleslaw HOW TO GET THERE: Take the 1 train to Times Square and transfer to the R. Get off at Union Street Station, walking one block east on Union Street. The restaurant is at the north end of the block. --JYH 
 Andrew Delbanco, Columbia's favorite English professor and just about everybody's favorite social critic, has put down his more customary meditations on Melville, Lincoln and the like and instead pens his reflections on this year's election in the current issue of The New York Review of Books.&nbsp; Although he focuses on what he calls the "race card," Delbanco touches on everything from the Dixiecrats and de Tocqueville to both his daughter's and his own career in education.&nbsp; If you're in one of his classes you're probably familiar with Delbanco's political credo already.&nbsp; If not, this piece offers insight from one of Alma's finest.&nbsp; 
The real world media reveals that Columbia's full of denial this week. The Alps don't exist.&nbsp; Really? Bananas aren't blue.&nbsp; Really! Traylessness isn't all that bad.&nbsp; Obviously. The drug war isn't publicized enough.&nbsp; Irresponsibly. CU Med school doesn't get questionable donations?&nbsp; Honestly!
Bwog freelancer Yelena Shuster ventured into the underground with the Potluck House kids Friday night. Friday night was no ordinary party in Brooklyn--with Potluckers in the lead, a subway car full of whooping kids traded in hipster wear for flapper costumes, cigarettes for party blowers, and Williamsburg for Brighton Beach. The rendezvous was no exception to Potluck (aka Symposium) House's tradition of random revelry. Previous subway takeovers by Columbia's special interest housing group featured a Dalmatian costume, a run-in with the NYPD, and a group of sailors looking for kicks on their last night before departure. (The Facebook event reminded invitees "not to bring anything that will get you arrested!"). At 1:00 AM, forty screaming Ivy Leaguers ambushed a car on the Q train, tambourines and makeshift drums at hand. Faces painted and eyes masked, students howled and grinded to the self-created beat of wooden and metal spoons (and water bottles) banging on bars. Green streamers and blue balloons completed the festivities. A middle-aged man named Dennis followed the fun from 116th Street. As Linnea Hincks (the bedazzled lady in red), CC'10, scrawled "Feminist" on his forehead with red lipstick, he remarked, "I wish I could do more of this kind of thing." Dennis--as free with his hands as he was with his quips--said he "trades and sells stocks" for a living. Hincks also marked a 22-year-old MSNBC reporter's face as "Bikini Kill" while he scrawled notes on his hand. On the other end of the car, a homeless man--who finished the ride sans shirt--also joined in the dancing (to the chagrin of more straight-laced passengers). Most of the riders remained voyeurs. If they were annoyed, they were too busy ogling to care. Meanwhile, the subway wobbled all the way to the Land of Cyrillic. Shoes, clothing, and shame were abandoned before skinny dipping at Brighton Beach. A pile of discarded boxers and bras littered the sand. ("I put on someone's jeans and they weren't mine" said a voice in the dark). Caroline Robertson, CC'09, house member and subway party organizer, initiated a final moment of silence that marked the end of the night. On the way back to the subway, Robertson was accosted by beefy, leather-clad Slavs asking "Russian speak? Russian speak?" But neither the late night chill or sketchy come ons could ruin the calm after the cacophony. As the beat of the drums came to a stand-still and heads rested on friend's laps for the long ride back, no one felt more at peace. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Photos by Yelena Shuster 
This is just one of the first in what Bwog assumes will be a veritable onslaught of Halloweenish events.&nbsp; We'll keep you posted. Bacchanal is hosting an event on the steps today, some sort of crazy Halloween/study break mashup entitled "A Ghoulish Day on the Steps" today from 3:00PM - 7:00PM. The free highlights include: tongue-scalding cider, critter-shaped cookies, pie of pumpkinal origin, and unspecified giveaways. Two contests will also grace the steps this afternoon: a costume contest, and a pumpkin-carving contest.&nbsp; Bring your (hopefully carved) pumpkin to the steps by 6:00 PM to enter the contest -- $100 to the winner! 
Bwog is receiving reports from Blue and White alumnus James Wiliams that a car crashed into the front of Indus Valley, located on the southeast corner of 100th and Broadway. Police have already begun dismantling the car. Standby for more pictures and details as they come in.&nbsp; &nbsp; UPDATE 3:45 PM: Bwog just returned from the scene of the crash with more pictures but very little info.&nbsp; The NYPD on site were very unhelpful and didn't respond to Bwog's questions but with a brusque "Stay on the sidewalk, dammit."&nbsp; More pictures after the jump. UPDATE 5:56 PM: The local Fox affiliate just reported on the story, saying that 9 people were hurt. Photo by Anish Bramhandkar &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Photo by James Williams &nbsp; 
Morningside slows down in the Halloween runup, unless you're at MoWi or DR (fun!).&nbsp; Here's some things you can do before the long weekend. Monday Lunchtime Concerts - Haydn "Sun" Quartets: The Daedalus Quartet, in residence at Columbia, performs this week.&nbsp; Reviewed by the New York Times last week.&nbsp; 12:30 PM @ Philosophy Lounge.&nbsp; Also Tuesday, Wednesday. Tuesday Sachs Student Lecture: Jeffrey Sachs on "Progress and Challenges in the Millennium Villages."&nbsp; 5:00 PM @ Miller Theatre. Wednesday Free Iranian Food: Oh, and a movie and such.&nbsp; Learn about Iranian culture and watch Offside, but really go there for the kabobs.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ 413 IAB. Thursday Presidential Lecture: Dr. Rita Colwell from U Maryland on the link between climate and cholera.&nbsp; Hosted by PrezBo and other fun people.&nbsp; 6:00 PM @ Casa Italiana. Friday Halloween: Venture out in Manhattan.&nbsp; Really. &nbsp; 
Blame them, they were luckier than poor Bwog this week. The lineup: Lucky journalists get money, lucky roaches get their home, lucky Wieners love their view. Strong, beautiful, and lucky; small, sticky, and lucky. The luckiest delivery people are now rich, the luckiest bankers have no money, and the luckiest independents drown in pessimism.
 Morningside is no stranger to crazy people.&nbsp; Every once in a while, however, one pops up who can't just be ignored. It's generally accepted (or rather, Wikipedia states firmly) that crazy person Mark David Chapman shot John Lennon in 1980, leading to his death.&nbsp; Stories like that are never complete without their conspiracy theorists, however. Steve Lightfoot, native of Montana and resident of California, has long been considered by the blogosphere something of a kook.&nbsp; Normally, Bwog doesn't concern itself with kooks unless they wander near campus, which he (or one of his minions) does.&nbsp; Several times over the last few weeks, Bwog spotted a van sporting the address "lennonmurdertruth.com" by the Earl Hall gates, and a lone man standing beside it with three signs: "Jealous Public Killed John Lennon," "Jewish Media Pushing Chapman Hoax," and the best part, "Steven King Pulled The Trigger."&nbsp; An investigation was deemed necessary. According to his website, Lightfoot's theory is that Stephen King, horror novelist extraordinaire, was responsible for the murder of John Lennon.&nbsp; See, King wasn't famous back then, so he needed to do something to draw attention to himself (Bwog would like to point out that King's very well-received novel Carrie was published in 1974, six years before Lennon's death). It doesn't end there: "bold print government cryptographic codes" in print magazines and Nixon's book, The Real War, clearly identify the real killer.&nbsp; Tricky Dick and Ronald Reagan planned for King to carry out the murder.&nbsp; These codes were cleverly hidden in newspaper articles in phrases such as "Fizz and Fury," "Le Monde Under Attack," and "A Gambler's Luck Runs Out."&nbsp; Confused yet? It's quite simple.&nbsp; The man in the famous picture of Chapman getting Lennon's autograph shortly before the murder was misidentified: it's actually Stephen King!&nbsp; Newsweek was in cahoots with the photographer, who was probably a government operator, and the police who arrested King (posing as Chapman) switched the two men once they arrived at the police station. If you're still not convinced, Lightfoot offers proof by linking the names "Chapman" and "David King" with a word "Mark" (as in "mark my words") in a few Letters to the Editor in an edition of U.S. News &amp; World Report.&nbsp; King even wrote a letter to Lightfoot, using an alias, of course, admitting his guilt.&nbsp; Lightfoot's father was killed in a plane crash two weeks after recieving the letter, thus proving it genuine. Of course, nothing proves the veracity of his claims like the evidence in King's writings.&nbsp; Lightfoot provides numerous examples of graphic, murderous details in the novels, which are totally unheard of in most of King's writings.&nbsp; There are even some guilt-ridden references to Newsweek and faked photographs. All in all, Bwog, like Lightfoot, thinks the public ought to take this matter very seriously. King is clearly a threat to our society, not just for the week of nightmares we started having after reading It, but for the murder of one of the peace movement's most beloved icons.&nbsp; Spread the word! Or not. -- Anish Bramhandkar 
A mysterious tipster clues us in... Our men's club water polo team won the New York State Championship today, huzzah!&nbsp; On the way, we beat Syracuse and, yes, NYU. As fourth seed, we beat Army (West Point) 7-4.&nbsp; This means that Columbia gets to go to club championships in Ohio. &nbsp; This news comes two years to the day as Bwog last reported the team's triumphs. &nbsp;More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Coming soon to 113th Street: McVickar hall, another space for alumni to network...but this time with undergrads! Just five short years until the 6th and 7th graders at Columbia's Secondary School can get a taste of the big kid Core&nbsp; The headline "Stale Castlevania Goes Eclectic in Order of Ecclesia" exists, heralds in a new video game Columbia wins a football game Alas, some grinches remind us that there's still no money, and, worse still, no paper 
 Bwog continues its tour of Butler alternatives today with an excursion to the Math and Science Library. Everyone knows that Avery is the Paul McCartney to Butler’s John Lennon: the second-most-famous one, the arguably better looking (or more aesthetically pleasing) one. Avery is gorgeous, it’s close, it’s quiet, there’s Brownies in the basement, there are scores of attractive Italian people sitting outside smoking clove cigarettes, you get the picture. The Math and Science Library, visible if one squints from a cushy seat in Avery, separated only by Uris and the B-schoolers who hate us, is a far cry from Avery’s glitz and glamor. The Math Lawn and Mathematics itself are both generally acknowledged to be lovely spaces, but, at least at first view, the Library on the 3rd floor of Math doesn’t quite match the building’s external glory. It is a tiny library, just one U-shaped room with 6 or 7 computers, around 10 fake wood (no oak!) reading tables and some 70’s-style purple rocking chairs. Bwog took a seat around a small round table in a brown cushioned chair that could be found in the basement of every reader’s grandparents. Initially, after surveying the comparatively much-less-than-lovely digs, Bwog longed to run back to Avery, tucking ourselves in a corner, and eavesdropping on kefia-toting grad students whispering about Gaudi at that annoying reserved-for-Architecture-students table. However, after taking a stroll through the stacks, we began to change our mind. The stacks are open, there’s no buzz-in process a la the Burke Library at UTS, and they make the least terrifying rows of books this LibraryHopper has ever encountered. The room is not exactly light, but there are large windows overlooking Earl and the steps down to Broadway. There are several desks and chairs with dusty plants in lovely old glass vases. On the opposite side of the Math Library, Bwog found 5 or 6 cubicles. There were several people in the 1/3 full library who had planted themselves and several intimidating-looking textbooks at the cubicles and were scribbling furiously and looking extremely stressed, which this Bwogger, not exactly a math person, assumes is a good thing. Continuing our walk around, we noticed several framed posters of famous mathematicians and scientists past. There is no swipe-in process at the Math Library, but everyone Bwog saw seemed to be a diligent-looking if rather serious math-or-science student: no impostors here. &nbsp; Bwog left the library among fall sunbathers on the Lawn, glimpsed Avery’s chandeliers and the clouds of Gauloise smoke in the distance, and headed to Butler for a cheesecake brownie. &nbsp; 
 October's Blue&amp;White graces the World Wide Web today!&nbsp; A few gems from this month's issue: Columbia Republicans kick off the year with open arms A day of discovery and unsheathed broadswords at the Medieval Festival in Fort Tryon Park&nbsp; Ever wanted to be a banker? Yeah, not anymore A run-down of Morningside's ghosts&nbsp; "When I was 14, I was abducted by aliens"&nbsp; And...Babar! 
 A crowd that seemed equal parts elderly folk and clueless young things landing last-minute Music Hum concert reports packed Philosophy Lounge this afternoon to watch the Daedalus Quartet, in residence here at Columbia, perform the pen-penultimate of Haydn's 'Sun' Quartets. The last one they played, explained violinist Min-Young Kim, was the sunniest of the six--this fourth part would be some clouds some sun, sort of like the day outside. And for the group, this particular piece held a special significance; it was the piece cellist Raman Ramakrishnan was playing when the sibling violinists "discovered" him at Vermont's Marlboro Music Festival. Bwog was so entranced in the performance that it failed to take a picture until after the quartet had finished and jumped up to leave--but you have two more chances to see them in person! Tomorrow and Wednesday at 12:30. Photo by Lydia DePillis 
Local market Appletree has become quite the fancy establishment as of late! There's a new, overpriced salad bar, and they've stopped renting VHS tapes. Plus, here's this latest element of the Great Appletree Makeover: the store has a brand new facade, which is a rather becoming shade of royal red. &nbsp; 
 The Columbia Political Union has a spiffy new blog up which introduces itself as a "one stop shop for politics and political events at Columbia." Hooray, consolidation! The site has an events calendar with all sorts of fun on-and-off campus (sometimes very vaguely) political events, and is conveniently divided into categories of news, humor, campus, students, opinions, and 'dewonking.' There's also a list of links to relevant sites, also subdivided into lol-worthy sections, our favorites being 'Party Hard' (CU political groups) and 'The Munchies.' ("real-world" political blogs) 
 Teachers College to save the Dominican Republic. It's an art house with an uncertain future. Do you remember CPR from your sixth-grade babysitting course? Turn off your TV for two minutes today -- thankfully Gossip Girl airs Mondays. Spec's rainy day political laundry list. 
 Bwog received an email early this morning from "ted" at CampusGrotto.com. We had never heard of CampusGrotto.com because honestly, have you? Still! They have heard of your Columbia, which they rank 39th in their list of the one hundred most expensive colleges. CG estimates your tuition to be $37,470, which is about five grand less than the list-topping Bates ($43,950) and only a couple hundred less than the most expensive Ivy, University of Pennsylvania, whose $37,526 in tuition has earned it the #37 spot. Barnard's $35,973 comes in at #75. Things switch up a bit when room and board comes into the picture: Columbia ($47,450) ranks 56th and Barnard ($47,898) ranks 39th, but both are less expensive than #30 UPenn, #31 Cornell, and #3 NYU. 
Good afternoon! My, it is raining quite consistently today. So, we're inviting all amateur photographers, no matter just how amateur, to take some photos of the weather and its effects. Send us pictures of puddles, colorful umbrellas, children in galoshes (especially children in galoshes), etc. and we'll add them to this post.&nbsp; &nbsp; Hawk photos by Ruqayyah Abdul-Karim More photos, including another of Hawkmadinejad weathering the storm, after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 With the election a mere week away and the presidential candidates making their final appeals to voters in swing states tirelessly this week, it seems that Columbia political science professors have been all but missing out on the action.&nbsp; That is of course, until now.&nbsp; According to the popular electoral projections website fivethirtyeight.com, founded in March by baseball sabermetrics whiz Nate Silver, a calculation of the odds of your vote actually deciding the outcome of the upcoming election in the contested states of New Mexico, New Hampshire, Virginia or Colorado yielded a whopping 1 in 10,000,000 chance.&nbsp; Five Thirty Eight (the grand total of electors in the American electoral college) gleaned this information from the recent and ever-so-sleek projection of none other than Silver's good friend, Columbia professor Andrew Gelman, author of Red State, Blue State.&nbsp; Bwog invites you to look at Gelman's nifty electoral regression and chuckle at how meaningless your vote actually might prove to be this year. 
Cooped up in the decidedly warm and dry comforts of its dorm room today, Bwog noticed on this most spooky and rainy of autumn afternoons that the jokesters at the Fed have published their third (and equally eerie) issue of the semester.&nbsp; Prez-Bo-Hef likes Halloween parties, digs Kanye even more. Find yourself at Ricky's? Not your typical Sarah Palin Halloween costumes. Columbia twenty-four years hence, it's not a pretty picture. The Fed's November 4th guide to understanding non-voters. A long-anticipated and much-needed scientific treatise on the mediocrity of the food at John Jay dining hall. 
 Everyone Allied Against Homophobia is sponsoring a cupcake-based study break tonight. They have even imported fancy cupcakes from famous downtown bakery Magnolia.&nbsp; Go to the Stephen Donaldson Lounge (located in the basement of Furnald) at 9 PM tonight for frosting, fun, etc.&nbsp; 
Bwog Lecture Hop Editor Pierce Stanley attended this evening's Jeffrey Sachs-sponsored Progress and Challenges in the Millennium Villages lecture. Miller Theater served as a welcome refuge from the torrential downpour levied today on Morningside Heights. This afternoon, a slew of students packed into the theater to hear a report from Earth Institute Director/Professor to the Stars Jeffrey Sachs on the progress of the Millennium Villages project.&nbsp; Sachs spoke about the brutal realities that many individuals in the villages face on a daily basis, the challenges in continuing and expanding aid for the villages in a time plagued by a troubled worldwide economy, as well as suggesting that the road ahead -- specifically with respect to the monetary and human investments required for success -- would be quite difficult to traverse.&nbsp; Nevertheless, Sachs painted a rather rosy picture of the Millennium Villages he has helped establish in rural parts of Kenya and Malawi.&nbsp; He described serious efforts at bringing telephony to the Sahel region, yet suggested that infrastructure achievements such as this one are merely the start of a five-year holistic investment of which we are nearing the end of the third year.&nbsp; Sachs proceeded to lay out quickly and fluently for listeners four key areas of import to the success of the project, which is sponsored by the UN and administered under the careful tutelage of Columbia's Earth Institute. The four key areas included healthcare, education, infrastructure, and agriculture.&nbsp; Sachs explained that cost estimates for the Villages of $120 per capita are too low for any real change to take place, and suggested that higher energy prices, the depreciation of the dollar and the fact that donor aid has remained relatively constant will present profound consequences for all of four of these key areas over the coming years.&nbsp; Nevertheless, he stressed the profound gains that have occurred with regard to agriculture as new types of soils have been introduced by Columbia Professor Pedro Sanchez in the villages, as well as nitrogen deposits that have been replenished thanks to the the introduction of different types of fertilizers to the soils.&nbsp; While water depletion remains a major problem in the villages and droughts continue to plague these intensely deserted regions with a lack of concerted irrigation protocols, he did report that progress is ahead of schedule in other areas.&nbsp; With regard to education, Sachs heralded the successes brought about the by the hiring of teachers and construction of new schools in the villages.&nbsp; Moreover, he argued for the continued practice of midday feeding programs and security for female students to prolong steady jumps in school attendance.&nbsp; In addition, Sachs argued that simple healthcare provisions -- including the introduction of ambulances to the villages, as well as the opening of emergency care clinics -- has vastly improved the general health of the populations of the Millennium villages.&nbsp; He urged for more support when it comes to the provision of mosquito nets to combat malaria and easier access to prescription drugs to treat diseases such as AIDS.&nbsp; Overall, Sachs concluded that while donor aid is leveling, more international aid from countries such as China and the Middle East is necessary. In a flash, Sachs was off the stage and on to the next event in his busy schedule, a lecture at the New York Public Library's main branch downtown. He emphasized that time is running short for success in the Millennium Villages, but succeeded in alerting the audience to the profound sense of optimism pervading these times. He said he hoped that perhaps the United States (under a new President) and other countries will begin to take the challenges of the Millennium Development Goals more seriously in the days to come.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 White House Bureau Chief James Downie returns for one last column. He will, however, be covering the College Democrats' trip this weekend to Virginia. (Note: this column's title meant to be followed by a voiced guitar strum, a la the 80s classic).&nbsp; Well, here's my last column. No, please stop cheering--it makes me sad. On March 21, 2006, (two years, seven months, and one week ago) Senator Joe Biden kicked things off by announcing his campaign for president. At the time, the frontrunners in the two parties included Bill Frist, John Kerry, George Allen, and Al Gore, not to mention the 15 or so candidates who actually ended up entering the race, only to lose to the two senators whose names now occupy our ballots. It was always expected that, without an incumbent on either side, this race would be dramatic. And yet the 2008 campaign still managed to exceed expectations, still kept our attention even in the doldrums of the never-ending primary, still held the top slot in almost every news cycle. One of two very different men ask for the chance to deal with the worst economic crisis in many, many years. All you need to do is vote. It may be a 1-in-10 million chance of making a difference, but it's the most important thing you can do to get the country you want. Also, if you've taken any time to read this column over the past eight months (whether you liked it or not), thanks. I appreciate it. And now, for one last time, the news: Your Polls, Sir: As always, numbers are available here, here, here, and here. The State Breakdown: How do the states shake out right now? Marc Ambinder has a good breakdown, giving Obama 291 electoral votes in states where he has the advantage, compared to McCain's 163. Of the five states in his tossup column (Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, Missouri, and Indiana), Obama has a slight advantage in the first three, while McCain has a slight advantage in the latter two. All told, that would equal 353 electoral votes for Obama, and 185 for McCain. Is That Really Reporting?: What happens when you're a biweekly paper, and your issue cycle will miss the election? Declare a winner early! You Mean Corruption Hurts In An Election? Noooooo: Ted Stevens effectively lost his Senate seat late Monday when he was convicted of accepting and concealing gifts. He is the fifth sitting Senator ever to be convicted by a jury. Even the popular conservative blog RedState is urging Republicans to vote against Stevens and his partner-in-crime Don Young. From the Fake Department of "Whoops": After accidentally admitting he'd make a bad president, Obama undertakes a presidential internship. Re-re-referenda: Several interesting state referenda are on state ballots in a week. Among them: a proposal to create slots for state funding in Maryland, a high-speed rail (San Francisco to LA in less than 3 hours for $10 billion), and, most importantly, gay marriage bans in three states (California, Arizona, and Florida). In Florida, the ban will probably recieve a majority of votes, but it may not reach the 60% it needs to become law. Arizona could pass a ban this time, which would negate their rejection (the only rejection of a gay marriage ban in American history) of the ban in 2004. California looked to be on its way to rejecting the ban, but recent poll movement has put support for the ban in the majority. Finally, Connecticut could join these three states later on, as the recent court decision will most likely lead to a refendum as well. The results of the various gay marriage bans could be the most tense and interesting subplot on Election Night. Shouts &amp; Endorsements: Christopher Buckley, William Buckley's son and a hilarious satirist, endorsed Obama two weeks ago, and he has been writing about the flack he is catching from conservatives. Here's the best column to start with. Take It Away, Mr. Hertzberg: Sarah Palin has been outfitted with $150,000 worth of clothing, and her makeup person was the highest paid campaign staff member in October. Oddly, Hendrik Hertzberg of the New Yorker actually defends Palin. Two Wild and Crazy Guys!: Joe Biden and John Murtha lampooned on SNL. 
 Chabad is the new place in Harlem for singles to meet and "schmooze".&nbsp; Seriously, it beats 1020. Coming soon in theaters, Checkmate at 112th Street. You never knew a bishop could be so dangerous. Why don't you just go to Africa and save some lives like our "celebrated economist" tells us to?&nbsp; Phelps and Stiglitz are in the next room, kind of ticked off. You can't get into Barnard because of failed mercantilism?&nbsp; Bwog is just itching to protest the Columbia-Barnard Free Trade Agreement. All the world's a stage!&nbsp; Know thyself!&nbsp; At least before you go trick-or-treating... 
 Bwog has noticed that over the next week or so there will be a smorgasbord of learning opportunities for those who are not going home to spend their magnificent four days of fall break.&nbsp; Whether you are interested in theater, bioethics or academic freedom, there's something going on that's right up your alley. Human Genetic Complexity: What We Know--Legal, Historical, and Evolutionary Perspectives October 29th at 8 pm 417 IAB This talk features philosophy professor Phillip Kitcher, biology professor Robert Pollack and NYU law professor and Nation columnist Patricia Williams (who is no stranger to this campus).&nbsp; While the discussion&nbsp; supposedly will center around themes from the Core, expect philosophy more contemporary than CC and science more general than Frontiers. Democracy, Terrorism, and Religious Freedom: Can we look beyond religious differences for the sake of democracy? Wednesday, October 29 at 8:00 pm Miller Theatre Part of the Veritas forum, here Columbia professor Alfred Stepan and president of the Institute for Global Engagement, Chris Seiple will be discussing Pakistan as an Islamic republic and it's centrality in the war on terror.&nbsp; Probably the most secular and pragmatic of Veritas's schedule this year. Social Research Conference, Free Inquiry at Risk: Universities in Dangerous Times Wednesday-Friday, October 29-31 New School While this is officially sponsored by our downtown neighbor, Columbia professors past (Arjun Appardurai, Anthony Marx) and present (Akeel Bilgrami, Ira Katznelson, Alfred Stepan) will be speaking about the threats posed to academic freedom here and around the world.&nbsp; Should be interesting in the context of the New School's history and the leanings of most of the speakers. Breakthroughs and Transformations:&nbsp; Historical Perspectives on the 2008 Presidential Elections Thursday, October 30 at 7pm 702 Hamilton Hall The heavyweights of the History Department (Brinkley, Kessler-Harris, Connelly and Lightfoot) are coming out discuss what's on everyone's minds right now.&nbsp; Mind, Memory and the Actor Thursday, November 6 at 6:00pm Miller Theatre A discussion between Michael Boyd (Artistic Director, Royal Shakespeare Company) and Dr. Oliver Sacks (Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry, Columbia University) centered at the crossroads of art and science.&nbsp; Sacks, whose most recent book has focused on the auditory perception of music, will certainly bring an interesting perspective to Boyd's practical experience as a professional director for almost 30 years. 
Bwog tipster Tipper Austin, CC '11, alerted us of the presence of a Bird Relocation Expert on campus.&nbsp; Worried that Our Hero may be in danger, we scurried out to College Walk and saw this van. &nbsp; 
Columbia's favorite non-partisan political periodical is on news stands but not online, so we're giving you the low down on this month's issue by the page. Rwanda's President:&nbsp; Westernizer or War Criminal? (Page 4) Wall Street and Main Street: Vast oversimplifications of the credit crunch or is it just homeowners' faults? (Page 6) LitHum, CC and Major Cultures: The West and The Rest.&nbsp; CESR's "Common Core": Colonization/Decolonization. (Page 13) Obama vs. McCain: They have different policies on health care, outsourcing, net neutrality and abortion!&nbsp;&nbsp; (Page 15) &nbsp; 
 The pastry-savvy members of the American Medical Students Association are having a festive, Halloween-y bakesale on the Lerner Ramps from now until 5 PM. Proceeds will benefit their spring break trip to Peru. The table is stocked with your usual bake sale fare, with a welcome emphasis on cupcakes. And then there are also chocolate chip cookies with orange and black chocolate chips. It's really quite something. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 CNN has invited the Barnard Community to put on their most patriotic Barnard sweatshirts and join the cable station in Times Sq., as part of its Election Night Watch Party. CNN is offering the Barnard gals pretzels, (presumably non-alcoholic) warm beverages, heat lamps and topical political trivia!&nbsp; An email sent to Barnard students explains that "VIP guests will receive priority seating and be in the best spots to be panned by the camera or interviewed by a CNN anchor. &nbsp;CNN asks that you wear Barnard sweatshirts, hats, and other paraphernalia so that you may be easily identified as a Barnard student." Plus, if these pretzels, heat lamps and shot at Eternal Television Glory are enticing to enough students, CNN will arrange for a van to collect the ladies of Barnard and deposit them at the Times Sq. location. CNN has not invited Columbia students to the fancy outdoors bash! But you can read the full email after the jump. Dear Students: Be at the crossroads of the world (and possibly on the JumboTron) on Election Night! &nbsp;CNN has invited students from Barnard to join its Times Square Election Night Watch Party and live broadcast as VIP guests. &nbsp;The newly renovated Duffy Square, with seating on its lighted, ruby-red steps for 1,500 people, will serve as CNN's television studio for the night and the site of a flurry of Election Day activities, including: --iReports to be uploaded on CNN.com --a live CNN broadcast on the Times Square Spectravision video screen --heat lamps and warm beverages to keep the crowd warm --pretzels, popcorn, and hot dogs served throughout the day --political trivia games, and --a League of First Time Voters station VIP guests will receive priority seating and be in the best spots to be panned by the camera or interviewed by a CNN anchor. &nbsp;CNN asks that you wear Barnard sweatshirts, hats, and other paraphernalia so that you may be easily identified as a Barnard student. &nbsp;If there is enough interest, transportation will be provided from campus, leaving at 5:00 p.m., arriving in Times Square shortly before 6:00 p.m., and returning to campus at around midnight. To reserve a seat at the event, and on the bus, email Susan Cohn (scohn@barnard.edu) ASAP but no later than Friday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. &nbsp;Transportation will be guaranteed only to those who email by the deadline. &nbsp;Please indicate: 1. Name(s) and class year(s) of students requesting seats at the event 2. Name(s) of students requesting seats on the bus 3. email addresses for each student 4. cell phone numbers for each student, if available An email will be sent out on Monday confirming reserved spaces and providing more details about logistics. And of course, don't forget to vote! Sincerely, Dorothy Denburg 
 An amused tipster -- who has thoughtfully already coined the phrase "Giant Inflatable Penis-Gate" -- has just pointed Bwog in the director of Spec's recent correction to this morning's staff editorial on Queer Awareness Month. The correction reads: "Because of an editorial mistake, the original version misstated that Columbia Queer Alliance was responsible for Queer Awareness Month. While CQA and QuAM collaborate on some programs, QuAM is its own unique group. The editorial also misstated that a giant inflatable penis was part of QuAM's opening tabling. It was in fact part of a different campus event." 
 A fair number of you politically inclined tipsters have sent us the CNN story about Palin's mention of Rashid Khalidi's relationship with Obama. (Good to know you aren't harboring a grudge against CNN!) Anyway, Palin characterized MEALAC Professor Khalidi -- whom she noted was a "political ally" of Obama's -- as a "former spokesperson for the Palestinian Liberation Organization" -- a claim refuted by both Barack Obama and Khalidi himself.&nbsp; Palin denies that this is negative campaigning, claiming that it "is not negative campaigning to call someone out on their record." McCain and Co. have also recently demanded that the Los Angeles Times release a videotape of Khalidi's going-away party at the University of Chicago, a party Obama attended and allegedly featured a woman reading a poem that was critical of the Israel-US relationship. The paper has refused to release the tape (their source asked that it be withheld), which prompted Palin to suggest that the Times be awared a Pulitzer for "kowtowing." For his part, Khalidi has denied to speak on the record about McCain campaign's assertions until "this idiot wind passes."&nbsp; 
 Bwog has been compiling tips from far and wide, discovering four fantastic free food opportunities tonight.&nbsp; If you are hating ResLife for breaking up your pre-Halloween party, go to John Jay Lounge at 9 for a haunted house filled with refreshments and games such as Whack-An-RA.&nbsp; Next door in Wallach, right now, is an event from a company researching a business where college students would get free movies and TV shows (à la Ruckus)--they're giving away hot chocolate and cheap popcorn.&nbsp; Free pumpkins are being given out at College Walk and Liga Filipina (among other organizations) is giving out shaved ice in Lerner 569 at 9.&nbsp; This bountiful harvest of saccharine food and beverages is guaranteed to carry you straight through fall break. 
 Late-night news in "Giant Inflatable Penis-gate," as the queer community has moved quickly to respond to the controversial editorial published in Wednesday's Spectator. In addition to the factual errors, the editorial is also attracting controversy for alleging that Queer Awareness Month "must be sure to focus on awareness and education before revelry." The "revelry" in question was Genderfuck, the underwear-only party held this past Saturday night. Word of the editorial spread quickly through queer organizations on campus. About 20 students (including several leaders of the queer community) commented on the original editorial, and the Spectator uploaded Thursday's letters to the editor before the rest of the site was updated. In addition, seven student groups have sent a letter to the Spec editorial board, calling the editorial "inaccurate, sensationalized, misinformed, and malicious" and demanding "sufficient space be given in the immediate future to concerned groups and individuals to offer editorial responses." Finally, plans are already in place for a "kiss-in"/protest at the Spec's offices tomorrow at 12:15 PM. In addition to publishing Thursday's letters early, the Spec is considering a meeting with queer groups on campus, and a source tells Bwog that editor-in-chief Tom Faure will be penning an explanation of the editorial process in the same issue. The letter from the student groups to the Spec editorial board is posted after the jump. UPDATE 3:26 AM: Faure's aforementioned letter is also posted after the jump. Dear Tom, Amanda, &amp; Miriam, We read with disappointment and outrage the inaccurate, sensationalized, misinformed, and malicious Spectator Editorial Board editorial in today's newspaper. As individuals and organizations, a thorough and diverse response is necessary to unpack and respond to the multifaceted slander that you allowed to be published in our campus newspaper. The undersigned organizations respectfully request that sufficient space be given in the immediate future to concerned groups and individuals to offer editorial responses. A response is appreciated as soon as possible, as this issue is urgent and of utmost importance to a significant number of individuals on this campus. In disappointment, Ira Stup on behalf of Everyone Allied Against Homophobia, Lucha, The Columbia Queer Alliance, Gayava, Queer Awareness Month, Students for a Democratic Society, &amp; The Columbia University Democrats Spectator Editor-in-Chief Tom Faure Responds In Wednesday's issue we ran an editorial on Queer Awareness Month that has received a number of comments, most of which took offense at the tone and implications of the piece. Given the personal level of some of the responses, I'd like to address how the editorial came about and why we ran it. The intent behind such a piece was not to strike a tone of disrespect or remonstration but rather to offer constructive criticism. I apologize for offending organizers and members of the communities that worked hard during QuAM and continue to do so outside of the flagship month of support. As the editorial states, we support and appreciate the hard work of various LGBTQ groups on campus. These efforts have engaged the community and drawn auspicious response - both in the size of event attendance and in the eclectic nature of the programming. These events have grown by leaps and bounds in the last few years - I've witnessed it in my 3.5 years here. Our argument was that QuAM could still be better - what political movement on campus is perfect, after all? - and we wanted to point to the main way we think the series could grow next year. I think more advertising could be done about the diversity of the programming offered. While the editorial board does not want to generalize and objectify the LGBTQ communities on campus, we felt it would benefit next year's QuAM to be careful about the potential perceptions about queer issues - parties for better or worse can seem more frivolous than an educational panel. Our point, a light one, is undermined by the heavy-handed language and inaccuracies of the piece, burying what could have been interesting issues to debate. Rather than offering support and constructive criticism, the tone is flippant and undercuts the organizers' work. We made an unpopular call, but one we believe in theory holds water. We believe some students did feel that events such as Genderfuck were more publicized than the more academic programming. This may have arisen because of the very nature of the event, which does not mean we think pushing boundaries, or simply holding a party, are bad things. Rather we attempted to make the point that, perhaps inevitably, an event like this one could appear to promote an overly narrow definition of queer self-actualization and of sexuality in general - this is a point that I believe does hold true with certain queer and non-queer individuals. A few online commenters derided such individuals, such "timid little queers." This is unfortunate, for there are many ways, we can probably all agree, to explore sexuality. The queer community is not monolithic, and there are diverse ways to self-actualize in a number of campus communities. Rather than contribute to harmful and ignorant generalizations, which we do not support, we support confronting and deconstructing these generalizations. That doesn't mean we think exploring sexuality and gender in the ways Genderfuck did is bad - our editorial strove to reflect the importance of QuAM while pointing out that the academic events could still benefit from more publicity. The intention behind this point in our editorial was not to demonize nor downplay the efforts of queer organizers, and I'm truly sorry that the piece has had this effect. Perhaps we were wrong to imply that such events were poorly attended - they can certainly still gain from more exposure, though. This issue involves not only LGBTQ group organizers, but the administration, governing boards, councils, and the campus newspaper. On this last: please note that our mission as the campus paper is to offer a platform for discussion, and despite limited space I do think Spec's mission is to break down barriers rather than marginalize the community. We're all students of various and complex backgrounds, and any appearance of bias toward one form of self-affiliated or ascribed identity is accidental. That said, the dangers of language in journalism are issues we are aware of and confront everyday. We know we're imperfect on this account, as are all media outlets (that I know of). The tone of the editorial lent too much to an air of distance from the queer organizing efforts, rather than expressing support. One problematic sentence in particular suggested that Genderfuck could discourage non-queer students from participating. The "Education, Not Jubilation" headline also accidentally slams the efforts - we did not want to patronize, nor suggest that education and jubilation are mutually exclusive. I regret that this compounds the problem of our inaccuracies. The inaccuracies were blatant and unfortunate. The assumption made about the inflatable penis went without proper fact-checking (may have been a confusion experienced at the time stemming from the many visual ways LGBTQ groups have organized events on College Walk, such as the balloon arch over Alma), and the confusion of QuAM and CQA was lazy. We made an effort to post a correction as soon as possible online, rather than simply wait for the next day's issue. Hopefully this begins to help mitigate opinions based on inaccuracies and false assumptions. We are also printing letters to the editor in Thursday's issue that take issue with the editorial. We trust our writers, the members of the editorial board - we rely on them to report and craft a daily statement representing the voice of the editorial board. Ideas for editorials are discussed in bi-weekly meetings by our board, an outline is crafted in advance and commented on, and one writer than prepares a draft. The writers are selected more or less randomly based on availability and scheduling. No editorial represents a single writer's or member's opinion. To criticize a political organization is not the same as a fundamental aversion to the members of that group - a phobia is an irrational fear. We sought to provide a rational, constructive criticism, one that ultimately has sparked discussion, but unfortunately not the kind of constructive discussion intended. This is a setback and I apologize again to this effect. 
 Aint nothing better than people behind mics (Religion!) (Education!) Next stop Bonnaroo Harvard, Brown, Penn &gt; Princeton, Cornell, Yale Fun with euphemisms (this ran yesterday) Is that a banana in your costume? Or are you really a banana? Preview to the protest Fight! for your right! to... Project Runway! 
 That's right, boys and girls--free cupcakes from the Class of 2011, bespangled in the old red white and blue (because there's an election day going on or something? Maybe just because it's Thursday). Hope they're red velvet! 
 Because your Sarah Palin idea has officially jumped the shark (also, yowza--&gt;) Get your black lipstick, it's time to go Goth-Loli&nbsp; Woe to the theater! You're showing your age. You are now one degree of removal closer to Tina Fey No love for Martin Sheen 
 Many of your professors will be ending class today with encouragements to get out and vote. Some of these encouragements will be partisan, others will be funny, and maybe a few will even inspire you to vote if you were planning on not doing so. Bwog will be compiling an collection of such remarks right here in our Professor Remarks: Election Edition Anthology. Send quotes to bwog@columbia.edu or just use the comment thread.&nbsp; Herbert Sloan in American Civilization to the Civil War: "I hope you all work for the candidate of your choice on Monday.&nbsp; That would at least make this ridiculous holiday that the University gave us slightly worth it.&nbsp; This interruption of our semester is almost as ridiculous as the idea of 18 year olds voting." Karl Kroeber, in Religion, Literature, and Modernity: "Vote many times, and for the right guy." Philip Kitcher, in James Joyce: "If you don't vote, you're letting old people decide everything." Jill Shapiro in Race: Tangled History of a Biological Concept: "As they say in Chicago vote early and vote often." 
It's fire safety day at Barnard! Occasioned by this would-be bonfire on Lehman Lawn, which appears to be a test of fire extinguishing equipment. The exercise will also involve filling the second floor of Sulzberger with smoke for escape practice ("not for people with asthma," warned one gym teacher). &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- Photo by Anish Bramhandkar 
 It may not have equaled the original Big Kiss -- or even Big Kiss II -- but the Queer Alliance and QuAM's today's Kiss-In got its point across. "When we're organizing around sexual identity and you say we're talking too much about sex -- it's ridiculous!" said Activism and Service Chair Peter Gallotta, spreading his hands wide. He was referring to Spectator's editorial yesterday that faulted Queer Awareness Month for emphasizing revelry over education. At the appointed moment, about 20 assembled members joined in slightly awkward group embraces, with one couple making out passionately under the Spectator's shingle. "I think it's just an internalized, not even conscious at this point, ignorance," said David Papas. "I think they fail to understand the tone, and just plain bias, in that article." Do you see that bias reflected in the rest of the paper's coverage? Bwog wanted to know. "To be honest, I don't really read super-much of Spectator," Papas conceded. "It trivializes a lot of the outreach work Spec has done," Gallotta added. "Our relationship is a little bit tenuous." The event elicited confused glances from passersby, but positive reactions from those who asked what they were protesting. "They call y'all queers? That's some shit," said a lady walking by. "This is love, baby." - LBD 
 It's never too late to rediscover your passion for trick-or-treating. For those of your new to New York (or new to post-adolescent trick-or-treating), Brooklyn native Mariela Quintana has the scoop on the borough's best locations, as well as tips and tricks for uncovering the best candy. Tomorrow we'll hear from Upper West Sider Eliza Shapiro.&nbsp; It would be impossible to attempt to tackle every neighborhood in the borough of Brooklyn in one night, so here is a survey of some of its most noteworthy Halloween destinations.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Essentially, Brooklyn Heights is the Greenwich, CT of the borough.&nbsp; On nearly every residential block you’ll find Saab station wagons double-parked outside of brownstones unloading gaggles of boys and girls clad in tennis whites.&nbsp; Although the WASP-factor is unusually high for a Brooklyn neighborhood, the affluence and family-orientation of the Heights’ residents lends itself to Halloween.&nbsp; The best block to hit up is the lovely, entirely residential Garden Place. There is little traffic here because the street is only a block-long, which gives it a members-only feel. You’ll find the residents of nearly every home sitting out on their stoops doling out candy and treats.&nbsp; Although the block is quite a scene, the amount of candy provided at each home is low. Perhaps it’s the influence of the Brooklyn Heights Anglican Church just around the corner, but a puritanical spirit pervades on Garden Place and many residents insist upon the “One Tootsie Roll Only Rule.” And expect stingy service and looks of distrust if you’re above the age of nine or if you’re not dressed as a pumpkin.&nbsp; The trick to maximizing your candy-acquisition on Garden Pl. is repetition.&nbsp; Once you get to the end of the block, just cross the street and do it all over again. If the country-club atmosphere of Garden Pl. doesn’t appeal to you, try your luck in Carroll Gardens, where you’ll find none of the stuffiness of the Heights. For the best of the area’s Halloween decorations, head to Second Pl., Third Pl. and Carroll St.&nbsp; On these three blocks, you’ll find homes wrapped in purple, orange and green synthetic cobwebs, stoops with multiple jack-o-lanterns, and everything from mutilated limbs, cadavers, witches, bats and vampires hanging from the Sycamore trees lining the block.&nbsp; The residents are a friendly bunch.&nbsp; You’ll enjoy their costumes -- think lots of fake blood and many mad scientists -- almost as much as you’ll enjoy the handfuls of candy they offer. &nbsp; Although it offers less of the old-world spirit of Carroll Gardens, Park Slope is yet another neighborhood with a swinging Halloween scene.&nbsp; Expect to see kids of all ages roaming the streets of the Slope on Halloween.&nbsp; You’ll be sure to run into as many caravans of strollers as you will gangs of loud, egg-carton and silly string toting pre-teens.&nbsp; The residents of the Slope are much more amenable to the older set of tricker-treaters and always appreciate the clever and creative costume-wearers.&nbsp; Favorites usually include Left-Wing inspired get-ups (Swing States and Betty Friedan), and intellectual costumes like crimson robed Harvard grads, Emmanuel Kants and the like.&nbsp; Make sure to get pass by Carroll St (about twenty avenues east of the one in Carroll Gardens) Montgomery Pl. and Third St.&nbsp; If you’re set on hauling tons of candy, make sure to get to Third St. early.&nbsp; Almost every resident sits out and offers only the finest of candies.&nbsp; You’ll find no Dum Dums and fun-size Good n’ Plenties here.&nbsp; Instead you’ll enjoy full size Reeses Cups, entire Snickers and Butterfingers bars and homemade pumpkin muffins.&nbsp; The “candy bar guy” lives on the north side of the street; he’s always there and never lets down!&nbsp; 
At Ricky's, people are literally lining up down the block for the chance to dress up like a Sexy Pole Dancing Race Car Driver or whatever. But hey, at least everything in the store is 50% off. (Inevitable November 1st sinking feeling of regret is still the full price.) &nbsp; -- Photos by Anish Bramhandkar More disbelief in the form of commentary and pictures after the jump. A girl in the line was overheard on a phone: "Normally I wouldn't be caught dead here.&nbsp; But mom'll be proud I saved money." Bwog concurs. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Halloween is the first day of our Election Day holiday.&nbsp; Enough said. Friday NYC Village Halloween Parade 7pm , 6th Ave between Spring and 23rd Street To participate: Line up in costume at 6pm, 6th Ave between Spring and Broome Streets Last year 45,000 people participated and over 2 million people came to watch, and for good reason.&nbsp; It’s been rated as one of the top 1,000 experiences you must have before you die, and honestly, there’s nothing like it anywhere else.&nbsp; Go get your New Yorker cred. Price: Free!&nbsp; St. John’s Halloween Extravaganza 7pm and 10pm, St. John the Divine A Halloween treat literally in our backyard!&nbsp; The 1925 version of the Phantom of the Opera, complete with accompaniment by their world-famous church organ, will be playing.&nbsp; Afterwards, ghoulish forms and figures (i.e., giant puppets) parade through the church.&nbsp; It’s a lot more low-key than the village, but certainly worth its weight in spookiness. Price: $15 Theater for the New City’s 31st Annual Costume Ball 8pm, Theater for the New City: 155 1st Ave (212.254.1109) Free outdoor entertainment starts 4pm. If the West Village seems too cliche for you, head over to the east side for food, performances (including burlesque and vaudeville numbers), and all kinds of fortune-telling. Come in your best All Hallowed Duds, because there’s a costume contest with some wacky categories (Most Organic Costume? What?). Price: $20 TheDanger Halloween: The Promised Land 9pm-Saturday, various times and locations, see website for details Make Halloween stretch all weekend - this marathon event will keep you going from the Meatpacking District to a Bushwick warehouse party to a secret Williamsburg loft location (which will be announced en route), among other things. Price: Varies depending on venue Critical Mass Ride and Halloween Dance Party 7pm, Union Square, with an afterparty at 9pm If you’re a devotee of two-wheeled transportation, join your cycling brothers and sisters en masse for a takeover of the Manhattan streets.&nbsp; The swarm will eventually converge at the Surreal Estate’s Brooklyn Headquarters for a dance party played by Rude Mechanical Orchestra.&nbsp; Valet parking available! Price: $10 Halloween Movie Marathon Friday 7:30pm-12:30am, Brooklyn Lyceum 227 4th Ave (866.469.2687) If insanity isn’t your style, get scared out of your wits with this series of non-kiddie-friendly fright films.&nbsp; The Rocky Horror Picture Show caps off the evening, of course. Price: $5 per film Saturday Immigrant Writers in New York: Junot Díaz 4pm, Brooklyn Public Library Grand Army Plaza (718.230.2100) If you’re awake with enough time to get yourself to Brooklyn, come hear Junot Diaz read from “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao,” his Pulitzer Prize-winning debut novel.&nbsp; It’s a cultural compendium with noticeable influences from all over the place—it’ll be good to keep your brain humming until class on Wednesday. Price: Free! 100 Years of Animation: Serge Bromberg presents Treasures from a Chest 7pm, Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 59th St It’s been 100 years since Emile Cohl created modern animation, and this event presents his landmark Fantasmagorie in honor of this centennial.&nbsp; Other classic animations will play, all accompanied by piano. Price: $10 Prints Gone Wild Saturday 6pm-midnight and Sunday noon-6pm, Supreme Trading 213 N 8th St (718.599.4224) Cannonball Press hosts this festival of hand-made graphic art.&nbsp; Supplies will be on sale, workshops will be held, fun will be had. Price: Free! Sunday ING New York City Marathon 9am, various locations The city shuts down to take a look at the 2 million (or so) participants and spectators that flock to New York for this world-famous marathon, so check out what all the hype is about. Price: Free!&nbsp;&nbsp; - Sara Jane Panfil 
 Yes, subway characters are weird! Med School professors put foundations before Columbia. Spec covers protest against itself, beckons the ghost of meta. Editorials with this title are much less spooky without exclamation points. Obama and McCain might both really be wannabe renegades! 
 Yesterday we heard from Brooklynite Mariela Quintana on the ins and outs of a brownstone Halloween. Today, Upper West Sider Eliza Shapiro weighs in on a more local type of trick-or-treating. Mastering the art of a successful Upper West Side Halloween is a subtle craft indeed. The UWS proper (not truly Morningside Heights, mind you) is certainly not the ideal neighborhood for a college student: you will have maneuver roving bands of 11-year-old candy-fiends on Friday night. However, should you decide to venture below 110th Street but still stay local, there is much neighborhood fun to be had this Hallows Eve. &nbsp; Scoff all you want, if one was truly dedicated to some form of trick-or-treating, the Upper West is the place for it. If your slutty nurse costume is too revealing to gain to access to the treasure troves of huge apartment buildings on Riverside and West End, fear not. Costumed or not, just walk along Broadway from the 80's-100's and be on the lookout for stores giving out candy: Bwog recommends heading to the bodegas and older neighborhood places and then to Amsterdam and Columbus and following the same protocol. We suggest taking this walk in the afternoon when all the schools in Manhattan Valley get out to watch the mini-parade of little Batman and princess fairy costumes. There will also be several apartment buildings converted into haunted houses, mostly along West End. To be minimally creepy, there will be many neighborhood folk young and old at these pre-war funhouses. &nbsp; There are also, of course, the quintessentially Upper West options of taking an evening stroll through the always somewhat creepy Riverside Park (look for raccoons! seriously) or, of course, finding a good stoop to sit and sort your candy. 
 Tonight, many of you will be affixing costumes or cardboard or facepaint to yourselves, sacrificing sartorial control to the great Gods of Halloween. So, Bwog's announcing our annual Halloween Costume Contest, in which you are invited to send us photographs of your chilling and charming outfit this evening. For historical background, note that last year's winner was an airplane (see right). Photographs will be posted, a winner will be selected, and a free king-sized candy bar of the winner's choice will given to this person by Bwog. Send entries to bwog@columbia.edu by midnight tonight. 
 Bwog's Friday Sports Roundup is back! Football: After so many close defeats to start the season, the Columbia Lions won their first Ivy league game in two years last Saturday, 21-13 against Dartmouth. In the wind and rain, quarterbacks Shane Kelly and Millicent Olawale powered an offense that put up almost 400 all-purpose yards, while the defense stepped up to hold Dartmouth's passing game to only 79 yards (partly thanks to Andy Shalbrack and Adam Mehrer's interceptions). Olawale (7-7 for 111 yards) was named Ivy League offensive player of the week for his efforts. This weekend, the Lions take on Yale in New Haven. The game will be televised on the YES network - Bwog finds it ironic that the one game available on Columbia's cable system is during the weekend many Columbia students are not on campus. Cross Country: The men's and women's cross country teams finished second earlier today in the Ivy League Heptagonal Championships in Van Cortlandt Park. The women finished second to heavily-favored Princeton, who set a new championship record with only 17 points. But Columbia's women outpaced the rest of the pack, with special congrats going to senior Megan Lessard, who finished 8th. The men's team came even closer, losing out to Princeton by only 3 points. 7 Columbia runners finished in between 10th and 20th. On November 15th, the Lions will compete in the NCAA Northeast Regionals, also held in Van Cortlandt Park. Women's Soccer: The women's soccer team kept its title hopes alive last Friday, with a 3-1 win over Dartmouth in their final home game of the year. Star Sophie Reiser was simply brilliant, scoring all three goals. She now has 12 goals and 9 assists on the year, leading the team in both categories. Not surprisingly, she won her second Ivy League Player of the Week award. Also, Reiser, goalkeeper Rebecca Taylor, and defenders Alana Presslaff and Lauren Cooke were all named to the ESPN the Magazine Academic All-District 1 first team. As for the rest of Ivy League play, the Lions sit tied for second in the conference at 3-1-1, two points behind leaders Harvard. The team plays Yale (2-2-1) this weekend, before going to Cambridge in two weeks for what could be the title decider. Men's Soccer: The men's soccer team dropped its fourth game in a row, 3-1 to Dartmouth on Saturday afternoon. Felipe Castrillon's goal was not enough to help the Lions, who are now 1-3-0 in the conference and 3-10-1 overall. The team plays Yale tomorrow afternoon in New Haven. Field Hockey: The field hockey team suffered another tough conference loss, 3-2 in overtime to Dartmouth. While the Lions have been a perfect 9-0 outside of the conference, they sit at only 1-4 in the league (having lost the 4 games by a combined 5 goals). The Lions play back-to-back this weekend: Yale tomorrow in New Haven, and Rutgers at home Sunday afternoon. Volleyball: The Lions were unable to use a victory over NJIT as a springboard, as they lost to Brown and Yale at home last weekend. The team has only won 4 games in all of conference play. This weekend, they're playing away to Princeton and Penn. Tennis: Congratulations to senior Bogdan Borta, who qualified for the men's ITA National Indoor Championships despite falling in the regional final. The championships take place next weekend in Charlottesville, Virginia. This weekend, the team plays in the Florida State invitational in Tallahassee, their last team event in the fall. - JCD 
 Halloween was not the only celebration that got off to a premature start Thursday night.&nbsp; Two nights ago, about forty students gathered in the John Jay Lounge to celebrate the start of Native American Heritage Month. Although a diverse mix of Native American, white, black and Latino students made up the audience, an interest in the traditional and contemporary Native American culture characterized all in attendance.&nbsp; But as NAHM chair, Maxine Paul, CC ’09, was quick to mention, an interest in Native American culture is entirely different than actually understanding the Native American experience.&nbsp; Last night’s events aimed not just to commemorate the trials, travails, and triumphs of American Indians, but also to educate the audience on contemporary Native American customs and the tension between cultural assimilation and cultural autonomy. The audience’s initial chattering and cornbread nibbling stopped when Enoch Kelly Haney, former Democratic Oklahoma State Senator and current Principal Chief of the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma, rose to give the keynote address.&nbsp; At first the diction and tropes Senator Haney employed&nbsp; undermined his candor and caused his address to sound like a motivational speech.&nbsp; But after acknowledging that “it isn’t the color of the balloon that makes it go high, but what’s inside it,” and eulogizing the achievements of Native American students at Columbia -- including a shout-out to his son, John Haney, CC ’11 -- Senator Haney moved on to more specific topics pertaining to the Native American community. As Senator Haney spoke, he repeatedly emphasized how social and politic conditions within the Seminole Nation in the "early days" differed from those conditions "these days."&nbsp; Stressing a prevalent misconception made by non-Native Americans, Senator Haney went on to ascribe much of the difficulty American Indians face to the tendency&nbsp; of non-Natives to group culturally and geographically distinct tribes under one umbrella group.&nbsp; Haney explained how at one point separate American Indian tribes could be&nbsp; distinguished by their disparate languages, customs, dress and appearance.&nbsp; Not so any more, he lamented.&nbsp; Senator Haney nonetheless applauded the NAC’s goal this month to strengthen the circle of Native American voices. &nbsp; Over the course of the evening, circles proved to be an important theme in Native American culture.&nbsp; The highlight of the ceremony featured a discussion led by representatives from the Redhawk Native American Arts Council, an organization based out of Queens that aims to break down Native American stereotypes through song, dance and art.&nbsp; Decked out in bald-eagle feathers, a beaded-breastplate and a bold patterned vest, Redhawk rep. Larry, of the Chippewa Cree tribe of Montana, informed the audience that contrary to common belief New York City has the highest First Nations population in the country.&nbsp;&nbsp; But when Larry went on to ask the audience to name the tribes comprising the Six Nations alliance, it was clear that despite of this census fact, New Yorkers and Columbia students are not terribly aware of the Native American culture around them.&nbsp; After a brief discussion of the differences between traditional and contemporary Native American dance, the Redhawk representatives invited audience members to join them in a contemporary social dance.&nbsp; Proving themselves an outgoing bunch, the majority of students in the audience giddily danced and chanted along to the beat Larry struck out on his drum.&nbsp; The group dance was followed by an impressive solo hoop dance in which one athletic Redhawk dancer performed a five minute long dance complete with hoops flying through the air, hoops spinning along the ground and hoops built into shapes and animals.&nbsp; The Redhawk performance concluded with a folk story told to the accompaniment of the drum and wood-pipe.&nbsp; Again, the Redhawks asked for audience's involvement and again the audience showed the same unabashed enthusiasm they displayed earlier. Although some unavoidable "us"/"them" vocabulary was expressed in Thursday night's discussions, it was clear that NAC, Senator Haney and the representatives from the Redhawk Council were eager to include the audience in their culture, its history and its continuing presence today. -- MEQ 
Bwog received some rather impressive Costume Contest submissions, the but the unanimous forerunner thus far is from Ms. Caroline Corley, CC '12, who dressed us as "an NYU student." &nbsp; Think your costume is better? Send in a picture today, during this Extended Contest Time, and prove it. In the meantime, check out two other noteworthy submissions after the jump. &nbsp;Jason Kruta SEAS '12 as a mad scientist Ian Allen SEAS '12 as Andy Warhol &nbsp; Anthony Yim SEAS '10 and Peter Traverso SEAS '10 as characters from XKCD In the dark &nbsp;&nbsp; In the light Jamie Righetti 
 Bwog Daily Editor and White House Bureau Chief James Downie checks in from Virginia, with the College Democrats' campaign trip. LEESBURG, VA. - Back in the so-called "glory days" of student activism (really?), student campaigners would arrive in an broken-down Eurovan, sleep on hard floors, scrounge for their own food, and build rafts from local...no, wait, that last one was Robinson Crusoe. Anyways, while student campaigns of yore may have some differences, the method of choice remains the same: walk up to door, knock, (hopefully) talk, repeat. If they want to help win Virginia, the Columbia Dems will have to do that again, and again, and again. In the "Old Dominion State," the Dems have chosen probably the most important state for both Obama and the Democratic Party. While many states have moved in and out of contention, Virginia has been a close state for as long as any in the presidential campaign. Obama has opened a slightly larger lead recently, with polls giving him anywhere from a 4 to 9 point lead. The closeness of Virginia came as no surprise to the second candidate that the Democrats are campaigning for: Senate nominee and hugely popular former governor Mark Warner. Warner has built another huge lead (20 points or more in many polls) on both his appeal to rural "NASCAR dads" (a rare skill among Democrats), and the changing demographics of the state - as the District of Columbia grows, more moderate-to-liberal suburbanites flood into Northern Virginia, slowly changing the state from solid Republican to Democrat. If Obama and Warner win, they will be the first Democrats to win presidential and senate races in Virginia since the mid-1960s. And yet the toughest task for these Democrats (and the surest sign of a Democratic landslide if they're successful) will be electing the local congressional candidate, Judy Feder. Feder, who is running against Frank Wolf, the longest-serving member of Virginia's House delegation. In 2006, Feder lost to Wolf by 16 points, and the race remains Republican favored, but the Democrats hope that money, momentum, and a recent video showing an attack by a Wolf staffer on a Feder staffer will make things close. To do that, they'll need these Columbia door knockers. As the margin in the 2006 House race indicates, then, the Columbia Dems are not on favorable territory. After a long trip from New York yesterday afternoon, the Dems gathered in the Days Inn eating room for an appearance from Feder herself. They then stuffed themselves on subs, while sharing stories of their trips, and got down to what college students do on Friday nights, at least until the police showed up. The Dems board, upstanding young politicos that they are, wants to stress to all readers that no Dems organizing time or money went into anything that got the cops called. Really. Regardless, many Dems managed to pack great costumes - even if the theme of "political scandals" led to some repetitiveness (a gazillion Marilyn Monroes, for example), costumes included Barack and Michelle "New Yorker style," congressional pages, and every concievable "-gate." Oh, and Michael Phelps... After the festivities, the Dems went to sleep, wisely squeezing in what they could before the best part of campaign trips: early wake up times. After being revved up by various Dems leaders, they were joined by Feder staffers to start the first of two days of that "method of choice" mentioned at the start of this post: walk up to door, knock, (hopefully) talk, repeat. With each person assigned 75-100 doors today, and 130 Dems doing the knocking, somewhere between ten and thirteen thousand Virgians met today with Columbia Democrat foot soldiers, with varying degrees of success. Door-knocking has its physical side effects ("my feet are completely sore and swollen," one tired campaigner said), but spirits remain high one day into this remarkably confident campaign trip. Rather than split the door-knocking into two smaller parts, Bwog'll bring you all the style and hilarious stories of door-knocking (including attacks with yard tools, navigating long driveways, and other hazards) in tomorrow's installment. 
 As per usual, a hundred or so bikes gathered last night in Union Square for Critical Mass, the solidaristic bike ride that takes over streets in cities all over the country once a month. This time, though, at least half of the riders seemed only vaguely...human. A plunger, a Joker, a husky dog, and all manner of otherwise outlandishly dressed cyclists made for a freakish parade as they flooded uptown on Park Avenue and then back on Broadway, through Times Square, into the East Village, and over the Williamsburg bridge to Brooklyn. Passersby stood dumbfounded on the sidewalks, not sure what to make of the whooping and cheering peloton. The idea of Critical Mass is to have enough riders that you can shut down the streets, ignoring stoplights and stopping traffic for as long as it takes for the slow-moving herd to roll through. It didn't always work that way, as we had to filter in between cars on the narrower streets. And this time, the political content of the event was blunted somewhat by its absurdity of watching costumed hipsters trying to manage their fixie hipster bikes. Chants of "Whose streets? Our streets!" got muddied with cries of "Ice cream!", and the night dissolved in a phantasm. More pictures after the jump. - LBD &nbsp; 
Bwog's taking it easy this weekend, and so is the rest of the world.&nbsp; This week's roundup, minus most references to Rashid Khalidi. Also, today is Mess With Daylight Time, so don't forget to turn your clocks back! Nobel prize-winner Chalfie jumps on board and supports Obama. The New York Times finally covers Khalidi goes meta and covers the coverage about Khalidi. CU's new Director of Historic Preservation joins the Lit majors and minces words. Random blog joins conspiracy theorists: Obama never went to Columbia. Bacteria in group therapy admit it: they're total followers. 
 Tipster Marie Whittaker has informed Bwog that Brooke Shields (Princetonian and film star-oft-in-the-nude) was spotted on campus (actually on campus this time) this morning, with kids (and nanny) in tow.&nbsp; As she was walking in a westwardly direction, Bwog concludes that she must have been returning from PrezBo's mansion.&nbsp; Even he liked The Blue Lagoon. 
This week's events promise to be sequentially nail-biting, shocking, fascinating, and slightly scary. Tuesday Election Day: The College Democrats and Republicans will have watch parties, and so will pretty much everyone Bwog knows.&nbsp; We'll even cover some of that.&nbsp; Eveningish @ all over the country. Wednesday Blackwater: J. Cofer Black, VP of the infamous mercenary corporation, will be speaking.&nbsp; No matter what he says, it ought to be an interesting event, considering Columbia's political leanings.&nbsp; Bwog will be covering this event.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Lerner Cinema. Thursday Mind, Memory, and the Actor: Oliver Sacks is at it again, this time on identity and neurology in the mind of an actor.&nbsp; 6:00 PM @ Miller. Friday Scary Sushi Night: CJS will have all-you-can eat sushi for $7.&nbsp; Bwog isn't sure what's scary about that.&nbsp; 7:00 PM &amp; 8:00 PM @ Party Space. 
 Bwog's James Downie checks back in from Virginia. LEESBURG, VA. – If you’re going to knock on doors for a candidate, you will rapidly learn how much you’re willing to work for that candidate. 6 hours of walking tests not only one’s feet and shoes, but also the ability to sell a shtick again and again to closing doors. The only thing that could have made it worse would be the weather – we have lucked into reasonably warm weather for this four-day sojourn. Even more fortunately for the Obama, Warner, and Feder campaigns, their Columbia foot soldiers ended a second day of campaigning still in high spirits. They even managed to navigate the Daylight Savings Time switch without missing any vans. That does not mean there have not been interesting stories of voter resistance and hilarious stories of voter reaction along the way. After all, memorable moments are bound to happen on the campaign trail. Some of the best stories of the last two days, and the method behind the Obama canvassing machine, after the jump. The Obama canvassing method remains much the same as it was at the start of the year. Each morning, after receiving pep talks from their fellow students (ranging from animated to awkward), the students gather in their van groups, and receive their packets for the day. Each packet contains 75-100 street addresses, names, personal information, and (if known) how they’re learning right now. Each house is hand-picked as a “swing house” by the Obama campaign data system, which has been adding and refining the voter rolls for almost 18 months. Students then knock on doors to both sway voters and take more data – as mentioned yesterday, Columbia students’ efforts are giving the various campaigns a better picture on over 10,000 voters in just two days. Among these 10,000, there are many happy encounters, each providing mental fuel for the 15 doors where no one answers, and the doors shut angrily in your face (as I experienced on one or two occasions). And there are the stories: Sometimes voters bring out the big guns to turn people away. Among other incidents, Anna Brower, BC ’10 and Dems vice-president, was attacked with a leaf blower. Ironically, this was only after she’d worn her Marilyn Monroe costume. Others get more information than they expected – Molie Stein, BC ’10, had a woman volunteer that she’d had an abortion. Even the hotel parking lot isn’t safe from conflict. One car pulled up outside and began to argue with a Dems van about Obama. When one first-year mentioned that Colin Powell had endorsed Obama, the man shouted, “Haven’t you ever heard of tribalism?” Sometimes, canvassers can bring families together. Ross Johnson, CC ’10 and one of the Lead Activists (the four masterminds of the trip), found a whole family (that was not on his list) gathered to tell him to stay away from their door – including some person “barking at me through the window.” Even in this tough district, the youth knows who they support. In an unscientific survey of two pre-school age sisters, Jake Grumbach CC ’10 learned that McCain is “not cool,” and that they had voted for Obama. Just as the Obama campaign has more money than they know what to do with, they also seem to have more canvassers than they know what to do with – numerous Dems were told that other Obama campaigners had been through within the past few days. One van has taken spirit a bit more picturesquely than others, declaring itself, among other titles, the “Starship Hope.” No word on whether the name is an unfortunate allusion to Star Trek… Sometimes people interpret door knocking differently than you expect. Adrian Haimovich, SEAS '10, knocked on a door, and looked up to see a shirtless man sticking his chest out at Adrian. On Monday, the Dems continue their canvassing in the morning, before heading over to Manassas, Virginia, to staff and attend Barack Obama's last rally of the 2008 campaign.
If you've procrastinated about volunteering for a presidential campaign this season, few precious hours remain to get your fill of phonebanking. Bwog Daily Editor Mariela Quintana has compiled the following Procrastinator's Guide to Phonebanking. McCain: Bwog could not find any information about phonebanking for McCain, but the candidate's website offers a comparable alternative. (You must sign up as a volunteer in order to gain access to site.) Instead of going to a community headquarters, volunteers sign-up to phone bank online and then the site provides them with a script and person and telephone number to contact in Virginia. Once the volunteer calls and asks the appropriate questions on the script, he has to record the outcome on form that the website also provides. Obama: Obama phonebanking requires actually going to a community location. &nbsp;Although the initiative started in New York on Saturday, it will be running through Tuesday. The Obama website lists tons of public/community centers in Manhattan and the other boroughs that are hosting phonebanking sessions. Unlike the McCain site, the Obama site is really easy to use. &nbsp;After you key in your zip code (for 10027, here's the link), the site links you up to phonebanking centers in your area. The only requirements are a charged cell phone and a cell phone battery. &nbsp;Usually shifts run for about two hours or so. -- MEQ 
Bwogger Sean Zimmermann has just sent us a picture of this seasonal birthday card, assembled from this year's somewhat meager crop of fall foliage on the lawn outside John Jay. Happy Birthday! 
 Bwog stopped by the Upper West Side Obama Headquarters at 104th and Broadway today to see how things were going on Election Day eve. We were informed that today has been extremely busy and that buttons and posters are being sold like mad. However, "what we're going to do on Wednesday" a volunteer told us sadly, "is another question." 
'Twas a colorful week in Columbiaville Grey: It rained that one day. Flesh: Giant inflatable penis-gate! Pink: People looked uncomfortable Red: Appletree is fanciful and red. Red &amp; Blue: McCain and Co. are up in arms about Rashid Khalidi. Red &amp; Orange: Barnard "burned". Orange: Halloween-themed bikers took to the streets. Yellow: One of the distracted drivers ran into a restaurant, there was police tape aplenty. 
 Bwog's James Downie checks in again from Virginia. Photo by Jason Reed of Reuters. ON THE ROAD BETWEEN LEESBURG AND MANASSAS, VA. – Even after an hour waiting in the November cold, 80,000 people can make some noise. That was the first lesson of the Obama campaign rally the College Democrats attended late Monday night. The second lesson? Standing for two hours in the cold is no less tiring than knocking on doors, especially when you face the prospect of a 4:15 wakeup call. The third lesson? A candidate at the start of his campaign will be very different, in both substance and style, at the end. The day began in the same way as the last two days: rise, wolf down breakfast, and receive the canvassing sheets. The schedule quickly swerved into the surreal, as Judy Feder (this time actually Dems Media Director Avi Edelman in a fantastic wig) made a second appearance to sing an inspirational song. After a group photo, complete with scenic highway background, the Dems piled into their vans and drove off. On a third day of campaigning, one is struck by how diverse this county is. One sees all faces of suburbia, and all types of strip malls to match. Bwog saw houses with whitewashed stone and aluminum siding, new Porsches and old Chryslers, Whole Foods and Bottom Dollars, and everything in between. There were Hispanic streets, white streets, Indian-American streets, and Asian streets, and plenty of mixed streets. About all that these varied streets held in common were the vague category of “suburbia.” It was a impressive amount of diversity (also, this seems like a good time to point out that, contrary to what several commenters wrote yesterday, this is a conservative-majority district, by about 10 points or so). In the early afternoon the Dems piled back into the vans, and almost immediately discovered the scourge of Washington D.C. rush hour, as most got stuck in a backup only exacerbated by the rally traffic. Ironically, they could’ve been a whole hour late, and still would not have missed the candidate (Obama’s plane from North Carolina ran into delays at nearby Dulles Airport). Instead, the campaign filled the time with the congressional candidates (including Gerry Connelly, whose blonde joke thinly disguised as a Sarah Palin joke did not meet with the approval of the blondes around me) and, oddly, a jazz group, who did keep things smooth, but did little to keep the crowd fired up. It was only the appearance of Obama himself that finally brought a tired crowd back in. And since security had turned three bright spotlights on the crowd, most people had to shade their eyes while watching (your reporter used sunglasses). Since this is going up the morning after, there is no need to rehash every detail of what Obama said – you can find it all here or in various other news outlets. Permit your reporter one small observation: Obama is a very different candidate now. When your reporter visited him in his Senate office in 2005, and saw him speak at his first New York City fundraiser in December 2006, he was a fresh candidate, with specific and new policy goals. Now, he is, as he put it in his charming story last night about a small South Carolina rally, “a professional.” Now, as he told Virginia tonight, President Obama will lower taxes and balance the budget. He’ll push for free trade, and give tax breaks to companies that keep money in America. Now, he has a promise for every group - such is the way of the home stretch in presidential politics. Gone are the policies, replaced by litanies of impossible promises. Only the thunderous applause remains. And yet, if the Columbia Democrats are anything to go by, he still holds remarkable sway over his partisans. Less than 5 hours after returning from the rally, half of them will conclude their time by heading to polling locations for a day, while the others will go out for yet one more day of canvassing. Then, everyone will cap their trip with an overnight drive back, having to listen to the returns on the radio. 130 Democrats gave up their first long weekend to test Obama’s own phrase that “if a voice can change a room, it can change the world.” They still fervently believe. 
 Here is a Google Maps App that tells you where to go to cast your vote today. (If you're at school, it's probably Wien, despite Google's uncharacteristic misspelling.) The app also includes reminders like "you must be registered" and whether or not your location offers early voting, which at this point is irrelevant, but still, we will remember this thing for 2010's election.&nbsp; Oh, and check back later today for more election stuff, including a very scientific exit poll. 
Daily Editor Eliza Shapiro votes in Manhattan Valley this morning and recounts her adventures. &nbsp;Bwog arrived at PS 145 on 105th and Amsterdam early this morning to cast our vote and was immediately confronted with non-political myriad choices: the school was hosting a bake sale outside the doors of the cafeteria-turned-polling-place. The cafeteria was crowded but our particular district's line was blissfully short. Bwog waited in line only about ten minutes and in true Upper West Side fashion, ran into our entire apartment building. A neighbor informed us that she has voted at PS 145 for forty years and never seen it so crowded. Another told us that when he voted at the school in 2004, a registered Republican showed up and the voting assistant exclaimed, "we got one!" Finally having cast our ballot, Bwog breathed a sigh of relief when we overheard a rumor that the 86th Street polling spot had three-block-long lines. 
 Today, just for participating in democracy, you will be lavished with free food and the like. Here's a quick round up of places that are rewarding you for voting. Starbucks: Receive a free tall coffee. Today is the one day when Starbucks is not over-priced. Ben &amp; Jerry's: Free scoops from 5-8 PM. Be warned: Invaluable tips from the ice cream distributor's 30th birthday celebration have taught Bwog that the line for this thing will probably be out the door. Krispy Kreme: Star-shaped donuts will be awarded to all voters. They feature red and blue sprinkles atop white frosting. Babeland: Free, ahem, personal giveaways. Ted Gibson Salon: Expensive shampoos in small sizes are all yours. Know of any other deals or free things? Let us know in the comments or by email (bwog@columbia.edu). 
 Voters around the country will be casting the final ballots over the next few hours, which means national news media will begin broadcasting the results of their exit polls. In past cycles, the poll data leaked before any actual voting had finished, so this year marks the first presidential election that those news agencies are putting a strict quarantine on that exit poll data. Bwog, however,&nbsp;is going to break the embargo by asking you, loyal readers, to leave a comment saying whom you voted for and where you cast your ballots. Our exit poll may not be as scientific as the high-falutin' Edison Media Research data, but you won't have to wait several hours for it, either. So, whom did you pick for president? 
 Columbia statistician/friend-of-Nate-Silver Andrew Gelman has resurfaced on everyone's new favorite blog, FiveThirtyEight.&nbsp; Gelman uses FiveThirtyEight's data to conclude that if Obama wins Virginia and it's a close race in Indiana -- both of which are looking increasingly likely -- it's literally a statistical certainty that Obama will win the race. Additionally, this means that the election will be essentially be over by 7 PM or so. 
 With the first polls a little under a half-hour away from closing, we know that your election anxiety is mounting. Therefore, to ease your anticipation a bit, Bwog proudly brings you a roundup of its favorite election day liveblogs to keep you ahead of the game tonight as the first polls close up shop for good and the results start trickling in. The most comprehensive aggregator of election liveblogs is Huffington Post.&nbsp; Be sure to check here for their exhaustive listing of editorial liveblogs, streaming video, poll closing times, nifty electoral maps, election widgets, and even some Intrade predictions. The Booth and Beyond, an election liveblog run for twelve hours today by SIPA's Morningside Post, includes commentary from Columbia professors as well as submissions from academics around the globe is another spot for election information that Bwog likes today.&nbsp; FiveThirtyEight celebrity Andrew Gelman might even make an appearance later on in the evening as well. Be sure to check after the jump for a full list of election liveblogs to carry you through late into the night! Daily Kos offers a sexy Live Map. Spec has two reporters embedded in Chicago, where they've been catching up with locals, among other things.&nbsp; Check the Talking Points Memo for breaking news from swing states and keep tabs with their live election results on their scoreboard. In a change of pace, Politco brings you straight news today, but be sure to check out their hidden gems of liveblogs. Wonkette is running a series of reader dispatches from voting booths across the country.&nbsp; Need your exit poll fix? Catch the earliest released exit poll data at Drudge. If you know of any election liveblogs, polling data sites, or election hubs that are particularly scintillating that Bwog may have missed be sure to let us know at bwog@columbia.edu. 
Bwog received the following photos of CNN's fancy Everyone-But-CC Party in Times Sq. &nbsp; Another shot from photojournalist Huei Ong after the jump. 
 Celebratory Bwog banner -- and change and hope, etc. -- is on its way! See you in class tomorrow. More exciting news headlines announcing this very thing after the jump! Plus, stick around for Anish Bramhandkar's Party Photos from celebrations out on Broadway. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
At least a hundred people turned up in the middle of Broadway at 115th to celebrate the results of tonight's election.&nbsp; Chants of "Obama" -- and non-specialized screaming -- were aplenty.&nbsp; Every time silence struck, someone would leap up on top of light posts and garbage cans to start the chants over again. The NYPD, smiling, allowed the celebrations to continue for at least 20 minutes before beginning to break it up: "Either that way, or that way, that's where you're going.&nbsp; Keep it moving!" An anonymous tipster has told Bwog that a man in a white shirt, possibly with the NYPD, told the officers trying to break it up to stop, and they turned away "sheepishly. UPDATE, 12:55 AM: Bwog is told the party has moved uptown to 125th. More photos and another video after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Above photos and video by Anish Bramhandkar &nbsp; Above photos by Hans E Hyttinen 
 Before anything happened, Lauren Salz advised the next president to break his promises.&nbsp; Obama won.&nbsp; Yes, he did.&nbsp; Just in time to find Washington decimated. We watched it in Harlem, Times Square, Virginia and the Broadway Sky Lounge. Now what?&nbsp; Apply for grad school!&nbsp; 
 You may remember when we asked for your professors' partisan opinions before the election, but now that it's all over, we're looking to see what they thought of the results.&nbsp; Did Andrew Gelman go to sleep at 8:30 or party 'til the early morn?&nbsp; Is there surprise?&nbsp; Merriment?&nbsp; Bleary eyes? Tell us your story by either posting on the thread or emailing bwog@columbia.edu and we'll add it to the post! Alan Brinkley: This is quite a day in history I know there are many people in the country and maybe here who are disappointed, but probably not many. I have…I've never experienced anything like this in my lifetime and I think of my own years in college in the late 60 and 70s and the sense of despair and of failure and tragedy and then last night seeing, both on television and on the street, the hundreds and thousands of people on the street celebrating a political event, is something. What will come I don't know, but this is just an extraordinary moment, and people in my generation who grew up in the civil rights movement and both the wonderful and terrible events that surrounded it, people in my generation find it almost impossible to imagine what happened yesterday.&nbsp; For you I suspect it was much more imaginable, but I'm sure also a kind of miracle.&nbsp; So I just feel that this is a moment of American history that will endure for generations, but I also think it's a good time to look back over the generations of the people who contributed to this moment, it goes back for centuries.&nbsp; It's just an extraordinary day.&nbsp; If you want to get a sense of the impact this has had around the world, go to the Huffington Post website…NOT NOW…and look at the photographs that they've collected from all over the world of people reacting to this.&nbsp; It's not just us.&nbsp; This is an event that is echoing around the world. So…back to the Great Depression... Anuta Belova in Introduction to Aquatic Chemistry: "Everyone have donuts and muffins!! For a celebration! For an administration that finally believes in our cause, global warming. Not 'let's burn trees because we have too many.'" Thomas Roma in Photo I: "My guy didn't win... NADER ALL THE WAY!! No but seriously- if I were Barack Obama, I would have walked out on that stage and said "I'M BARACK OBAMA BITCH!!" He's great. I love him. But listen, now that we have an African-American president, you guys have to stop complaining. You got the presidency, what more do you want?!" 
Look at what a nice welcome back treat your President Bollinger has arranged! Men have arrived in white trucks filled with Christmas lights, and they have begun stringing these lights around College Walk's trees in the traditional fashion.&nbsp; &nbsp; More photos of daytime holiday loveliness after the jump. &nbsp; -- Photos by JNW 
Bwog photojournalist Anish Bramhandkar sent in this photo, showing that the lovely curved stone bench in front of Mathematics has been replaced by hedges as part of a post-election redecoration project. 
 This morning, in the wake of Obama's historic victory, the BBC rounded up some its go-to American history experts -- a troupe that included Columbia's Simon Schama and Harvard's Niall Ferguson (also an early McCain adviser) -- to discuss the implications of the race and the results.&nbsp; The 9-minute discussion concluded that while Obama will have his hands full with a broken economy, two wars and no money to spend,&nbsp; his eloquence can become a tool to boost confidence among the American people, just as FDR and PrezBo were/are able to do in their fireside chats.&nbsp; He will, however, also have to be a "flinty pragmatist" and be as disciplined in his governing as he was in his campaigning.&nbsp; What was most interesting was the way that Schama and Ferguson (as history professors are wont to do) situated Obama in the context of the New Deal and the Civil Rights movement to illustrate the importance of this moment in the American legal system.&nbsp; If Schama is right that Obama can do what FDR did in the Depression, then, he concluded, the electorate has made a wise choice in selecting its President. 
 Bwog Presidential Archivist Mariela Quintana reports that all kiosks surrounding campus are completely sold out of today's copy of the New York Times. Gawker is also reporting the same problem in the West Village, where there is nary a copy to be found.&nbsp; The Times has also picked up on their own paper shortage, reporting that they sold out three editions even after planning for a larger circulation today.&nbsp; Note that the owners of the newsstands on 115th and 116th Streets were interviewed. Been able to locate a copy of the paper? Let us know your secret location (bwog@columbia.edu) -- a readership suddenly so interested in deadtree journalism again will thank you. 
 In the wake of yesterday's historic election, your President has reached out to CU alums. Ha, oh no, not that President. PrezBo has just emailed the alumni listserv in celebration of last night's victory. "All of us who have graduated from Columbia have special reason for excitement," he wrote. Undergrads, of course, have received no such email, as unlike PrezBo and Barack Obama and every member of the alumni listserv, they have not actually graduated and therefore have no "special reason for excitement." PrezBo directs the alums to the University's official press release about the election. In the brief article, PrezBo also gives a gracious shoutout to McCain, who is "part of the Columbia family," via his daughter, erstwhile blogger Meghan McCain, CC '07. Full secret alumni-only PrezBo communique after the jump. From: President Lee C. Bollinger &lt;cualumni-response@columbia.edu&gt; Date: Wed, Nov 5, 2008 at 8:32 PM Subject: President-elect Obama '83CC To: Columbia University Alumni &lt;&gt; Dear Columbian, Yesterday's election was historic, of course, and all of us who have graduated from Columbia have special reason for excitement. We note with pride that Barack Obama '83CC will be not only the first African-American but also the first Columbia degree-holder to occupy the Oval Office. At Columbia we think continually about our role in helping to prepare remarkable men and women for leadership. With one alumnus, David Paterson '78CC, now serving as Governor of New York and another elected to the nation's highest office, we are reminded of the University's core commitment to public service and its tradition of producing outstanding leaders for our nation and our world. You can read more about President-elect Barack Obama and Columbia in this Columbia news announcement. Whatever our political inclination, we can all take pride in having a Columbian in the White House. All the best, Lee C. Bollinger '71LAW President Columbia University 
&nbsp;Cofer Black came to Columbia Wednesday evening with the Columbia University International Relations Forum. Bwog correspondent David Iscoe was in attendance. Guest speakers at Columbia are rarely what you'd expect. My first year here, I watched students grill John Ashcroft, and, for the most part, saw him dismantle stock liberal rhetoric. Students coming to see Jim Gilchrist ended up watching a riot, while Mahmoud Ahmadinejad came to give a speech on the value of scholars. So when Cofer Black, former CIA official and current vice chairman of Blackwater, came to Lerner today for the Columbia University International Relations Forum, I wasn't sure what would happen "I want you to relax," he said, "I'm not going to preach. I'm going to share a story with you."&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Black looks a little like Alfred Hitchcock, and delivered his whole "story" in a disarmingly conversational tone. For the most part, he talked about his experiences in the CIA's counterterrorism center, from 1999 until 2002. He did mention controversial issues like waterboarding ("we used to take our guys and waterboard them just for the experience. I'm not condoning anything, I'm just saying what people do. How many high-value detainees had been waterboarded when I left?...how about zero? None, zero, bing, zip. Zero"), and torture, and he got into some of his more pointed, and defensive, rhetoric when he was talking about interrogation. Overall, though, he focused on the organizational problems the terrorism unit faced: delays getting the attention of both the Clinton and Bush administrations, funding that went up only when bodies were produced, an inability to launch pre-emptive special ops strikes against the terrorists, a lack of cooperation from allies overseas. Besides the focus on fighting terrorism, his take-away message was to always impress upon your bosses the importance of something you believe, lest they miss the opportunity to act on it. Black said he was just telling his story, not making an argument, which is half true: telling one side of a story lets you be honest and non-dogmatic, but it also lets you advance one perspective while avoiding the other side. He came across as someone who was truly concerned with fighting terrorism, and knew what resources were needed. But it's hard to say you're not trying to argue about policy when you weigh your side with statements like "to defend innocent, men, women, and children ---- that's the point." Still, despite his strong association with the War on Terror, he didn't come seem to have any right-wing agenda, beyond advocating for more security resources. He gave Clinton credit for swift action against Al-Qaeda near the end of his term, and said that the Bush administration was slow to catch on. Also, when asked about Barack Obama's presidency, he was upbeat. "I'm really excited about this," he said, saying that Obama's "ability to reach out in a very effective way is very real." He said that America has done "the world's worst job, as good people, portraying ourselves," and that, in terms of worldwide perception, Obama's election is "really gonna pay off." And unlike Fox News, Black showed no sense of contempt for Columbia, although he did broadcast that he had no love for journalists. When it got to Blackwater, the nation's largest "private security contractor" or "mercenary group" depending on who you ask, he was more evasive and always on the defensive. He declined to fully answer several questions due to ongoing legal action against the company, and gave some pretty heavy spin as well. "We're not in the business of war - we provide security in war zones," he said, with the distinction being that they aren't hired for attack missions. And when asked about Blackwater's presence in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, he launched into a story about two helicopters that the company voluntarily lent to the cause, before saying something like "and then later some banks and morgues needed security, and we're a business so we made some money." The people many of us vilify at Columbia have an argument to make, and even if the same people don't agree with it, it is interesting and valuable to hear that argument. Cofer Black the public servant seemed to have a much more honorable argument to make than Cofer Black the businessman, even if he did have a sense of self-importance only partially masked by his unassuming demeanor. All told, people do things for a reason – whether it is "to defend innocent men, women, and children," or to make a buck. 
“It was cooler than Ahmadinejad speaking at our school.” That Debora Spar. Did we mention she doesn't knit? Big Goverment Spectator probably wants to raise your taxes too Obamania grumble grumble movement building tsk tsk Now you can talk like you ran the NYC marathon too! 
 Since the Eye doesn't have comment threads, feel free to shout out/nominate/disagree here intead Can we please not hear "Dave Eisenbach" and "sex" in the same sentence ever again Choose-your-own mad libs If all it took was "love and prayer" to make a good omelet... A failure of fairnesss? 
 Here is another joyful indication of the approaching holiday season: yesterday, local mom-and-pop coffee shop Starbucks began its annual tradition of serving coffee in wintry red cups. Bwog doesn't even like Starbucks, and yet there's something about Red Cup Day that makes us inordinately happy. So, take your red cupped hot chocolate and take a stroll amongst College Walk's secular tree lights. After all, whether it feels like winter or not (and today it definitely does not), classes end in a month! &nbsp; 
Intrepid photographer/Columbia Dem Nancy Huemer took about a thousand photos down in Virginia. She sent along her favorites from the trip, presented in chronological order (and with silly captions). The van considers a stop at the local Cracker Barrel. &nbsp; Judy Feder introduces herself through "large-hand" gesticulation. &nbsp; &nbsp;As the morning dawns, the warriors prepare for walking. "And that's why we all should buy timeshares!" All hailed the victor of the massive "King of the Hill" game. &nbsp; "Excuse me, ma'am, but have you ever considered the advantages of owning a really fine set of encyclopedias?" &nbsp; "Hmmm, this seems like a good place to take a scenic phot-HEY! STOP RUNNING THROUGH MY PICTURES!" Last known photo. Yes, it was as cheesy a moment as it looks. Other side reads "Will brake for votes." "Mmmm, yes...intriguing. Where did they get this lovely table?" &nbsp; This family loves subtelty. This photo appears to have been taken when the jazz group was on its fifth forced encore. Clearly, the crowd is enthused. "Senator! Senator! Call on me!" 
 Tomorrow! Flying kites! EarthCo is providing plastic bags and pre-made plastic bag kites for a Mary Poppins session on Low Plaza from noon to 4:00 pm, where they'll probably also try to teach you something about wind power. The group is trying again to persuade Columbia buy alternative energy, which didn't go so well last year, clever marketing campaigns aside. 
This is the one weekend it’s probably more exciting to be in Chicago than in New York, but that doesn’t mean you can’t put your best celebratory foot forward!&nbsp; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday Chocolate Show &nbsp;10am–9pm, Saturday 10am–8pm, Sunday 10am–7pm Pier 94 12th Ave &amp; 55th St The show offers demos from celebrity chocolate chefs, chocolate art, and chocolate pedicures.&nbsp; It’s the perfect indulgence for such a happy occasion (or the perfect comfort food if you were rooting for the other guy). Price: $28.00 Friday and Saturday Found Footage Festival Friday 8pm &amp; 10pm and Saturday 8pm &amp; 10pm, 92Y Tribeca 200 Hudson St (212.601.1000) Come see the most bizarre film clips filched from basements and Salvation Army dumpsters.&nbsp; Stand-up and other forms of hilarious commentary will transition between films. Price: $12 Friday Manhattan Monologue Slam Friday 7:30pm, Zipper Theater 336 W 37th St (212.563.0480) It’s a theatrical showdown!&nbsp; Winners receive free career consultation from NYCasting.com and cash prizes.&nbsp; Bring your favorite three-minute monologue, because the second half is open to audience members! Price: $15, $10 with RSVP Saturday Deconstructing Conan: A Panel Discussion 3pm, Paley Center 25 W 52nd St (212.621.6800) Ever wonder what it’s like to work for Conan O’Brien?&nbsp; Or to be a television comedy writer for anyone, for that matter?&nbsp; Check out this event, his writers will be telling all! Price: $30 Passport to the Arts 11am-8pm, various Chelsea locations It’s a New Yorker-sponsored self-guided tour through 28 Chelsea galleries.&nbsp; There’s a cocktail reception and silent auction afterwards.&nbsp; All proceeds benefit Friends of the High Line. Price: $45 Wordless Music: Bang on a Can All-stars with Terry Riley Saturday 8pm, Le Poisson Rouge 158 Bleecker St (212.505.3474) It’s progressive music that leaves no medium for music-making unexplored.&nbsp; They’re renowned (or, as renowned as prog-rockers get) for the accessibility of their music—dip your toe in the raging river of experimental sound. Price: $20 &nbsp; Sunday The Brooklyn Kitchen presents the Ramen-Off 7pm, Union Pool 484 Union Ave (718.609.0484) It’s the kind of competition we college students were made to excel at.&nbsp; In light of the fluctuating economy, the Brooklyn Kitchen celebrates their second anniversary by sponsoring a ramen cook-off.&nbsp; Feel free to enter; all rules are on the website.&nbsp; Stop by and taste for free. Price: Free! Neil Gaiman: Sandman 20th-Anniversary Celebration Sunday 7:30pm, 92nd St Y 1395 Lexington Ave (212.415.5500) If you’re into comic books, you know who this guy is.&nbsp; Don’t miss this chance to hear what he has to say! Price: $27 BETA Spaces Sunday 11am-7pm, various locations in Bushwick Hundreds of fresh new artists display their work in Bushwick residents’ living rooms, bedrooms, bathrooms, etc.&nbsp; Of course the permanent street art will always be there, not to mention other displays set up along the sidewalk. Price: Free! 
 With the ROTC survey coming later this month (the councils have postponed the date again, this time to the week of November 24th) Bwog spotted posters from the anti-ROTC coalition (so far including the Dems, Lucha, CQA, EAAH, and Proud Colors). Bwog has been told that speakers and events will follow. A pro-ROTC coalition of individuals is also forming, and is planning its own postering and event campaign. Bwog will have more details tomorrow.&nbsp; 
 Last night in 417 IAB, Professor Alan Brinkley, The New Yorker's Hendrik Hertzberg, and The Nation's Katha Pollitt came together to discuss the election. Bwog Daily Editor James Downie was there. If nothing else, last night's panel discussion between Alan Brinkley, Hendrik Hertzberg, and Katha Pollitt proved that smiles are contagious. Brinkley (who served as unofficial moderator in the absence of a real one) opened the night by joking, "Four years ago, I hosted a similar event, and I never saw a more depressed group of people. Tonight, I suspect most people are not depressed." The room burst into applause, and a buoyant mood was set for the next two hours. Perhaps because the panelists had spent the previous 22 hours in a state of bliss, there was little in the way of prepared speeches. When Brinkley asked the guests to share their thoughts, both Pollitt (who recieved her M.F.A. from Columbia) and Hertzberg admitted that they were still absorbing the results of the election. Pollitt's thoughts were mostly about how happy she was. "I learned that people are not so dumb, and that’s really good," she said. She also commended in particular Obama's temperament, comparing him favorably to her original favorite, John Edwards. Unlike Edwards, she said, Obama "communicated being a good person." Hertzberg began by sharing his astonishment at the outcome, both on a racial and partisan level: "I never thought I’d live to see a brown man become president. I never thought I’d live to see a competent Democratic presidential campaign." When a person in the audience suggested that now a writer had become president, Hertzberg agreed, even suggesting that Dreams from My Father and The Audacity of Hope would become part of the American canon, "along with his speeches." He also aggreed with Pollitt that "temperament counts," and suggested that Americans had finally moved beyond Bush's "guy you'd have a beer with" temperament to the "cool and calm" temperament of Obama. Brinkley then offered his thoughts. He noted the favorability of this election to the Democrats, even saying that "perhaps the best chance at losing was nominating Obama" (the other panelists nodded in agreement at this point). He also complimented Obama's handling of race - the issue did not disappear, but it was not the main issue of the campaign. The panelists then asked each other some questions. Brinkley opened by asking how Obama would work with the new Congress. Hertzberg responded, "It’ll be easier than one might suppose. There’s not a lot of resentment of him as usurper." He also said that Obama has the right level of socialbility for Washington, in between Jimmy Carter's ignorance of parties and Bill Clinton being "too social." Brinkley then wondered if Obama could live up to expectations. Hertzberg and Pollitt both thought he had a good chance, especially when contrasted with the Bush administration. "We’ve really kind of been this rogue elephant country for eight years," Pollitt said, "There are so many people who want to admire this country." Pollitt requested that Brinkley compare the GOP of the 1930s with the modern GOP. Brinkley suggested that it was a narrower party today than in the 1930s, but that it was also a stronger party now. He also noted the many elections (1968, 1994, and so on) that were disasters for Democrats almost immediately after big successes. The audience portion focused almost entirely on Obama's policies. To a question about how Obama will handle the economic crisis, Hertzberg suggested that Obama will handle it with the same tempered reaction that had served him so well in the campaign. Bringing temperament back up, Hertzberg suggested that the economic crisis in fact served as the "testing" moment that so many thought would be a foreign policy crisis. An questioner suggested that Obama had a chance to change how Americans talk about government involvement, and the panellists agreed. Hertzberg expressed optimism that there could be a shift back to more acceptance of government. Brinkley chimed in to say that there are always paradigm cycles in the definition of government, and it was unclear at this point. Hertzberg jumped back in to point out "It looks at this point to be more like one than in 1980, which many thought was a fluke," but the GOP turned into a paradigm shift. Perhaps the most interesting question came from a man skeptical of Obama's credentials as a liberal. Pollitt admitted that she did not agree with all of his positions (to which the other panellists nodded their heads), and she said it was up to "all of us" to put pressure on Obama. That line drew applause from the room, though she concluded by saying "those who were worried even now were too cynical, and I’m saying that." Another audience member wondered how Obama would affect the U.N. and diplomacy in general. Brinkley suggested that the US simply can’t influence the world the way it used to, because “we aren’t willing to use a draft, and we’re bankrupt.” Hertzberg said he anticipated significant change, commenting that it wouldn’t be difficult to follow the Bush administration. The evening ended on one last Bush-hatred note, with a question about whether Bush administration figures would be "held accountable." Hertzberg suggested a trtuh commission might be possible, and Brinkley ended the night by suggesting that they’ll be forgotten. - Photos by Hans Hyttinen 
 Administrators will actually use the sixth floor of Lerner? Salman Rushdie draws a crowd? A student defends Frontiers of Science? Hmm, wasn't this already done? Wait, Obama'a election didn't magically erase language gaps? So the near-theft at Potluck House was the residents' fault? 
 What are you doing on this fine November afternoon? The Varsity Show has decided to be silly, placing a taste of the stereotypical beach on your way to class. Palm trees, volleyball, and look, one of them is wearing a Speedo! Teehee! Fortunately, there's free food there. Get it while it lasts. 
 Salman Rushdie stopped by campus yesterday to appear at the launch of the Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life. Bwog contributor David Berke was there, and sends along this report. If you happened to mosey by Alma Mater yesterday around 4:45, you would have noticed Salman Rushdie, celebrated author and assassination target, nonchalantly chatting it up with Faculty Dean Dirks.&nbsp; Contrary to what you might think, the duo was not meeting Gayatri Spivak on Low steps for Pinkberry.&nbsp; Rather, Rushdie, who recently won the ultimate Man Booker prize for Midnight's Children, was on campus for the launch of the Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life.&nbsp; The daylong ceremonies concluded with Comparative Lit. Professor Gauri Viswanathan interviewing Rushdie about imagination, religion and their intersections. The talk began in typical Columbia form, with flattering introduction upon flattering introduction.&nbsp; Dirks introduced President Bollinger, heralding Prezbo's first amendment scholarship on tolerance and his support for creating the Institute.&nbsp; Bollinger took the stage and lauded his introducer, thanking Dirks for his instrumental role in founding the Institute.&nbsp; Bollinger then praised the official introducer, Orhan Pamuk, a king of the Columbia literati and 2006 Nobel Prize winner.&nbsp; Perhaps aware that enough time had been wasted with reciprocal complimenting, Pamuk was brief in his introduction of Rushdie. Though Viswanathan's questions often wandered on without ever finding a question mark, Rushdie took the reigns and was insightful and good-humored.&nbsp; He discussed religion and spirituality's roles in literature as well as religious and irreligious characters and histories within his own work.&nbsp; The main focus was his most recent novel, The Enchantress of Florence.&nbsp; Enchantress whirls a tale encompassing Renaissance Florence and the 16th century Indian empire of Akbar the Great. Rushdie also discussed the current religious landscape, lamenting the rise of radical Islam.&nbsp; In opposition to this religious fundamentalism, he emphasized the importance of open debate and discussion.&nbsp; Rushdie also stressed the limitations of tolerance.&nbsp; His referenced a case from India, where a Muslim wife, who was raped by her father-in-law, was assigned blame by Islamic authorities, deemed impure and instructed to accept a divorce from her husband.&nbsp; Rushdie criticized unquestioning multiculturalism and moral relativism that backs religious authorities in situations like that one, asserting the existence of universal human rights that transcend culture and religion. The following question and answer session was civil but heated.&nbsp; Audience members questioned Rushdie's sympathetic characterization of Emperor Akbar and his views on religion.&nbsp; One audience member went as far as to ask if Rushdie appreciated the celebrity boost he gained from the Fatwa that the Ayatollah of Iran issued against him.&nbsp; Though he could have been indignant at the offensive question, Rushdie turned it onto a joke, sarcastically advising anyone who could avoid death threats and years living in hiding to do so. To finish the talk, a student, apparently frustrated with Rushdie's secularism, asked the author, "What do you live for?"&nbsp; Rushdie thought for a few seconds before giving his one word answer: "dinner." 
 Members of the Columbia Community received an exciting email from the desk of your President, PrezBo, earlier this afternoon. The search has officially begun for a new Alan Brinkley, and Lee C. and the Selection Committee want to know who you think should be second in command. "We are seeking a candidate of academic stature, intellectual excellence, and demonstrated leadership skills who has made significant contributions to his or her field," said Bollinger.&nbsp; Bwog has a few theories and few guesses regarding new provost possibilites. First, as one Blue and White alum pointed out: "They would be smart to pick a woman. Columbia is one of the very few schools of its caliber to not have had a female president or provost yet." Another alum reckoned: "I'd put my money on an economist, a hard-number oriented social scientist, or a straight up scientist. Bollinger wants to put more emphasis on science and his provost selection is the best way to trigger a broad tonal shift." Bwog thought of a few women and/or scientists meeting Bollinger's description, a list that included Darcy Kelley, Danielle Allen, Cathy Popkin and Helene Gayle.&nbsp; Were the provost to be selected from within the University, logical choices would include Andrew Delbanco, Carol Gluck, Robert Shapiro and Mark Lilla (though Lilla is rumored to be next in line to inherit Bob Silvers' New York Review of Books). The dark horse in all of this is Bollinger determining that the best--nay, the only-- person for the job is, in fact, himself. -- JNW Dear fellow member of the Columbia community: On September 24, after five years of outstanding leadership, Provost Alan Brinkley announced that he would be leaving his position at the end of this academic year to return to the faculty full-time. I have now formed a 14-member committee to advise me in identifying Alan's successor. Composed of representatives from across the University, including our Medical Center, the committee has now met and launched the process, which I hope to complete during the Spring semester.&nbsp; The committee members are listed below. Working with the President, the Provost has broad responsibility for ensuring that the University's programs and faculty are of the highest quality.&nbsp; We are seeking a candidate of academic stature, intellectual excellence, and demonstrated leadership skills who has made significant contributions to his or her field.&nbsp; &nbsp;A PhD or Doctorate degree is required and the candidate must have achieved the rank of full professor. To nominate someone, please submit the person's name, CV (if possible), and a paragraph about why the person should be considered to: columbiaprovost@spencerstuart.com. We look forward to hearing your ideas on this important position at Columbia. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President Provost Search Committee Members Carlos Alonso, Morris A. &amp; Alma Schapiro Professor in the Humanities Carol Becker, Dean of the School of Arts and Professor of the Arts John Coatsworth, Dean of the School of International Public Affairs Mary Sheila S. Coronel, Toni Stabile Professor of Professional Practice in Investigative Journalism and Director of the Toni Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism Geraldine Downey, Vice Provost for Diversity Initiatives and Professor of Psychology Nabila El-Bassel, Professor of Social Work Linda Fried, Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health Lee Goldman, Executive VP for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and of Medicine; Harold and Margaret Hatch Professor of the University; Professor of Epidemiology Tony Heinz, David M. Rickey Professor of Optical Communications in the Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science and Professor of Physics Reinhold Martin, Associate Professor of the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation Chris Mayer, Paul Milstein Professor of Real Estate and Senior Vice Dean of the Columbia Business School Ann McDermott, Esther Brewslow Professor of Biological Chemistry and Associate Vice President for Academic Planning and Science Initiatives Kendall Thomas, Nash Professor of Law at the Columbia Law School Katharine Volk, Associate Professor of Classics
 Bwog's Friday Sports Roundup Returns! Women's Soccer: The women's soccer team (11-3-2 overall, 4-1-1 conference) travels to Harvard (11-2-2, 4-1-1 conference) tomorrow, where a win would secure them at least a share of their second league title in three years. Last week, the Lions preserved their title hopes with a 2-1 win over Yale. After a second-half goal by Yale, first-year Ashlin Yahr tied the score just 13 seconds later, and sophomore Chrissy Butler (who had spent much of the season injured) scored the game winner.&nbsp; When the Lions kick off at Harvard tomorrow at 11 a.m., there will still be three teams tied atop the Ivy League: Princeton, Columbia and Harvard, all at 4-1-1. There are no tiebreakers for the conference championship (that is, there can even be a tri-champ if all three tie), but there is a tiebreak for the NCAA tournament bid. Unfortunately, Columbia is on the losing end of that tiebreaker - they need to win and see Princeton draw or lose to Dartmouth later on to get the bid. Bwog will bring you the result as soon as it comes in. Football: After their first conference win in two years, the football team was unable to maintain momentum. Instead, it suffered its worst loss of the season, 27-12 to Yale. Aside from a few big plays, the offense generally struggled, and key turnovers, including a blocked punt and a Millicent Olawale fumble, once again made it difficult for Columbia's defense to stop offenses. The going gets no easier this weekend, as the Lions (now 1-3 in the conference) travel to Cambridge to play Harvard, in what promises to be a hugely difficult test for the team. Kickoff is at noon on WKCR and 970AM. Basketball: The basketball team starts its season next Friday at Fordham. Bwog will have a special preview of the season next week. Men's Soccer: The men's soccer team seems unable to halt its losing momentum in the Ivy League, falling last Saturday 4-2 to Yale. Despite having the majority of chances in the first 25 minutes, and even taking the lead on a Pepe Carotenuto goal, the Lions suddenly let in 3 goals in quick succession. Carotenuto scored again before the half, but another Yale goal in the 71st minute put the game away. This weekend, the Lions travel to Harvard. Volleyball: The volleyball team lost to Princeton and Penn this past weekend, and is still searching for its first Ivy League win. This weekend, they play at Yale and Brown. Women's Golf: In their last event of the fall, the women's golf team won the UAB Beach Blast tournament in Birmingham, Alabama. Junior Stevy Loy finished first overall in the two-day event, with a score of 142 (two under par). Field Hockey: The field hockey team dropped two tough decisions last weekend, 3-2 to Yale in overtime on Saturday, and 1-0 to Rutgers on Sunday. The team tries to end the year on a winning note at Harvard tomorrow. Cross-Country: After last week's second place finish on both the men's and the women's sides of the Ivy League championships, the men's team recieved votes in the U.S. Track &amp; Field and Cross Country Coaches Association's national poll, and four members were named to the Ivy League second team, along with one runner on the women's side. 
For some Sunday morning is a sacred time. For Columbia scholars, however, leisurely&nbsp; brunches and other holier Sunday morning traditions are often sullied by Saturday night's hangover and Monday's looming deadlines.&nbsp; But, remember it's only Saturday and today must borrow nothing of tomorrow! So this drizzly November morning, Bwog offers a spread of cartoons to give your day a sunnier start.&nbsp; Everyone fondly remembers the matinal hours spent with the Animaniacs and Pepper Ann, and so does Bwog, but today we spotlight grown-up cartoons.&nbsp; Today's cartoons are inspired by the election and require a more liberal sense of humor - enjoy! &nbsp; &nbsp;"I know it's just a political buzzword, but the idea of change really resonates with me." By Christopher Weyant from The New Yorker "You stay here and answer the phone."&nbsp; By Frank Cotham from The New Yorker &nbsp; "Hey Ray, you must be pretty high about our new C In C!" "Why does everyone assume that I must have voted for Barack Obama? I mean how do you know I didn't vote for McCain?" "You vote for a sailor? A damn navy hotdog? No way in hell!"&nbsp; "Okay, okay, you got me."&nbsp; &nbsp; Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau &nbsp; "Now we have this all to ourselves!"&nbsp; By Tom Toles from The Washington Post &nbsp; &nbsp;"Ready to rejoin the world?" By Pat Oliphant from The Washington Post &nbsp; By Singe Wilkinson from The Washington Post By Kevin Kallaughter from The Economist 
 Two day weeks are the cruelest kind. And the good people at CCSC 2011 recognize this.&nbsp; So if the last two days of classes mentally and physically drained you, pull yourself together and head on over to the Lerner Party Space for a couch potato inspired chill-out sess. From twelve to three, CCSC provides restorative sustenance in the form of DDR, Nintendo Wii, Playstation 3, various board games.&nbsp; And junk food.&nbsp; Lots of it. The veg out starts now. So don't delay; university-sanctioned ennui is the most ephemeral kind!
Guide to the Weekend Editor and Parliamentary Debate Team member Sara Jane Panfil tells the story of the Team's recent brush with MTV fame. On November 19th, three members of the Columbia University Parliamentary Debate team will make their MTVu debuts on the Woodie Awards, MTV’s college choice awards. MTV producers decided that they wanted to go with a debate theme for this year’s ceremony, so they contacted several college teams in the New York area. The producers came to our team try-outs to get a feel for our style, and we, along with a few other teams, were then invited to audition in the Viacom building in Times Square (on the Nickelodeon floor). The team front of a camera and informally debated such penetrating topics as “Does music help you get laid?” and “Does music help relieve constipation?”&nbsp; Columbia—with our in-depth analysis and heartfelt personal anecdotes on such subjects—naturally beat out the other schools, including downtown antagonists NYU. &nbsp; &nbsp; We had to be in midtown by 5:15am on filming day, October 10th, and when we arrived it was apparent that we were beginning to have second thoughts.&nbsp; We weren’t getting paid (as far as we knew at this point), and frankly, the torture of waking up and braving the subway system at such an excruciatingly early time of day seemed a bit excessive for a few minutes on TV.&nbsp; However, the mood lightened when we met the actors who would be working alongside of us. Our calls of “Wow!&nbsp; You’re a real actor! Tell us all about it!” were answered with, “Wow!&nbsp; You’re a real debater!&nbsp; Tell us all about it!”&nbsp; By the end of the day, the actors wanted to be lawyers, and we debaters aspired to be on Law and Order.&nbsp; &nbsp; When we got to the “location” at Wagner College on Staten Island, we dined on sumptuous catered breakfast food and coffee, and then moved straight off to hair, makeup, and wardrobe.&nbsp; By the time the sun came up and we got to the business of filming, the high-quality caffeine and giddiness over the general rock-star treatment had transformed our all our nervous energy into excitement. Needless to say, we weren’t so good at first.&nbsp; But, quick adapters as debaters ought to be, we mastered the formula after a few takes.&nbsp; The crew had astounding patience with us—the actors later explained that the only reason for this was because we weren’t professionals—and to our pleasant surprise, the take and re-take/repeat, repeat, repeat formula of scripted television didn’t feel tedious at all.&nbsp; &nbsp; Of course, as the day wore on and the sleep deprivation became more and more acute, we got progressively more sluggish.&nbsp; But morale never wavered.&nbsp; Staten Islanders would pass by and gawk, searching our faces to look for one they recognized.&nbsp; It was a nice ego boost. MTV kept us well-fed and well-caffeinated, so the positive energy flowed until the very last take right before sundown. &nbsp; &nbsp; By the end, it all seemed like a glorious hallucination.&nbsp; And best of all, they paid us for our time—a reward we had not been expecting—and later drove us back into Manhattan.&nbsp; We rested our heavy heads on one another’s shoulders and tuned into our iPods while the downtown Manhattan skyline whizzed by the courtesy van windows.&nbsp; Tune in on the 19th on MTVu.com to see the fruits of our sleep-walking labor.&nbsp; 
 Bwog on a Budget returns this week with a guide to making the most of your money and music collection. Downloading music can be confusing, risky, and worst of all, costly, so read this guide and amend your ways! Please let us know if we have left anything off the list! iTunes: The Exemplar Pros: Like most Mac products, iTunes is incredibly easy to use.&nbsp; If you buy into the whole Mac lifestyle -- i.e. own a iPod, MacBook, MacBook Pro, or any other Mac computer -- downloading music from iTunes' exhaustive library into your personal library is as simple as clicking a button. Also iTunes makes organizing your music or iPod very easy. Cons: $0.99 per song is about expensive a downloading can get. Also downloading an entire album as opposed to individual songs usually is no cheaper. Furthermore Bwog has yet to come across any iTunes discount subscriptions. Ruckus: A Case of Extremes Pros: There are two big ones: Ruckus is totes free and legit legal! Also Ruckus offers video streaming from Ruckus TV. Cons: There are many. Ruckus is not compatible with Macs or iPods. Yup, Ruckus only works with Windows. Also Ruckus has DRM, which means there is limited player support and absolutely no copying your songs (unless you burn them onto a CD). And Bwog's heard rumors that Ruckus' storage and track system often is quite inconsistent. Rhapsody: The Best of Both Worlds. Perhaps. Pros: Rhapsody offers streaming on demand for just about its entire library. Also the site offers its Rhapsody Jukebox player feature which allows users to buy individual songs or buy into an a la carte subscription package. The three main plans are Rhapsody FREE (!), which allows customers to stream 25 songs per month for free, Rhapsody Unlimited, which gives customers an unlimited&nbsp; selection of music from the Rhapsody music library for $12.99 a month, and Rhapsody To Go, which allows customers to download an unlimited amount of music and transfer to portable music playing devices. Cons: Like Ruckus, Rhapsody is incompatible with iPods. Bwog has heard of a device called the Harmony Plug-in which can be used to transfer music from your Rhapsody Jukebox library to your iPod. Although Rhapsody Jukebox is best suited for PCs, Rhapsody web streaming does function with Macs. Also Rhapsody has DRM. eMusic: An Acquired Taste Pros: eMusic.com is almost as easy to use as iTunes. The site caters itself to Mac and iPod users and storing eMusic downloads in your iTunes library is a snich. Also eMusic offers numerous subscription packages that vary according to the number of songs you download per month. The eMusic Basic Monthly package includes 30 downloads at $.40 per song for a total price of&nbsp; $11.99 per month. Other packages include 100 songs for a price of $24.99. Cons:Although the site markets itself as the largest independent and alternative music retailer, eMusic has a paltry music catalog.&nbsp; In theory eMusic's focus on indie music is lovely, but in practice it's pretty frustrating. Searching eMusic's library for Wilco or some other ostensibly alternative band usually proves fruitless. Don't even bother searching for Kayne. Amazon: An Alternative to iTunes Pros: Amazon is DRM free which means downloads from this site will play on just about anything! Amazon offers the Amazon MP3 Downloader (suitable for Macs and PCs) to download purchased music into your Windows Media Player or iTunes library. &nbsp; Cons: The MP3 downloader is a bit of a hassle. Also the Amazon music catalogue can be limited.&nbsp; Song prices often rival iTunes' $0.99 premium. YouTube: The Dark Horse Pros: This is the only site that offers free downloading for those highly coveted Youtube-only Sarah McLachlan remixes and other scarce resources. Cons: Downloading from youtube makes storing music a more involved process that requires using the converter option. This results abnormally large MP3s. SeeqPod: The Music Industry's Next Target Pros: SeeqPod is absolutely free! Seeqpod is a relatively unique music search and discovery site that offers four entries: search, discover, popular playlists and popular artists. When you search for a song or artist, seeqpod quickly streams a MP3 version of your search entry to your computer. Also clicking on the four entries is a great way to find new music. Cons: The legality of SeeqPod is questionable. Furthermore, SeeqPod's services won't work on an iPhone or iPod touch because streaming media isn't in a format compatible with these devices. BitTorrent: For Those who Want to Stick It to the Man Pros: Savings and feelings of community spirit are guaranteed. Cons: There is the infinitesimal chance of losing $3000 to the RIAA. Bonus: Sadsteve.com and deezer.com offer comparable services to SeeqPod. Although the sites are similar to SeeqPod, their interfaces are not nearly as good. Nonetheless you can download stuff! 
Going into today's match away to Harvard, the Columbia women's soccer team could clinch at least a share of the Ivy League title with a win. Although Harvard took 1-0 lead, first-year forward Ashlin Yahr was able to tie the score, and the teams were unable to separated throughout regulation. If the Lions could hold on through "sudden victory overtime", they still had a chance at the title. With 9 seconds left, though, a foul at the edge of the 18-yard box led to a penalty kick. Harvard converted, dooming the Lions to a heartbreaking 2-1 defeat.&nbsp;
 There are spicy treats aplenty currently being served in room 555 in Lerner. Known treats include wasabi guacamole &amp; chips, Japanese curry (kare), mapo tofu, jjol myun, Sambal ikan bilis, coconut milk with tapioca, Thai green curry, and goi ga. Oh and it's fancy! Members of participating groups (CSC, SEAL, AAA, KSA, CJS, SSA, SIU, HKSSS, OLAS, TASA, TSA, and VSA) are dressed to the nines in suits, dresses and heels. Happening now from 6:30 PM - 7:30 PM; $3. 
 If you're looking for a traditional, all-American musical, Tommy is not for you.&nbsp; That doesn't mean it's not worth seeing- it's a musical of a different formula, resembling Mamma Mia more than Aida. Tommy is a musical by Pete Townshend (yes, that Pete Townshend) based on a concept album by The Who in 1969 of the same name.&nbsp; Tommy is a young boy, rendered deaf, mute, and blind by a tragedy from his past, who rises to fame for his skill at pinball (no other way to fit "Pinball Wizard" in the score, Bwog presumes).&nbsp; Like Rent, this is a "rock opera," and according to Wikipedia, Townshend wants it to be a giant metaphor for...something. Though the musical takes place somewhere in the UK, the location was vague- the designed set looked more American, especially the Christmas time scene, and there was only one instance of a British accent, which stood out against all the American accents. The story's not all that important.&nbsp; This is an all-out rock show.&nbsp; The band CMTS put together for the show was phenomenal (if a little disconnected from the proceedings), down to Thomas Anawalt's (Tommy) Daltry-like mic swings (which made techies around the world cringe).&nbsp; The entire cast was enthusiastic and totally sixties; you could almost see Daphne and Velma up on stage with them groovin' awkwardly.&nbsp; They even succeeded in getting the audience to participate, albeit somewhat reluctantly, for the big finale.&nbsp; We were encouraged to get up and dance whenever we felt the urge, but Bwog didn't notice anyone taking advantage of the invitation. Tech can make or break a show, especially in the case of a musical.&nbsp; The actors used handheld microphones the entire time, and the performance space (the floor in front of the stage in Roone) was littered with wired microphones on stands.&nbsp; Often, it seemed as if members of the cast had "forgotten" to take a microphone with them, and they would look around panickedly until someone handed one to them.&nbsp; Mic technique was inconsistent, meaning Lerner Tech had to work hard to keep the levels right so we could even hear them.&nbsp; Bwog probably missed 80% of the lyrics due to the singers being drowned out by the (totally rockin') band.&nbsp; In addition, the artistic decision to use a series of screens to portray location with elementary cartoons seemed unnecessary- it was more distracting than helpful, and the audience is capable of discerning when action takes place in a hospital versus in a church (helpfully labeled "church" with an engraved "Jesus" on the cross in the illustration). Kudos to the standout performances of Lew Bibler as a mean-spirited Cousin Kevin (but with killer attitude) and Giselle Gastell as a vital, salacious Acid Queen.&nbsp; Both were extremely confident and alive on stage, not at all aware of their vulnerability in front of an over-amped band and an over-excited crowd. Overall, Tommy is for those who just want to have a good, foot-tapping time.&nbsp; Don't take it too seriously, and it'll be enjoyable. CMTS will have performances tonight at 8 PM and 10:30 PM in Roone.&nbsp; Tickets are $5 with a CUID. -- Anish Bramhandkar 
Eyewitnesses have informed Bwog that there's currently a Waterfall Situation on McBain 5. Apparently, a pipe has burst in the building and the water is streaming through the ceiling. But at least there is Community Building! Look at these smiling students in their Columbia apparel! Truly a moment for the University brochure. &nbsp; 
Thanks to Rob Stenson for taking this lovely photo.
 &nbsp; &nbsp;A sea cucumber in the ocean surf Bwog food editor Jon Hill learns this week to trust others' instincts after sampling an oddity of the deep. I'm not sure exactly what I was expecting from sea cucumber. I certainly had fair warning they might be unpleasant. Several times my friends had tried to convince me to stay away from the slug-like sea creature, including one marine biologist friend who has studied them in Australia. She knows how odd an animal the sea cucumber can be, and she worried that eccentricity might show up in their taste. "I mean, they puke their guts out," she told me. Only later did I find out what she meant. Sea cucumbers apparently have the ability to expel their entire digestive tracts when stressed, a defense mechanism that makes entirely no sense. Imagine if you vomited your stomach when a mugger accosted you--yes, the mugger would probably flee, but then you'd be left with bigger problems than a stolen wallet. That may be the least of the sea cucumber's biological weirdities, though. They breathe through what is essentially their anus, they can shoot jets of poison from their rear-ends that kill all nearby fish, their genitals are located on their heads, and they have yellow blood. Oh, and some Asian cultures consider sea cucumbers to be an aphrodisiac. (Take a look at the&nbsp;photo below and I'll give you three guesses why that might be.) &nbsp;Sea cucumbers sold in bulk at market Armed with this knowledge and yet still determined to eat sea cucumber, I guess I pretty much deserved what was coming to me: a big bowl of ugly from Chinatown's Nice Green Bo restaurant. The place actually came recommended to me for its dumplings, which New York food critics and Chinese Americans alike have praised over the years. Lines outside Nice Green Bo's main entrance Friday night also point to the food's high caliber, for few would wait outside an hour to enjoy the restaurant's operating room ambiance or its brusque waiters. And the dumplings really are good. It's the sea cucumber that is so foul. The bottom-feeding, oblong creatures are sliced into coins and boiled in salty broth before being plopped in a thick, hazy liquid complete with chunks of yellow fish, beaten egg fragments, and a giant dollop of brown oil. The resulting whitish stew has a sharp fishy smell and jiggly viscosity that prevents a heavy spoon from sinking below the surface. Looking into the bowl, I realized I was in deep on this one. The sea cucumber and its mottled brown skin resembled bits of gelatinous potato, quivering in the spoon as I lifted it from the murky gloop. Once I bit into a hunk, I was instantly repulsed by its extremely rubbery, granular flesh that quickly broke apart into a dozen chewy, crunchy balls of faintly fishy flavor. Perhaps if the sea cucumber had a stronger taste on its own, the experience might have been palatable--squid, for instance, is rubbery, but it rewards you with a distinct flavor. Even chewing gum gives your jaw more than exercise alone. But, suspended in a bowl of mucilaginous seafood-egg gumbo, sea cucumber contributes little else but nauseating texture, forcing you to relive the sickening soup with each chew. I wanted to follow the animals' example and puke my own guts out. Fellow diners also had trouble with the dish, commandeering the nearest waitress to remove the bowl the instant I announced I had all I could take. Sea cucumber is not a culinary adventure I wish to revisit. In the future, I think I'll pay more attention to the warning signs: when all of your friends and a marine biologist are telling you not to eat the butt-breathing, poisoning-shooting sea creature, the indications are not favorable. Some things just don't belong in a soup bowl. WHAT IT IS: Sea cucumber soup WHERE IT IS: Nice Green Bo, 66 Bayard Street (Chinatown) HOW MUCH IT IS: $8.95, serves at least two people HOW TO GET THERE: Take the 1 line to Times Square and transfer to the Q. Get off at Canal Street and walk east three blocks. Turn right at Mott Street, continue south, and turn left at Bayard Street. 
 Trawling the weddings section of The New York Times, Bwog found out that Columbia's very own Farah Griffin was married last Saturday.&nbsp; She teaches English, comparative literature, and African-American studies.&nbsp; She also directs the Institute for Research in African American Studies here and has written several books about jazz musicians. The lucky man is Prof. Obery M. Hendricks Jr., who teaches "biblical interpretation" at the New York Theological Seminary ("in New York," the Times notes). Congratulations from Bwog! 
There's a large bowl filled with a well-chosen and surprisingly photogenic mix of candy (gum, mints, SweetTarts, Laffy Taffy, etc.) currently waiting for you by the western elevators on Lerner 5. Be sure to thank your friends in the Varsity Show, who are the benefactors of your sugar rush. &nbsp; UPDATE 5:18 PM: Candy time's over. The bowl has disappeared.&nbsp; 
Everyone's elections predictions (which took up most of the "Columbia University" hits this week) came out alright, but there are still more predictions to come. Stiglitz says "Yes We Can...eventually" Eisenbach says "See?&nbsp; I told you this one would be different." A Columbia scientist says, "The predictions were too late." Those who were around in '68 say, "It's gonna be just like it used to be, dang nabbit." 
The greater forces are determined to force us to relax. Tuesday Music on the Ramps: Live@Lerner is back at it, promising relaxing music on the Ramps.&nbsp; And free food, curly fries included! 11:30 AM @ Lerner Ramps. Wednesday Stressbusters: Free mini-backrubs, since midterms are acting up again as a prelude to finals season.&nbsp; 4:00 PM @ Wien main lounge. Thursday Casino Night: Heavily advertised, but that doesn't mean we all forget sometimes.&nbsp; Bond is the theme, James Bond, and semi-formal attire is "preferred."&nbsp; Prizes include JetBlue tickets and iPods.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Roone. Friday Sabor Reality: Latino culture in the form of dancing, videos, and singing.&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ Roone. Saturday Diwali: Help bring in the New Year Indian-style, with dinner and a performance by TAAL.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Roone. 
 McBain had a rough weekend. A lot of rhetorical questions about the practicality of a Columbia education.&nbsp; "You don’t often hear the words “erotic” and “Columbia” in the same sentence." Who wants to work for the Committee on the Core? ...Anyone? &nbsp; First Columbia, then ex-Queen members? Even America?!&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
It's Monday morning, Thanksgiving is close but not close enough, and we're guessing that probably don't feel like doing much. Columbia offers a slew of somewhat obscure events to make you feel like you're taking advantage of where you go to school today, which we have assembled for you after the jump.  A conference on Six Hundred Years of Religious Conflict and Accommodation in India from 10 AM-1 PM in 707 SIPA. With MEALAC's Sudipta Kaviraj and University of Delhi's Rajeev Bhargava. Find out how not to get caught for downloading songs illegally: Ray Beckerman on RIAA, Copyright Law &amp; File Sharing. Law School room 102 from 12 PM-1 PM.Another day, another Jeffrey Sachs lecture. Registration is currently full, but there's a waiting list. Global Cooperation and Sustainable Development: SIPA room 1501 from 6 PM-7 PM. Find out how to Mend a Broken Heart...One Stem Cell At A Time (lol) with Columbia cardiologist Warren Sherman at Picnic Cafe on Broadway between 101st and 102nd. $10 cover includes a drink. From 6 PM-7 PM.Talk about Tintin in French! Or just listen to other people talk about Tintin in French. Book Club meeting on the 2nd floor of the Maison Francaise on Tintin au Congo, moderated by Vincent Debaene. 7 PM- 9PM.   
 A screeching fire alarm went off in Butler just moments ago. A half-full 209 all startled up, grumbling, plugging their ears, and packing their books a few. A few seconds after, the alarm stopped, but students are now being told to leave the building anyway. We'll keep you posted on this unfortunate study interruption. Update: 1245 PM - The alarm was a "real alarm" according to the security guard at the main desk. Butler is currently being cleared out and the fire department is arriving. Security informs Bwog that no one will be allowed back in until the building has been checked by the FDNY, which will hopefully take "around 15 minutes."     Above, photojournalist James Downie captures the terrifying combination of a post-fire drill stampede and Swipe Access in Butler.  
 Bwog hopes this post finds you able to sit up, sit, talk and/or breathe this lovely Monday afternoon: many of your classmates are not so fortunate. Yes, the much-feared norovirus is making its way around our fair campus these days, leaving Columbians with a strain of what we understand is the nastiest stomach flu known to man. Bwog has witnessed several mid-day CAVAs outside John Jay of those seemingly unable to battle what is now being referred to as "the plague" without the help of St. Luke's. The New York Times reports a 19% increase in ER visits for stomach bug-symptoms, some 400 visits per day. We've been washing our hands every few seconds and suggest you do the same. Nowhere is safe.  
 More news from the desk of Barnard Public Safety, as residents of BC dorms just received an email announcing that Public Safety officers will be doing routine rounds throughout residence halls a few times a day. Officers will also be making sure that everyone who's in the building is supposed to be there, and so it's now "important that all residential students serve as an escort whenever you have a guest in the building." Bwog just got off the phone with Public Safety, who said that the change isn't a repsonse to any specific incident, and that Columbia "pretty much does the same thing already."&nbsp; Full email after the jump. Residential Life &amp; Housing would like to inform all residence hall students that beginning tonight, uniformed Public Safety Officers will begin doing rounds on individual floors of our residence halls a few times each day. &nbsp;We welcome the Public Safety staff into our residential community and hope that you will feel comfortable to introduce yourself to the Officers if you see them on your floor. Should you need to call Public Safety for assistance, one of the Officers will then be dispatched to you, and they will also keep Residential Life staff informed of any problems or concerns they encounter. &nbsp;It is important that all residential students serve as an escort whenever you have a guest in the building. &nbsp;If Public Safety Officers come upon someone who may not be a student, they will ask clarify who the individual is and where they belong. All members of our community are responsible for helping to maintain safety at all times. &nbsp;We encourage you to contact Public Safety if you need assistance, notice anything in the residence halls that is not as it should be, or if you encounter a situation of concern to you. &nbsp;Residential Life staff are also available to assist, and welcome your calls. Thanks! Residential Life &amp; Housing
 According to Barnard Public Safety, there's been a stabbing on the 1 train at the 116th subway stop. No students were involved in the incident, but that "it was some high school kids."&nbsp; Stand by for updates/photos. Update: 4:50 PM - Further investigation reveals that the stabbing took place on the 1 at 110th Street, not 116th. Bwog checked both the 116th and 110th Street stops for delays and/or commotion but found neither. A policeman told us that the stabbing took place around 4 PM and the police cars on 116th are just here to "see what's going on." There's no news of it yet on local stations. 
Bwog's "In Defense Of..." returns with a look at a first-year's worst nightmare: the Freshman Fifteen.   Let’s get one thing straight: gaining 15 pounds doesn’t mean you’re suddenly fat. For all Bwog knows, you came to Columbia weighing 90 pounds: forgetting to eat and do your homework second semester senior year. You may have even skipped a few meals this summer in order to work on your svelte hipster big city physique. You can try to avoid it, but you will gain weight. There’s a lot of good food in New York City that you can eat. There’s also a lot of bad and heavy food you have to eat a certain amount of in John Jay because you’re a freshman. You really don’t have a choice but to relish your situation. Because not only can you have FroYo at John Jay before and after every meal, and Shake Shack on Columbus every night if you want (college! no parents! woo!) you get to complain about it with the other 1,499 people in your grade. It’s called camaraderie.   Having perspective on the Freshman 15 is the ultimate case of the “if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em” ethos. As a first-year with an oppressive dining plan you can’t escape, you are destined to live out two semesters chock-full of peanut butter sandwiches when everything in John Jay looks inedible. There will be many Butler brownie-fueled all-nighters as you try to remember how to write a paper, a skill you forgot when spent the majority of your senior year bragging about the college you were going to and watching TV instead of going to school. So, OK, you’re a little chub right now. But look around you. Everyone you know is, too! And everyone is talking about it. Making friends is easy now. Hang out by the John Jay salad bar and find someone to commiserate with about the wilted lettuce, make plans to go to the gym (haha) with your new pal. Plan a Riverside walk with your floor after a particularly awful Sunday brunch, and most of all, complain. Nothing brings people who don’t know each other particularly well yet than sharing things to kvetch about. Welcome to New York City! If you stay here, you’ll be grumbling with strangers for the rest of your life: when the subway gets stuck, when there aren’t any taxis, when the city raises prices on something or other. You get the point. Listen, the Jewish mother in Bwog is worried for you. Have a snack.  -- ECS 
 With no disrespect to Slovenia or Iceland, Bwog was a little worried that the World Leaders Forum had lost its panache after last year's... excitement. But never fear! A handful of e-mails just informed us that Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister of Turkey, and Evo Morales, President of Bolivia, who spoke at the WLF in 2006, have been scheduled to speak next week, in the Casa Italiana and Low Rotunda respectively. Erdogan, we learn, is also being sponsored by the ridiculously well-connected Institute for Religion Culture and Public Life, and is already full to capacity. Registration for Morales starts tomorrow at 9 a.m. You can find out more here or in the blurbs after the jump. Happy WLF-ing! Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of the Republic of Turkey Date: November 13, 2008 from 2:00 PM to 3:30 PM Location: Teatro, The Italian Academy (Morningside Campus) Description: This World Leaders Forum program features a keynote address by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey entitled, "Turkey's Role in Shaping the Future." Hosted by Alan Brinkley, Provost and Allan Nevins Professor of American History at Columbia University, and moderated by Alfred Stepan, Wallace S. Sayre Professor of Government and Co-Director ofIRCPL. Co-sponsored with the School of International and Public Affairs; the Center for Study of Democracy, Toleration, and Religion (CDTR); and the Middle East Institute at Columbia University. President Evo Morales Ayma of Bolivia Date: November 18, 2008 from 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM Location: Rotunda, Low Memorial Library Description: This World Leaders Forum program features a keynote address by President Evo Morales Ayma of Bolivia followed by a question and answer session with the audience. 
 Bwog Daily Editor Eliza Shapiro investigates the sonic background of Westside Market. It is fun to dance when you are drunk. It is fun to eat food when you are drunk. It is fun to do both these things very late at night. Westside Market lets you do it all: it is a bastion of hope lighting your late-night walk uptown, offering you myriad kinds of fruits you didn't even know existed. Westside Market is not Morton Williams, and it is open when Koronet is not. Westside Market plays 70's classics on repeat. Yeah, Bwog loves Westside Market. Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the new Westside (yes, a mere 2 years ago everyone's favorite supermarket was vacant: in transition mode between old, grotty Westside and new, fancy Westside) is its loop of danceable 70's classics. At Westside, one is advised to remove their headphones and stock up on Chewy bars while basking in Carly Simon's glow. Certainly, some of these songs could be considered kind of awful (you WILL hear Elton John's "Crocodile Rock" every time you enter) but most of them are probably secretly your favorite song of all time (Jackson 5's "I Want You Back") Westside manager Ian Joskowitz informed us that they play 97.8 FM on satellite loop (no commercials!) and explained simply that the playlist is "what I like." Its also, he added, "what kids from Columbia grew up listening to, or were forced to listen to by their parents." An employee at the salad bar chimed in "I love the music. Its beautiful." Joskowitz explained that Westside tried other music: 80's music, 90's pop hits, but none of it worked and customers complained. He boasted that he is "yet to have a complaint" about the current loop: "we get compliments all the time." 
 Following news of a stabbing at the 110th Street subway stop, and Barnard's out-of-the-blue announcement its Public Safety Department will be patrolling residence halls, Columbia Public Safety released news of an "attempted robbery" early Saturday morning at 123rd and Amsterdam. The victim, an unnamed CC student, was attacked by two males who fled on foot.&nbsp; Anyone who has information about the incident is advised to contact the 26 Precinct Detective squad at 212-678-1318. The rest of the announcement is after the jump. Columbia University Department of Public Safety SECURITY ALERT ATTEMPTED ROBBERY On Saturday, November 8, 2008, at about 3:30 a.m., a Columbia College student was accosted as he walked on W. 123 St. near the corner of Amsterdam Ave.&nbsp; The victim was approached from behind by two males who knocked him to the ground, punched and kicked him, then attempted to remove his property.&nbsp; The suspects fled on foot. The victim provided the following descriptions; Suspect# 1- male/ 6’/24-25 years/ wearing a black hoody. Suspect #2- male/dark sweater or jacket. If you have any information about this crime, contact the 26 Pct. Detective squad at 212-678-1318. Remember to use the Columbia University shuttle or escort when traveling throughout the neighborhood.&nbsp; The telephone number is 212-854-7233 (SAFE) 
Taking a cue from PrezBo, SEAS hosted its own "fireside" chat Monday night to address students' concerns on a broad range of topics.&nbsp; The digs were markedly less than splendiforous than 60 Morningside Drive - the Carleton Lounge on the first floor of Mudd is less than inviting, as its occupants often feel like they're inside some sort of fishbowl with large windows looking outside at ground level. And it was not a solo show. From SEAS, Interim Dean Geri Navratil hosted with Vice Dean Mort Friedman, who began teaching at Columbia in 1956.&nbsp; Three deans from Student Affairs were also present.&nbsp; Though Navratil chose questioners and commented, Friedman did most of the talking. From the beginning, Friedman's passion was evident.&nbsp; He was quite interested in student life at SEAS and about their opinions as to the SEAS curriculum, which he oversees.&nbsp; The evening's questions covered a broad range of topics, though Friedman managed to each of them back to his broad vision for SEAS in the twenty-first century.&nbsp; Navratil even used Friedman's now-famous quotation that graces every SEAS bulletin: "Engineering is the liberal art of the twenty-first century."&nbsp; Friedman was always quick to assure the attendees that Columbia engineers would graduate as the most well-rounded engineers.&nbsp; Indeed, he is responsible for implementing the now twenty-some minors available to SEAS students over the last ten years. Students raised many concerns about the advising system's compatibility with engineering students.&nbsp; The deans acknowledged that "advising has always been a problem."&nbsp; Improvements, like this year's restructuring, are constantly underway.&nbsp; In addition, SEAS is committed to bringing students closer to faculty for a more personal experience.&nbsp; Dean Friedman noted that $6 million would be spent in renovating Lerner 4 (Bwog assumes he meant Lerner 6) to accommodate the new, even-more-centralized CSA. The deans also spent quite a bit of time defending the relatively new Financial Engineering program, saying that it supports "hometown" industry (in New York City) and that it is one of the top programs in the country. Other schools, according to Friedman, admire Gateway Lab class (required of all engineering freshmen), although, he noted,it simply can't be reproduced with "a single classroom, a professor, and a TA."&nbsp; Despite all the students' complaints, he said, the CourseWorks evaluations (which, he assured us over and over again, were anonymous...Really!) show that the majority ("more than 90%") of students like the course.&nbsp; Most difficulties with the course arise from the laws or probability- out of nearly one hundred projects each year, at least a few of them are bound to fail. The pair also noted that study abroad opportunities are growing quickly for engineers as well.&nbsp; A new person will be appointed in the upcoming weeks who will be the sole point of contact for undergraduate engineers interested in studying abroad.&nbsp; Currently, less than one percent of engineers take advantage of such opportunities compared with the fifteen percent of Columbia College students.&nbsp; Friedman and Navratil explain that this is because of barriers, such as having to clear each individual program with the department before hand, a process that can be tedious and confusing.&nbsp; SEAS is working on several pre-approved programs with other schools (Friedman mentioned the University of Edinburgh and Navratil mentioned a technology institute in France) to be offered in the future. Other topics included funding for engineering-oriented clubs, like SAE and Engineers Without Borders, introducing students to majors with pre-professional courses, and the terrible wireless signal Dean Friedman gets in his office.&nbsp; He admitted that he, like many Columbians, caved and bought his own wireless router. Two more sessions will be held in the spring, probably on specific topics.&nbsp; To those of you who won't be able to make it, the message will remain this: Columbia rocks.&nbsp; Especially SEAS. - AJB 
 A state plan to revitalize the lifeblood of Harlem. An Abyssinian white tie extravaganza celebrates Rev. Butts' service.&nbsp; The Clintons have always been known to throw a good party. TFA and the economy make altruism sexy again. Seniors will have none of the economy's doom and gloom when tackling the job market this year. BaseNow and Barnard, a partnership by (and for) design. &nbsp; 
Seniors should start making their way towards the Lerner auditorium, as the class of 2009 has til 2 PM today to Apply For Their Degrees, time-honored tradition of ceremonial inconvenience.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann attended last night's ESC meeting. Resolutions about exams were passed, gender-blind housing might be on the way, and everyone agreed to learn about the importance of BBQ safety. “I danced DDR like I was in a lactation lounge," said one ESC class council member. To which his female colleague asked, “What were you doing in a lactation room? Lactating?” Such were some of the many strange things said at last night’s ESC meeting. ESC Secretary Whitney Green challenged council members tonight by asking them to include a given random word or expression in their briefing. Bwog watched as council members struggled to incorporate “vegan cupcakes”, “sauerkraut”, and “blue, aba dee aba die” into their normal council reports. Bwog felt especially bad for the CCSC liaison who was given “tintinnabulation." In terms of substance, ESC passed the “Every Other Seat” proposal which addresses student complaints that during engineering exams students do not have sufficient space to work comfortably (“because when Heather takes a test it gives her the heebie jeebies that there are people to the right and left of her”). The proposal calls for the school to guarantee, upon professor request, that students have one seat between them and neighboring test-takers. GSSC liaison reported that Barnard was seeking “gender-blind” housing (boys live in the same rooms as girls), because of the “changing gender landscape in America.” The liaison said she was told by the Barnard liaison to GSSC that the move was supported by the Barnard trustees, but did not have any more information. The council said it would begin to provide programming for the new monitors near the Lerner main lounge soon. Bwog was thrilled to hear the 2009 class president say that their allocated programming will mostly consist of XKCD slides. Finally, after having their BBQing privileges revoked, the council has once again been given permission to hold BBQs, with the caveat that council members must attend a BBQ-fire-training-safety-course. Might Bwog recommend whatever thorough-looking things Barnard did on Fire Safety Day? 
Today is Veterans Day, but the local RiteAid has already fallen victim to a vicious attack by Christmas decorations. Bwog assumes the ladder is temporary. RiteAid is not the first victim of this offensive -- others include Starbucks and Duane Reade (all the way back in September). If your friends or favorite establishment come down with this "early mistletoe" disease, please let Bwog know. 
 With the NROTC survey scheduled for the week of November 24th (the days before Thanksgiving), normally the events and editorials would already be flying back and forth. But with some sort of "election" last week, student groups are only just now coming around to the NROTC debate. Leading opposition to the return of NROTC is a coalition of seven groups: Lucha, Chicano Caucus, CQA, EAAH, the Democrats, Proud Colors, and the Columbia Coalition Against the War (as well as the unrecognized SDS). The seven groups will be holding an event tonight in Lerner (which they have been advertising with a rather interesting poster, seen at right top), and plan to flyer campus through the survey. Supporting NROTC's return is a coalition of individual students, which, according to the group's website, "includes Democrats, Republicans, Independents, Obama-voters, McCain-voters, veterans, students currently enrolled in Army ROTC at Fordham, students not affiliated with the military at all, gay students, and straight students." The coalition includes several students who are also members of anti-NROTC groups. Like the anti-ROTC coalition, they will be postering, and in addition will be tabling until the survey finishes, but no events will be held. Finally, the undergraduate councils plan to hold up to two forums about the issue, though dates are still to be announced.&nbsp; 
 The New York Times ran a lovely piece today on Judie Lomax, a recent transfer from Oregon State and a new member to the women's basketball team. At Oregon State, "she averaged 10.9 points and 7.7 rebounds a game and led the Pac-10 by hitting 64.5 percent of her shots," which athletically inclined friends of Bwog tell us is quite impressive. Anyway, Lomax missed her family (she's from DC) and wanted a CU degree to fall back on (eventually, she'd like to be a child psychologist), so now she's here. Welcome Judie!&nbsp; 
 A tipster has just forwarded the following PrezBo Communique to Bwog, in which your President assures recipients that despite the terrifyingly awful economy—PrezBo refers to it as "a landscape largely defined by uncertainty," but a crisis by any other name...—Columbia will be just fine, thank you. For one thing, the University is still ahead of schedule Capital Campaign-wise, with over $3 billion in the bank. Still, expect the grant enviornment to "deteriorate further."&nbsp; Regarding financial aid, PrezBo writes: "Let me also make clear that we will not permit the economic downturn to affect Columbia's long-standing commitment to need-blind admissions and the meeting of full financial need in student aid for undergraduates in the College and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.&nbsp; We will also work to sustain, and when possible enhance, current levels of financial aid in other schools and programs." Full email after the jump. From: Lee C. Bollinger &lt;officeofthepresident@columbia.edu&gt; Date: Tue, Nov 11, 2008 at 7:45 PM Subject: Columbia and the Economic Outlook To: PRESIDENT@cuvmc.ais.columbia.edu Dear fellow member of the Columbia community: I write to provide an update on what the current economic situation may mean for the University and how we are planning to respond.&nbsp; In a landscape largely defined by uncertainty, no one can predict what lies ahead, but we know that we are facing difficult times. Columbia will be moving into this challenging environment from a position of strength after a period of impressive institutional development and improved management across our many schools, campuses, and administration.&nbsp; Thanks to the generous support of our alumni and friends, our fundraising campaign, which is one of the most ambitious in the country, continues to track ahead of schedule, with gifts and pledges totaling close to $3 billion of our $4 billion goal. But we are obviously not immune to the problems of the national economy.&nbsp; We anticipate pressure on endowment support for operations since our endowment -- like those of our peers -- has suffered from the downturn in the markets.&nbsp; &nbsp;We can also anticipate greater demands on financial aid and the possibility of other losses in tuition revenue.&nbsp; &nbsp;The grant environment, which has already contracted in recent years, may well deteriorate further.&nbsp; And we have no way of knowing whether we will be able to maintain our currently robust fund-raising successes. These economic realities call on us to look more closely at every aspect of our operations, to focus on improving efficiencies wherever we can, and to make some difficult choices about how we allocate our resources.&nbsp; Our unquestioned priority for the University as a whole is maintaining the excellence of our academic programs and meeting the financial needs of our students.&nbsp; Under our financial system, each college and school operates with its own budget, and every school will face its own particular challenges.&nbsp; Provost Alan Brinkley and CFO Anne Sullivan are in the process of meeting with each dean to review their budgets and provide help and guidance. Within the central administration there are steps we are already taking to reduce our expenses in the months ahead:&nbsp; a careful review of all expenses is already underway and will intensify as we begin considering next year's budget.&nbsp; We have instituted a hiring review committee that will look carefully at every new or vacant position in the central administration before allowing it to be filled.&nbsp; We are also reviewing capital projects.&nbsp; Projects that are already underway such as the new interdisciplinary science building and the expansion of Arts and Sciences into Knox Hall will continue on schedule.&nbsp; We will also continue our planning for capital projects that are funded by generous donors, including the Jerome L. Greene Science Center that will house our Mind, Brain and Behavior initiative, and certain projects at the Mailman School of Public Health.&nbsp; We are committed to continuing progress in improving and expanding our physical space as quickly as our finances permit. Let me also make clear that we will not permit the economic downturn to affect Columbia's long-standing commitment to need-blind admissions and the meeting of full financial need in student aid for undergraduates in the College and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.&nbsp; We will also work to sustain, and when possible enhance, current levels of financial aid in other schools and programs. One week ago, we elected an extraordinary new American President, the first Columbia graduate to hold the office, and we all feel enormous hope in what he and we can accomplish in the face of great challenges.&nbsp; We do not yet know how difficult our own task may be. What I can and will do is to speak directly and candidly with our community about how our circumstances may change and how we will work together to preserve the academic greatness of this institution. Columbia University has weathered many ups and downs in its more than 250 years.&nbsp; I have no doubt that we will be able to continue the momentum we have built as a dynamic engine of education, research, public service, and economic growth for our community, our city, our nation, and our world. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President 
 Bwog Lecture Hopper David Berke attended tonight's Heyman lecture, starring Orhan Pamuk with Andreas Huyssen. Special Brinkley cameo towards the beginning! Deep in the catacombs of the Kraft Center, Nobel Prize Laureate/MEALAC professor Orhan Pamuk spoke to a basement of eager listeners, the packed room filled beyond capacity.&nbsp; The literary luminary, who moonlights as a controversial political figure in his native Turkey, discussed art, persecution, language and a curiously conceived museum.&nbsp; Andreas Huyssen, chair of Germanic languages, mediated the evening, and outgoing Provost/Bwog's undying AP US history love Alan Brinkley kicked things off with a brief introduction. Pamuk trained as a painter for years, then switched to studying architecture before making the jump to novelist.&nbsp; Not surprisingly, Pamuk cited "visuality" as a seminal element of his work.&nbsp; Pamuk and Huyssen are currently teaching a seminar about the relation between literature and pictures (the aptly titled Words and Pictures), and his most recently released English translation—an essay collection titled Other Colors—also includes photographs.&nbsp; Explaining his interest in long form fiction, Pamuk asserted that the novel "kills all other literary forms," a statement both audacious and fun to act out on my bookshelf, Jonathan Swift-style. To Pamuk, this "killing" has had international implications, for, in his mind, globalization did not begin in the late 20th century, but started with the worldwide spread of novelistic writing a century ago. The conversation then turned to Pamuk's political past.&nbsp; Three years ago, after commenting on the Armenian genocide and the Kurdish minority, Orhan received death threats and was put on trial for offending Turkishness.&nbsp; Pamuk was acquitted and remains outspoken on those issues.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "We have to be able to at least talk about it," Pamuk said of the contentious topics. Pamuk also restated his desire for Turkey to join the European Union.&nbsp; He sees membership as a potentially liberalizing agent, bringing free discourse to the country and making Turkey "a more open society."&nbsp; The chief reservation among his fellow countrymen is that membership would dissolve Turkish culture and identity, but Pamuk dismissed such concerns. The discussion then veered back to literature, with Huyssen questioning Pamuk about his fears of unoriginality à la Harold Bloom's The Anxiety of Influence.&nbsp; The "texture" and uniqueness of our historical age, according to Pamuk, offers a "cheaply earned originality" to writers.&nbsp; Sadly, his assertions did nothing to quell the anxiety of all the literary critics looking to write scholarship on literary influence who fear the inevitable comparisons to Bloom. Nearing the end of the discussion, Pamuk revealed details from his forthcoming novel, which will hopefully be translated into English and released next year.&nbsp; The Museum of Innocence follows a broken-hearted lover who collects artifacts related to his lost paramour and creates a museum of his memorabilia.&nbsp; Though Pamuk jokingly admitted that he "used a lot of verbiage of a love story to promote the book," the novel chiefly a bitter critique of love.&nbsp; His main character spends years trying to escape from it.&nbsp; Having written the book, Pamuk is now creating a real-life museum based on his novel, enlisting Turkish artists to make some of the lovelorn artifacts.&nbsp; The move underscores his appreciation for the visual. Lastly, Huyssen questioned Pamuk if he enjoyed teaching at Columbia. "The word is not 'enjoy' here," Pamuk responded sarcastically, eliciting a silent "amen" from the heart of every Columbian.&nbsp; Although happy with his time here, Pamuk expressed no interest in writing a "campus novel."&nbsp; His settings will remain Turkish. The question and answer session that followed was surprisingly productive, with the token lecture crackpot mercifully absent.&nbsp; Pamuk delved deeper into his previous free speech discussion, and mused on the strengths and weaknesses of Turkish language (a profusion of handy tenses and a disappointing lexicon, to anyone who is considering writing a Turkish novel).&nbsp; The lecture concluded, and the students in attendance shuffled off to "enjoy" the rest of the night studying. 
 Bwog Daily Editor James Downie reports from tonight's anti-NROTC panel. Apologies to those commenters who requested a liveblog -- I felt this was one issue where I might want to make especially sure my notes were accurate. Regardless, those who did not join the 50 or so students in Lerner Cinema earlier tonight did not miss huge amounts of drama. The event itself was in fact a relatively cordial affair, though by the end of the two hours audience members had clearly begun to chafe at having to stay silent during the Q&amp;A. The panel was introduced by Aditya Mukerjee (CC '12) of the Dems and Ryan Kasdin (CC '09) of EAAH: Professor David Eisenbach, Ph.D. candidate Manuel Schwab, and Washington Heights activist Claudia de la Cruz. All were against the return of NROTC to campus - the panel, to quote its organizers, was designed as "con panel," meant to present a larger number of negative effects if&nbsp; NROTC were to return to campus.&nbsp; The event certainly suceeded in widening the field of criticism - while Don't Ask Don't Tell was part of the conversation, the event often focused on accusations of sexism, classism, and racism in the military. Eisenbach went first, and was the only panelist to make DADT his central argument against NROTC. While not directly challenging the argument that NROTC departed campus because of the Vietnam War, he sought to provide some historical background to show that the gay struggle against discrimination in the military was just as old. He cited Stephen Donaldson, founder of what is now the CQA, who spoke out while at Columbia against the military's discrimination policy (before testing it directly by joining the Navy). The second speaker was Manuel Schwab, a 4th year Ph.D. candidate who attacked the military on several levels, including class, geographic, and race discrimination. He cited the low numbers of minority officers in the military, as well as the overwhelming attention on lower-class and minority students (although, with respect to race, the America military is in fact more white than the country as a whole). The final speaker, Claudia de la Cruz, used her experience with Da Urban Butterflies and the Dominican Women's Youth Development Center to criticize of the military's focus on poor neighborhoods, especially in her home of Washington Heights. But she was harshest in declaring the military a "sexist" institution: "To truly understand the military, we need to look at how militaries use women as bait." The Q&amp;A remained calm, though at times contentious. The first question was about what other things Columbia has done to oppose DADT. Eisenbach admitted that he could not think of any, but that Columbia "should be doing stuff to oppose it." The second question came from a female Army ROTC member, who took issue with De la Cruz's description of a "sexist" military. The ROTC member described her time in the military as empowering. De la Cruz responded that she had encountered many stories of sexism in her work with Latina veterans, and suggested that the questioner hadn't found sexism because she was white. Another question came from a student concerned about the cultural effects on Columbia as a "safe space" for homosexuals. Eisenbach agreed that "it would be a problem," and said that Bill O'Reilly would use this as a way to ridicule Columbia's professors. Unfortunately, he didn't offer any specific examples on the campus itself. The last question asked whether the military was doing anything to oppose DADT, since it is a federal, not military policy. Eisenbach said that the military in fact was now 60-70% againt DADT, including senior officers like former chairmen of the Joint Chief John Shalikashvili. He said "now it is up to the politicans to end it," and expressed hope that Barack Obama would do so with the even more Democratic congress. The evening came to a close, with no one persuaded, but maybe some a little more enlightened. 
 Are you kept up at night by financial fears?&nbsp; Yes...but PrezBo is always there for me with his consoling words.&nbsp; Are you proud to be an American now with an Obama Presidency?&nbsp; Yes...but Obama's Presidency could be as disastrous as the Trojan War was for the Greeks!&nbsp; Wait, who won that war?&nbsp;&nbsp; Better check Sparknotes... Are you scared to go to 1020 with the crime spree in the area?&nbsp; Yes...but now you just drink some delicious yuletide lager in your room for less than half the price. Are you happy that your alma mater's military veterans marched in a parade?&nbsp; Yes...but making more vets is a terrible idea! 
 Yesterday, we reported that at the ESC meeting, the GSSC liason said that Barnard was "seeking gender-blind housing." According to SGA President Sarah Besnoff, Barnard is not actively seeking anything.&nbsp; "SGA Rep Council as a whole has not formally passed any resolution about the topic, nor have we discussed the logistics.&nbsp; However, SGA Rep Council completely supports the efforts of our Diversity Committee to pursue what a policy change would look like.&nbsp; SGA Rep Council will probably be voting on this issue formally in the Spring," she said. So now you know! 
You may have remembered Bwog's last attempt to aid you in your schedule. Below, we've matched courses offered this Spring to a variety of personalities in an effort to create the perfect schedule. If you have any other suggestions, email bwog@columbia.edu and we'll post them! For the Ontologist: Spring 2009 Anthropology G6044 THE PRODUCTION OF SPACE Spring 2009 Anthropology G6085 THING THEORY Spring 2009 First-Year Seminar BC1166 THE ART OF BEING ONESELF Spring 2009 Architecture A4542 IMAGINING THE ULTRAREAL Spring 2009 Architecture A4718 FAKING IT For the Materialist: Spring 2009 Anthropology V3160 BODY AND SOCIETY Spring 2009 Theater V2004 MOVEMENT FOR ACTORS Spring 2009 Anthropology V3979 FLUENT BODIES Spring 2009 First-Year Seminar BC1546 SHAPES &amp; SHADOWS OF IDENTITY For the Masochist (and the Sadist too): Spring 2009 Anthropology V3977 TRAUMA Spring 2009 Comparative Literature: Slavic V1330 VIOLENT MUSE OF THE 20TH CENT Spring 2009 Comparative Literature and Society BC3122 BIG BROTHER: POETICS OF POWER Spring 2009 Comparative Literature: English W3977 SEMINAR IN LIT &amp; CULTURE: LITERATURE &amp; TORTURE Spring 2009 Comparative Literature: English G4995 SPEC TOPICS IN MOD LITERATURE: READING LACAN &nbsp; For the consumerist: Spring 2009 History 83931 TPC: FOOD &amp; AMERICAN LIFE Spring 2009 History BC4886 FASHION Spring 2009 Anthropology G6074 CULTURE AND CONSUMPTION &nbsp; For the pessimist: Spring 2009 Anthropology G6014 PREEMPTIVE APOCALYPTIC THOUGHT Spring 2009 Architecture A4154 STICK + STONES:MAT PROTOTYPING Spring 2009 Chemical Engineering and Earth/Environmental Engineering E4530 CORROSION OF METALS For the territorialist: Spring 2009 English W3451 LITERATURE OF EMPIRE Spring 2009 Comparative Literature: Middle East W3922 TEXT AND TERRITORY Spring 2009 Sociology G6320 IMMIGRATION,CITIES,STATES For the uncategorizable: Spring 2009 History BC4901 RE-ACTING (TO) THE PAST II Spring 2009 English W3650 DEEP SEA THOUGHT Spring 2009 Architecture V3117 PERCEPTIONS OF ARCHITECTURE Spring 2009 Comparative Literature: Slavic G4015 DISCOVERY OF LANGUAGE Spring 2009 Russian W4436 RUSSIAN FOR RUSSIAN INSTRUCTOR 
 Here's a quick round-up of all the goings-on of Columbia and its environs, happening right now: A notably dapper member of the Philolexian Society is currently standing atop the Sundial. He and others&nbsp; advertising for the Joyce Kilmer Bad Poetry Contest, which is happening on the 13th. A few yards over, on the Steps, Amnesty International: International Refugee Day is going on until 5 PM.&nbsp; Then, at 7:30 PM,&nbsp; there will be a panel of Refugees Scholars in the Trustee Room in Low, who will be talking about their experiences. And finally, for reasons unknown, Postcrypt is celebrating suggestive portraiture on College Walk. Busy afternoon, no? Enjoy these outdoors activities while you can. Maybe it'll soon be winter, which we vaguely remember as being cold.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Say hello to the first member of the class of 2013: Blake Lively, from TV's Gossip Girl program.&nbsp; There she is on the right, looking studious. Lively mentioned in a recent interview to W magazine that she'd like to take classes here, at "Yale", one day a week. Apparently, "the possibility of attending Columbia University one day a week was a motivating factor behind accepting the role on the show, which is shot in New York." And just in case you cynics are about to write Lively off as another mindless celebrity -- an anti-Franco, if you will -- there's this Revealing Insight in the following paragraph: "I probably have, like, 60 gorgeous bags. I have a closet with my really sharp, fancy, nice ones -- the ones that go with my Valentino pumps, for example. And then I have a closet with the ones that are a little more rugged-feeling, the kind that go with my Belstaff motorcycle boots." Have fun in Lively's LitHum class, Thirteens! 
From the November issue of The Blue and White, we bring you study abroad dispatches from Argentina and France written by correspondents Hannah Goldfield and Ren McKnight.&nbsp; Hard copies will be on the (nonexistent) racks on Monday! Argentina I am already thinking about the things I will miss. I've been in South America since May and the things I miss about home are starting to gnaw at me. It doesn't help that my body, accustomed to 21 years of crisp, chilly, autumnal November, is disoriented by the intense, impending Argentine summer, which is beautiful but feels misplaced, almost artificial. The things I will miss about Buenos Aires mostly involve food. Milanesa: beef pounded thin, battered in egg and breadcrumbs, then both fried and baked. My host family eats it once a week, served cold with a salad of lettuce and tomatoes. Empanadas, which can be purchased on just about any block of the city, although the style and quality can differ greatly. I prefer baked over fried, filled with chopped meat, hard-boiled egg, and olives, or sweet corn. And then there are the steaks. It's true what they say about Argentina: steak is what's for dinner. There is nothing so tantalizing as the smell of thick cuts of beef roasting over hot charcoal, nothing so satisfying as each juicy bite of my favorite meat-centered meal: ribeye, accompanied by French fries or a puree of squash and washed down with a great Malbec.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I will miss sitting in cafes for hours in the afternoon. The wait staff never drops the check before you ask for it, an invitation to linger over espresso and medialunas, which are modified croissants, sticky with a sweet glaze. This leisurely, relaxed manner is the way of life here. Buenos Aires boasts a vibrant energy, but it lacks the sense of nagging urgency that can drive New Yorkers to madness. I notice this most in school. My classes at a small film university are challenging, but if a student rolls in an hour late to a two-hour class, no one bats an eye. "Hey, how are you?" the professor might say, interrupting his lecture. There's no shame in slacking off: when questioned about their progress on the readings or the films, students answer honestly, knowing that they will be gently scolded, not chastised or humiliated, for falling behind. No one's defending the efficiency of this system, but no one's jumping off the roofs of any buildings, either. I can't see this attitude catching on at Columbia, but I will take home—in addition to as much dulce de leche as can fit in my suitcase—a virtue I never quite mastered before living here: patience. I thought the lines at Duane Reade were bad; then I met Farmacity, the Buenos Aires equivalent. Argentines are more concerned with smelling the flowers than getting to their next destination. And why wouldn't they be, when chronic lateness isn't considered a personality flaw? Though I've often daydreamed of being reincarnated as an Argentine schoolgirl--effortlessly stylish in a short plaid skirt, Converse high tops, v-neck sweater slung carelessly around my shoulders, with my waist-length hair swept up in a faux-silk flower—the most unexpected thing I will take home is pride in being American. I have never felt as patriotic as I do living here. Argentines may have loathed our politics before Election Day, and they think it's really weird that we eat eggs for breakfast, but when it comes to our language, our constitution, and, most noticeably, our culture (both high and low), they're hard pressed to deny their admiration. I feel lucky to call the U.S. home. --Hannah Goldfield France From the balcony of my apartment in Metz, France, I can see a cathedral and a Protestant church, almost side-by-side. And while the very juxtaposition of these two buildings suggests a history of change and reformation, there is something else worth noting: both dominate the skyline, but at this point serve as little more than tourist attractions. This paradox has been on my mind since I moved to France over a year ago: The French, a reputedly non-believing people, walk daily through cities replete with religious remnants. The streets, schools, and even the cities themselves are commonly named after saints or make other religious references. And yet many of the people I speak with every day on those very streets, by those schools, and in those cities refer to organized religion as one would describe an outdated ride at an amusement park: "J'ai fait tout ça" – I did all that. Why, you may be wondering, do I talk with people daily about their faith? I'm an American in France. Why don't I just go sit out on my balcony in a pair of pointy shoes with a cigarette and a bottle of wine, reading L'étranger and shouting "bonjour!" at passersby? Well, besides the fact that I already converted to French shoes and have already read Camus, I am a full-time volunteer missionary for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I share a message that God is our Father who loves us, that Jesus Christ lives, and that a prophet of God, a man like Moses, walks the earth today. Of course, these are all very big claims. And they seem to become even bigger when I state them to people of a culture that may or may not even hold a general belief in a supreme being. What do you do when something that once permeated every aspect of society and occupied a position of strong daily importance falls into the realm of empty tradition? I'm about to leave the Internet cafe and walk back into the commercial plaza by the St. Étienne cathedral. Scaffolding covers half of the cathedral's sandstone exterior; the building is slowly being cleaned and renewed by a long process of sandblasting. Half of the façade is a proper yellow, and you can see the awesome workmanship of centuries past. But the other half, at least for the time being, is blackened with time and defaced by graffiti. They won't finish the cleaning project before I'm transferred to another city in a few weeks, but I hope that when I come back to visit Metz in the future, they will have taken off the scaffolding and the building's exterior will shine anew. --Ren McKnight 
Several tipsters have sent in sightings of a film crew that's been causing quite the stir outside the Bon French Cleaners. Bwog Daily Editor Justin Vlasits was on the scene earlier today, and he believes it to be a "low budget action movie." (Note the old-timey green police car after the jump.) Vlasits also reports that a panhandler was wandering around set and no one seemed to care. Anyway, pictures of the disorganized action film below.&nbsp; UPDATE 10:46 PM: Commenters have noted that it's apparently a television program called Life on Mars, starring Christopher from the Sopranos and Harvey Keitel. We stand corrected. One more after the jump. &nbsp; 
Free food is all yours, right now on the Lerner Ramps (2nd floor west.) Bwog's received reports of hot dogs and popcorn, which are being given to you for reasons related to athletics.
 Barnard housing for the win!&nbsp; But still not quite able to let Columbians in. CTV is going for broke... While CU Snacks goes up in smoke. Help us win more! the Spectator cries Nothing to see here, the Ivy League lies 
 Got a class that's freaking you out? It's not too late to take it pass/fail! Today is the last day to do so for BC, CC and SEAS, but you'd better get yourself to the registrar in 205 Kent to make your plea before the clock runs out.&nbsp; And no, you can't pass/fail Lit Hum. Or any other Core class, freshmen. 
 For now, anyway. Bwog just tried to get cash out of the Lerner Citibank ATMs, only to learn that they are out of commission until 2:00 p.m. while being replaced. Which explains the large shrouded robot things near the entrance.&nbsp; - Photo by Anish Bramhandkar&nbsp; UPDATE, 12:20 p.m.: Debit machines in Morton Williams aren't working either. Blerg. 
 You mean Obama didn't single-handedly end racism and injustice in America? Michelle...she's elegant, stylish, and intelligent! 007007007007007007007007 More puppies: the change we need! "But, he’s James Franco. It’s just not a big deal.” Just leave it on the runway, honey. 
For the last two months, some of your classmates have been taking part in the second incarnation of GoCrossCampus (think Risk + social networking + the 8 Ivies). Despite having far fewer players than most of the other schools, Columbia just defeated Brown at their campus, and is only one of three schools remaining. For those of you with burning hatreds of Penn or Princeton, or&nbsp;who just always wanted to march through Connecticut,&nbsp;this year's version of the game will run until&nbsp;Monday.
 Guide to the Weekend Editor Sara Jane Panfil has aggregated ways to stay dry, entertained, and educated this weekend. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday Housing Works presents Fashion for Action A sample sale of designer ware priced at 50-70% off.&nbsp; If you missed all of the Veteran’s Day specials last weekend, here's a second chance. That winter wardrobe won’t create itself! See schedule for times, Housing Works Chelsea 143 W 17th St (718.838.5050); Price: Free Friday and Saturday TBSalon See members of the contemporary Trisha Brown Dance troupe strut, shake, and shimmy their stuff at this free experimental and explorative event.&nbsp;&nbsp; Friday and Saturday 7:30pm, Judson Memorial Church 55 Washington Square S (212.477.0351); Price: Free Friday No Ordinary Monkey Party Join piles of other New Yorkers for a dance party in the Chinatown mall. Friday 10pm-4am, 88 Palace Mall - 88 E. Broadway, b/t Market &amp; Pike Sts. (take escalators upstairs) Price: $10, $5 members&nbsp; Triple Canopy presents New Black Friday 8pm, Starr Space 108-110 Starr St Online literary magazine Triple Canopy hosts a benefit party featuring installation art and, of course, DJs and alcohol. Price: $7 suggested donation&nbsp; Saturday and Sunday Lebowski Fest NYC The dude abides: Tunes, booze, bowling, all in salutation of everybody’s favorite cult comedy hit.&nbsp; Come with your slippers. Price: $30, $25 in advance &nbsp; Saturday 9pm &amp; Sunday 7pm-11pm, various locations Saturday Click + Drag 3.0: The Hallucinogenic Toreador New York’s most famous fetish party takes over Santos Party House on Saturday.&nbsp; Fetish dress is mandatory if you’d like to see some fairly trippy Gothic performance art and installations. Saturday 9pm-4am, Santos Party House 100 Lafayette St (212.584.5492; Price: $25, $20 in advance&nbsp; Nerd Nite If fetishism seems a bit too intense, enjoy Nerd Nite instead!&nbsp; This time (it’s a monthly series), hear talks from evolutionary geneticists and on hierarchical racial coding and the importance of typeface. No exams or essays required. Saturday 8pm, Galapagos Art Space 16 Main St; Price: $7 
 Just a quick note that Michael Mallick and the good people at the English Department have begun posting admit lists for Spring 2009 seminars. Complete list should be up by Tuesday. The deadline to apply to most history seminars was about an hour ago, but expect announcements about admit lists anytime up until next semester. If you know any important dates regarding other departments' seminars and their corresponding waiting game, email us (bwog@columbia.edu) or just use the comment thread. Good luck! 
 Imagine our joy when, this morning, an "important update" dropped into our inbox from the Interfraternity Council: Greek membership has exploded from 550 in 2006 to an astonishing 823 today! That's over 50 percent growth in two years, to just about 10 percent of Barnard, the College and SEAS. There are comfortably over twice as many brothers as sisters, not counting members of the Multicultural Greek Council, which is composed of frats and sororities that carry an ethnic identity. Curious to see who had cleaned up in fall rush, Bwog asked Interfraternity Council president Matt Heiman for the frat-by-frat membership breakdown, but was informed that the information was "not public." Heiman said that we "could try contacting the fraternities individually to get this information, but I think it will be difficult." Heiman attributed the increase in membership to "strong leadership of fraternity and sorority presidents" as well as a more collective approach in increasing the Greek community's presence and involvement on campus. His own organization, the IFC, was only formed last year as a parallel to the girls-only Panhellenic Council (plus there's the overarching InterGreek Council...we know, it's confusing). 
 Dean Quigley honored at dinner overseen by blue whale. Richard Bulliet now an honored guest of the Iranian ambassador to the U.N. Speaking of guests, yet another honored guest at Columbia. "Your honor, no one may believe this theory of voter fraud, but I intend to disprove it anyways." Could ROTC honor Columbia? One professor says yes. 
Holiday spirit is being trucked into the city today, in the form of that huge Rockefeller Center tree. (The tree lighting will be on December 3rd.) Urban forestry photojournalist Sumeet Shah is on the scene at an extremely high vantage point. More pictures after the jump and throughout the day.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Hawkmadinejad has decided to become more camera-friendly - photographer Samantha Greenberg brings us some photos from outside Earl Hall. More after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog's Friday Sports Roundup is now in winter mode. Men's Basketball: The men's basketball team starts its season tonight at 8&nbsp;p.m.&nbsp;against Fordham (a fan bus leaves campus at 6:45), and then plays at Seton Hall in Newark tomorrow afternoon. Both games will be broadcast on WKCR. The toughest challenge for the team will be replacing the departure of a talented senior class, including four starters. Replacing the experience of players&nbsp;like John Baumann&nbsp;and Ben Nwachuku will be crucial to a successful season. Seniors Joe Bova and Jason Miller will look to step up under the basket to provide the size the Lions need, although this is the first season either will be a starter. Transfer Ben Brian Grimes was supposed to play a big role as well, but he&nbsp;is now out for the season with a torn ACL.&nbsp;In the backcourt, the story is much the same, with junior Pat Foley&nbsp;takes over at point guard after&nbsp;a season where he only played 9 games due to injury. Juniors Kevin Bulger, Niko Scott, and senior K.J. Matsui look to join him there, as they look to up their minutes from last year. In the conference itself, the Lions will look to improve upon a 7-7 finish last year, where a 3 game slide at the end prevented them from finishing a respectable third place.Columbia was picked 6th this year in the coaches poll, ahead of Dartmouth and Princeton, but, with Yale, Harvard, and Brown all looking to rebuild&nbsp;as well, Columbia definitely has room to continue rising.&nbsp;As for the title, most people's heavy favorites for the title are Cornell, last year's champions who return most of the same team, including last year's Ivy League Player of the Year, junior&nbsp;Louis Dale. Their most likely challengers are Penn, who have last year's Rookie of the Year, Tyler Bernadini. Women's Basketball: The women play tonight at Oakland College in Rochester, Michigan, and then play on Sunday at Delaware in Newark, Delaware. Their home opener is this Tuesday against St. Francis, at 7 p.m. While the men's year will likely be one of ups and downs, the women's team hopes to make it all ups. Optimism rules the roost for a team that finished mcuh better than expected last year, and has made some key additions for a strong all-around team. Underneath the basket, sophomore center Lauren Dwyer (all-Ivy Rookie Team last year) and junior forward Chelsea Frazier will provide the low-post presences, while guards Sara Yee and Danielle Browne will hope to kick-start coach Paul Nixon's aggressive offense. The big story, though, will be sophomore forward Judie Lomax, who transferred from Oregon State after putting up 11 points and almost 8 rebounds a game as a freshaman (and being named to the Pac-10 All-Freshman team). As for conference play, while Columbia was picked in the preseason poll to finish 5th, this year's Ivy League looks to be&nbsp;much closer on the women's side than the men's side. Last year saw a three-way tie for the title between Harvard, Dartmouth, and Cornell (who won the NCAA bid), and it looks to be just as competitive this year. Women's Soccer: Although they suffered a terrible loss to Harvard, 2-1, to lose out on a conference title, the Lions have some reason to celebrate as junior star Sophie Reiser was named Ivy League Player of the Year. Football: There was bound to be one game that the Lions' defense couldn't keep them in, and it turned out to be last weekend's against Harvard, which the Lions lost 42-28. Although Columbia had an early lead, the defense had no answer in the first half for Harvard's passing game, as quarterback Chris Pizotti threw four touchdowns on his way to a 376 yard-performance. Key turnovers also cost the Lions again, as quarterbacks Millicent Olawale and Shane Kelly were intercepted three times, and Harvard returned a fumble for a touchdown. This Saturday, the Lions play Cornell at 12:30 at Wien Stadium. Cross-Country: The men's and women's teams are participating today in the NCAA Northeast Regionals, held in Van Cortlandt Park. Wrestling: The wrestling team opens its season tomorrow at the Brute/Binghamton Open in Binghamton, New York. Swimming &amp; Diving: The men's team opens its season tonight against Penn, at 7 in the Uris Pool, before traveling to New Haven tomorrow to face Yale. The women face Yale tonight, and travel to Penn on Sunday. Field Hockey: Happily, the field hockey team closed out the season on a winning note, 3-1 over Harvard, to finish the season at 11-6. Maggie O'Connor, Christine Buszczak, and Jane Gartland all scored. Senior co-captain Megan Davidson also earned first-team all-Ivy honors, while sophomore Julia Garrison and Buszczak earned second-team honors and honorable mention respectively. Men's Soccer: The men's soccer team were blown out by Harvard last Saturday,&nbsp;6-1. They finish their season at home against Cornell tomorrow at 7 p.m. - JCD 
Bwog's Internet-based television critic Rob Trump returns with another installment of Know Your Web Series. This week: Drunk History. There are certain things that are perennially hilarious, but by their nature are difficult to focus on for the purposes of fictional comedy.&nbsp; A prime example: drunk people incoherently telling stories are extremely funny, but drunk stories are inclined to be personally focused, insular, anecdotal, and difficult to make humorous to a wide audience.&nbsp; Often, the most brilliant comic minds are the ones who figure out how to penetrate that bubble and make something funny in real life funny in fiction as well. Derek Waters is one of those minds.&nbsp; Allow him to present to you Drunk History, a series in which Waters gets various comedians drunk, then gets them to tell him one of their favorite historical tales with a camera present.&nbsp; That simple jump, from drunk people talking about their lives as they normally do to drunk people talking about history, is the stuff of comedic genius.&nbsp; Add in another brilliant idea--getting A-list indie-comedy actors to reenact the drunk stories--and you have almost certainly the best basic premise for a web series in existence. The real key is that the drunk stories are reenacted to the word.&nbsp; That means that actors mouth along with all the storyteller's words, drunk hiccups and all.&nbsp;And it means that&nbsp;when the storyteller in the first episode accidentally says that Alexander Hamilton aimed a gun at himself (instead of at Burr), Michael Cera (as Hamilton) points the gun at his own head,&nbsp;a fantastic bit of absurdity&nbsp;made complete by an artfully Cera blank and confused look.&nbsp; The result is a straightface reenactment of a historical event through the eyes of a trashed person, and it will make you realize what you've been missing your whole life: drunk history. There are four episodes so far, and yeah, they're basically all the same single joke of "acting out the literal things that a drunk person relates is ludicrous."&nbsp; But it's so unlike any other comedy I've seen that it will not only rejuvenate your faith in people to find new funny things, but also in basic bodily function humor.&nbsp; (Honestly, I don't care how old you are, someone vomiting in the middle of a serious historical story is just plain funny.)&nbsp; And yes, they are really drunk.&nbsp; Very, very drunk.&nbsp; My vote for best episode might the third, starring Danny McBride and narrated by one of my favorite stand-ups as of late, Jen Kirkman.&nbsp; But start at the start.&nbsp; If you find the first one funny, they're all worth watching. 
 Bwog reviews the latest offering from LateNite Theatre. Remaining performances include one TONIGHT at 11 p.m, and two tomorrow night at 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. Opportunities for Columbia students to direct, produce and perform in plays abound.&nbsp; But opportunities for student playwrights, however, by and large are limited to the Varsity Show, XMAS! and LateNite.&nbsp; Although opening night of the LateNite fall play anthology reflected the talent of many of Columbia’s playwrights, many of the plays admittedly lacked innovation.&nbsp; The stronger plays drew off familiar stories and situations, while the weaker, if more innovative, ones came off as unstructured and in the end unsatisfying.&nbsp; That said, the majority of the performances were highly entertaining and the two-hour run time passed quickly. The strongest aspect of the opening play, Inside Voices, was its relatively novel premise.&nbsp; Although playwright Samantha Kuperberg gave her play an often-used setting, a high school math class, she wrote a script in which the characters spoke the subtext of their lines instead of using conversational language.&nbsp; The trope, however, did not lend itself to the development of a plot, let alone a purpose. The play was essentially a series of choppy cuts between the interior dialogue of the teacher and the different students.&nbsp; Nonetheless her characterization of the students was endearing, if a bit conventional. Michael Snyder, aptly playing a teenage heartthrob, and Allie Paddock, as an equal apt boy-craze babe, brought an adorable appeal to their parts, which made their brief interaction the highlight of the play. Kuperberg did an admirable job directing her cast, but the basic set-up of the play seems better suited for an acting class than for a one-act play. The second play of the evening, Shit Happens written by Joshua Szymanowski, could easily have been an improv comedy piece.&nbsp; An unsuccessful improv piece.&nbsp; Like bad improv, Shit Happens relied on foreign accents, overacted gunfights and swearing for its comedic value.&nbsp; Although Szymanoeski countered as an excellent deadpan straight man to the wildly implausible, albeit intentionally so, caricatures of his cast, the title of his play unfortunately sums up its overall effect. Death Dot Com, written by Rebecca Spalding, relied on similar caricatures, thickly laid-on accents and general overacting.&nbsp; That said, Spalding’s satire had an innovative premise and progressed well.&nbsp; The scene centered around two smarmy consultants attempting to convince a celebrity that overdose and suicide ala Kurt Cobain, and Judy Garland was a surefire way to guarantee enduring fame and infamy.&nbsp; The idea was perfectly suited for a black comedy, but the performance opted for conventional humor over wit or sarcasm. The final play of the first act, TA:Boo, a musical written by Rachel Leopold and Charlotte Freinberg and composed by Paul Rodgers, however, was all about sarcasm.&nbsp; To the audience’s delight, TA:Boo told the all too familiar tale of the Columbia community’s many frustrations – primarily of the sexual and curricular kind.&nbsp; Basically, a TA, a wonderfully prudish Michael Snyder, needs a lay and a student, an all-too righteous Eva Peskin, needs an A – excuse the rhyme.&nbsp; With a cast of campus regulars, including Michael Molina as an unexpectedly foppish absentminded professor and Sarah Dooley as the raunchy roommate from hell, the performance rotated gracefully between sharp dialogue and even sharper songs.&nbsp; TA:Boo admittedly drew off of Varsity Show alums for its acting team and many of the numbers perfectly matched the V-Show’s knack for refreshing humor and oddly sweet Columbia&nbsp; spirit. Phil Primason’s Nude Scene, however, was undoubtedly the most memorable performance of the night. There’s no surprise here; the play is all about nudity. Although the stage does not always lend itself to telephone conversations, Primason rendered a highly entertaining, at times even fraught, telephone interaction between Andy, a type -A neat-freak played by Jonathan Kaplan, and Stu, a way too laid back bro played by Michael Molina in all his naked glory.&nbsp; Despite the flagrancy – and shock value – of its premise and humor, Nude Scene offered a definite sit-com appeal with a just the right balance of content and absurdity for a ten minute scene. The final play of the evening, Jacob Rice’s Poor Players offered the most developed performance of the evening.&nbsp;&nbsp; With accuracy and candor only attainable through experience, Rice documented the highs and lows of high school theater in Poor Players. Thanks to excellent acting by Jeremy Blackman as narcissistic teenage star, Severin Mahirwe as a lisping geek and Zack Sheppard as a licentious and somehow sympathetic theater teacher, Rice’s play avoided kitsch.&nbsp; Although the play got off to fast-paced start, it began to lag as its initial sarcasm gave way to weightier moral questions.&nbsp;&nbsp; Thankfully, the cast carried the play and sustained the audience’s attention with their endearing renderings of Rice’s well-shaped characters. 
 The Columbia men's basketball team got its season off to a thrilling start, as they gutted out a 65-62 win over Fordham. Fordham led by as much as eight during the second half, but the Lions held them to 25% shooting to gain the victory. Columbia dominated on the boards in particular, with a 52-27 advantage over Fordham. Senior center Jason Miller posted a double-double, with 13 points and 15 rebounds, junior guard Patrick Foley added 18 points and 5 rebounds, and sophomore forward Asenso Ampim came off the bench to add 15 points and 14 rebounds. It was Columbia's first season-opening win in three years. The Lions play at Seton Hall in Newark, Sunday at 1 p.m. (game on WKCR). In other winter sports news, the women's basketball team opened with a loss, 79-57 to Oakland (Mich.). The men's and women's swimming &amp; diving teams both won their season (and conference) openers, with the women squeaking by Yale 155-145, and the men dominating Penn 170-128. 
Another dreary Saturday morning in November brings you another cheerful edition of Saturday morning cartoons - this time in bigger and more legible font! Enjoy! &nbsp; &nbsp; "I love just hanging out in my favorite chair." By Edward Koren from The New Yorker &nbsp; "Greg tries to be philosophical about things." By Leo Cullum from The New Yorker &nbsp;"Nowadays my safaris are green." By Mike Twohy from The New Yorker "No, we're not eliminating your position, Fischer.&nbsp; We're eliminating your salary." By Christopher Weyant from The New Yorker "Black is the new black." By Pat Byrnes from The New Yorker "Got anything else?" "Does not look hypoallergenic." By Tom Toles from The Washington Post "Hopefully this will get you up to speed!!" By Kevin Kallaugher from The Economist "And the latest on Sarah Palin's clothes..." By Signe Wilkinson from The Washington Post 
 Classes are tough, the economy is bad, life is hard. But drinking is always good. Unfortunately in recent times, we’ve have seen our drinking habits suffer due to Columbia’s war on fun and the economy’s war on our wallets.&nbsp;&nbsp; When a bar tab on any given night out easily runs upwards of $25, the simple solution is to buy in bulk.&nbsp; That’s right, skip the bar and go straight to the liquor store for a handle.&nbsp; Think how many drinks you can make and how much money you can save by purchasing a huge fifth of Jack Daniels instead of seven watered-down cocktails.&nbsp;&nbsp; Like bars, however, all liquor stores are not created equal.&nbsp; Today Bwog on a Budget brings you a rundown of the most affordable and most expensive liquor stores in the area.&nbsp; To determine the valor of each liquor store, Bwog compared the prices charged for a fifth of Jack Daniels, 750 ML size of Smirnoff vodka, a bottle of Yellow Tail chardonnay and a magnum of Robert Mondavi merlot.&nbsp; Admittedly Bwog is no enologist; the wines were selected because they are prevalent and relatively potable. &nbsp; International Wines and Liquor Broadway between 113th and 114th Sts Sure, International is convenient and user-friendly but the prices are high. To make matters worse, their ID policy is unpredictable. Smirnoff: $19 Jack Daniels: $25 Yellow Tail: $9 Robert Mondavi: $16 Uptown Ramon A. Jimenez 3139 Broadway at 123rd St Ramon’s got a pretty decent selection of cheap wine, but no Mondavi and no magnums.&nbsp; His pre-chilled wine selection is not terribly extensive. Also it’s a bit of a walk. Smirnoff: $15.99 Jack Daniels: $24.99 Yellow Tail: $7.99 Wine and Liquor Authority 574 W. 125th St between Broadway and Amsterdam The store was just renovated and staff is eager to help.&nbsp; But their cheap wine section is small.&nbsp; Most bottles cost between $14 and $20.&nbsp; Liquor, on the other hand, abounds in all sizes and varieties. That said, the prices here are not worth the walk. Smirnoff: $15.99 Jack Daniels: $24.99 Yellow Tail: $10.99 Amsterdam Liquor Mart 1356 Amsterdam Avenue at 126th St The wine selection here is very small and the overall atmosphere is less than classy.&nbsp; Think lotto machines and plexiglass barriers between the customer and the cashier and liquor. Smirnoff: $15.00 Jack Daniels: $23.99 Yellow Tail: $8.50 Downtown Polanco Liquor Store 948 Amsterdam at 107th St The shoddy appearance of Polanco would lead one to assume it offers cheap prices.&nbsp; Don’t be misled.&nbsp; Despite of the plexi-glass and the proprietor's leering eye, the wine prices are high. Smirnoff: $16 Jack Daniels: $26 Yellow Tail: $11 Robert Mondavi: $16 Riverside Liquor Store 2746 Broadway between 106 and 105th Sts Riverside has tons of liquor and a large selection of cheap wine and pre-chilled white wine.&nbsp; The walk is not terribly far.&nbsp; And there’s no plexiglass here so the sketchy factor is relatively low. Smirnoff: $15 Jack Daniels: $24 Yellow Tail: $7 Robert Mondavi: $13 H&amp;H Wines and Liquors Broadway at 102nd St Although this place has an extensive collection of cheap wines, the liquor stocks are paltry.&nbsp; The staff is slightly peculiar and the merchandise is a little dusty… Smirnoff: $15 No Jack Daniels fifths Yellow Tail: $7 Robert Mondavi: $12 Roma Discount Wine and Liquor 737 Amsterdam Avenue at 96th St It’s definitely a walk, but the prices and selection are worth it.&nbsp; It’s not sketchy, but the interior is chaotic and it can be difficult to find what you are looking for.&nbsp; Nonetheless it’s open on Sundays – a major plus! Smirnoff: $12 Jack Daniels: $22 Yellow Tail: $7 Robert Mondavi: $12 Overall Best Bet: Roma Discount Wine and Liquor Best Alternative to International: Riverside Liquor Store. &nbsp; 
From the November issue of The Blue and White, we bring you a piece about the growth of chain stores in Morningside Heights written by Lydia DePillis, James Downie, and Eliza Shapiro. Hard copies will be on the (nonexistent) racks on Monday! "How many banks do you need on one block?” asked Morningside Heights Assemblyman Danny O’Donnell. The answer—judging by the Washington Mutual, Citibank, Chase, and Banco Popular, all of which are stationed on Broadway from 116th St. to 110th St.—is about one per block. O’Donnell has lived in Morningside Heights for more than a decade, and has become increasingly concerned about what he calls the “drugstorization” and “bankization” of the neighborhood. Lately, an increasing number of Morningside’s independent businesses have closed or relocated and been replaced by chain outlets that you might find in Nolita or New Jersey, Staten Island or San Francisco. The Wrapp Factory is now Empanada Joe’s. Casbah Rouge is now Chipotle. Kim’s Video is now Ricky’s. The bars Mona and Roadhouse are now Pourhouse, an offshoot of the original Village Pourhouse, located near NYU. Two years ago, the West End became Havana Central, which has branches in Times Square and Union Square. The prevalence of chains cuts both ways: It can be a natural consequence of neighborhood development, as businesses and new franchise owners decide that the consumer base can support the outlet. Harlem crossed a threshold in 1999 when Starbucks opened a store on 125th St., and the growth of chains has spread to West Harlem and up to Hamilton Heights. But with remote ownership, a chain store is unlikely to donate snacks to a children’s library read-aloud, or underwrite a Columbia student group’s event, or advertise in small-scale student publications. While the Columbia Daily Spectator has printed ads from Chipotle, Havana Central, Pinkberry and Ricky's, none of these businesses have advertised with other publications this year. “Chains are way less likely to advertise in non-Spec publications,” said Fed publisher Sophie Litschwartz, CC’09, who has tried unsuccessfully to get ads from a number of chain stores on Broadway and Amsterdam. Empanada Joe’s manager, for example, isn’t the person who deals with advertising. “When you try to go the next step in the chain, they’re not interested,” she said. According to O’Donnell, it would be unreasonable to expect higher-ups in national chains to see the benefit of investing in the community. “It's not just a question of who it is, but who's making these decisions” he said. “No matter how good a manager is at RiteAid, they're still just a cog in the wheel of RiteAid.” O’Donnell said that he receives regular complaints about the growth of chains from constituents, who say chains make the area less attractive for residents and prospective residents alike. “It is a very, very bad thing,” Carolyn Birden, head of the West 110th block association, wrote in an e-mail. “Given that so many students are from mall country, I wouldn’t be surprised if the chains were being courted.” While few applaud the chains, many see their growth as a sign of the neighborhood’s progress. Wassim Malaeb, who has worked at Samad's for 25 years, said that, when he started working there, "you didn't want to walk around the neighborhood," it was dirty and dangerous. Now it looks "more like a middle-class hangout." Hong-Shou Ma has been the owner of Janoff's, a typewriter and stationary store, since it opened in 1980 on Broadway and 112th. He said that when he started, the neighborhood was "filled with drug addicts and homeless people,” and the chains "come along with the prosperity we have enjoyed." The Morningside village is a constructed reality. Columbia, the largest landowner in the area, has a stated mission of fostering locally-owned businesses and keeping the neighborhood balanced. This often involves renting spaces at below-market rate prices in order to keep these independently-owned shops in business. In 2006, a storeowner told the Spectator that the University requires proprietors to submit business proposals and comply with certain stipulations in exchange for their favorable rental terms. But while Columbia owns much of Morningside Heights, it does not own all of it; most of the side street buildings are privately owned. With the exception of a few buildings, Broadway’s storefronts are owned by Columbia and University affiliates between 111th and 123rd streets. On Amsterdam, Columbia owns the majority of storefronts between 115th and 122nd. As a landlord, Columbia insulates the neighborhood from the architecturally homogenizing influence of chains. “A lot of the architecture depends on what the store owner wants,” said Professor Andrew Dolkart, the newly appointed Director of Historic Preservation at the architecture school, and author of a history of Morningside Heights’ buildings and development. “Chain stores want to have the cookie-cutter appearance, but landlords get to determine how their fronts are shaped.” The University has been an active landlord in this regard. “Columbia has done amazing restoration work on their storefronts over the last 10 years,” Dolkart said, “They’re much more conscious of the look of the buildings. Any store that moved in would have to conform.” Though the University would not answer specific questions for this article, the Public Affairs office released the following statement: “Columbia has a working policy of supporting locally-owned businesses and while some businesses may be part of a chain, by and large we continue to favor locally-owned business. Columbia considers a variety of local needs before making a decision on the type of business that can become a business tenant.&nbsp; Beyond that, we do not comment on our negotiations.” However, Columbia wavers in its support of local stores. Chains in University-owned buildings include D’Agostino, Morton Williams, Washington Mutual, Chase Bank, Aerosoles, and Ricky’s. Campo, which replaced Pertutti, is the only one of its kind but is owned by an outfit called the Restaurant Group, which controls four other eateries in the city. To many students, the most puzzling example of a chain’s recent arrival is Ricky’s, the garish costume and makeup merchant that opened briefly for the Halloween rush before closing again to construct its permanent, makeup-centric interior. Ricky’s replaced Kim’s Video &amp; Music, the uptown outpost of a now-defunct St. Mark’s Place staple that also closed due to declining revenues in the age of Netflix. Occasionally, Columbia does respond to community desires. Dolkart said that about a decade ago, when the University was looking to fill the storefront, it circulated a survey among Morningside residents.&nbsp; When they expressed a desire for a liquor store, International Wines and Spirits was born. “The explosion of chain stores is relatively recent,” said Dolkart. “They all came pretty late to New York. In some areas of the city--SoHo, Broadway, the Upper East Side—they’ve become dominant.” According to Community District 7 chair Helen Rosenthal, 27 percent of the 560 stores on Broadway on the Upper West Side between 59th and 110th are chains. A summer 2008 study conducted by the non-profit think tank Center for an Urban Future found that Starbucks and Duane Reade were the biggest chains in Manhattan, with 186 and 139 stores, respectively. Duane Reade’s growth has been rapid, but Starbuck’s growth has been phenomenal. It opened its first store in Manhattan on 87th and Broadway in 1994, when Duane Reade already has a sizable foothold. The driving force behind the spread of chains is high rents, which rose gradually after the post-9/11 slowdown, and peaked in the months leading up to the financial crisis in October. The average market rent for Manhattan commercial real estate in September 2008 was $65.40 per square foot, up from about $40 in early 2005 (at this rate, a store the size of the Starbucks on 115th St. would pay over $110,000 per month in rent). Large national chains have the capital to enter these markets before a their franchise starts making money, but it’s a bigger risk for independent owners. "Up until 10 years ago, no one would pay these prices,” said Peter Arndtsen, chairman of the Columbus-Amsterdam Business Improvement District. He added that lately "stores stay empty for a long time" because landlords hold out for the businesses that can pay the market rate for their spaces, as well as remain stable for the duration of a 20 or 30-year lease. The neighborhood is somewhat insulated from economic volatility because Columbia doesn’t live or die with Wall Street. Its students are captive customers who are often unmotivated to spend their cash anywhere besides Morningside. Morningside’s demographics also work in favor of the chains. Census data for the Upper West Side (which the immediate Columbia area matches more closely than the rest of its own community board district, which extends up to Washington Heights) show that the percentage of residents under age is 18 rising. That means more children and more families. Morningside has also become more affluent: In the last decade, the average income has risen 18 percent. Anna Perez, an employee at Morningside Books since 1979, spoke wistfully, comparing the neighborhood now to the way she remembers it two decades ago, when it was stocked with cheap restaurants and stores. In the 80's, she said, Papyrus—Morningside Books’ previous incarnation—"sold books like crazy,” but now fewer people are buying. Sometimes, businesses can survive by moving off the avenues. Rack and Soul on 109th moved around the corner, to be replaced with a Verizon Wireless store.&nbsp; According to owner Michael Eberstadt, the location is less visible to passersby, but he’s paying about half as much in rent. Moving further uptown is another survival tactic. Upper Broadway has “cheaper rents and is much less crowded than Broadway” said Jenny Ko, who owns the patisserie Chokolat on 124th St. and Broadway. As the influx of chains continues, independently owned businesses have had to adapt to survive. In 1999, Essam Moussa opened Global Ink, a magazine shop that stocked every kind of publication from all over the world. Eight years later, sluggish sales forced it to close. In its place, Moussa opened a children’s shoe store called the Shoe Tree—a response to both rising rents and the increasing numbers of children in the neighborhood. “Buying magazines was not people’s first choice,” Moussa said. It would be an understatement to say that the next several years will be difficult for Morningside’s small businesses. For some, yielding to market forces as Global Ink did, could be the key to staying alive. But many of the small shops will have to hope that Columbia keeps rents low. Recently, Morningside Books posted a note in its store saying it was in trouble. In the evenings, the store's owner, Peter Soter, often stands outside, hands in his pockets, surveying the neighborhood he grew up in. His store is one of the many that trust in Columbia's goodwill—the University has given him repeated extensions on rent payments—but depending on Columbia is inherently risky. Should Morningside Books fail, it would be tempting and profitable for Columbia to bring in a chain. It’s difficult to know what to expect of the University when it advocates for small businesses, but brings in a Ricky’s. —By Lydia DePillis, James Downie, and Eliza Shapiro&nbsp; 
 At Wien Stadium, the football team just wrapped up its second victory of the season, defeating Cornell 17-7. Quarterback Millicent Olawale (playing the entire game) rushed for 93 yards, the Columbia passing defense intercepted Cornell quarterback Nathan Ford 4 times, and Austin Knowlin sealed the game in the 4th quarter with a 76-yard punt return touchdown. Photographer Huei Ong passes along a picture of the final scoreboard. The result continues a great weekend for Columbia sports, following last night's basketball victory over Fordham and men's and women's swimming victories over Penn and Yale. 
 What would Saturday night be with out a dance party in Lerner, free food and student association spirit? Bwog simply does not know.&nbsp; Tonight brings you not just Ahimsa and the HSO's celebration of Diwali, one of the most important Indian holidays of the year, but also the Korean Students Association's rendition of Pojangmacha - that's outdoor eating done Korean style! Sometimes life is so sweet, the only difficult part will be deciding which to go to first... Bwog recommends starting at Diwali for a little dancing in Roone,&nbsp; some naan noshing and some more schmoozing with TAAL from 7:30&nbsp; til 9 and then heading over to the Ancell Plaza for the final hour of Ponjangmacha.&nbsp; Although the event starts at 7, if you're lucky, some Soju and other forms of Korean street food and drink might be left for you to enjoy! 
The life cycle of plaid has grown to be just about as diverse as a material can get in the sartorial sphere.&nbsp; From its earliest appearance as the uniform of brawny lumberjacks to its mid-life incarnation as the inside of Burberry trench coats to its most recent development as the uniform of underfed hipster hims and hers alike, plaid survives with the fashion conscious and the fashion unconscious.&nbsp; But Bwog has noticed that Columbia undergrads are embracing plaid in never seen before styles and forms.&nbsp; From backpacks to mini-skirts - plaid is no longer just for&nbsp; Anglophile-inclined b-schoolers and grungy Bill-burghers.&nbsp; For how to best wear your plaid take a look at the casual styles of your fellow Columbians!&nbsp; &nbsp; Plaid hoodie her with matching scarf. Plaid knapsack. Plaid cap with matching over shirt.&nbsp; There can never be too much plaid... A plaid pair in a classy plaid overcoat and classic plaid over shirt. Plaid party wear! 
 Exactly thirty years ago today, November 15, 1978, cultural anthropologist, women's lib advocate, and Barnard grad, Margaret Mead died.&nbsp; In 1923, a mere 85 years ago, Mead graduated from Barnard with a Bachelor's Degree in Anthropology and went on to receive a Ph.D from Columbia where she later served as adjunct Professor.&nbsp; Today more than ever anthro majors at both CC and Barnard have reason to celebrate the contributions Mead gave to her field.&nbsp; For those who are illiterate in anthro and its vagrancies, Mead's a pretty big deal.&nbsp; Breaking both scholastic and gender barriers,&nbsp; Mead explored attitudes towards sex in South Pacific and Southeast Asian traditional cultures and went on to inform and advocate the 1960s sexual revolution.&nbsp; What a lady!&nbsp; &nbsp; If you feel in a particularly commemorative mood head to the Museum of Natural History tomorrow for the final day of the Margaret Mead Film and Video Festival! 
 A newish bar on the Upper West Side (alas, two blocks short of being in Morningside) has a novel concept, reports The Feedbag. Show a receipt for your cab ride there and they'll pay for your ride-- in the form of a bar tab!&nbsp; Now, finally there's a reason to take a cab home after a long night downtown:&nbsp; Even more free drinks.&nbsp; Bwog can't imagine that this promo is permanent, so better take advantage of it while it lasts. The Village Pourhouse is on Amsterdam between 108th and 109th.&nbsp; The Village location is at 3rd Avenue and 11th Street. Bwog's previous review of the Pourhouse has much more information, lest we repeat ourselves. 
 A dreary Sunday in November seems about as good a time as any to remind you that the dates and times of most of your finals have been ironed out, and are now available for your viewing terror on SSOL.&nbsp; In related news, winter break is inordinately long this year, thanks to the serendipitously scheduled Christmas and MLK Day. Last year was the same deal--a 31 day break--which is a seven day increase (for two years and counting!) from Winter Break 2006's 24 days. 
Columbia has long had a penchant for the hazardous. Shopping carts, to your hands.&nbsp; Just by touching them, you risk diarrhea and worse. Sleep deprivation, to your heart.&nbsp; Nearly everyone with a college degree will probably have a heart attack 50 years after graduation. Cancer drugs, to your fetuses.&nbsp; But now, the miraculous techniques of freezing means you can prevent the first and save the latter. Vermin, to your asthma.&nbsp; Oh, and also to your general sanity. Rocks, to carbon dioxide.&nbsp; Nothing says "run away" like the word "sequestration." 
 Our chapter of the American Medical Student Association will be holding a premed study break this evening. Free hot chocolate and free (presumably hot) coffee will be found tonight at 9:00 PM in the West Ramp Lounge in Lerner. Bwog also presumes that you can get in by off-handedly mentioning that you're considering premed, even as you declare your double major in statistics and linguistics. 
This week's to-dos are earlier than usual, but quite worthwhile. Monday Lecture with Shahid Naeem: On "Nature, Knowledge, and Our National Identity."&nbsp; Hosted by PrezBo and Brinkley.&nbsp; 6:15 PM @ Low Faculty Room. Tuesday President of Bolivia: Evo Morales Ayma is here to discuss democracy in the Americas.&nbsp; 10:00 AM @ Low Rotunda. Wednesday Politics of Food:&nbsp; Michael Bloomberg and company discuss policy issues in New York City that relate to food.&nbsp; 8:30 AM @ Lerner. Thursday Eckhardt: The guitarist-turned-composer, inspired by Frank Zappa, will have the premiere of his musical cycle Undersong at Miller Theatre.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Miller. &nbsp; 
 Everyone's upset and running amok.&nbsp; Bwog covered it all. The Ivy League is dismayed, and it's our fault.&nbsp; Lively prefers us over Yale, we virtually destroyed Brown's virtual campus, and football actually tore up Cornell's (actual?) football field. Columbians are panicked; knives and germs are everywhere.&nbsp; Someone was assaulted and someone was stabbed.&nbsp; Public Safety moved in in time to see chubby freshmen experience this winter's first plague. PrezBo is upset because the economy's messing with Manhattanville, the engineers are agitated because SEAS is really hard, and the committees are concerned because of changing gender patterns. But on the upside, just another week and a half to Thanksgiving, Christmas has come early, and said related break is longer than usual.&nbsp; Cheers! 
 Your personal artistic freedom, limited no longer! Your life in a Columbia dorm: restrictive, your life in a semi-real apartment building: restrictive also One week till you get to vote once again and decide whether ROTC will restrict your rights on campus Will Columbia "diversify a predominantly white and male administration" in picking a new provost? Yes We Can! Finally, let your faith in Columbia sports increase six-fold after this weekend 
Today the real world inches every closer for CU Seniors. Registration begins today for the last classes seniors will ever take at Columbia University until they attend grad school here in a few years. No pressure, and happy registering!
 Street-shopping is a time-honored city tradition. There is nothing a New Yorker loves to brag about so much as their new pashmina scarf/gloves/rip-off handbag that they got “on the street for like 5 dollars!” – nothing, that is, except for scoring something cheap and vintage. Morningside Heightsers embracing the mantra of their adoptive home can now combine their two favorite boasting claims and…buy vintage on the street!&nbsp; Laurent Ghislaine has been setting up shop on the east side of Broadway between 108th and 109th since 2005, packing her huge white van full of old fur coats, costume jewelry, hats, and cashmere sweaters. She’s been in the vintage industry for 23 years, and has a basement full of gems at home in Pennsylvania. But why choose 109th Street? Well, “kids love vintage and are always very happy to see me,” she answers, but explains that she doesn’t have a permit to sell a few blocks up, closer to campus. You can find her at Barnard’s vintage clothing fair, or at Low’s beginning-of-year street fair, but Ghislaine wishes “they could put me up there all the time” as business on 109th is sometimes slow. So walk a block and a half past American Apparel this Wednesday or Friday and find a cardigan that every single person you know doesn’t have. 
 The Class Council of the Columbia College graduating class of 2009 is urging that all seniors submit nominations for this year's Class Day Speaker. Using your nominations, the council members will present a "wish list" to Quigley, who will then invite those 5-8 possible speakers. This is all of course assuming that there are more than 5 names submitted for a list that Bwog predicts will be 99% "Barack Obama" and maybe a "Matthew Fox encore!" thrown in semi-ironically.&nbsp; 
 We just posted about nominating your favorite political figures, writers, scientists and members of Vampire Weekend for this year's Columbia College Class Day speaker. If you're unsure of whom to pick, Bwog's put together a quick list of people we'd think would be good choices. Feel free to argue with us or suggest your own nominees in the comments. Ruth Bader Ginsburg, empress of jurisprudence, Supreme Court resident, and Law grad Dean of Yale School of Architecture/designer of fanciest apartment building in the city Robert A.M. Stern Multilingual intellectual and literary critic Jacques Barzun The New Republic's longtime literary editor Leon Wieseltier &nbsp; United Nations all-star Hans Blix Former Secretary of State/former CU Ph.D. candidate Madeline Albright New York Governor David Paterson Julius Genachowski, co-founder of first "green" bank/Obama transition team member Art Garfunkel, just-as-talented if not-as-successful-solo half of popular 60s folk duo. Attorney General William Pelham Barr&nbsp; Arguably more attractive Affleck brother, Casey Affleck Comedian Greg Giraldo Journalism hero/former Spec EIC Max Frankel Brent Forrester, writer of all your favorite TV shows Former (current?) Clintonista/Deaniac Jay Carson Farragut North scribe Beau Willimon Image via Gothamist 
 Remember how this weekend was all balmy and lovely? Are you loving today's ultra-freeze? The winter season seems to be in full swing, but campus is a little behind. Behold Liz Naiden's montage of delightful fall foliage after the jump. If you'd like to submit a photo essay, we'd love to publish it! Send photography to bwog@columbia.edu &nbsp; 
Avian tipster extraordinaire Courtney Douds has sent along the following absolutely insane photos of your Hawkmadeinjad ruthlessly tearing into her* prey outside Math today.&nbsp; * Douds also points out that "this red-tail is of a size that makes her more likely to be female, since female raptors tend to be about a third larger than their male counterparts." Hawkmadinejad is a crazy person. More evidence after the jump and on Douds' Facebook page. &nbsp; 
 Bwog pauses to congratulate the men's water polo team, who came in 13th at the national championships in Athens, Ohio. In their final game, the Lions defeated Georgia Tech 7-5 in two overtimes, senior Sam Scioscia's goal with 46 seconds left in the second overtime period providing the difference. Freshman Daniel Kirel scored three goals for Columbia, as the team finished as high as it ever has at the national championships. In other sports news, the men's and women's cross country teams finished 3rd and 5th at NCAA regionals respectively, and women's swimming added to their Friday night opening victory with a win over Yale. Men's swimming lost to Yale to fall to 1-1, while the men's and women's basketball teams lost to Seton Hall and Delaware respectively. Photo from the Collegiate Water Polo Association 
 Spotted heading toward Uris earlier this evening: Jim Cramer, the excitable host of CNBC's Mad Money. He was alone and talking on his cell phone. "He sounded, well, mad," reported an eyewitness. The reasons for his campus visit are of course a mystery, though Bwog would like to point out that he has a 17 year old daughter, who could be looking to join Blake Lively and the other as-yet-unknown castmembers of the class of 2013. Or perhaps he's off to scream some investment advice towards B-Schoolers, who are presumably huddled together in their exclusive luxury study rooms. 
 Weather.com is forecasting that the Columbia campus could see the season's first snow showers early Tuesday morning. According to their hour-by-hour forecast, snow showers could begin around 3 a.m. and continue into the early afternoon, becoming mixed with rain. Now Bwog has been let down by snow forecasts many times over the years, so don't bet the tuition money on this one just yet. But, because Bwog does love snow oh so very much, even the slimmest, tiniest prospect brings great excitement. So why not mark the occasion with a contest? Bwog wants to know who can spot the first flake of the semester. If you see snow, post where and when you saw the flurry in a comment. The sharp-eyed spotter gets good luck, at least according to some Appalachian folk traditions and this badly written Internet fiction. Keep&nbsp;watching the skies! 
 The anti-NROTC coalition (Lucha, Dems, CQA, SDS, CCAW, EAAH, Chicano Caucus, Proud Colors) have invited council members to a meeting tomorrow night, to discuss concerns about "communication." "Up until the past day or so," one spokesman told Bwog, "we had no information about how the forums would work." This is not the first time that groups have expressed concern over the transparency of the council-controlled survey process: several groups that are now part of the coalition have previously expressed doubt about the openness of it.&nbsp; In other pre-Wednesday news (the day of forum in Barnard's Sulzberger Parlor--which, thanks to space constraints, will be the only pro-con forum held before the survey): While the pro-NROTC group has set up a table on College Walk, the College Democrats have been putting up new posters (pictured at right). Dems Media Director Avi Edelman told Bwog that the photos are of Columbia students, and that "the message is that the spirit of Don't Ask, Don't Tell not only leads to direct discrimination, but operates by encouraging people to conceal their identities. As a school with a nearly 20% LGTBQ population, we cannot allow an organization that wants students to hide their identities." E-mail requests for a source on the 20% figure were not immediately returned, but Bwog will update with a source as soon as one is provided. UPDATE (3:55 PM): Bwog has been told the 20% figure comes from this year's NSOP Diversity Workshop. UPDATE (2:55 AM): The pro-NROTC group sends Bwog an e-mail from their alias, saying that the College Democrat posters are "factually incorrect." Full email after the jump. STATEMENT FROM COLUMBIA STUDENTS FOR NROTC The poster put out by the College Democrats is factually incorrect. LGBTQ students would not be "legally barred from taking any ROTC-specific courses." &nbsp;Schools such as MIT have ROTC classes that are open to all students, regardless sexual orientation. &nbsp;In fact, any student, even if they are not part of the ROTC program, can take these classes. MIT has also created a fund to "reinsure" any LGBTQ student who loses scholarship money due to Don't Ask Don't Tell, which is a federal law, although so far, no student has been kicked out of MIT ROTC due to sexual orientation. &nbsp;If NROTC was allowed to return to our campus, Columbia could establish a similar policy. http://tech.mit.edu/V123/N28/28rotc.28n.html 
 New York Democrats try to sort out the spoils of their victory. Barnard Profs rejoice with some love from a new research fund. NROTC discussion to reach critical mass with one discussion, not two. Do you have the Golden Touch? Welcome to the new swipe society. 
 Bwog Daily Editor James Downie was procrastinating by... scoping out the 2009 academic calendar. How else? Anyway, bad news: enjoy reading week this semester, because next fall term, there'll only a "Study Day."&nbsp; "Oh no!" you say? Oh yes. Exams run from Wednesday to Wednesday, rather than Friday to Friday, meaning that we have just a solitary day of preparation: Tuesday, December 15th, 2009. Break itself is shorter too; just 26 days, assuming you get out on that Wednesday. 
 Bwog received word that there's currently a "Manhattanville Expo" set up in Roone. It's "a great time to ask all the questions you want," said Adil Ahmed, CCSC VP of Policy.&nbsp; There's also free food, specifically muffins, doughnuts, apples, juice and coffee.&nbsp; 
 Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann attended last night's ESC meeting. Swipe Access died; revelations about Ferris Booth and JJs were unearthed. Swipe access is dead, long live swipe access: During the last night’s ESC meeting, President Peter Valeiras announced that SGA, Barnard’s student council, had decided after meeting with the administration to stop pursuing swipe access. (Columbia’s student councils will still circulate a survey on the topic, but it'll be just to see how much support there was for the initiative, which, again, is dead.) Swipe access for General Studies students is still in the works. In other news, as you know, the upcoming NROTC survey, which will be circulated on Monday, will have one question: “Do you support the return of NROTC to Columbia’s Campus?” Though some students have voiced concerns about holding the survey at this time because of the uncertain future of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, President Valeiras explained that the NROTC committee, of which ESC is a member, decided that it would be inappropriate to include Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell in the committee’s survey because there is no way to determine what DADT would be replaced with. Good news in the form of new means to eat spicy chicken: JJs will soon offer catering for campus events, and is also planning to introduce call-ahead ordering. Council members also discussed how to help the financially ailing Ferris Booth. A representative for Ferris Booth explained to one council member the reason why Ferris Booth is so much more expensive than other eateries: we have workers, to whom we pay wages and give benefits. But the biggest revelation of the night, undoubtedly, was that Ferris Booth's mac and cheese contains tuna, which is disgusting.
 Bwog has just received word that President-elect Barack Obama has tapped a former Columbian Eric Holder, CC '73 and J.D. '76, to fill the shoes of yet another illustrious Columbia alum Michael Mukasey, CC '63, as the next Attorney General of the United States. You might remember Holder for his brief stint as acting Attorney General between January 20, 2001 and February 2, 2001 while the Senate delayed its confirmation of the controversial John Ashcroft, or perhaps even better for his more famous position as Deputy Attorney General in the Clinton administration from 1997 to early 2001 where he was at the center of the firestorm surrounding the controversial pardon of financier Mark Rich. You may even have noticed he's a University Trustee. While Holder remains to be vetted by the Obama administration and confirmed by the Senate, he looks to be the first African-American head of the Justice Department.&nbsp; Bwog sends Mr. Holder its congratulations, and hopes for several more Columbians in the cabinet! 
 Newly minted SSOL enthusiast Adam Weiss reminded Bwog of some important and welcome changes to your Student Services Online. For one, a search will not only bring up classes, but their registration statuses. Oh, and search now also brings up the course description when the call number is entered. Now there are fewer things to be disappointed about and inconvenienced by on registration day! 
The ladies (and gentlemen) of Barnard ResLife are looking for input from BC students in the form of a new online survey. The survey comes on the brink of a recent Town Hall meeting, at which several *significant* changes to this spring's room selection process were proposed.&nbsp; &nbsp; Barnard's put up an enormous PowerPoint presentation to highlight some of these proposed changes. For instance, instead of receiving a joint lottery number, suite mates would be able to register as individuals with individual lottery numbers. To combine as a suite at registration time, a student would have to "pull-in" the other members. Confused? See preppy, well-coiffed Lego figures act out the scenario above for clarification. If it sounds a little Machiavellian, that's because it is. Spec's article from several days ago about the Town Hall quotes one BC junior as saying that she would be nervous that the suite mate with the best lottery number would bail on all the other group members. (Worse fates have been known to plague friendships during room selection.) Anyway, check out the PowerPoint for more glimpses into the dynamic friendships of the Lego people and then go take the survey. You have til this Sunday to applaud or complain. ResLife email is below. Dear students: Residential Life &amp; Housing will be implementing several *significant* changes to Room Selection this spring as a result of working with the SGA Housing Advisory Board since last spring. SGA recently conducted a Town Hall meeting about these changes and we wish to generate additional feedback and suggestions through the following online survey (which will be open for response through this Sunday, November 23). SURVEY LINK:&nbsp; http://www.surveymonkey.com/s.aspx?sm=DdyQS2XqRLewGj2ZNRRg2Q_3d_3d The changes (which should be reviewed before completing the survey) and a summary of the feedback from the Town Hall are available at http://barnard.edu/reslife/roomselection/. We appreciate your feedback about the changes through responding to the survey. Thanks, Residential Life &amp; Housing
We've received several photos over the last half an hour of the now infamous John Jay Dinner Date. There are reports of a "table cloth, doilies, roses, and candles" currently being enjoyed by Columbia's most romantic couple. Faces have been hidden to protect the adorable. UPDATE 7:28 PM: Our couple has given us permission to unmask their faces. Their identities will be revealed after the jump. Why look, it's Amber Ha and Daniel Gustche, both CC '12! 
 Bwog Guide to the Weekend Editor Sara Jane Panfil attended this afternoon's installment of the World Leaders Forum, starring Bolivian President Evo Morales. Earlier today, President Evo Morales of Bolivia delivered a speech to a packed Low Memorial Library Rotunda as part of the World Leaders Forum.&nbsp; President Bollinger briefly introduced Morales, who took the stage to a standing ovation. &nbsp; Morales began light-heartedly, with a declaration of his intention to listen to the assembled students. Morales, who graduated from high school and never had the opportunity to go to college, called these kinds of events crucial for his continued education.&nbsp; Unperturbed by this lack of pedigree, he claimed a populist authority: he came to power without the help of political professionals or experts, and said that he has worked faithfully in the spirit of the Bolivian masses since his election to the presidency three years ago.&nbsp; Indeed, the importance of democracy emerged as a major theme of his hour-and-a-half talk (he was scheduled to speak for an hour).&nbsp; Recently, a nation-wide referendum on his presidency revealed a 67% approval rating, which he referred to repeatedly as he defended his more controversial policy approaches.&nbsp; Morales cited the positive gains his administration has made for the Bolivian people and economy, like his nationalization of much of Bolivia’s industry has given the country the budget necessary for social welfare programs and for the provision of other basic services. He also roundly condemned privatization and other neoliberal policies. &nbsp; As a matter of fact, he blamed much of his country’s recent inner turmoil on the greed of neoliberalism.&nbsp; He accused Bolivia’s right-wing elements of working against the interest of the people--citing the recent referendum on his presidency--which required a proportionally firm response.&nbsp; Similarly, according to Morales, the recently expelled US Ambassador had brought about his own non grata status by inappropriately trying to meddle in Bolivia’s political and economic affairs.&nbsp; Respect emerged as a major theme during this portion of Morales’ speech: ambassadors should stick to their ambassadorial duties, and wealthy landowners should respect the will and need of the people.&nbsp; He denounced the prospect of any further violence, at which point the audience applauded.&nbsp; Poco a poco, Morales made the nature of Bolivia’s future quite clear.&nbsp; Little by little Bolivia has worked towards development, and though the country has come a long way, it still has awhile to go. He said that he knew that a good future relationship with the United States would be crucial to a prosperous future, and articulated his intent to cooperate as long as he felt that it would benefit the Bolivian people. (He offered no comment on the recent American election.)&nbsp; He communicated his ultimate faith in Bolivia--the natural resources are just there, he said, you can see them all around; it is merely a matter of mobilizing them.&nbsp; He admitted that the Bolivian economy relies too heavily on oil for financial stability (especially in lieu of falling oil prices), and reassured the interested Q&amp;Aers that the new ministry for planning will develop strategies to cope with the world financial crisis.&nbsp; His optimistic demeanor and hopeful rhetoric will be put to the test this January, when his government’s newly-drafted constitution comes up for a popular vote.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Quick PSA: One of your classmates has lost her VingCard! The Card was last seen somewhere between John Jay and Schapiro. "I was in Hamilton for a class at 7:30, then walked to JJ's Place, across in front of Butler, into Morton Williams, and back to Schapiro." If you have any information about the key's whereabouts or if you yourself have lost something and would like us to help you find it, email bwog@columbia.edu. We're happy to help you find your dearly departed items in your time of need. 
Exciting good news! According to a University Senator, the Hungarian Pastry Shop Sip has signed up to accept your Flex points. Things should be up and running by the end of the term. Let's all go here for next year's "Study Day" and drink 24 hours worth of espresso. UPDATE 11:35 AM: Sip was mistakenly identified as the Hungarian in an email to Bwog late last night. It's actually Sip that's signed up for Flex. Mea maxima culpa. &nbsp; 
 Does anyone actually know what anthropology is? What does Evo love more: nationalization of oil or speaking at Columbia?&nbsp; Should GS deans be chosen in the same way as GS students--far too late? Did you know that, like, East 116th is TOTALLY less gentrified than, like, Columbia?&nbsp; I think she actually saw a poor person! Can Columbia sports only win through not telling anyone about injuries to players? 
 As we reported last month, the economy may be in the tank, but PrezBo's doing all right for himself: for the 2007-08 year, he's earning $1.4 million in total compensation. Now, to remind us all just how high a sum that is, the Chronicle of Higher Education reports that Bollinger was the third-highest paid university president in the country (by total compensation). He trails only Henry Bienen of Northwestern (a cool $1.74 million) and, for reasons explained in this companion article, David Sargent of little-known Suffolk University (a whopping $2.8 million). Oh and, that $1.4 million does not include the income PrezBo receives from sitting on various executive boards, including the Washington Post and the New York Fed. Hey, PrezBo, can you spare a dime? Photoshop credit to "D. Sion G." 
 Late last night, we reported that the Hungarian Pastry Shop would soon be offering Flex. Well, about that: It turns out that it's actually Sip that is going to be soon accepting Flex--a fact that's been confirmed to Bwog by Michael Novielli of Student Auxiliary and Business Services--and the Hungarian was accidentally mislabeled in our tipster's email. We're very sorry for the error. Still, Sip is offering Flex! Which is arguably just as exciting as a few hours ago when you thought the Hungarian was doing so. 
From now until 1 PM, there's free hot cider on Barnard's Lehman Lawn. And then later, from 4 to 6 PM, also on Lehman Lawn, there will be that most traditional and gooey of wintry treats: the s'more.&nbsp;
 After Bwog posted about a Shapiroite losing her key, we were notified by another student who had lost her iPod Touch.&nbsp; Says the Forgetful: "I last used it at a meeting in Avery Cafe Monday night around 8 PM and am almost sure that I put it back into my bag, but alas it was not there when I went to reach for it the next morning.&nbsp; To make matters worse, it was not in a real case but an old white gym sock (gross, I know) to keep the screen from scratching."&nbsp; Other than the odious sock, her prized possession can be identified by "some pictures of Long Beach Island and friends running the NYC Marathon, or my top songs in iTunes (1 Grateful Dead and 2 Crosby Stills Nash)." Once again, if you have any information about the iPod's whereabouts or if you yourself have lost something and would like us to help you find it, email bwog@columbia.edu. And in case you were worried, that missing VingCard has been located. (We'll only be posting a firm maximum of one lost and found PSA per day, so any additional Missing Objects reports in the next 24 hours will be added to this post.) More missing item alerts: "I lost a blue pencil case (Le Sport Sac) in between John Jay and Schermerhorn (it may be in one of the classrooms.) &nbsp;I have my VingCard in there as well as a debit card." "I lost a beloved stainless steel coffee thermos last week, probably in Java City.&nbsp; It smelled of coffee and cinnamon, and has 'Urban Justice Center' written in red on the side.&nbsp; I would really, really like it back, and I will buy a cup of coffee for the person who returns it." Also, if you are searching for a lost item, don't forget to check the real lost and found in the Public Safety office in the basement of Low Library. 
 For those of you who don't read your council presidents' emails, there is a forum on NROTC tonight in Sulzberger Parlor (3rd floor of Barnard Hall) from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Both pro and con sides have chosen speakers to represent them in the forum, which will be moderated by SGA president Sarah Besnoff. The format will be as follows: Opening statements - 7 minutes for both sides Predetermined questions (3 questions about the impact on student life, the role of Columbia's NROTC history, and the role of DADT in the debate) for a total of 30 minutes Audience questions for 30 minutes Closing statements - 5 minutes for both sides Both the pro and con sides have chosen speakers to represent them, although names have not yet been released, thanks to ongoing negotiations over the number of panelists. 
 Don't you just want to go crazy on Wednesday nights?&nbsp; Want to take a chance and probably embarrass yourself?&nbsp; Barnard President Deborah Spar challenged us all to go to a belly dancing class and, miraculously there is one tonight!&nbsp; From 7:30-8:30 in Lewis Parlor, Brooks Hall you can enjoy seductive dance moves as well as free baklava and other refreshments to reward your efforts. 
 For those of you who haven't yet gotten your dream job offer, you may want to consider going to the Broadway Sky Lounge tonight from 7:30 PM to 9 PM, where you can discuss what you're going to do with your BA with other soon-to-be graduates. Seniors who gloated at the news that next year Columbia is effectively preventing its students from studying for finals may be in for some schadenfreude this evening, as underclassmen can again remind themselves in the fact that seniors are, you know, adults come May. But don't look so glum! There will be fancy downtown cupcakes of the Magnolia variety at this group freak-out thing.&nbsp; 
 Tipster Tadi Ciszak director our attention to sustainable development guru Jeffrey Sachs, professor to the stars, who made at cameo at today's House Financial Services Panel regarding a possible bailout for automakers. That's Chrysler CEO Robert L. Nardelli in the front, who, along with other executives from G.M. and Ford testified on the Hill today. Why is Jeffrey Sachs there? He's a well-respected economist for sure, and was most likely brought in to offer his opinion. In fact, in another MSNBC video (after the jump), Sachs warns against letting the auto makers fail. We've been watching him for minutes, and at about 28 seconds in, he tussles his hair with boyish nonchalance, which seems to be some sort of window in his psyche. What else is he trying to tell us? &nbsp; 
 If the fliers, op-ed pieces, and general media frothing about ROTC on campus haven't swayed your opinion in time for the CCSC-produced survey next Monday, on Wednesday night a moderated panel pitted pro against con ROTC factions in Sulzberger Parlor. (Not the same event in the flier pictured at right, but we couldn't get a snapshot of the debaters.) Each side laid out its main talking-points without introducing too many new facets, and while the debaters were impassioned, all were well-behaved. On the anti-ROTC side of table, Aries de La Cruz, GS'09, of the Columbia Queer Alliance, Ira Stup, JTS'10, of Everyone Allied Against Homophobia, Rahel Aima, CC'10, of Students for a Democratic Society and the Columbia Coalition Against the War, and Lucha's Rudi Batzell, CC'09, explained that the debate was "plain and simple." Their side does not support the "homophobic, racist, and sexist" institution of the military, they said, although Stup mentioned repeatedly that Columbia students are free to participate in ROTC programs at other schools--albeit not NROTC, the Naval division. On the pro-ROTC side, self-identified gay veterans Scott Stewart, GS, and Justin Johnson, SIPA; Kelley Victor-Gaspar, CC'09, who will be commissioned as a Marine officer in May; and Kate O'Gorman, BC'10, a member of the College Democrats executive board although she was merely representing herself, all agreed that Don't Ask, Don't Tell is a discriminatory policy. They support ROTC on campus, they said, for various reasons: It will encourage progressive and pro-gay officers, it will provide students with more scholarship opportunities, and it will improve the "diversity of thought" at Columbia. Current SGA president Sarah Besnoff, BC'09, moderating, for the most part kept both sides in check and dealt squarely with the occasional heated student at the microphone during the audience question part of the forum. At times, the argument from both sides of the debate went down strange logical paths, dotted merrily by strategies verging on the ad hominem: "I could give you the phone number of a couple of gay guys serving right now," fumed one pro-ROTC panelist. Analogies, categories, metaphors, premises--all were mixed and twisted, often unsuccessfully. Justin Johnson refused to acknowledge any analytical difference in the Red Cross' ban on homosexuals giving blood and the Armed Forces' DADT. Rahel Aima compared the enforced adherence to military standards in the ROTC to forcing everyone who reads the Symposium to engage in pedophilia. Kate O'Gorman urged Columbia to "negotiate a treaty" with the military that would be gay-friendly. Perhaps worse was each side's use of unsourced facts: various statistics about gays and women in the military, obscure bits of Columbia lore (John Jay was once called "USS John Jay" because it produced so many Navy men?), occasional allusions to the powers of the military and executive, and fleeting references to federal and military laws by both sides all seemed culled from merely summary research, at best. But it was a success, said students in attendance, including CCSC VP for Policy Adil Ahmed, CC'09, who organized the forum and has been "spearheading" the survey. The sour grapes of the evening went to Rajat Roy, SEAS'10, a University Senator for ESC, who said that the other leaders had "really screwed up" by focusing on undergraduates and limiting the survey's questions. Instead, he said, look for a new two-question survey--aimed at both graduate students and undergraduate students--in the next week or so. The first question, he said, will be whether students want ROTC on campus as it currently stands, and the other will be whether students would support its presence if the military dropped its Don't Ask Don't Tell policy, which looks likely under the Obama administration. -KER 
 For the sake of your children's legacy admissions, donate! CC brother, can you spare a dean? Gay folks for fighting Gay folks for loving&nbsp; Old-time religion it's not&nbsp; No, you're not in prison, just a Barnard res hall&nbsp; Plus: Spec adds new stuff! &nbsp; 
 This egg donor thing sounds a lot harder than it ought to be. HAnSoN!!1!?!?!!1!1111omg&nbsp; News from a neophyte&nbsp; Headwear for the Spence set&nbsp; Beats Turkey&nbsp; In Russia, does Gary Shteyngart read you?&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Bwog theater critic Morgan Childs attended last night's production of I Am My Own Wife. It takes a great deal of confidence--or perhaps recklessness--to break the rules of any contemporary play, much less one that has garnered significant attention across the national stage.&nbsp; The sheer notion of staging Doug Wright’s 2004 I Am My Own Wife with a cast of nine seems to be a violation of the playwright’s principle intent for the play; that is, to put on display a man whose identity is entirely of his own choosing.&nbsp; But CU Players’ production raises the stakes of Wright’s script even higher, demanding that the audience continue to probe its themes to their fullest and to implore its conception of the self far beyond the text.&nbsp; CU Players’ production functions quite elegantly in opposition with and as a complement to the play its author originally intended. &nbsp;I Am My Own Wife is primarily the story of Charlotte von Mahlsdorf, a male German transvestite and survivor of both the Nazi and Communist regimes in East Berlin.&nbsp; The play is also the narrative of Wright himself, written as a character within the play, whose investment in Charlotte pervades and informs the piece as a whole. A single male actor typically plays both roles, in addition to some forty others, but CU Players’ skillful adaptation lends its many voices to a cast of nine.&nbsp; Credit is due most notably to director Amanda Stoffel, whose vision for the piece is clearly realized from its beginning.&nbsp; Stoffel works from moment to moment, tableau to tableau, stringing each piece of the play in polished succession like the pearls the actors don in a single, simple movement.&nbsp;&nbsp; The achieved effect is one of graceful understatement.&nbsp; Stoffel’s apt direction works in tandem with the play’s light and sound, both of which are used sparingly yet effectively, and the world she creates is both playful and poised.&nbsp; Unfortunately, Roone Arledge fails to lend itself to a production this intimate (particularly because the actors’ accented speech is quickly lost in the expanse of the auditorium). The play’s cast--five women, four men--directly engages in the conversation Wright begs his readers to have; that is, one that directly addresses several points along the spectrum of gender and sexuality.&nbsp; Each actor plays Charlotte and the playwright, and as Stoffel writes in her program note, each informs the audience of a unique aspect of the characters’ complicated identities.&nbsp; The production does fall short of addressing the fluid role of gender within Charlotte’s world, particularly because nine actors could more easily represent the underground homosexual and transvestite presence in East Germany than only one man. But Stoffel’s actors nonetheless achieve the director’s intent for the piece, and as a cast of mostly first- and second- year students, they represent a force of talent to be watched and to be reckoned with. While Wright’s one-man I Am My Own Wife challenges a single actor with an astounding endurance test, the energy in this production is dispersed among its nine performers. However, what the performance lacks in vivacity is made up for in elegance and in sheer achievement.&nbsp; Stoffel’s vision and CU Players’ production remind us of what Columbia theater should do always: to approach student theater with an awareness of its resources and with a willingness to take artistic risks.&nbsp; The result, this performance shows, can be quite lovely.&nbsp; Catch the last two performances, tonight in Roone at 8 PM and 11 PM. 
Tipster Dhruv Vasishtha noticed a Columbia reunion of sorts at MTVu's Woodie Awards--the very same Woodie awards that featured members of the CU debate team--as your favorite bands Vampire Weekend and Chromeo performed "The Kids Don't Stand a Chance" together. It sounded a bit like Graceland but it felt like "Roar, Lion, Roar." The 2008 mtvU Woodie Awards 
 You may have noticed, yesterday evening sometime, that Gmail had gone insane. Everything was blue--had hamsters been let loose in the Google servers, Bwog wondered? To our relief, we found we could return to the older version, like Facebook let us do for a short time before forcing us into new Facebook forever. And then, to our delight, we learned that Google was in fact offering us more choices, not forcing us unto an page-view driven "improvement" (yeah, we hope you're listening Mark Zuckerberg).&nbsp; But what to choose? ( If you haven't figured it out yet, go to "settings," and pick "themes"). Obviously not any of the sleek professional ones. Tea House is a bit gimmicky, and Phantasea rather trippy for our taste. Ninja is a bold selection--yow!--and you might last a few days with Candy before perishing of saccharine pink. Bwog is going with "New York," for now, which shrouds the interface in a pleasant overcast. But perhaps something else tomorrow--if Gmail is our lives, why not try a new identity every day? 
 Our brave defender this week is Daily Editor/Sports Guru James Downie, extolling the virtues of basketball games. At Columbia, many students like to pretend they're too cool to root for sports teams. In academic speak, this would be "a surrender to the psychology of the&nbsp;mob" (even though&nbsp;Lord of the Flies&nbsp;clearly demonstrates the success of&nbsp;the mob&nbsp;approach; anyone who whines as much as Piggy deserves to be brained). In addition to this social barrier, many sports suffer from their distance from campus, their lack of notoriety as sports outside the Olympics (see: fencing, rowing, etc.), or, most importantly, the sheer awfulness of the teams (hello, 44 losses in a row!).&nbsp; Basketball suffers from none of these. Now, I'll admit I played two years of junior varsity basketball in high school, mostly filling the "Vanilla Thunder" role reserved for gangly white guys coming off the bench. While I actually enjoyed&nbsp;those years (despite acne's best efforts to make me cry), that is not why I advocate going to some basketball games. Rather, basketball games offer, in addition to healthy doses of sleevelessness, one of the best ways to experience fun, drama, and even some good old school spirit. The first difference between basketball and many other sports on campus is that its games are in Dodge, rather than a hundred blocks north. Instead of requiring actual planning, you can decide to go over five minutes beforehand, and still be at the game in time for tipoff. This convenience isn't available even on many sports-mad campuses, and it makes going to and from the game much less of a hassle. Another difference is that the games are almost always competitive. Columbia's program has improved under Coach Joe Jones, and the team itself has been fun to watch as well. It looks to be the same way this season: the 65-62 win over Fordham last Friday was a brilliant game, as good as any you'll see during March Madness. Furthermore, the Ivy League is no longer a two-team race between Penn and Princeton: all eight teams (well, except for Dartmouth) can be competitive with each other. Finally, basketball games are free for students. It's hard to get better entertainment for free for two hours (at least for something that isn't illegal).&nbsp; The Levien Gym may only fit 3,400 (4th in the Ivy League), but it's a loud space, especially during conference games. The noise helps create that classic charged atmosphere that all sporting events need. So give it a try, jaded Lion. You'll find yourself cheering along as well. - Photo: "Basket-Ball, Columbia University" (circa 1908) from G.G. Bain Collection via Shorpy.com 
It's the first real cold snap of winter, but that doesn't mean you have to wilt! Bwog has a whole list of reasons to embrace the freeze. To wit: the de-thawing feeling in your extremities when you get back inside the bulky clothes that obscure all the weight you'll gain over the holidays the reduction in BO from people not sweating ever a reason to stay inside and study rather than get woefully behind by frolicking in the sunshine an excuse to wear your kickass boots hat hair sweaters tea A Charlie Brown Christmas Album "I've Got My Love To Keep Me Warm" An excuse to drink more hot chocolate A reminder that Christmas is right around the corner (before you also remember that exam season will once again ruin your caroling) Cracking open your window to chill your room, then falling asleep under layers of heavy, warm blankets. Cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger Trees with leaves that look like they're on fire Colors like burgundy, ocher, amber, and sienna (both "raw" and "burnt" varieties) Finally being able to identify a constellation (Orion) The disappearance of distractingly tight tops in class an excuse to hole yourself up in Butler/your room so that you never have to see the light of day Westside's chicken noodle soup Gingerbread Babies in bulky snowsuits Fireplaces Christmas carols Condensation on glass windows Finger-painting on the condensation on glass windows a reason to hold hands thick wool socks the guilty pleasure sludge of a Starbucks peppermint mocha there's finally no one on the steps so you can get that picture of Low you've always wa nted The imminent returns of Jack Bauer, Jack Shephard, and Bill Adama the 8th (and last?) season of Scrubs! 212 serving large iced coffees in paper cups (Yes, the coffee is cold, but they don't buy large plastic cups--which sweat, a lot--for the wintertime) More incentive to quit smoking--who wants to stand outside more than absolutely necessary? 
The sun may go down at 5pm and the mercury in your thermometer may have disappeared, but put on a coat and get some color in your cheeks with our weekend recommendations. Friday Columbia Night at Lincoln Center Events at various times; between West 62nd &amp; 65th Streets and Columbus &amp; Amsterdam Aves. For ridiculously discounted prices, nab your CUArts ticket and check out all that Lincoln Center has to offer.&nbsp; Jazz, film, chamber music, and opera are all on the list. Price: $20 Cave Canem Poetry Night 6pm, McNally Jackson Booksellers 52 Prince St (212.274.1160) Cave Canem is an organization dedicated to cultivating African American poetic voices.&nbsp; Come listen to the participants of their latest workshop—“Braids, Cornrows, and the Gathering of Meaning”—read their work. Price: Free! Carole Lombard Festival Various times until December 2nd, see schedule; Film Forum 209 West Houston St (212.727.8110) Tina Fey’s artistic ancestor, 1930s funny lady Carole Lombard starred in 80 films during her career.&nbsp; Film Forums plays a tribute to her: highlights include My Man Godfrey, Twentieth Century, and Alfred Hitchcock’s Mr. and Mrs. Smith. Price: $10 Saturday Turkey Day with Pilgrim William 11:30pm, Joe's Pub 425 Lafayette St (212.539.8500) Everyone is thankful for stripteases!&nbsp; This holiday-themed burlesque show will also feature music, comedy, and famed strip-star Dirty Martini. &nbsp; Price: $15 Union Square Holiday Market 10am-8pm, open daily; Union Square 14th St &amp; Park Ave South The famed Holiday Market opens today, so hit the shelves early and stock up on the season’s most creative, interesting, and cheap(ish) gifts. Price: Free! Sunday Fondue Takedown 5pm, Union Pool 484 Union Ave (718.609.0484) Usually a format most famously suited for chili, this takedown does fondue.&nbsp; It’ll be cheesy and gooey, and promises to chase away those winter blues with the ultimate comfort food.&nbsp; Anyone can compete, see website for details. &nbsp; Price: Compete for free, taste for $10 - Sara Jane Panfil 
Some heavy (and not-so-heavy) hitting faculty came out in the Spec today endorsing NROTC's presence on campus. Bwog is inquiring into the genesis of the list--mostly male--and will update as information becomes available. The ad ran as follows, with editorial notes in italics: "We broadly support the return of ROTC to Columbia University -- some of us unconditionally, others if legislation prohibiting military service by open homosexuals is reformed, and/or provision made for faculty control of appointments, curriculum and credit.&nbsp; We all believe, in principle, that an ROTC program at Columbia is an appropriate educational responsibility of the university." ----- Michael Adler (School of Business) Mark H. Anders (Earth and Environmental Sciences) James H. Applegate (Astronomy, and co-chair of the 2005 University Senate committee on ROTC) Richard T. Betts (Political Science) Paul Duby (School of Engineering) Eugene Galanter (Psychology, Emeritus) Kenneth T. Jackson (History) Mark Kesselman (Political Science, Emeritus) Robert A. McCaughey (History, Barnard, author of Columbia history Stand Columbia) Letty Moss-Salentijn (College of Dental Medicine) Richard M. Pious (Political Science, Barnard) Robert Y. Shapiro (Political Science, Director of the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy (ISERP)) Allan Silver (Sociology) 
 Seniors are invited to take comfort in the womblike warmth of Lerner's basement for the third installment of this year's Lerner Pub.&nbsp; It will be the classiest Lerner pub yet; featured drinks include red and white wine and Corona, with limes!&nbsp; Entertainment includes The Kitchen Cabinet, hard-rock band Raul, and, once again, everyone from your first-year dorm you've forgotten about. 11 PM til 1 AM. 
 Attorney General Michael Mukasey, CC '63 (who taught at the law school as recently as 2006) collapsed last night during a speech in Washington D.C. Towards the end of an address to the Federalist Society, Mukasey began to slur his speech before he collapsed. He was taken to a nearby hospital, where press reports say he is now "conscious, conservant, and alert," though there is no word yet why he fell ill.&nbsp; UPDATE: Mukasey left the hospital around noon Friday with a "clean bill of health." Doctors ruled out a stroke or cardiac problems as the cause. 
 Military types have an opinion on NROTC. MTA raises fares yet again. With budget trouble, New York special ed will likely be among the first cuts. Not having Wednesday before Thanksgiving off is massively inconvinient. The best way to get your message across to New Yorkers is to talk about forest fires. 
Sociology Professor Allan Silver forwarded Bwog the following email, which was the impetus for yesterday's NROTC professor statement of support. "I am simply responding to an item in Bwog mentioning that it is inquiring into the origin of the faculty statement in favor of ROTC. There is no mystery, nothing is concealed, all is transparent," he said. Silver said he "didn't count" how many professors this support-seeking email was sent to, but that "it was sent to people we knew and/or those we had reason to think are in favor of ROTC at Columbia. This was not a sample in the statistical sense, so the rate of return, or the percentage agreeing, among those to whom the statement was sent, is not relevant or meaningful." Dear Colleagues: Student initiatives in support of returning an ROTC program to Columbia are culminating in a public debate November 19 and a survey of undergraduate student opinion on November 24.&nbsp; We hope that in this short interval in which to express faculty support for this initiative you can subscribe to the statement below. It obviously cannot address every relevant nuance, but if you broadly agree, please send your assent to as35@columbia.edu with Subject Line: "ROTC Statement", if possible by Return. The need for a faculty support group has arisen suddenly and&nbsp; time is of the essence. Please forward this message to colleagues who might be prepared to support it. The statement follows: We broadly support the return of ROTC to Columbia University -- some of us unconditionally, others if legislation prohibiting military service by open homosexuals is reformed, and/or provision made for faculty control of appointments, curriculum and credit. We all believe, in principle, that an ROTC program at Columbia is an appropriate educational responsibility of this university. Co-sponsors: Prof. James Applegate, Department of Astronomy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Prof. Allan Silver, Department of Sociology These links... http://www.columbiaspectator.com/node/56819 http://www.advocatesforrotc.org/columbia/SilverOct2008.html ... are to recent statements offering some reasons for supporting an ROTC program, and background for the issues.
 With less than a month to go in the semester, we at Bwog are among the many converging on Butler. If you've forgotten to sneak food and drink in, though (a course we recommend do not endorse), your only source of caffeinated comfort is Blue Java. Strangely, though, the Butler Blue Java prices are even higher than its other locations around campus. Bwog contributor (and longtime coffee muckraker)&nbsp;Jon Hill investigated, only to have Housing and Dining say "We understand your concerns. Please note the prices are a bit higher in Butler due to higher expenses." Oh really? How specific! But just what are these higher expenses, pray tell? Our perseverance got us forwarded onto Michael Novielli, chief of administration of Student Auxiliary and Business Services. Already having been briefed on the company line, Novielli was ready to give us all the details.&nbsp;"The main and only reason is that our cost of doing business at Butler Library is higher. It's an agreement Dining Services has with the University Libraries and I can't comment any more than that, but our costs of doing business at Butler are about 10 percent higher." Novielli refused to comment on any specifics behind the increase, although we're pretty sure the real reason starts with "m" and ends with "-onopoly." 
 The November issue of The Blue and White is on racks near you! This month, we went abroad, into Morningside, and outside of conventional history. The only&nbsp;feature that combines public nudity in Japan with being a Mormon in France (plus music and food from Argentina, Russia, and Turkey). The chain store invades Morningside Heights. Imagine a Columbia where athletes and protestors are&nbsp;the same people. Meet veterans of the Iraq War, the hunger strike, and the campaign trail.&nbsp; It may be the 25th anniversary of coeducation at Columbia, but even the university seems to have forgotten. 
 Oh sure, you may be a fan of Cribs or Pimp My Ride, but nothing really screams "pimp me"&nbsp;like a bookcart. At least,&nbsp;so say&nbsp;the runners of Unshelved.com, who have&nbsp;just concluded their third annual "Pimp My Bookcart" competition. Continuing our university's fine winning streak, this year's first place prize went to the employees of Butler's Rare Books and Manuscript Library, who turned their bookcart into a hot dog cart. We're hungry just looking at it, and so were the judges: "We rarely agree on anything as easily as we did in giving this cart first prize. Succeeds in all of our judging categories!" You can see a rearview of the "hot book cart" here, and you can also see the ingenious designs it beat. 
There's nothing like a Saturday morning trad to get your weekend off right.&nbsp; Wrap up in your comforter and scroll down for a smattering of cartoons from this week - Enjoy! &nbsp; "I'm nothing, and yet I'm all I can think about." By William Hamilton from The New Yorker &nbsp; By Rina Piccolo from The New Yorker &nbsp; By Gary Varvel from The Indianapolis Star "Excuse me, care to hijack us?" By Kevin Kallaugher from The Economist "I am going to so miss Bush.." By Mike Lane &nbsp; "I thought after he got elected everything would be different, but I still don't have a girlfriend." By David Sipress&nbsp; 
 This morning CSIS - Columbia Students for International Service - brings their humanitarian mission to you in the form of free bagels and coffee.&nbsp; If you're into cross-cultural learning and exchange, being a responsible citizen of the world and bettering all of humanity (or if you could just use a free bagel with schmear,)&nbsp; head to the fifth floor of Lerner for this free brunch-cum-info session.&nbsp;&nbsp; Representatives from major international service organizations will lead the panel, so don't miss out! Although the event runs all morning, bagels and freebies are wont to run out! &nbsp; 
 At this time of year, Bwog, like just about everyone, is sick of Butler.&nbsp; But there are like twenty other libraries on campus, right? Yes, there are.&nbsp; And yes, Columbia students are probably too fortunate for our own good too. But sometimes, what we have just doesn’t suffice... So on this brisk Saturday, Bwog has a suggestion for you dear finals-frazzled reader –&nbsp; take a weekend vacation away from your cubicle in 209 and head downtown on the 1 train to the Andrew Heiskell Braille and Talking Book Library on 20th St. Before arriving at the Heiskell Library, Bwog had exorbitant expectations.&nbsp; All bright-eyed and agog, Bwog envisioned a hushed hall filled with blind and seeing bibliophiles reading by touch and sight alike.&nbsp; In other private spaces, we pictured the transcendent power of literature manifested as volunteers read aloud to and communed with unseeing, but eager listeners.&nbsp; On arriving, however, Bwog experienced no such rapture.&nbsp; Although Bwog did feel a little silly about our overzealous romanticization, we still found the library a fine, exceptionally well-lit place to study. &nbsp; Although the exterior of the library presents the recently renovated façade of a neo-renaissance loft building, its interior opts for function over form.&nbsp; Occupying the bottom two floors of an airy 1910 Flatiron-district building, The Andrew Heiskell Library is equally amenable to able and disabled patrons alike. Featuring barrier-free architecture, reading rooms which house browsing collections of braille, recorded, and large-print books and a shady outdoor reading terrace, the library offers both an interesting metropolitan retreat and a stimulating study spot. The bottom floor of the library houses the talking book collection and several, spacious study tables, equipped with plenty of USB plugs and electric sockets.&nbsp; To aid readers and save eyes, an overhead lamp accompanies every seat at the tables.&nbsp; Bwog headed upstairs in hopes of finding a quiet and more remote study spot, but the Heiskell library, like 209 in Butler, embraces a clean, well-lit aesthetic and forgoes the cushy, soporific decor of the oaken halls of Avery.&nbsp; The upright chairs might come off as unwelcoming at first, but Bwog soon found that their erect hardwood prevented the usual study slouch.&nbsp; Floor-to-ceiling plate glass windows flank each end of the upstairs reading room and provide plenty of sunlight through both the AM and the PM hours.&nbsp; Unfortunately November afternoons do not lend themselves to outdoor reading on the terrace, but Bwog still appreciated the shrubbery and the seemingly thriving holly bushes we could see from our south face desk.&nbsp; On Bwog’s visit, our fellow patrons at the Heiskell Library were a relatively quiet and respectful bunch.&nbsp; To Bwog’s mild dismay, the library's no eating or drinking mandate was upheld courteously.&nbsp; On a warmer afternoon, however, the reading terrace would be a lovely spot for a study session cum scone.&nbsp; Despite Bwog’s initial distress at the said sanction, we found that the lack of snackers made for a peaceful and more studious environment.&nbsp; Furthermore, the library is relatively desolate during the early afternoon hours which makes for an almost entirely private study space on the upper floor.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; An hour or so before closing – five o’clock on both weekdays and weekends – the library gets busier, but never as much as Butler does at this time of year.&nbsp;&nbsp; With the imminence of finals looming – good god! – this time of year doesn’t lend itself to the typical overpopulation and procrastination of your usually unsuccessful study sessions at Butler and in the Brownie café.&nbsp; If you're like Bwog and suffer diminished&nbsp; efficiency rates even in the silent stacks of Mudd, we recommend testing out the concentration enhancing environs of the Heiskell Library.&nbsp; Well, Bwog’s actually never been to Mudd, but we bet engineers know a thing or two about inertia, no? &nbsp;The Andrew Heiskell Braille and Talking Book Library 40 West 20th Street (between 5th and 6th Avenues) 
 Here at the Bwog, we're fans of the underdog, the little guy, you know, the little train that could so to speak.&nbsp; So when it comes to consumerism, corporations and all that jazz, we support locally-owned independent businesses.&nbsp; As detailed in the current issue of The Blue and White, Morningside Heights unfortunately has succumbed to the fetters of the chain gang in recent years.&nbsp; But today, November 22nd is America Unchained Day, a holiday celebrating locally-owned businesses that have remained free from corporate conquest.&nbsp; No holiday, however, can be properly celebrated without an obligatory sale.&nbsp; You've heard of Memorial Day sales, you've heard of Independence Day sales, you've heard of Labor Day sales,&nbsp; but today Book Culture brings you something new -&nbsp; an America Unchained Day Sale! From now until 8 PM, Book Culture, is hosting a special one day&nbsp; sale and book event: 10% off everything in the store, excluding text books and periodicals!&nbsp; The sale offers an excellent way to get started on your holiday shopping and at the same to make the most of your money.&nbsp; And the best part is this is conscientious consumerism: you'll be supporting (and injecting potentially millions more dollars) into the local economy.&nbsp; Tis the season, after all.&nbsp; Don't forget, you can also embrace the spirit of the holiday at other locally owned Morningside Heights establishments, like Janoff's, Mondel's Chocolate and if you're feeling particularly charitable, the Morningside Bookshop. 
 Here’s the trouble with the holidays: indulging in too many homemade, holiday treats – latkes, gelt, pecan pie, eggnog and the like – often results in no longer looking so svelte in the lovely argyle sweater Santa or the Hanukkah Armadillo brought for you.&nbsp; And you know, eating healthy isn’t so bad.&nbsp; What with Pink Berry, Tasti, the numerous sushi joints and the other healthy options Broadway offers, sticking to pretty healthy diet can be pretty easy for those who care to.&nbsp; What’s not so easy, however, is maintaining a healthy-ish diet while maintaining a moderate-ish budget.&nbsp; On this chilly November night, the guys at Westside thought to keep the outdoor produce warm with flannel blankets! The picture above documents their attempts to keep their asparagus&nbsp; and grapes relatively happy, if not frozen! Everyone loves Soy Crisps, right? But when you’re stuck paying $3 for a bag that you could easily go through in one episode of Gossip Girl, those $.99 bags of Utz potato chips seem much more sensible.&nbsp; For those short on cash, spending $3 for a cheesy and satisfying slice at Koronets often is a far more appealing dinner time option than spending $16 on a grilled salmon salad at Community.&nbsp; Such is the plight of the budget conscious eater. This Saturday, Bwog on a Budget headed to Westside, where we not only grooved to Carly Simon, but also found many nutritious and affordable products. &nbsp; So pleased with our purchases, Bwog thought to share the wealth – and the health! – with you.&nbsp; Bwog is far from a certified dietician – really – but what’s on the list is relatively good for you and is certainly good for your wallet.&nbsp; All purchases are under $3. •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;16 oz can of Casa Fiesta Fat Free Refried Beans: $1.89 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Large bag of pre-washed Harvest Select Spinach: $2.40 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Barilla Whole Wheat Spaghetti: $1.79 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;5 oz can of Bumble Bee Tuna: $2.19 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;½ lb. red potatoes: $.50 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;½ lb. yams: $.50 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Damascus whole wheat pita: $1.99 •&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;26 oz bottle of Brad’s organic marinara sauce: $2.99 
 After saving so much cash earlier today, Bwog thought to splurge a little.&nbsp; To reward ourselves after a rigorous day of studying, Bwog was in the mood for something warm and hearty.&nbsp; Unfortunately Casa Fiesta refried beans didn't cut it.&nbsp; A second trip to Westside, however, yielded the makings of a gourmet dinner.&nbsp; If you're lucky and have extra time on your hands tomorrow night, Bwog suggests making a Pork Chop with Pomegranate and Fennel Salsa for your Sunday supper. The arrival of pomegranates at bodegas and supermarkets each November is one of the few perks of winters in the city.&nbsp; Not only are pomegranates delicious, but they're healthy too, rich with antioxidants and other good stuff.&nbsp; Although eating the seeds alone is nice, cooking with them is even better.&nbsp; Their versatile taste, a bit sweet with sharp sour kick, and their crunchy texture is an excellent complement for meat.&nbsp; Paired with pork, the pomegranate salsa enhances the sweet, toothsome flavor of the meat.&nbsp; If this meal seems a bit extravagant for&nbsp; your taste,&nbsp; it's worth noting that Westside currently is selling pomegranates and pork chops at affordable prices -&nbsp; $1.39 for the fruit and $2.40&nbsp; for 1/2 lb pork chop.&nbsp; This recipe makes far more salsa than you'll want for just one pork chop.&nbsp; But it saves well and can be reused with other meats. Pork Chop with Pomegranate and Fennel Salsa Ingredients 1 lb fennel bulb (sometimes called anise), stalks cut off and discarded 3 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup pomegranate seeds (from 1 large pomegranate) 2 scallions, finely chopped 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 teaspoon seasoned rice vinegar 2 teaspoons honey a pinch of salt 1 (1/2- to 3/4-inch-thick) pork chop Procedure Halve fennel bulb lengthwise and core it, then cut into 1/4-inch dice. Cook fennel in 2 tablespoons oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderate heat, stirring, until tender, about 15 minutes. Transfer fennel to a bowl and stir in pomegranate seeds, scallions, cilantro, vinegar, honey, and salt. Pat pork chop dry and season with salt and pepper. Heat remaining tablespoon oil in skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then sauté chop until deep golden and just cooked through, 4 to 5 minutes on each side. Transfer chop to plates and let stand, loosely covered, 5 minutes. Serve chop topped with salsa.&nbsp; This dish goes very nicely with roasted sweet potatoes. If you're feeling particularly enterprising try this easy recipe: Sweet Potatoes with Lime Ingredients •&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1 sweet potato, washed and pricked •&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; juice of one lime •&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3-4 cilantro leaves •&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; a pinch of salt Procedure&nbsp; Preheat oven to 375 F. Bake the sweet potato whole in its skin, until tender, about 45 minutes to 1 hour.&nbsp; When the potato is tender, slit open the skin, and scoop out the flesh onto a serving dish. Season with salt.&nbsp; Squeeze fresh lime juice over the top, and sprinkle with 3 or 4 cilantro leaves. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The 2008-2009 Rhodes Scholars have been announced, and Columbia's very own R. Jisung Park of Shelton Connecticut has made the list!&nbsp; Per the winners' bios press release: "R. Jisung Park, Shelton, Connecticut, is a senior at Columbia where is a double major in economics and political science.&nbsp; Jisung has done research in tropical rainforest studies in Australia and has developed a cross-disciplinary course of study at Columbia in sustainable development.&nbsp; He serves on the editorial board of a journal on sustainable development, is an a capella bass singer, has taught English in Korea, and spent a year studying at Oxford.&nbsp; He will return to Oxford to do an M.Sc. in nature, society, and environmental policy." Congratulations R. Jisung Park! We look forward to congratulating you once again when PBK is announced.&nbsp; Last year two Columbians were awarded the scholarship: Jason Bello and George Olive. In terms of inter-Ivy competition, Princeton was the big winner this year, with three students represented. Harvard was runner-up with two, and Brown, Penn and Yale tied with Columbia. Hear that Yale? Tied. 
 This week, it's all about the magic that happens at CUMC.&nbsp; And some other things. Harry Potter would've turned out quite differently: a simple injection of testosterone cures "werewolf syndrome." Brilliantly, we connected an inability to concentrate to an inability to concentrate. When it comes to detecting rather than curing, all Columbia can do is weigh in on the subject.&nbsp; But, at least CU scientists agree that new technology is super-cool. He mostly gave money to the Met Opera and such, but we were expecting money from him too.&nbsp; And he wasn't even hit by the financial crisis. Personal empowerment meets Web 2.0.&nbsp; CU's going to help bring a bunch of moderately famous people together to discuss such delightful topics as "How To Build Transnational Social Movements Using New Technology." 
 To give students a taste of those delightful pre-plumbing days, the forces of Columbia have decided to withhold running hot water from residents of John Jay this morning.  Daily Editor Eliza Shapiro reports that it's been gone for at least two hours.  People are wandering around with bath towels looking forlornly for an oasis and support groups have been formed for those whose laundry happened to be in the washers when the incident started. Bwog hopes the smell of the unwashed doesn't get too bad, and will keep you updated as the freshmen get more frantic. 
 The Current is back at it with their Fall issue.&nbsp; We'll save you time by getting to the good stuff. A report card for PrezBo's report card. A giglio -- or seven-story, five-ton papier-mâché statue -- grows in Brooklyn. Beijing: practically Columbia-esque in its bureaucratic character! Roth, Foer and Chabon: different approaches to Jewishness and sexuality, and Jewish sexual identity. A Moscow ChurchHop: Yushchenko vs. Putin!&nbsp; Bishop Diomid of Chukotka vs. Alexy II! And miracles, of the Islamic and Christian varieties! 
 Hot on the heels of an NROTC professor endorsement, a number of faculty members have signed the following statement of opposition to NROTC on campus. In fact, this petition is something of a direct response to the pro-NROTC side's statements: "In contrast to those who have expressed support for ROTC based on hypothetical conditions, we recognize that any position on ROTC must be grounded in the present. Don't Ask, Don't Tell is official policy and exceptions cannot be negotiated," it reads.&nbsp; Some of Columbia's biggest names have signed on, including Eric Foner, Dennis Dalton, Victoria de Grazia, and Michael Taussig, among others. The ad will be published in tomorrow's Spectator -- there's a screenshot of the PDF, above. There's also a concurrent online petition that was made available for faculty to sign this morning. Full text of the statement after the jump. We, the undersigned, stand strongly opposed to the introduction of ROTC on Columbia's campus.&nbsp; In contrast to those who have expressed support for ROTC based on hypothetical conditions, we recognize that any position on ROTC must be grounded in the present. Don't Ask, Don't Tell is official policy and exceptions cannot be negotiated.&nbsp; While the extent of our opposition varies, we all agree that at this time ROTC has no place on our campus. Victoria de Grazia (History) Karen Seeley (Anthropology) Michael Taussig (Anthropology) Elizabeth Bernstein (Women's Studies and Sociology, Barnard) Eric Foner (History) Neni Panourgia (Anthropology) Mary Marsh Zulack (Law School) Mahmood Mamdani (Anthropology) Lila Abu-Lughod (Anthropology and Gender Studies) Katherine Franke (Law School) John Pemberton (Anthropology) Elizabeth Povinelli (Anthropology and Gender Studies) David Rosner (History and School of Public Health) Rosalind Morris (Anthropology) Suzanne Goldberg (Law School) Carole S. Vance (Anthropology and School of Public Health) Hamid Dabashi (MEALAC) Dennis Dalton (Political Science, Barnard) Gil Anidjar (MEALAC and Religion) Ellen Chapnick (Law School) Nan Rothschild (Anthropology) Natalie Kampen (Women's Studies, Barnard) Gary Okihiro (International and Public Affairs) Julie Crawford (English and Comparative Literature) Jamal Greene (Law School) Brinkley Messick (Anthropology) Jeffrey Fagan (Law School, Former University Senator) Wendy Chavkin (School of Public Health) Matthew Miller (Germanic Languages) Eben Moglen (Law School) Diane di Mauro (School of Public Health) Neferti X. M. Tadiar (Women's Studies, Barnard) Paige West (Anthropology, Barnard) Peter H. Juviler (Professor Emeritus and Special Lecturer)&nbsp; 
 Everyone wants to be as cool as people in EC, so those of us west of Broadway feel the urge to adopt our own moniker: we're "West Campus." And to celebrate Thanksgiving (yes, the event is not PC), the west campus lounges will have free apple cider, pumpkin, sweet potatoes, and apple pie.&nbsp; The email sent out didn't indicate whether the pumpkins were for eating or for taking. You can find the smorgasbord at these locations: Schapiro (1st Floor Lounge): 5:00p - 6:30p 600 W. 113th (Lobby): 5:00p - 6:30p 47 Claremont (Basement Lounge): 6:30p - 8:00p Woodbridge (Basement Lounge): 7:00p - 8:30p River (Basement Lounge): 7:30p - 9:00p If you're not cool enough to live this close to Jersey, Bwog is pretty sure you could sidle in with a group of friends and get some pie unnoticed. 
RoomHop is back!&nbsp; It's one of Bwog's favorite features, in which we showcase rooms that are awesome, unique, or just plain pretty.&nbsp; If you know of anyone with a distinct abode, send us a tip at bwog@columbia.edu and we'll send a gnome with a camera. College dorms are notorious for being drab and depressing.&nbsp; Many, including those in the infamous McBain shaft, barely ever see daylight. This is hardly the case for the cheery Broadway room Bwog visited earlier today.&nbsp; Claire and Sarah (long first "Sar" as in a pirate "Arrrr"), CC '11, were quite dissatisfied with the default color of their room and decided to give it a makeover. The room is almost rectangular, with one diagonal where the door is, making it look much bigger than its meager 165 square feet.&nbsp; It overlooks Broadway and sunlight pours in through the huge windows. Sarah explained the choice of color, which Bwog crudely referred to as "orange," while we listened to the entrancing sounds of Abida Parveen.&nbsp; "It's mango-slash-butternut squash," she explained, gesturing at the walls with her fingers, painted ten different colors.&nbsp; Specific shades make all the difference, it seems; one of her nails' color is "brunette on the Internet." &nbsp; Claire, a visual arts major, designed stencils to paint vertical columns of red damasks on the narrower sections of wall.&nbsp; Classy 45's, some of which still look playable, line the wall above the light switch and carefully-placed trinkets on trays cover the surfaces.&nbsp; A standing paper lamp accentuates the mix of CC and Lit Hum books that fill Sarah's bookshelf, making them look less dreary and more sophisticated. The room glows with red and orange mango, giving the place a vibe and energy that was lacking in the pair's previous Carman suite, though the treatment doesn't cover the entire room.&nbsp; The wall behind the large dresser remains unpainted, since it was too heavy to move.&nbsp; The designs are simple and tasteful, down to the matching Andy Warhol print above Sarah's desk: "Art is what you can get away with." --AJB Photos by Anish Bramhandkar 
 Free pumpkin pie -- the most topical of treats -- is being served in the Broadway Skylounge from 9 PM to 11 PM.&nbsp; Tastes like a five day weekend. 
 We were dismayed to receive the following Concerned Email from Nussbaum resident Allon Brann this afternoon. Brann, like so many unsuspecting students, attended the Nussbaum incarnation of ResLife's Thanksgiving free-food giveaway. But "the holiday offering of cider, pie, whipped cream, and candy is merely a front for a sinister aim: &nbsp;the indoctrination and eventual conversion of the non-believers among us," he said. You see, the candy corn distributed by ResLife is not candy corn at all! Nay, it's Scripture Candy ("Reaching the World on Piece at a Time!"), and every package includes a Biblical quotation. (See above for two examples from Corinthians and Romans.) Brann's package featured the following: "But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us." It's Romans 5.8, and Allon Brann is not pleased. Also of note: the Scripture Candy Company labels the candy corn "Harvest Seeds," when they are abosutely not. 
 Old themes came back to haunt us this week.&nbsp; More of this, a little of that. About ROTC: New posters arrived. Professors supported ROTC on campus; professors explained their support; professors opposed ROTC on campus. Plus, a forum! About Flex: Bwog was pumped, we could charge our parents for Hungarian.&nbsp; Oh no wait, we can charge them for Sip.&nbsp; Oh but we'll blow it all at Blue Java and Jay once our meal plan runs out anyway. About the Rest: More finals-related stress next winter. More paralyzing choices in Gmail. More frostbite and icicles. More water polo victories. 
Who will find Columbia librarians places to live? Why, Alan Brinkley, of course! Why did PrezBo's salary rise half a million dollars last year? So he can retire without stress, duh"But my roommate's veganism got me thinking": life's Big Questions answered here!Should you invite all your BFFs to your private island for a few days over break? Think twice, wealthy Columbian! Why is it this cold a month before it should be? Pretend you're still enjoying crisp autumn weather and feeling all collegiate with this compilation of fall songs  
 Meet the cast and chorus (they're calling them the "principals" and the "ensemble," but no matter) and design team of the 115th Annual Varsity Show! It looks like nary a cast or chorus member of the 114th Annual Varsity Show has returned. Traditionally, cast members are notified of their acceptance by being hit in the face with a pie by members of the Creative Team. Principals: Patrick Blute CC '12 Giselle Gastell CC '09 &nbsp;&nbsp; Emma Goidel BC '12 Adam May CC '11 Nina Pedrad CC '11 Kendale Winbush CC '11 Ensemble: Morgan Fletcher CC '12 Yonatan Gebeyehu CC '11 John Goodwin CC '12 Nicole Lopez CC '12 Jill Schackner BC '11 Ricky Schweitzer CC '11 &nbsp;&nbsp; Emily Wallen BC '11 Design Team Artistic Director/Set Designer: Cayle Pietras Assistant Art Director: Rachel Karp Technical Director: Ajit Pillai Assistant Technical Director: Alex Jinich Lighting Designers: Andrew Balmer, Will Brown Assistant Lighting Designer: Michael Chan Sound Designer: Will Schuessler Assistant Sound Designer: Lila Neiswanger Costume/Hair/Make-Up Designers: Hilary baboukis, Halley Hair Costumes/Hair/Make-Up Department: Jenny Johnson, Louisa Mink, Rebecca Usuro Properties Designers: Kat Chan, Nikitha Yereddi Assistant Set Designer: Elizabeth Rice Master Carpenter: Dan Miranda Scenic Artists: Channa Bao, Liz Pipal Artistic Department: Antoinette Allen, Jin Chen, Jenny Johnson, Genevieve Liberatore, Scott Stewart, Mike Strickland, Steven Wong 
 Some version of the ROTC survey has been emailed to you this morning by the CCSC, ESC and GSSC. The survey will be open until December 1 and the councils encourage you to "take your time" with it. A link to the 'yes' or 'no' question "do you support bringing a Naval ROTC program to Columbia's campus?"&nbsp; Each email contains an individualized link to the survey. 
You know you shouldn’t be in school right now. You should be in transit, breezing through short lines at LaGuardia or strolling through Penn Station, picking up a donut one of the city’s last remaining Krispy Kremes. Or better yet, you should be home, watching TV and making your parents do your laundry. But you are not. You are here. We love to grumble about the insanely short break we get for Thanksgiving, the schlep of traveling (if you're not skipping school, of course) on the day before Thanksgiving or even the morning of, and starting this short and pointless week has not been fun for any of us this morning. It may however please the Columbia community to know that we are not alone. No other Ivy League school releases its disciples before Wednesday afternoon at the earliest. No other Ivy, that is, except for Yale, which has been on “fall break” since Friday evening. Oh, Yale. But rest assured that Harvard, UChicago (which, yes, we know is not an Ivy),&nbsp;Princeton&nbsp;and Brown&nbsp;and UPenn officially begin break (as we do) on Thursday morning or Wednesday after classes end.&nbsp;Enjoy your bastardized week!&nbsp; 
 Continuing our recent tradition of Extremely Scientific Exit Polling, we want to know: What'd you vote for on the ROTC survey?&nbsp; Use the commenter name to share your school and class year, and the comment for your answer and any explanations. 
 A new day, a new Fed, available on teh internetz right now! People who spend a lot of time in Butler are fun and easy to make fun of.&nbsp; Aww, poor John McCain. Aww, poor Dubya. Pre-gaming: a scientific study&nbsp; Some red states will always be red states.&nbsp; End-of-semester-stressing? Never&nbsp;at the Fed! 
 Oh happy day for John Jay, Hartley and Wallach residents, who now can indulge in that most modern of luxuries: hot running water. After two days of freezing hell waters, the situation has been resolved, and students can engage in their regularly scheduled showers.&nbsp; Emails of relief after the jump. Subject: Regarding Hot Water in John Jay Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2008 16:42:55 -0500 From: Housing Services &lt;housing@columbia.edu&gt; To: Housing Services &lt;housing@columbia.edu&gt; Dear John Jay Residents, Thank you for your patience this morning during the temporary lack of hot water.&nbsp; We are very sorry for the inconvenience this situation has caused. The lack of hot water in John Jay was caused by a failed steam trap, which has since been replaced.&nbsp; Please notify the Hospitality Desk at x4-2779 if you notice any additional problems with the heat or hot water within the building. Once again, thank you for patience during this time and we hope you enjoy the upcoming holiday! Regards, Housing Services From: Housing Services &lt;housing@columbia.edu&gt; Date: Mon, Nov 24, 2008 at 4:59 PM Subject: Regarding Hot Water Situation To: Housing Services &lt;housing@columbia.edu&gt; Dear Hartley and Wallach Residents, Thank you for your patience this morning during the temporary lack of hot water situation within your residence halls.&nbsp; We are very sorry for the inconvenience this situation has caused. According to our reports, the lack of hot water was an isolated incident in Wallach Hall and was taken care of shortly after it was reported to the Hartley Hospitality Desk. This issue was resolved by running the hot water on the 10th floor to purge the cold water from the system, and was taken care of within 10 minutes once this solution was implemented. If you have any concerns about heat and hot water, please report them to the Hospitality Desk at 212-854-2779 so that we can work with Facilities to remedy the situation. Once again, thank you for patience during this time and we hope you enjoy the upcoming holiday! Regards, Housing Services 
 Guard the link to your NROTC survey with your life, as that link that was emailed to you this morning is a personalized link. What this strangely inefficient system means is that if someone clicks your link, they can change your vote. Of course, this is only coming to light after numerous students group leaders have forwarded their survey emails to groupmembers with the intention of encouraging others to vote.&nbsp; But don't feel silly! Bwog posted our link earlier today too, before being gently reminded by a member of CCSC that someone had probably already changed our vote several times over. 
 On November 12, Bwog received an anonymous email with the subject line: "Exorcism on Broadway 9." The email detailed an incident that occurred between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. on October 25th, that involved several students who the sender identified as Christian Koreans -- despite our attempts to reach various groups, there's been no way of verifying this. There was also a Barnard student present who had been signed in earlier that evening. According to the email's sender, the Barnard student had expressed concern for her&nbsp; health, and so an "exorcism" was performed. Details about the procedure remain scant, though the girl's repeated shrieking eventually caught the attention of a Broadway RA, who stopped by the scene in an attempt to break up the gathering. The RA's attempts to interfere were brushed off, and another ResLife staff member, who was described as being a part of the group, told the RA to allow the students to continue with what they were doing. RAs for Broadway and Ruggles have confirmed that the incident occurred in the early morning hours of Oct. 25th, but few know the details of what happened, and none are willing to discuss it on record. In the wake of the incident, rumors about the situation spread throughout the RA community. One RA said that he was forbidden by ResLife as an RA to talk about it, as it is general ResLife policy not to discuss specific incidents. Last night, around 1 a.m. a Blue and White editor reported a similar incident occurring on the plaza between East Campus and SIPA. (Numerous students in EC also witnessed the incident.) After initially dismissing the "intermittent female shrieking" as partygoers, the editor told Bwog, "I looked outside and saw a group of about 8-9 people standing around a huddled female figure. All were wearing coats and faced towards her, largely unmoving." With their RA absent, the editor and a suitemate went to talk to a security guard, but the group had moved away already. The editor then found the group speaking to security guards outside the Law School, before departing back to the main campus. When the editor spoke to the security guards, they refused to discuss specifics, as Public Safety is always required to remain mum in such instances. The security guard initially claimed that the girl in the middle of the circle was having "a personal boyfriend issue" and later regretted saying as much, admitting, "I shouldn't have even told you that." He then claimed the group was a sorority, even after our editor pointed out that there were men in the group. When asked whether Public Safety would be able to comment on the story, he adamantly said, "No, they wouldn't have anything to say about it," and refused to make any further comment. Were these incidents a prank? An initiation? Bwog doesn't know, but Halloween is long-gone and this is spooky. -- JCD &amp; JNW, with additional reporting and editing by KER and AMP 
 A tech-savvy commenter speculated that after "clearing their cookies" (a term we'll define for the computer illiterate in just a minute), voters can change their personal survey ID number to someone else's, which in theory would mean that anyone would be able to vote multiple times.&nbsp; Bwog's on-call computer whiz kids Hans E Hyttinen and Anish Bramhandkar explain why this is actually possible, but relatively unlikely: Hans: Once you access the survey page, a cookie is created on your computer that stores a bit of information, probably indicating whether or not you have completed the survey, so that the next time you visit that URL, it can let you resume your survey (try this by clicking on your link, but closing the page without voting and then reopening the page). I don't think clearing the cookie would do anything of consequence. If you do change the ID number in the URL, it looks like you can vote again on that ID, just like you can vote again on your ID. It's very stupid that there is no confirmation message or "sorry, you have already voted" message. However, everyone is given a unique identifier (in the "WEM=" part of the URL) that you'd be hard pressed to just guess. So no, I don't think you can actually change someone's vote. Anish:&nbsp; Perhaps they're tracking by IP address?&nbsp; Perhaps preventing subsequent votes that aren't from the same IP.&nbsp; Columbia IPs are dynamic, but most people are connected constantly enough that they don't change. I doubt that they're doing either of these, but the ID number in the survey URL is so long that you'd be hard-pressed to find someone else's legit ID. Still, minutes later, one Bwog staffer tested it out and "changed one of the numbers and got a different working link. Clearing cookies was necessary, though. When I went back and clicked my own link, I had my own displayed." 
 Bwog understands that staying in the 'hood over Thanksgiving break can be a little lonely. Campus is a ghost town, and as your friends skip town droves of tourists replace them, clogging up the streets at the Thanksgiving Day Parade and talking too loudly on the subway. We also know that Thanksgiving dinner is all about family and stuffing naps. If you're in the city though, we can kind of guarantee that there are many restaurants making better food than the relatives you don't like very much anyway. So, if you find yourself uptown during this very brief vacation, Bwog recommends heading to Kitchenette, Cafe du Soleil, or Nice Matin and taking advantage of Thanksgiving specials.&nbsp; Delicious details after the jump. Kitchenette on Amsterdam is offering a $38 per person classic T-giving feast with oven roasted turkey, sweet mashed potatoes, buttermilk biscuits, pumpkin and apple pie and much more, with a Thanksgiving brunch with everyone's favorite Kitchenette specials during the day. Cafe du Soleil on 104th and Broadway has a $39.85 deal with butternut squash soup, an organic turkey dinner and espresso pecan pie. The slightly more ritzy Nice Matin on 79th and Amsterdam is offering a three-course prix five for $39.50. Bwog thinks the squash&amp;crab risotto, turkey with dried fruit and sausage stuffing and sweet potatoes with dark chocolate pot au creme for dessert sounds like a meal fit for pilgrims and Upper West Siders alike. 
 Satow Room Bureau Chief Martha Turewicz attended last night's CCSC meeting. It’s that special time of year again, and last night’s CCSC meeting was infused with some of that special holiday cheer. The meeting began, as it so often does, with President George Krebs pounding out a peppy little drumbeat on the desk. Notably absent (at least, until near the end of the meeting, when he tried to enter the room through a part of the glass wall that was not, in fact, the door) was VP of Policy Adil Ahmed, who was bidding his parents farewell at the airport before they embarked on a hajj to Saudi Arabia. “A little bit of a higher calling than a CCSC meeting”, quipped Krebs. Another higher calling than a CCSC meeting: the free pie event in Broadway, in concession to which the meeting would be ‘kicked out a few minutes early” (again, the ever-quotable Krebs). Further Krebs-ing: since we are "nearing Christmas-time", which is a little "teary-eye inducing", CCSC decided to host secret Santas, into which yours truly will be "up in the mix." And what’s a holiday without cards? Krebs suggested future resolutions to congratulate his friend and freshly-minted Rhodes Scholar Jisung Park, perhaps in card form. He suggested that the same honor be extended to Dean Quigley, who will be leaving us after this year. On a less festive note, Sean Udell noted an exciting new development in McBain, namely that wastebaskets will be installed in each stall of the female restrooms. Such exciting updates are now sent out by Krebs via e-mail, a development which considerably shortens the meetings (something we can all celebrate). Despite the newfound brevity, Krebs still noted a certain ennui among the crowd: “Everyone has a glazed, ‘pie’ look right now.”&nbsp; &nbsp;
 Living in a thriving Democracy means having your NROTC vote stolen. Native American Columbia students, voiceless no longer.&nbsp; Have you taken a gander at MARSLAC?&nbsp; Sing along: "Oh, who owns New York?" Columbia on its way to discovering the cure to cancer. Catch your first glimpse of the new permanent dean of the medical school -- it's no LandryView. 
 Bwogger Liz Naiden heads down to the MoMA to inform you, eager Art Hum disciple, which new exhibitions to wait in line for and which to skip. A trip to the MoMA is the perfect substitute for counting down the milliseconds until vacation or panicking out impending finals doom.&nbsp;The powerful and pervasive anti-neoclassical mood of the place sure put Bwog in a good mood, at least. The museum has much to offer these days. Bwog's first stop was its new&nbsp;special limited access exhibit, Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night. to get a coveted backstage pass one must obtain a "timed ticket" which will tell you exactly what time you are allowed to enter the gallery. The wait is well worth it: Van Gogh's obsession with nighttime and twilight is well documented in letters and literature that influenced his paintings. Anyone who expected just twenty versions of Starry Night is in for a big surprise – the paintings and exhibitions aren't just experiments on the sky and light. Many paintings and sketches depict people doing things past sunset, like sitting at a café, going to a show, walking a dark street, or working a field at twilight. Ah, Bwog has not seen a wheat field in many moons. &nbsp; Among the other exhibitions that don't get such special treatment as Van Gogh's many wheatfields and peasant scenes is New Photography of 2008 featuring Josephine Meckseper and Mikhail Subotzky. Though Meckseper's style is nothing new or particularly fascinating – feminist fascination with women in lingerie, popular culture, materialism and advertising, and mixed media in the oh-so-symbolic storefront windowesque display case – Subotzky is another story entirely. His work is jarring and jarringly realistic, unstaged and all done in existing light. Sometimes it is the image of a brutal beating, drug use, or an act of prostitution in progress that hit hardest, sometimes just the sharp, honest image of life in a poor town in South Africa. On a lighter note, in the same gallery is the exhibit The Printed Picture, which examines different forms of printing up close with digital enlargements -- who knew that inkjet printing upclose looks a lot like pop art? Then there's Pour Your Body Out, an installation that provides a huge perfectly circular couch and floor to sit on to view film projected onto three walls of the gigantic room. The music, if that's the word, provides a supernatural feel, while you watch tulips being eaten by a child, dirt being scraped, and then suddenly feet in a pond filmed from underwater, and purple strawberries floating, and primordial goo, and a naked woman madly chasing a revealing camera angle, and a warthog eating an apple. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; By the time you reach the sixth floor and the Joan Miro exhibit, everyone's nerves are fried. Many tourists fight for a seat on the one cushioned bench outside the dramatically fluorescent introductory wall explaining Miro's decade of rebelliousness and "resistance to a unified style." The crowds move quite quickly through Miro's characteristically cartoony squiggly squigs and 3D wire-paired-with-lima-bean-shape pieces, hoping not to realize that no matter how you do it, rebelling against existing art is nothing new.&nbsp; 
 Oh look the weather is terrible. Bwog strongly suggests you take refuge from this hellscape that's been parading around as "autumn" in the Lerner Piano Lounge from noon to 1 PM. There will be a jazz trio! Or if jazz isn't you thing, there are pumpkin pies and cupcakes, plus hot apple cider and hot chocolate.&nbsp; 
 Bwog Hollywood Bureau Chief James Downie has the scoop on the trailers currently parked around Union Theological Seminary. The trailers are for a new NBC pilot called Kings, which stars Ian McShane of Deadwood fame. The show's story is based around that of King David -- maybe the producers are brushing up on their theology in the UTS library? 
 As Columbians begin to trickle slowly away from Morningside Heights for the much-anticipated and well-deserved Thanksgiving Holiday, the queues at JFK, La Guardia, Penn Station, and yes even the Port Authority Bus Terminal are beginning to fill out.&nbsp; In typical fashion, Bwog has asked its most experienced travelers for tips on how best to brave the pre-Thanksgiving exodus that is sure to take place tomorrow afternoon.&nbsp; Bwog wishes everyone a safe, cheap, and relatively painless journey home.&nbsp; Bon voyage! Planning on driving? If you're going to Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Ithaca, or anywhere that makes you pass through those places, don't be conned by your GPS into taking I80/I380/I81 out of New York: it's a guaranteed way to be stuck in traffic/construction hell.&nbsp; Take I87 North, then take NYS Route 17- it splits, one way going to Albany, the other going to Binghamton, where it meets up with 81 again.&nbsp; It'll shave a cool 45 minutes off your trip, and Route 17 is really scenic. - Really specific, but it changed my life. If you are crazy enough to go down I-95, at least try to leave in the early afternoon (1-2 P.M.) or else you will be caught in the Great New York Exodus. So you've decided to take the bus. Try to get a bus that has guaranteed seating (Vamoose, Bolt, etc.) If you (for some bizarre reason) want to take a cab to Port Authority, ask the cabbie to take the West Side Highway / 9A to 34th street.&nbsp; Saves lots of time otherwise spent waiting at red lights on Bway.If you're leaving via Port Authority bus terminal, needless to say get there early because the lines are insane, but also bring sedatives for the ride, because who knows how bad the person next to you is going to smell. For God's Sake.&nbsp; Don't drift off!&nbsp; Seriously it's not about the smell.&nbsp; It's about the attitude! If you must go through Port Authority, avoid traveling at night. The bus terminal stranger inhabitants come out at this time. Additionally, though lines may be shorter, the extra time between buses negates any gains this might yield. If you're going to Chinatown, be prepared to slash other ticketholders because any of the major bus companies will have way overbooked each trip.&nbsp; Getting early makes no difference, you just have to fight through the mob to get a seat.&nbsp; Also, don't go at night because it's a relatively long walk from the subway stop through the non-so-nice part of Chinatown. Tales of the rail If you live in the Philadephia suburbs, take the NJ Transit to Trenton instead of the Amtrak to Philly. It's cheaper and Trenton and 30th Street are nearly equidistant from many Philly suburbs. If you're riding in one of the fancy new NJ Transit double-deckers, head to the bottom level if it's crowded. Most people seem to prefer the top level and you're better off trying to find a seat below. If you are going Amtrak, make sure to print your barcode out ahead of time for the automated ticket scanners - saves you about 30 minutes standing in line for the ticket window. If you're going to Long Island (probably the most painless travel time) and are taking the LIRR it will be a little more hectic than usual. Check train times in advance at mta.info and leave either before or after the usual rush hour flow of people. You will actually get a seat this way, and won't have to pay peak prices. And finally, for all you jet-setters. Everyone must know this by now, but if your flight is departing from LaGuardia, expect superhuman wait times. Pack the iPod and the book. Maybe the entire syllabus for next semester's core requirement. Early morning flight? Bring your own snack, because Cinnabon won't be open yet. Some of the major airports have express lines (or express check-in kiosks) for people without any bags to check. If you are taking a cab to JFK be sure to depart at minimum 3 hours prior to your scheduled flight, as traffic on the RFK né Triborough Bridge is frequently excessive after 12 o'clock on the Wednesday prior to Thanksgiving. Remember, many airlines are still charging for any checked bags. &nbsp;So, basically that means don't take your laundry cross country to have your mom wash it for you. With its $2.00 fare, the M60 bus is much cheaper than a cab to LaGuardia, but be prepared for the most crowded bus you've ever seen. Give yourself at least an hour-and-a-half of extra time before your flight for the M60's lengthy ride. Also, don't take more than a travel suitcase on the bus lest you incur the wrath of other riders, and for the love of God, keep your baggage UNDER the seat. The easiest, cheapest, and fastest way to get to JFK is the E. Take it to the AirTrain, which is a fun monorail thing that only costs $5 and goes right into the airport. If you feel strongly about any certain travel plans or have any advice that you would be more than magnanimous enough to share with a fellow Columbian headed home for the holidays please kindly email your travel advice to bwgossip@columbia.edu.
If you're heading home via bus this Thanksgiving weekend, make an informed choice! Here, Bwog correspondents persuade you to ride DC2NY, Bolt, VamooseBus and, in an impassioned, extended defense, Fung Wah.&nbsp; VamooseBus My experience with VamooseBus is a prime example of brand loyalty. When I first went to visit Columbia without my parents, my Columbia friend recommend VamooseBus. At the time, it was only $20, $35 for a round trip, and left from right outside my high school. It was still a fledgling service -- another high school friend and I each had a set of two seats to ourselves, and, although the Subway system proved complicated at the time, (we called the 1 Train the "red line"), Vamoose and the friendly, overweight orthodox Jews who sold the tickets, were quite easy to deal with. Since then, I've made countless trips from DC to NY and back. Vamoose was run out of the District by a rabbinical court ruling, upheld by an appeals court, and had to move to nearby Arlington and Bethesda, prices rose from $20 to $25, and&nbsp; the service got popular, so the buses are actually crowded. But the people are friendly, the seats are guaranteed, four tickets gets you a free pass, and they sometimes show good movies. It also seems to be the student's choice bus -- I've run into old elementary school friends on the Vamoose more than a couple times. On my two Chinatown bus experiences, one bus was overheated for the entire and the other stopped in Philly and Baltimore before heading toward D.C.&nbsp; With Vamoose, on the other hand, not only is the climate consistent, but the drivers always make the trip in four hours, pulling moves like taking back-road highways in New Jersey if I-95 is running slow. I've heard good things about Bolt and DC2NY, but Vamoose has given my no reason to switch. AND AIN'T NO GODDAMN CONGRESSIONAL STAFFERS! :) -- David Iscoe DC2NY Working in Washington DC for the last two summers, I had long been a reluctant denizen of the Fung Wah, careening my way up and down the Eastern Seaboard with all the other poor souls who can't afford the train. And then, wonder of wonders, capitalism caught up with the transportation market. Some genius figured out that if you offered a bus service that was clean, timely, predictable, professional, and most important, friendly--all things that don't cost much to provide--you could charge a small premium over the Chinatown lines, and customers would flock to it. Before Megabus and BoltBus came in with their fancy pricing models and web of destinations, DC2NY made this happen for one prescribed route (it's in the name) which is all some of us needed. It costs only about $25 each way, has wireless, always runs on time, and even gives you a snack upon boarding. I've come to recognize the drivers, who are relaxed and rule their buses with firm kindness. It has attracted a young Congressional staffer-type clientele, so even if the trip is packed, people are clean and well-behaved. Above all, they're happy, shocked, and grateful to finally be treated with some shred of human dignity. When I get on a DC2NY bus, and I might as well be home. -- Lydia DePillis Bolt Bus Bolt Bus needs no defense, but here goes.&nbsp; Its plush seats (some buses even have leather), wireless internet, and decent prices are reason enough to go for this new line.&nbsp; I used to be a proponent of the Chinatown bus, despite the fact that they were difficult to access (who wants to go all the way to East Broadway to get a bus) and frequently overbooked during the holidays.&nbsp; However, Bolt Bus snagged me with it's $1 promotional tickets and the fact that it departs from Penn Station.&nbsp; Sure, they might come an hour late and take 5 hours for a trip that should take 4, but you enjoy every second of your time on the Bolt and quality movies or the internet are there to distract you the whole time. Now that the prices have gone up, Bolt's comparative economic advantage has dwindled, but if you are going to book a trip a month in advance that is not during Thanksgiving, Christmas, or Independence Day, you will have no trouble securing a seat during optimal traveling hours for between $5-10.&nbsp; Even the maximum price of $25 one way is not terrible compared to the regular Greyhound or, god forbid, the train, and you know you will get a seat (your priority number is printed on your ticket).&nbsp; In short, Bolt Bus is a cheap, comfortable way to ride home for the holidays.&nbsp; It has better wireless reception than Butler, more comfortable chairs than John Jay dining hall, and will take you anywhere between DC and Boston in style. -- Justin Vlasits Fung Wah Charles Lindbergh once said, "If I had to choose, I would rather have birds than airplanes." Today, we have essentially two options of bus to travel from New York to Boston/Philly/DC: the Fung-Wah Bus, classically known as "The Chinatown Bus"; and a new, flashier generation of MegaBuses, BoltBuses, and other Power Rangers-influenced vehicle names. Pragmatically, stylistically, and sentimentally, the choice is clear. The Chinatown Bus is better. First, purchasing a Chinatown Bus ticket beats the process and costs of purchasing tickets from any other bus company. To buy a Chinatown Bus ticket, you exchange a straight 15 bucks, several feet from the actual bus itself. Sometimes, mere minutes from departure time. Occasionally, seconds. The Power Ranger buses universally demand that you buy online, requiring additional Internet and service fees, locating your credit card, printing shit, memorizing reservation numbers. In a word, the Power Ranger buses expect you to plan ahead. They flaunt the possibility of $1.00 tickets, but you have to know your exact time and place at least a month ahead of the fact, and even longer before for holiday departures, to reserve these tickets. If you don't know your precise schedule this far in advance, The Power Rangers can shoot up to $25.00. And we are college students with unpredictable schedules. One of my Wednesday classes was canceled this week. Then, a professor moved the due date of an assignment forward to Wednesday afternoon. Then, my parents moved to Canada. And won't tell me why. The Chinatown Bus respects the fluctuation of life, which is why it is always and forever fifteen bucks. The Chinatown Bus is not really that dangerous. I've taken it to and from Boston somewhere upward of twenty times in my whole life, without even the slightest problem. But don't take my word for it: check out the Wikipedia page. It lists only six notable safety issues in the bus' history to take account of, and the last one sounds like it was totally that dump trucks fault. This number is reasonable, given the tremendous number of buses are driven. People exaggerate the minor mishaps they've encountered. And even though that's pretty legitimate because I like to exaggerate too, given the statistical likelihoods of these safety problems, you'll have a comparable experience with safety on the Power Ranger buses. While the Power Ranger buses boast about having the Internet (most often used to spend another 25 minutes reserving your return bus ticket), the Chinatown Bus amenities are actually far superior and more unique. Right next to the Chinatown Bus ticket counter rests a hidden gem - the famed hole-in-the-wall hot dog stand Jumbo Hot Dogs, reviewed as one of the best and cheapest insider hot dog joints in the city. Perfect before a four-hour trip. On the trip to Boston, The Chinatown Bus reliably stops at the biggest McDonald's rest area in Connecticut. Always incredibly well timed to a ninety-minute REM nap cycle. And most importantly, people on the Chinatown Bus are intriguing and animated. You'll find people of all sizes, shapes, colors, and ages. Sometimes, people snore loudly. Sometimes, people talk loudly about the snoring. Often, the people are kind of weird. But they make you think. Ultimately, we need to be reminded of why we are emotionally attached to The Chinatown Bus. I believe lyrics in Bishop Allen's song "The Chinatown Bus" aptly reflect some of this sentiment: "I remember Shanghai, how I wasn't sure just what was safe to eat. The chickens pecked and wandered at the barefoot of the children hawking figurines of workers smiling. What's the Chinese word for cheese?" More than any other bus today, The Chinatown Bus revives the childhood sense of adventure and curiosity. As Lindbergh feared, transportation -- and our lives -- have become overwhelmingly no-nonsense, slick, and ordered. And though there are certainly merits in that, life is far more interesting when it's a little chaotic, messy, and mysterious. -- Tony Gong 
 Ooh, what's going on over at Fox News? Much the same thing that's happening here, in fact! It's a debate about ROTC at Columbia, with a special Fox twist. And by "twist", we mean that they chose a photo of a 1972 student riot to accompany the article. But no matter, let's see what the Good Ship Fox has to add to the matter. Well, for one, they talked to Avi Edelman, he of the Dems and EAAH. "I think we need to say, 'No, we're not gonna bring it back right now because of discrimination. Let's work to end "Don't Ask Don't Tell" on a federal level. Let's make sure people know what our objection is and then let's fix it,'" Edelman said. Arguing the opposite is Spec columnist/CUGOP leader/Republican-About-Campus Lauren Salz, who said that "only half of the Ivy League institutions have ROTC on their campuses and I think that needs to change. Our university's going to be a force for change in making the military more diverse." Whether you fall on the Salzian or Edelmanian side of the spectrum (or somewhere in between), don't forget to vote and then tell us all about it. UPDATE 7:51 PM: There's also a video report. 
 Bwog would like take this time to officially welcome our new Hawkmadinebwog editor, Courtney Douds. You might remember Douds from her many magnificent photo contributions. There's been a lot going on Hawk-wise this week, here's what you might have missed: The hawk knows to eat students right after they leave Butler -- they're at the weakest. Ever more Hawk-Butler action. Campus squirrels are cowering So check the Hawkmadinebwog regularly, it's Columbia's source for bird news and gossip. Plus, the food is always free. 
Spec is off for break, but we want to make believe that they're still here!&nbsp; This is some of the best of the other Ivy dailies. Yale loses at football.&nbsp; Sound familiar? Hugo: not such a big deal! There were elections on November 4.&nbsp; And not just for Obama! People are sad at Princeton too!&nbsp; At Columbia, we just complain. Useless knowledge at elite institutions?&nbsp; Never. Crazy alumni launch baseless lawsuits.&nbsp; Heard that one before? 
 Remember how James Franco is actually an actor?&nbsp; Well, it's time to get your holiday cheer on early because Franco is starring alongside Sean Penn in Milk, the story of California's first openly gay elected official.&nbsp; Franco is playing a hippie (for a change) who becomes Milk's campaign manager.&nbsp; The film, opening today, will be playing in Chelsea and the the East Village all day.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Thanksgiving weekend can be a tumultuous time for first-years. For many, it is the first time home since August, a hectic four-day period where one must see everyone one loved or cared about since pre-school at breakneck speed. This includes much obligatory bonding time with parents and relatives and a lot of "yeah I know I look tired but I swear I'm OK" lines aimed at worried grandparents. There is no reunion more daunting however, than the meet-up with ones high school sweetheart. From coast to coast, Thanksgiving weekend has been dubbed "break-up weekend":&nbsp;freshmen eagerly anticipate seeing their boyfriend or girlfriend, only to be massively disappointed when they actually see their significant other for the first time in months, resulting in the all-too-common "I'm waiting for this?!" effect when one considers the other options available to them at college in the big city. There is also the possibility that the relationship has been on the rocks for a while, the strain of long-distance taking its toll on a bond that once seemed unbreakable, and Thanksgiving serves as the perfect opportunity to initiate a break up that shouldn't be done over Facebook or via videochat. Good luck this weekend, Twelves, Bwog will be here to help you nurse those broken hearts come Monday morning.&nbsp; 
 Even more awful terrorism-related news today, as the FBI has recently issued an alert that "al-Qaida suicide bombers were contemplating an attack on New York's mass-transit systems during the holiday season." The would-be attacks are being described by law enforcement as "plausible, but unsubstantiated." No futher details have been made available, and no arrests have been made. Still, "Department of Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke said the warning was issued 'out of an abundance of caution going into this holiday season.'" 
 Bwog will be taking it easy today in deference to Thanksgiving and hope you will be too. And as per our tradition, we've compiled a list of everything and everyone for which/whom we're thankful.&nbsp; People Andrew Sarris Lil Wayne Michelle Obama Alan Brinkley Giambattista Vico Andrew Revkin Robby the Vending Machine James Franco (and the hope of running into him at Dodge) Eric Foner yelling passionately in lectures The Terrible Twelves Nate Silver: Ultimate nerd dreamboat Bob Dylan Obama Josh Mathew Male poets Stravinsky Jay Orenduff John Kluge Cute CAVA boys Foodstuffs Appletree's new-ish salad bar Farmers markets Starbucks holiday cups Turkey! Pandoro Columbia's free food Shake Shack Westside Market Diet Coke Soy products Trader Joe's wine Grapes Our suite kitchen, especially the oven A good knife Burritos in Ferris Booth Naan $1.50 Nantucket Nectars in the Schermerhorn vending machine The peanut butter m&amp;ms in the Mudd vending machines Westside hot soup Josh Mathew's red velvet cakes Hidden stacks of napkins free for the taking at Ferris Booth Vinegar-based condiments - there are so many! Barbeque sauce, tabasco, ketchup, mustard, etc. If it was not for vinegar then we would not have all this delicious stuff Cruz de Malta Yerba Mate The massive gyros at George's Pizza on 181st street Basement Pizza Coffee House&nbsp; Morningside and Its Environs Riverside Park Tourists who photograph the campus squirrels The after-midnight cashier at HamDel The wiener dog that trotted into Schermerhorn the other day and down 2 flights of stairs The guy in the SDA office who stacked a ton of Axe Chocolate temptation deodarant sample cans in front of us his door, which have found their way into my back pack at times New bike lanes Hungarian's dim lighting The Egyptian guy who works the chicken &amp; rice stand outside of Rite Aid on 110th and Broadway 24/7 Talkative cashiers at Duane Reade The Barnard tunnel system Woodbridge Usually vigilant RAs Having a single Astoria The courtyard at Union Theological Seminary California for Thanksgiving Venturing outside of Morningside Heights The New Yorker George Packer Ryan Lizza New Yorker's Food Issue New Yorker issues no longer devoted to the election Culture Vulture Pleasure reading The New York Observer Boy Meets World on YouTube "Last Thoughts on Woody Guthrie" Puppy Cam "Single Ladies" music video spoofs and reinterpretations Daily Intel's Gossip Girl Reality Index 39 more episodes of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia Football Hipster headphones used as earmuffs Technologic Gmail themes My Blackberry Synecdoche, New York Gchat YouTube Sony MDR v6's Megavideo, hulu, surfthechannel Learning how to use the stove Robots Hopstop Academia and Beyond One less semester (almost) here Extended deadlines Chance to start fresh with new classes next semester Finding other places to study than Butler Having studied abroad Seminars devoted to love Columbia swim team The fact I'm not graduating this year My financial aid officer My high school yearbook Professors who give a shit Professors that are writing letters for me and making some calls Non-profit organizations that don't send you patronizing rejection letters (This does not include Teach for America) Having no classes on the 6th and 7th floors of Hamilton IRWAG The pronunciation of IRWAG Professors using pop culture references Universally Adored My friends Turning 21 People who are nice to interns Roommates Religious tolerance America My mom's cooking Friends in times of need Middle school nostalgia Life Friends Freedom Brendan Ballou's work in New Mexico Lights at the ends of tunnels The tunnels with lit ends My mom My suite mates who are always baking cookies Dinosaurs Fuzzy socks Spontaneous lunch dates with friends you see too little Postcards from strangers Letters from friends studying abroad Categorically Uncategorized My fur-lined gloves Control-top pantyhose Grow-in-water lizard toys...as pets! Bulky wool socks Public records Air travel Bright winter days Dogs that match their owners Birds Nocturnal, aquatic anurans Yoga class Ears -- Bwog Staff &amp; Friends 
 Shoppers thronging the streets outside of Macy's Someone's going bankrupt Friday—either you, because you scraped the bottom of your bank account taking advantage of sharply reduced prices, or the nation's retail stores, because their discounts couldn't reverse months of slumping sales. Whatever happens in the final accounting, the crowds out shopping Friday in Manhattan were horrendous.&nbsp; Many stores opened at 5 a.m. to hordes of bargain-hungry shoppers pouncing on deals like Butler Library pigeons on bagel scraps, and the flagship Macy's in Herald Square was no exception. Photos and more after the jump. &nbsp;An aisle at Macy's solidly blocked by Black Friday shoppers Bwog spent&nbsp;more than three hours wading through the sea of people flooding the famous department store's nine retail floors. Based on the variety of accents overheard, many customers seemed to be European tourists taking advantage of the weak dollar, but most were simply testy New Yorkers. Wait-times at registers could be upward of half an hour while Bwog counted more than 100 shoppers in a line for the men's bathroom. A demolished shirt display in the men's department The deals—the reason for the season—were uneven at best. Some "doorbuster" items were true steals, but many supposedly marked-down items were not much cheaper than what Bwog has found online in the past. (And that, of course, presumes you could find the item in your size:&nbsp;everyone in New York wears either medium or small, it seems.) If you didn't get out to your local mall Friday or couldn't find what you wanted, you have the start of next week to look forward to. "Cyber Monday," the first business day following Black Friday, starts the holiday shopping season online with a few sales and much hoopla. Bwog recommends you check out the forums at&nbsp;FatWallet.com and SlickDeals.net&nbsp;over the weekend to see what good deals other Web shoppers are finding. &nbsp; &nbsp; The&nbsp;crowded elevators were almost as unpleasant as those at Lerner &nbsp; ---JYH&nbsp; 
 While you were relishing waking up in your bed at home yesterday, Bwog joined the vast crowd of Manhattanites who schlepped downtown in the cold early Thursday morning to watch the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. The procession of giant balloons—an enjoyable if odd holiday ritual, when you think about it—included a few new characters among the more than 40 oversized inflatables marching down Central Park West. Buzz Lightyear, a Smurf, Horton the Elephant, and a Keith Haring tribute figure debuted this year in the parade, which also featured elaborate floats, countless high-steppin' marching bands, and Santa Claus. Aside from a small brush against a building by the SpongeBob balloon, everything appeared to go according to plans. No lampposts were knocked over or balloons accidentally popped, although Bwog kept hoping they would release the balloons like they did back in the 1920s. Oh, and all of that helium the parade uses? All 200,000 to 300,000 cubic feet of it? This year marks the first that workers for the parade's helium supplier, Linde North America, recovered and recycled the gas at the end of the route. More photos after the jump. Dora, the plucky little explorer &nbsp; A fish with a regrettably shaped mouth &nbsp; Snoopy entering Columbus Circle &nbsp; The new Haring tribute balloon &nbsp; Some perspective on the parade. Note Central Park (right), Trump International Hotel (middle),&nbsp;and Broadway (branching to the left). ---JYH 
The thirteens are coming (really, they are), and everyone is taking notice. Thirteens cometh, thirteens goeth: Because without a scholarship, we're far too expensive. And there's always those pesky test scores to stop people. And the oh so quotable: Chalfie: "I basically tickle worms." CU Neurosurgeon Richard Anderson: "Since there are a million different types of hair accessories, why wear something that poses a risk?" An outsider and literalist: “I was astonished. My jaw was dropping.” 
 Today's New York Times Sunday Book Review includes a letter to the editor from philosophy and English professor Philip Kitcher, in which he masterfully corrects Slate overlord Jack Shafer. The latter had hypothetically asked in last week's review of Roy Blount, Jr.'s Alphabet Juice: "Who before Blount thought to construct a complete conversation using only English vowels?" Writes Kitcher: "The answer is James Joyce. Almost. The conversation Shafer cites, with the five vowels in order, has a precursor in a sentence from 'Ulysses.' In Chapter 9, Stephen Dedalus is meditating on his debt to the writer George Russell, whose pseudonym was AE. Stephen concludes his musings with a five-letter sentence: A.E.I.O.U." 
New Hawkmadinebwog contributor Courtney Douds takes us on a vicarious five-minute hike across campus, satisfying the urge for a walk in the woods without requiring anyone to get too cold. Most photographs of&nbsp;Hawkmadinejad&nbsp;depict more than just one fascinating species. For the arboreal enthusiasts whose interests have thus far been ignored, here is a map of the large trees on campus, species by species. Hawkmadinejad is constantly spotted in the Honeylocusts at the end of Hamilton, Journalism, and the East side of Butler. Many species can only be found on the lawn in front of Philosophy, the only place on campus where you can find ten different trees at once. The enormous Sycamore in front of Mathematics is especially beautiful. These trees were identified using the helpful but limited “New York City Trees: A Field Guide for the Metropolitan Area” available in Barnes &amp; Noble. If you are a tree expert or have an educated guess as to the specific subspecies planted throughout campus (especially the lindens or the smaller trees directly in front of Butler), please let us know in the comments. 
 Look which local bookshop has made New York Magazine's recent quasi-advertorial article thing about how to be "independent": it's Morningside Books! Says New York: The Crowd: Caters to the Upper West Side’s erudite collectors (with first editions from Jimmy Breslin, Updike, etc.) as well as cost-averse Columbia students (a wall’s worth of Penguin Classics). Sample Find: A vintage 24-volume Charles Dickens set. What’s Selling? Toni Morrison’s A Mercy. 2915 Broadway; 212-222-3350. In other news, per New York, Sunday dinner is the new Sunday brunch. Act accordingly. 
 Things slow down before reading week, but there's plenty of winter cheer and music to look forward to. Monday Crash Test Dummies: We all love those slow-motion videos of dummies in cars, but what about the science of engineering for safety?&nbsp; 11:00 AM @ Davis Aud, Schapiro. Tuesday Columbia Classical Performers: Morningside's musicians come out of the woodwork to give another splendid concert.&nbsp; 6:30 PM @ Philosophy Lounge. Thursday Tree Lighting and Yule Log Ceremony: Columbia's annual winter traditions are back.&nbsp; Hot chocolate, shiny lights, and Quigley's Quaint Countdown.&nbsp; 5:45 PM @ College Walk. Friday CUO Fall Concert: Tchaikovsky and Shostakovich- it's the Columbia University Orchestra, conducted by Jeff Milarsky.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Roone. Saturday The Material Theater: The Columbia University Players' final production of the season promises puppets, banjos, and comeuppance.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ ADP House. 
 The Barnard Leadership Initiative becomes the Barnard Leadership Institute, results of this switch remain a little fuzzy A new month, a new proposal for gender-blind housing Wait, what grade inflation? That's only in Cambridge, silly Spec! Broadway and Amsterdam are different avenues, and different people frequent them. The first of December heralds in finals season, holiday anticipation, and a 1,200-word epic poem by Columbia's favorite Twelve, Stephan. Seriously. 
Seniors have until the end of the day to turn in their application for their degree to 210 Kent. That's a deadline Bwog is pretty sure you don't want to miss. You can find the form here. 
 Columbia, welcome to no man's land. For the next two weeks, life will most likely not be fun. You are stuck in the in-between holiday purgatory, having just left home and not far from returning. You must somehow fit what now seems like a lifetime of paper-writing and furious studying into this short amount of time. Bwog isn't really going to suggest you do anything during finals week except sigh loudly, complain with your friends and have occasional nervous breakdowns, but until the second week of December, we suggest that you punctuate your finals-induced misery with one or a few of the many lovely free mostly-holiday-themed events taking place in our fair city. A full listing after the jump. &nbsp; Monday, December 1 Beginning at 5:30 PM tonight, sidewalks between the Time Warner Center on 59th Street and 68th Street will be crowded with performers from the Big Apple Circus. There will be a tree lighting ceremony on 63rd and Broadway and other fun holiday UWS fun to be had for all.&nbsp; &nbsp;Tuesday, December 2 The Winter Garden in Tribeca hosts two performances of&nbsp;The Nutcracker, at 12:30 PM and 6:30 PM. The later performance includes a tree lighting ceremony. Wednesday, December 3 Because you will never get sick of tree lighting ceremonies, ever. Tonight's the big one: wade through crowds for the pretty-much-worth-it Rockefeller Center tree lighting ceremony. The tree is lit at 8:55 PM on the dot but the celebration goes from 7-9 PM.&nbsp; Thursday, December 4 In addition to our own tree lighting ceremony and fun yule log times with Quigley, you can check out a free concert honoring everyone's favorite first lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, at John Jay College in Midtown. The show starts at 7:30 and includes Metropolitan Opera soloists, the Choral Society and the International Orchestra for Human Rights. Gloria Steinheim and Rwandan Ambassador&nbsp;Joseph Nsengimana will speak, among others.&nbsp;Reserve your free tickets here. &nbsp; Friday, December 5 Avoid embarrassing ice skating stumbles over break. Take a free skating tutorial from 9 AM-11 AM at the Pond at Bryant Park. Saturday, December 6 &nbsp; Do something you've definitely never done before: witness a "vibraphone battle" at the famous Dizzy's jazz club in Lincoln Center. Featuring Adam Birbaum, Ari Roland, and Uylsses Owens. 2:30 PM.&nbsp; Sunday, December 7 Count the semesters 'till you graduate and you have to pay for museums. Not too many, right? Go to the Whitney and see the new Alexander Calder exhibit the Times calls praises for bringing "the giddy ferment of his artistic circle to life."&nbsp; Monday, December 8 Last day of classes. 'Nuff said. Tuesday, December 9 Last chance for cheesy holiday merry-making before you begin your week of solitary confinement. Christmas activities, the lighting of the Dana Discovery Center in Central Park, free hot chocolate and cookie decorating. From 3 PM-5 PM on 110th Street between 5th and Lenox.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Bwog receives a lot of emails. Still, even Gmailers as jaded as we were curious about the following anonymous correspondence, the subject line of which was "giant vagina in carman elevator! 2:30ish am, Dec 1"&nbsp; We were hoping there would be an explanatory picture, and oh, was there ever. &nbsp;No further context was provided, and you know what, we're okay with that. 
 There was much uproar in response to our Shocking Revelation that next fall, the traditional Reading Week will morph into a tiny, hellish creature known as "Study Day." Is there anything to be done about the unfortunate calendering? CCSC offers up a resounding "maybe!"&nbsp; According to 2010 VP Sue Yang, who's point person on the Study Day Project, the following two options are the most viable: "Move the last day of classes from Monday Dec 14 to Friday Dec 11. &nbsp;This, of course, would require faculty who would normally teach those Monday courses to shift their schedule for this one day. &nbsp;Students who normally have classes and recitations on Friday may incur some conflicts too. &nbsp;This would, however, add not only that Monday to the reading period, but also provide the weekend as study days free of the worry of classes. Keep the class schedule the same, but hold exams on Saturday and Sunday (as some universities do) so that we can shift the start of the exam period from Wednesday Dec 16 to Friday Dec 18. &nbsp;Students would then have a normal reading period of Tuesday - Thursday." Still, said Yang, putting into place either of these things (or any other solution) requires cooperation between the four school councils. Ideally, solutions would be discussed before break with a resolution coming to fruition sometime in the mid-February area. However, the timeline "will depend on the schedules of the parties involved," she cautioned. 
 We just wanted to take a quick minute to thank you, the reader, for reading. We've had an exciting fall, with pageviews numbering just below 1.5 million/month for October and November (our highest since April '08 by about 100k). So again, thanks for reading -- we're humbled and grateful that you do. 
 God knows its finals season. This afternoon from around 2 PM to 6 PM, the juxtaposition of the moon, Venus and Jupiter will form a frowny face in the south-south-western sky. Bwogger and astronomy-tipster Hans Hyttinen believes that optimal viewing time will be after the sun sets at 4:20 PM. Fiddle around with the stars and planets to get a better sense of this planetary optical illusion here, and read about yesterday's heavenly smiley face, which proved rather feeble due to misalignment and weather problems. Also: We want your sky portraiture! If you get a good shot of the sad face this afternoon, send it to bwgossip@columbia.edu.&nbsp; More photos after the jump. Top two photos by Courtney Douds &nbsp; Last two photos by HEH 
 A new issue of the Jester is out today, which you should find distributed around campus. This month's "Green"-themed issue can also be on read on the Jester's brand-new website, and is chock-full of lol-inducing articles, including... a consideration of what it means to be a nihilist publication in this day and age, a reunion with all of the Cartoon Network characters you loved when you were 12 and probably still love, a 2-page spread of Gumby (you know, because he's green and everything) in various compromising positions, a list of how to make your pick-up lines more environmentally friendly, and a slew of fake ads and miscellany. Plus, they make fun of Al Gore! Enjoy. 
 The results of last week's ROTC survey should be released later today. Before they are, Bwog encourages you to do some close-to-home back-reading on the issue--below, we've re-run Izumi Devalier's article from the November 2005 issue of The Blue and White titled "Embedded in New York: Or, How I Learned to Stop Whining and Love ROTC." The average Columbia student knows about as much about ROTC as she knows about assembling a rifle. Guns don’t kill people, the thinking goes: ROTC students kill people. &nbsp;As for what they do when they’re not killing people (which, as it turns out, is always), most students draw a blank. To answer this question, I embedded myself with Columbia’s Reserve Officers’ Training Corps for a month, blending in about as well as a student clad in camouflage blends in on a crowded Manhattan sidewalk. &nbsp;My life as a soldier began on a bright Friday morning when I was supposed to meet Army Cadet Private Riaz Zaidi, C’08, at 0915 in front of the 116th gates. Friday is a big day for ROTC cadets, with classroom instruction and leadership labs. Unfortunately, Friday is also a big day for sleepers like myself, and I usually spend the hours before noon pleasantly incapacitated. &nbsp;As I stumbled out of my dorm and began sprinting to our meeting place, I panicked. Having failed to Facebook him in advance, I had no idea what Cadet Zaidi looked like. But then I spotted a tall figure sporting full camouflage and polished black boots. Thank God for conformity. &nbsp;Columbia students must trek to Fordham University to participate in the New York City Army ROTC program, and to Manhattan College for the Air Force Program. The result of this exile, imposed since 1969 when student rioters prompted Columbia to end the program, has been a gradual dwindling of cadet enlistment. This year, only five Columbia cadets are enrolled in the Army, and three in the Air Force, including a visiting student from Tulane University. Together, they keep a low profile on campus, evading hostile stares as they quietly reconcile their civilian and military lives. On the subway ride to Fordham’s Lincoln Center Campus, Cadet Zaidi skimmed the ten pages of reading he was assigned from the First Year Military Science (MS) textbook. More than once, I caught passengers staring at him, perhaps suspecting Bloomberg had upgraded subway security. He didn’t seem to care. When we arrived, the MS1 instructor, Major Riley, was already handing back the previous week’s quizzes. A handsome man in his thirties with closely cropped, dirty-blonde hair, Major Riley is the stuff of ROTC legend. For one, he is sickeningly fit: the Major scored a 414 on the extended scale of the Army’s Physical Fitness Test, which considers 300 a perfect score. He runs a five-minute mile, which he claims is “not that great at all,” and can perform 144 pushups in two minutes. Today he is teaching a tutorial on nutrition. Major Riley teaches with what one would call the Socratic method, had Socrates been a drill sergeant. Major Riley: “Why do we eat?” Cadet Pham, NYU ’09: “Sustenance, sir!” Major Riley: “What is your body?” Cadet Lombardo, Manhattan College ’09: “An organic process, sir!” This exchange was followed&nbsp;by a short lecture on the basic rules of healthy eating (“If it doesn’t grow, don’t eat it!”). Then class adjourned, and I went back to my bag of Doritos. &nbsp;The following Wednesday, I set my alarm for the&nbsp; ungodly hour of 0600 and joined in the Physical Training at Central Park. Even though PT sessions take place three times a week, Cadet 2nd Lieutenant Sean Wilkes, C’06, told me I should start on a Wednesday since it was “light on running.” For someone whose athletic regimen is limited to power-walking the stretch from Lerner Hall to the International Affairs Building when I have a poli sci paper due, this was good news. &nbsp;I should have known better. When Cadet Zaidi and I arrived at the southwestern entrance of Central Park, the other cadets had already begun filing into formation. Before I could gather what was going on, the senior cadet ordered everyone to begin marching. Then they started sprinting. I did not. &nbsp;I eventually found them stretching on a baseball diamond not far from where we had started. “Thank God that’s over,” I thought, proud of a hard day’s work. Sure, I was panting, but I had completed the run, however clumsily. I remember thinking, “Maybe I’m cut out for the army after all!” &nbsp;Then the real routine began. Crunches, plyometric jumps, leg lifts, reverse curls, squats, lunges, bicycle kicks, sit-ups, chin-ups, push-ups, push-ups with your arms close together, push-ups with your arms far apart, one-armed push-ups—did I mention push-ups? I tried to sit out of the exercises, but Major Riley caught me cheating and ordered me back. By the time we finished my body felt like it was disintegrating. But the other cadets seemed unfazed. After reviewing several marching drills, they dispersed and set off for their morning classes. I spent the rest of the day immobilized in bed. I was allowed to participate in most ROTC activities despite having blown my cover early on (Major Riley: “So what publication are you from?”). Given my cursory military knowledge, derived from repeated viewings of Spy Game, I had expected the Army to be more secretive. You could say we had our own little Don’t Ask Don’t Tell policy. &nbsp;Field Training, however, was off-limits. Apparently they require military ID on military bases, and my CUID didn’t count. Field Training allows cadets to apply the skills learned in the MS tutorials and leadership labs to simulated tactical programs, including weapons and survival training. Imagine a giant ropes course with hand grenades, 50-pound rucksacks, rifles, and a lot of shouting. &nbsp;But compared to some other ROTC regimens, Field Training coddles you. Cadet Wilkes described the Nuclear, Biological and Chemical Warfare exercises as “training seven days a week for five weeks,on about four to five hours of sleep a day, sometimes none. It’s grueling, but you survive.” &nbsp;In one Chemical Warfare exercise, Wilkes had to walk through a gas chamber filled with CS gas (ortho-chlorobenzylidene-malononitrile). Cadets wore gas masks, but were required to remove them in the middle of the room, state their name and social security number, and answer a simple question such as, “What’s one plus one?” &nbsp;Cadet Wilkes described the experience in the nonchalant verse of military poetry. “The purpose&nbsp;of this LDAC exercise is to give us experience with putting on our mask and MOPP suit in an NBC environment, and demonstrate the importance of doing so properly,” he said.&nbsp; “I have an Air Force tradition you might be interested in,” Air Force Cadet Bob Wray, C’06, told me. He was referring to Detachment 506’s quarter-annual “Dining-In” ceremony. “It’s a formal event, so you’ll have to wear a dress. And by the way, it’s on Long Island.” &nbsp;When Cadet Wray and I arrived at the American Legion Outpost 958 in East Rockaway, members of the Color Guard, the Air Force’s flag-bearing unit, were already practicing for the opening ceremony.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;‘Dining-In’ is basically a unit-based formal dinner with a military flavor,” Wray explained, as&nbsp;he carefully transcribed the names of guests onto beige place-cards. While he paced around the room frantically issuing orders (“Has someone asked Major Brown if he wants chicken marsala or roast beef?! Someone make sure the colonel has a parking spot!”), I wandered aimlessly, shaking hands with the 80 or so guests in attendance and making idle chatter with cadets, commissioned officers, and their civilian dates. &nbsp;One of my fellow civilians, Katherine, was a senior from NYU and by all accounts an ROTC groupie. As the roommate of a cadet, she had attended most of the detachment’s events. When I asked her why she hadn’t simply joined ROTC, she said she preferred being a “partial observer of the community. Plus the food is usually good.” &nbsp;When the guest of honor, Air Force Colonel John Ranck, arrived, we took our seats. The dinner began with a flag ceremony, followed by a memorial commemorating POWs and persons missing in action. &nbsp;The dinner itself was “scripted.” This meant that guests were treated to meticulously calibrated&nbsp;dialogue and strange military traditions such as the Grog ceremony, in which cadets devised witty stanzas exposing trivial infractions committed by fellow cadets (Sample: “I hereby spot a crooked bow / Off to the Grog you go!”). The loser drinks out of the Grog bowl, which normally contains a repulsive concoction of low-grade alcohols. But due to the underage audience, this particular Grog bowl contained a purple mixture of diet root beer, Red Bull,&nbsp;protein powder and Lucky Charms cereal. By the time we had finished our desserts, I was beginning to see why these cadets were so attracted to ROTC. Beyond its military aspects the program offers a tight-knit community, much like a college fraternity, though it certainly has a different rhythm from the one most Columbians are used to. &nbsp;On the train ride back to Manhattan, the train conductor looked at our group—two of us in elegant dresses and three cadets in full uniform—and ex- claimed, “Hey guys, don’t you think it’s a little early for Halloween?” I thought about responding, but decided instead to enjoy the double life for a few more hours. 
 Yesterday was a big day for Morningside Heights. Our most famous off-campus building, the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, reopened fully Sunday, seven years after the massive 2001 fire that forced its partial closure. $40 million later, the Cathedral is back in all its splendor. The rededication of drew a crowd of thousands to 112th Street and all the big-name city publications covered&nbsp;the&nbsp;story. Bwog headed over today to see what all the fuss was about and found a rather placid St. John: the usual few tour buses were parked outside, but inside we found only a few dozen people praying or touring. Still, the Cathedral looks truly glorious, and Bwog suggests heading over ASAP. You can skip the $5 suggested donation and just marvel from the entrance. &nbsp;Photo by Liz Naiden&nbsp; 
 Final results for the NROTC vote were just announced for three of the four undergraduate schools (CC, SEAS, and GS), with an extremely close result. From CCSC president George Krebs's weekly email: "The NROTC poll was closed at 9 am Monday morning and here's the tally: We sent out 6913 email invitations, including all CC, SEAS, and GS undergraduate students. We received 2971 valid votes, representing 43% of the population. 1463 YES, 49.24%; 1502 NO, 50.56%; 6 ABSTAIN, 0.20%. There were concerns about students being able to vote multiple times.&nbsp; The Student Development and Activities office, which compiled the results, have assured us that one UNI was given one vote. Multiple votes were not counted. If a student attempted to vote multiple times,&nbsp; only the last vote they cast was counted." Results for Barnard students, who used a different poll that closed later in the day, expect numbers to start pourng in around noon today. 
 In a statement to the GS student body, GSSC President Brody Berg expressed skepticism about the results of the NROTC survey, writing that "I believe that this poll result is meaningless due to the huge number of apparently fraudulent votes." Although almost 2000 fraudulent votes were removed (including one student who voted 276 times) by matching one ID with one vote, Berg expressed skepticism that this strategy was adequate, further noting that "the votes thrown out were done with no supervision." "Even though the side I support 'won,'" he concluded, "due to the huge number of fraudulent votes, myself and the Executive Board of the General Studies Student Council believe both General Studies and the Columbia community at large would be better served on this controversial issue with a poll whose results we can trust." Earlier in the day, CCSC president George Krebs had expressed confidence in the result, writing in his CCSC email that "Multiple votes were not counted. If a student attempted to vote multiple times, only the last vote they cast was counted." Bwog notes that many of the multiple results probably came from students sharing links with each other, as occurred with the Democrats (who sent a listserve email with one person's link) and Bwog itself. If the last vote was counted, then the last person to use that link would be the one whose vote counted. In addition, questions about the ability to use others' links and "hack the survey" remain unanswered. Berg's full e-mail after the jump. Bwog thinks this issue may not be over. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of General Studies,&nbsp; The results of the NROTC Survey given to General Studies, Columbia College and the School of Engineering are in: 6913 email invitations 2971 valid votes (43% of the population) 1463 Yes ("Bring NROTC to campus) 1502 No ("Don't bring NROTC to campus) 6 abstain But here is where it gets interesting: 4905 votes were recorded One person voted 276 times And "after eliminating the duplicates and matching the unique IDs with our records, 2971 unduplicated votes are determined as "valid." (All this information is from Columbia College SDA Advisor David Cheng) What this means is that there were nearly 2000 votes thrown out of a race decided by only 39 total votes. More votes were thrown out than the individual size of three out of the four colleges in the survey. Furthermore, the votes thrown out were done with no supervision and with a fraud detection strategy only as good as "eliminating duplicates and matching unique IDs." Now, let me be clear, even though I personally voted No, I believe that this poll result is meaningless due to the huge number of apparently fraudulent votes. I say this out of common sense and because, as a software industry veteran of 10 years and senior in the Computer Science department. My professional gut feeling tells me that a significant number of fraudulent votes may not have been removed. I was quoted in the Columbia Spectator on September 26th saying "My number one thing from the very beginning was to assess student opinion on NROTC in a fair manner." In the General Studies student body we are proud to have a lot of students on both sides of this issue. Even though the side I support "won", due to the huge number of fraudulent votes, myself and the Executive Board of the General Studies Student Council believe both General Studies and the Columbia community at large would be better served on this controversial issue with a poll whose results we can trust. Thanks, and stay tuned, Brody Berg Student Body President General Studies Student Council 2008-09 Columbia University 
Hot on the heels of the CC/SEAS/GS results, Barnard's numbers came in just a few moments ago. Here's how they look: Total # Votes: 1,189 Yes: 453 (38.1%) No: 736 (61.9%) According to SGA President Sarah Besnoff: "The results of this vote indicate that this is an issue that will be discussed in the University Senate. &nbsp;Our University Senator will use these results when discussing student sentiment on the topic. &nbsp;Because of the clear majority for "no" votes, should our University Senator be asked to vote on the issue, she will vote "no" in accordance with these results."&nbsp; Keep in mind that Barnard's tally isn't subject to the same objections as that of the other three schools, as students used their UNIs to vote via their eBear accounts (Barnard's SSOL). 
 As the NROTC results are being discussed and debated, it's likely that the term margin of error is going to get thrown around. So, what is the margin of error? According to Jon Hill, Bwog's Nate Silver Correspondent of Mathematical Wizardry, there is none. Here's why: Votes counted: 2,971 Undergraduate enrollment (2007 ): 7,411 At a 95 percent confidence level: = = 1.80 percentage points With finite population correction: = sqrt * 1.80 = 1.39 percentage points So the figure +/- 1.39 percentage points would be the MOE, and that would take in the 1.32 percentage point difference between the YES and NO votes. However, because this survey is not a random sampling by any means, there can be no true margin of error calculated. You can't extrapolate these results to the entire undergraduate population. As a result, any criticism based on MOE in this case is a statistical canard, especially since there are plenty of other legitimate flaws in the survey results to point to. 
 Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmermann attended last night's abbreviated ESC meeting.&nbsp; Blue Elephant – noun, a variation on the common white elephant gift exchange, in which player can either unwrap a gift from a pile, or steal a gift someone else has unwrapped. It also was the main feature in yesterday’s ESC meeting. While eating lemon and raspberry squares (made by the secretary and president, respectively), members exchanged various gifts including: 3 Pink Berry gift cards (2 of which were stolen), Victoria Secret’s Amber Romance perfume and lotion (which was stolen), and a single gift consisting of a plate, two glasses, two condoms, a mix tape, and jasmine and bamboo scented soap (which was not stolen). During the abbreviated meeting, the GSSC liaison reported that the GSSC had found a new VP Student Life: Alex Katz. The position has been deemed “cursed” by some members of the council. Alex is the third VP Student Life this semester; seven different people have held the position in the last two years. ESC President Peter Valeiras announced that, after talks with university officials, it is “possible” that students will be able to take off the Wednesday before Thanksgiving. However, any action taken has to go through the University Senate’s Education Committee, which approved 15 years of calendars in 1997. Valeiras also said that ESC is working with CCSC to find ways to extend 2009’s scheduled reading "week". 
 Bwog would like to invite you to say hello to GS's new Owl Logo! You'll recall that their old Owl, Gulliver, was owlnapped from Harford Community College. Anyway, this new guy (gal?) is so snazzy with the little thumbs up. Well, thumbs up to you too New Gulliver.&nbsp; 
 If you were surprised to find a Bwog sans Quickspec this morning, have no fear for QuickSpec is here, as the Spectator was a tad delayed in updating their website today, maybe just because of all of the breaking NROTC hooplah on campus. NROTC at Columbia.&nbsp; Just like a coin-flip. "Healthy Aging Centers," aging all too quickly, require a radical revamp. Friends of Hillary friendly towards Obama Secretary of State choice. Mailman School of Public Health delivers on AIDS research. First there's LionLink now there's ArtsLink? 
 So while we're on the subject of academic calendar discontent, it's worth pointing out that the first day of classes for Spring Term falls on Inauguration Day, when approximately all of the Earth's population will congregate in Washington for Obama's swearing-in.&nbsp; One Bwog staffer was quick to point out that "the first day of classes doesn't matter," while another countered that it does matter if you have a seminar on Tuesday and the professor hands over your spot to a lucky wait-lister. Unlike student council's tenuous battle against Study Day, this is one unfortunate act of calendering that's not going anywhere. So, the decision is yours, but the generosity of your new professors is up to the fates. 
 Bwog received word today that the famed conservative periodical, the Weekly Standard has published in its most recent issue an adamant critique of Columbia's Manhattanville expansion, on ideological grounds opposed to eminent domain.&nbsp; Not only is fair alma featured in the piece as an unyielding slumlord, but another surprising character makes a curious appearance. What Bwog found more peculiar than the Standard's bashing of the expansion plan, was the flowery description of Columbia's most notorious opponent, who is showered with praise throughout the article. Nick Sprayregen, of mini-storage empire fame makes a prominent appearance throughout journalist Jonathan Last's (you might know him best for his famous eulogy of Captain America) piece, and it seems to focus almost exclusively on Sprayregen's multifarious options if he refuses to sell his land to Columbia rather than offering any other serious arguments against the Manhattanville expansion.&nbsp; This left Bwog to wonder if Sprayregen and recently-troubled conservative intellectuals are the newest and strangest of bedfellows?&nbsp; If so, what further twists lie ahead in Nick the Quick's Columbian saga?&nbsp; We'll leave that one up to you to decide. PHS 
 The Fireside Chat, a chance to sort of meet and sort of greet President Bollinger, is offered every semester to the entire undergraduate student body. Only about 30 students are (randomly, with control of the number of students representing each school) selected to attend this quasi-intimate two-hour session in the presidential mansion, at 60 Morningside Drive, which stands like an elegant footman in the behemoth shadow of Wien. Indoors, an eager staff of security guards, caterers, and public relations types milled among high-rolling undergraduates in collared shirts and high-heeled shoes, who snacked on chocolate-covered strawberries, fingerling potatoes, and a rather sickly-tinged hot cider. CCSC President George Krebs strolled in a few minutes after six, gabbing with Kevin Shollenberger, the Dean of Student Affairs for CC and SEAS. He then swiftly wrapped an arm around Scott Wright, the Vice President for Student and Administrative Services. Natassia Miller, CC'12, admitting she had signed up for the chat just to meet PrezBo, saw the event as an optimal networking opportunity. "Columbia is a great place to connect with as many people as possible," she explained. Back on our pre-frosh campus tours, perhaps we had all concocted that same fantasy of buddying up with our University's president at a Fireside Chat. That, of course, was before we were Columbians. Columbians all, we moved from the eating room to the chatting room, and the three front row seats closest to PrezBo remained unfilled. Most seemed to agree that that level of contact would have been, you know, awkward. Regardless of the distance from which one sat, PrezBo looked lovely. Remarkably trim for a man of his age (62), he wore dark corduroys and a soft yellow V-neck sweater with the sleeves rakishly cuffed. He spoke in a soft voice guarded from hoarseness by the two Pellegrinos at his side. On to all that was said. PrezBo began by acknowledging the need to combat "the rumors—not true—that Columbia is taking over the world," what with the recent success of alums Barack Obama, Eric Holder, and David Paterson. He also patted all us young people on the back for our discovery of a generational identity and an assumption of influence and responsibility in politics and community. But his focus on current events was not all congratulatory. Of the recession, he earnestly implored that "I would really like to hear—I need to hear—how you really feel." So he continued: "Were you thinking about a financial career? And then, in the past two to three months, that changed? And now you want to be an artist, maybe a novelist?" He conceded that the endowment is down but insisted that "we're doing fine in fundraising," and have raised more than we had at the same time last year. He also assured the audience that "we go out of business before we stop need-blind admissions." The first question, of course, came from a plucky GS student, who pointed out that the University was doing good business with just the opposite policy in her college. The next questioner also inquired why Columbia costs so much, estimating that each class session he attends costs him $200. Prezbo responded in polite, brief niceties, then seized a muddled question about his vision for the University's future to initiate discussion of Manhattanville on his own terms. Lamenting that "Columbia is so out of space, it's ridiculous," he recalled the school's 19th century space crunch on its Midtown campus, then proceeded to list all the new institutes—primarily devoted to the life sciences and the study of globalization—that will find a home on the Manhattanville campus. He also disclosed plenty about the University's plans for global expansion. First, he explained that Columbia isn't opting to follow other schools in establishing satellite locations in the regions (the Emirates and Singapore) that will pay a university to do so. Instead, Columbia will build "offices around the world that facilitate research in those regions on real issues." Such offices are planned in Amman, Delhi, Sao Paolo, Dar-es-Salaam, and beyond, and will allow students for whom a semester abroad is "too great a commitment" to study in foreign countries for trips as short as a week. Several mumbled questions about online classes, the World Leaders Forum, and the possibility of establishing internships exclusively for students receiving financial aid were basically brushed over. One SEAS senior inquired, vaguely, about PrezBo's managerial style. "The idea of being boss is kind of overrated," he conceded. "Look at what our great alum and trustee Vikram Pandit is dealing with at Citi." He painted himself as an innocent, having tumbled from a sabbatical in Strasbourg almost without effort into the work of administrating universities. He encouraged a little more opportunism in his audience, though. "There's still a lot of food," he reminded us. "You should all fill your pockets."
 Big changes are afoot following tonight's SGB Town Hall meeting. Here are some bulletpoints because we know your eyes are sore from all the end-of-semester "re"-reading you've been doing lately.&nbsp; SDS was denied recognition. Again. (Last year, you'll recall the group failed to turn up for their recognition meeting with the SGB board.) They've unofficially been on campus since Spring 2007, but are not officially sponsored.&nbsp; Other groups denied recognition include: Alliance of Students Against Poverty, Edmund Burke Society, ICARE, Weave a Dream Among the newly recognized were: Columbia Right to Life, Columbia University Dance Marathon, Delta GDP, GlobeMed, Interfaith Collective, Students for International Indigenous Rights SGB also plans to try a new initiative where groups of individuals (not official student groups) can receive funding for events and causes. The groups of individuals receive no more than $200 per event, and the group must include you and at least fourteen of your friends. Finally, SGB is going green, thanks to new initiatives like reducing bottled water and trying to cut back on paper usage. 
 New Public School curriculum will save lives! New Squash Center will save youth! New Reading Day will "increase productivity". New Administration, same politics. New Coach, nothing else changes... 
 Bwog knows that you are "writing" your 25 page papers and "studying" for your heap of exams, so we came up with a little procrastination contest (and you don't even have to open any extra Firefox tabs).&nbsp; Just search your professors on Facebook (yes, we know you have it open) and post your favorites on the thread, with reasons defending your choices.&nbsp; Bwog has a few examples. French Lecturer Vincent Aurora has activities such as "Gesticulating bombastically over a few too many drinks" and status messages like "Vincent has survived 13 consecutive days alone with his children--an unparalleled feat--with no fatalities." Logician Achille Varzi, because his profile picture is inexplicably upside-down and he is in a group called 'metaphysicists' not 'metaphysicians'. Computer Scientist Paul Blaer's profile has pictures of him holding a machine gun, and he even has his own (well-deserved) fan club group. Historian Samuel Moyn, because for Education Info, under description, he wrote: "I teach college."&nbsp; He's also in the greatest Facebook group of all time. Jeffrey Sachs, because his "About Me" is written in the third person. English Professor Brent Edwards, because his current status is "Brent Edwards is trying to decide whether to write recommendation letters or pay bills." Russian Professor Rebecca Stanton, because she's a fan of Sarah Dooley and so are we. CC Chair Roosevelt Montas, because he has two nearly identical profile pictures: as Bwog likes to call them, Office Hours by Day and Office Hours by Night. English Professor Julie Crawford, because it's not clear whether she's wearing a shirt in her profile picture. UPDATE 5:23 PM: Professors Montas and Stanton have noticed! 
 If you recall, a while ago Bwog tried it's hand at Craigslist's Missed Connections for Columbia students.&nbsp; While the primary object of longing was Hawkmadinejad, the rest of the student body was not impressed.&nbsp; However, a tipster showed us that Craigslist had a few Columbia-related connections, just waiting to be brought together.&nbsp; Bwog, in a rare attempt to give back to the community, is spreading these messages in order to unite these fated lovers. Lost love in butler - m4w You worked in butler at the RBML, then one day just disappeared. They said you had quit. Definitely took work down more than one notch. You-Blonde, tall, wears boots, full of smiles. Me-Darker blonde, not as tall, totally dressed down...always. &nbsp; treadmills and discussion on direction - m4w We first met eye to eye on the mcbain treadmills. You kept checking me out. I thought you looked great. Then maybe there again another time or so. Finally we "met" one time and you asked me for directions. I saw you a day or so later on the treadmills. I went to get a snack merely because I had the munchies. We talked, i laughed then walked away. Don't really remember much. We stopped and smiled the other at at the door. You held it for me as I hoped you would. I should have talked to you then. And now this because I am dumb as hell. Girl with glasses eating slice of pizza at Pinnacle today - m4w This is for the girl I saw today at Pinnacle near Columbia University around 12:45 or so. You have glasses, and were drinking a Yellow Vitamin Water and eating a slice of pizza with what appeared to be spinach on it. Anyway, if you read this I justed wanted to say that you are very cute. How about next time we eat together? 
(Hi Gothamist!) After spending&nbsp;much of the day on upper campus, Hawkmadinejad finally caught her&nbsp;lunch on the South Lawn. The catch was not quite so dramatic as&nbsp;the&nbsp;last time we saw her dine at Columbia, but the pictures are still pretty excellent. The creature was too small to be a squirrel, and&nbsp;hawkmadinebwog struggled to get a clear picture of her prey. Hawkmadinejad dropped some of the critter's organs into the hedge below her. Help us identify the annihilated critter from its organs, or&nbsp;prophecy for&nbsp;us&nbsp;if you are a haruspex. Plenty more pictures after the jump, and on Douds' facebook page. Birds preen to put all of their feathers in place before they take off. Here's Hawkma grooming herself before hunting. Hawkmadinejad&nbsp;looking absolutely fierce in front of Avery She hunted around Philosophy and Earl for a while, making several narrow misses at the terrified squeaking squirrels. Finally, success on the South Lawn! Here she is gobbling down her prey. Check out her eating the intestines - like eating spaghetti without utensils. Aforementioned pictures of organs: Lastly, Hawkmadinejad daintily wiping her beak after her meal like the lady she is. 
 While the value of Columbia's endowment rose a relatively measly 2% last fiscal year, our friends in Cambridge saw their endowment grow 8.6%. But the tables are turning. Between June 1 and October 31, the WSJ estimates, Harvard lost about $8 billion -- that's 22% -- of its endowment. Well, yikes. No word yet on how much Columbia lost in the same period. In other news regarding Harvard-related losses, beloved newsstand Out of Town News announced a few weeks ago that it will be closings its doors. More business for the COOP we guess. 
 In 2005, the University Senate voted 53 to 10 (with 5 abstentions) against repealing the ban of ROTC on campus. At the time, the most recent student survey conducted about the issue (in 2003) showed that 65% of students were in favor of repealing the ban. Two days ago, only 49% of students who participated in the survey were in favor of repealing the ban. So what's up with the 15% shift in attitudes? Here are a few theories. 1. Less favorable attitude towards the military. During the 2003 vote, September 11th was still fresh in the minds of everyone on campus, and some had even been in New York at the time. According to a 2005 New York Times article, "one supporter of the R.O.T.C. said yesterday that the Sept. 11 attacks may have softened attitudes toward the military." In addition, the United States invaded Iraq in March 2003, which was, at the time, actually popular. A Washington Post/ABC news poll in March conducted at the onset of the war showed that 62% of the country was in favor of military action in Iraq. Things are different now: besides New York locals, no current undergrads were at Columbia during 9/11, and it's not at the forefront of the national consciousness like it was in 2003. And the War is of course deeply unpopular. Both these things could color students attitudes towards the military. 2. Increased LGBT presence. In a November interview with the Blue and White, Columbia Queer Alliance leader Peter Gallotta described the state of 2005's LGBT community as "six people in the Stephen Donaldson Lounge" and a handful more who turned up for Queer Sushi. In contrast, the LGBT community of 2008 is an activist force to be reckoned with. CQA's Facebook group boasts 172 members, and when the campus queer community speaks, students and members of administration listen. It's very possible that the LGBT community's strengthened voice on campus contributed to the shift in student opinion. Also, the NROTC vote was hot on the heels of the Propsition 8 vote. Students who had hoped that Prop 8 would have turned out differently may have been more inclined to support LGBT causes here at home. 3. Changes for campus conservatives and moderates. In the shadow of Obama's win, many undecided voters could been influenced by the victorious spirit of liberalism on campus. They might have been more inclined to take cues from the Dems or other liberal campus groups who came out against repealing the ban. Politics has been in the shadow of Obama for about a month (some could argue longer), and that probably took attention away from conservatives. That Obama endorsed the return of ROTC himself didn't seem bolster the presence of campus conservatives, who have been a quieter, more self-contained force on campus in the wake of Kulawik anyway. -- JNW 
 If you remember in October, Saigon Grill workers were awarded a lot of money because the owners refused to pay their delivery-people and other employees minimum wage for over 70 hours of work per week (even Columbia students protested). Now, after more investigations, New York Attorney General Cuomo has announced that the owners have been charged with 11 counts of Failure to Pay Wages, 127 counts of Failure toKeep Records, and 16 counts of Receipt of “Kickback” Wages for "failing to pay their workers the minimum wage for four years."&nbsp; Allegedly, in order to keep the appearance of running a their business cleanly, the owners would report paying regular wages and force workers to cash checks and return the money.&nbsp; Bwog respects the owners right to due process, so we will not&nbsp; continue to speculate on their guilt or innocence before trial, but the large settlement in the civil suit with the workers is not a good sign. Full press release from the New York AG's Office after the jump. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Albany Press Office / 518-473-5525 New York City Press Office / 212-416-8060 nyag.pressoffice@oag.state.ny.us ATTORNEY GENERAL CUOMO ANNOUNCES ARREST OF SAIGON GRILL OWNERS FOR SCHEME TO CHEAT WORKERS AND COVER UP MILLIONS IN ILLEGALLY WITHHELD WAGES Owners Of Popular Saigon Grill Restaurants Allegedly Maintained Multiple Sets Of Books and Filed Fraudulent Business Records to Cheat the State’s Unemployment Insurance Fund and Cover Up Millions they Bilked from Employees Delivery Workers Put in 70-80 Hours a Week Below Minimum Wage; Were Fired for Suing to Recover Wages Owed NEW YORK, N.Y. (December 3, 2008) - Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo today announced the arrest of the owners of the popular Saigon Grill restaurants in New York City for allegedly failing to pay its workers legal wages, taking illegal kickbacks from workers, cheating the state unemployment insurance fund, and for creating fraudulent business records to cover up their illegal actions. Simon Nget a.k.a. Chang S. Nget, and his wife, Michelle Lu Nget a.k.a. Pei Ying Nget, are accused of numerous criminal charges based on their business practices at the Saigon Grill restaurants in Manhattan, located at 620 Amsterdam Avenue on the Upper West Side and 91 University Place in Greenwich Village, and formerly located at 1700 Second Avenue on the Upper East Side. &nbsp;The Ngets have owned and operated the popular restaurants since 1996. The Ngets are also charged with attempting to intimidate the employees from pursuing a lawsuit to recover the unpaid wages by threatening to fire those who signed on. This led to the firing of dozens of workers, but the lawsuit moved forward, and a federal judge found the owners liable for millions in unpaid wages, citing the crucial nature of the delivery workers to the restaurants’ success on the Upper West Side and downtown “Like so many restaurants across New York City, Saigon Grill was run on the backs of its workers,” said Attorney General Cuomo. “These workers allowed the business to thrive, and in exchange they were allegedly cheated out of wages, fined for ridiculous reasons, intimidated out of pursuing justice, and then pulled into a painstaking ploy to cover it all up. Today’s arrests should serve as a reminder to employers across the state-if you violate the law, you will be prosecuted.” According to the criminal complaint, over the course of four years, delivery workers for the Ngets put in between 70 and 80 hours a week delivering orders for the restaurant well below minimum wage. In addition to the delivery workers, the complaint accuses Saigon Grill of employing dozens of kitchen and restaurant workers who they did not report at all and received illegal wages ‘off the books,’ cheating the New York State unemployment insurance fund. To conceal their underpayments to workers, the Ngets then forced their workers to cash paychecks in their names and return the full amount of the check to the restaurants owners in order to create the appearance of paying lawful wages and legal bookkeeping, according to the complaint. The Ngets also allegedly relied on faulty bookkeeping to cheat the New York State unemployment insurance and tax funds. Their quarterly tax returns, which are used to calculate unemployment insurance benefits, failed to report the employment of over 65 workers, effectively jeopardizing this financial safeguard for the workers, whose benefits may be delayed because of the owner’s failure to claim them on tax returns and costing the state the expense of having to recoup the money from the illegal employer. Unemployment insurance provides temporary income for eligible workers who become unemployed through no fault of their own and who are ready, willing, and able to work. If an employer does not pay into the fund, it can be extremely difficult for a worker to access those benefits. Having failed to pay their share, mandated by law, the Ngets put their workers and their families in jeopardy and cheated taxpayers, who pay ever higher amounts to keep the system working. The Ngets are charged with a total of 151 counts each of Falsifying Business Records in the First Degree, 45 counts of Tampering with Physical Evidence, and 46 counts of Offering a False Instrument for Filing in the First Degree, all class E felonies which carry a term of up to four years in prison. &nbsp;The charges are based on the Ngets’ creation of fake payroll records which they provided to the New York State Department of Labor during an initial DOL investigation of the Ngets’ minimum wage violations. Stemming from these initial minimum wage violations, the Ngets are also charged with 11 counts of Failure to Pay Wages, 127 counts of Failure to Keep Records, and 16 counts of Receipt of “Kickback” Wages, all misdemeanors, for failing to pay their workers the minimum wage for four years. In March of 2007, the delivery workers sued their former employers to recover their rightful wages. After some of the workers had signed an authorization to commence the lawsuit, the Ngets allegedly called a meeting of all Saigon Grill delivery workers and threatened to terminate delivery service altogether at both restaurants-which would have effectively put all the employees out of work-if they did not each sign a release of all wage claims. All workers who refused to sign the release were promptly fired. Based on these actions, the Attorney General is also charging the Ngets with nine counts each of Tampering with a Witness in the Fourth Degree, Coercion in the Second Degree, and Retaliation. Josephine Lee, Coordinator of the Justice Will Be Served! Campaign, said: "It is about time that the Ngets be condemned for their reckless lawlessness. Such actions should not go unpunished. We hope that the government's treatment of these sweatshop bosses will justify the many years they have abused their workers and the public. We urge other bosses to take notice; and to right their wrongs immediately." Sheebani Patel, Organizer of Restaurant Opportunities Center of New York, said: “All restaurant workers have the same rights, regardless of their immigration status, and should be treated with dignity by their employers. Saigon Grill's practices epitomize how so many owners mar the industry with poor practices that exploit workers. The workers should be saluted for their victory, and the Attorney General's office should be applauded for taking the abuses of restaurant workers seriously. &nbsp; This will have historic industry-wide ramifications in making the industry a better place to work in.” These are the latest arrests in a string of criminal charges the Attorney General has brought against employers who fail to protect and compensate their workers. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant Attorney General Rachel Gold with Investigator Brian Ford of the Attorney General’s Office. &nbsp;This case is being supervised by Deputy Attorney General for Social Justice James Rogers. The charges against the defendants are merely accusations and the defendants are presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. 
 Excited to see the author of the book that changed our lives in the 10th grade, Bwog sent freelancer Liz Naiden to struggle through throngs of messenger bag carrying English majors standing in the back of a the crowded lecture hall on the 15th floor of IAB and listen to a conversation between novelist Jonathan Safran-Foer and critic Jenny Davidson.&nbsp;&nbsp; I finally found a seat against the wall and heard mercifully short and unpretentious introduction. The lecture, it seemed, would not be a lecture at all but a &#65533;free-form conversation,&#65533; kumbaya style, between English Professor Jenny Davidson and Jonathan Safran-Foer followed by a question and answer session with the audience. Though he is of course endearingly self-deprecating and sports the classic awkward mannerisms we associate with literary greatness, I was surprised at how normal Safran-Foer seemed. He had a familiar skinny but reasonably good looking Jewish boy with glasses look, and spoke in a poised and confident, yet conversational and disarming tone. He began to answer the first question from Davidson about the theme of communication in his work with a tight, true and tested shpiel about the place where fiction is in between sense and nonsense, where communication is imperfect and we try to wrestle meaning out of it. Then he paused for a moment and said &#65533;I don&#65533;t often feel like a writer.&#65533; You might think that a grave and intense silence followed, but in fact Safran-Foer continued on the subject of communication as a theme in his own life in a jovial, light-hearted tone, as if the fact that he didn&#65533;t feel like a writer was nothing more than a humorous oddity. Again revealing himself to be less of a tortured artist than I perhaps had hoped, Safran-Foer said that he had not grown up wanting to be a writer. In fact, until college when a creative writing professor told him she loved his writing, he had never even considered that there was such a thing as &#65533;my writing.&#65533; The professor was Joyce Carroll Oates&#241; the college, Princeton. The idealistic young writer who emerged as a result of Oates&#65533; words was convinced that a book would be the perfect form of communication, the ideal work being a &#65533;complete expressionist autobiography.&#65533; He was disappointed to find that his first book was maybe 2% of him &#65533; &#65533;I looked at it and I thought, wow, this is really Jewish, I&#65533;m not that Jewish. And wow, this is really concerned with family, I&#65533;m not that concerned with family.&#65533; His second book, he said, was even less representative, something like 1% of him. And with that he threw the tortured-artist seekers in the audience a bone &#65533; &#65533;There is no perfect expression, and yet we long for it, and I think that longing has been the real center of my writing&#65533; Then followed a tome on literary theory according to the now less na&#239;ve, but still very young Safran-Foer. But his thoughts on creativity, on the significance and futility of literature, and the limitless interpretation of a novel were fully formed and simply stated, and not without the occasional joke thrown in for good measure. While explaining that he liked the idea in the Jewish tradition of words being generative &#65533; God said let there be light and there just was light &#65533; he gave a classic example of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. Before the 1970&#65533;s in modern Hebrew there was no word for &#65533;frustrated,&#65533; so, he said, no one in Israel before the 1970&#65533;s was ever frustrated. They searched for a word and their feeling became that word, like aggravated, etc. Safran-Foer explained that he liked to think of his books as a metaphorical creation of a new word that hadn&#65533;t existed, to name a feeling that had not yet been named. But at some point Safran-Foer made it clear that the language that the conversation was taking place in &#65533; the language of thinking about books, the &#65533;language of criticism&#65533; &#65533; was very different from the &#65533;language of producing writing.&#65533; In producing writing, Safran-Foer says &#65533;I&#65533;ve never designed anything, I don&#65533;t have an outline and I don&#65533;t have a plan. Often when working things get in your way and turn out being more useful than things you put in front of you.&#65533; Near the end of the interview, after much thoerizing about the nature of literature, he said &#65533;Honestly when I&#65533;m writing I&#65533;m not thinking about anything. An ant is not an entomologist. Just because you do something doesn&#65533;t mean you know why you do it.&#65533; I found this interesting because Davidson is not only a published literary critic but a published novelist, and couldn&#65533;t herself decide whether she would rather be an ant or an entomologist throughout the entire evening. 
 Oh ye righteously indignant first-year, haven't you learned that Columbia eats freshmen for breakfast? Ghostly governing board's got no flesh on its bones Destroy that celery! The dog-eat-dog world of Columbia a capella Icy Hockey huntresses on the trail of a win Plus: A lede so nice they printed it twice! 
 Maintenance was out early this morning prettying up the trees on College Walk, in preparation for everyone's favorite holiday ritual: tree lighting! We know, the lights have been lit for like a week, but it's really just an excuse for Dean Quigley to preside (for the last time!), hot chocolate to be consumed, and a capella groups to do their thing in the last shred of holiday cheer before you all recede into your bunkers for finals.&nbsp; Festivities begin at 6:00 pm, followed by the Lighting of the Yule Log in John Jay.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Today -- as you are all no doubt incredibly aware -- is the last edition of your T/TH classes. This means all your T/TH professors will be saying hilarious, touching, inspiring and bizarre things to wrap up the semester. As per our tradition, we want to know what your professors say as closing remarks! So, email transcriptions to bwgossip@columbia.edu or just use the comment thread.&nbsp; Paul Kockelman, Intro to Language and Culture: "That's what she said." Severin Fowles, Origins of Human Society: "Wait for the coming revolution, in whatever form it may take." Haroon Moghul, Intermediate Urdu: "So over the break I want you guys to write a one page essay about yourselves. Use the vocabulary I've given you." (the vocabulary has all come from medieval poetry) Confused student: "So you want us to talk about frogs, parrots and magic?" HM: "Listen I don't care if you're stoned when you write this, I love absurd stuff. But wait...don't do drugs.". 
 In light of yesterday's Craigslist aggregation, a few readers and commenters have requested the return of Bwog Personals. Bwog Personals, you'll recall, were a frequent occurrence last spring (the season of love, etc.) and culminated with a heroic showing by CCSC Presidential candidates George Krebs and Alidad Damooei. "How could we top that?" we thought. And so ended Bwog Personals.&nbsp; But today is a new day, a new season, and a new shot at love. So, we're announcing the return of Bwog Personals. Nominate your friends (or yourself!) for a personal by emailing bwog@columbia.edu and we'll send you a list of questions, which you'll fill out and send back to us with your most flattering photo.&nbsp; We'll post your stuff, and interested dates will be instructed to contact us so that we can shell out the $10 for your ultra romantic date night. (Though keep in mind sometimes the most romantic dates in Morningside are priceless.) 
 It's never too early for CCSC gossip! (Or, you know, maybe it is.) Still, rumors have already started swirling about who's going to be on the top of this year's tickets. Here's what we've heard -- agree or disagree in the comments, or email us (bwog@columbia.edu) if you have any more gossip.&nbsp; CCSC Presidential Gossip: Sue Yang: The current 2010 VP and Study Day Project orchestrator has already begun to position herself (via increasing her reputation as an effective leader, for example heading up the Ivy Council) as a presidential candidate to be reckoned with. Robyn Burgess (current VP of Campus Life) is also rumored to be harboring presidential ambitions. One CCSC insider speculates that should Burgess and Yang go head to head, it would be the latter to receive more support within the current council. Cliff Massey (he of last year's Damooei ticket) might be contemplating a presidential run, though he also may jump on Yang's ticket as VP of Communications. Sara Partridge: 2011 President Learned Foote is in a good position to be offered the VP spot on Yang's ticket, but if he doesn't accept (and he might not -- see below), an insider said that Partridge would be next in line for VP. Class Presidents: Jeanette Clark:&nbsp;With the&nbsp;Columbia queer community&nbsp;having a busy semester, Clark is one of the few juniors already running a prominent campus group, and she&nbsp;could put together a strong "outside-the-councils" challenge. AJ Pascua: Though a long-rumored possible contender for the CCSC Presidency, insiders say Pascua has his eyes set of the top of the 2010 ticket for a fourth third year, thus effectively pulling a near-David Chait. Maximo Cubillete: The twice-defeated candidate for 2010 presidency&nbsp;could be back for a rematch with AJ Pascua, after declining to challenge him last year. Learned Foote: Despite rumors of Novielli-esque ambitions to ascend to the CCSC presidency as a rising junior, insiders say that out of respect to Yang, among other things, Foote will seek re-election as president of the 11s. Dark Horses: Jeffrey Hunter Northrop: The muscled Lorthario is mysteriously still on campus. Every graduating class in recent memory (2007 and 2008) was supposed to include JHN2, and yet, he remains. Perhaps he will dip his toes in CCSC waters -- it would certainly explain his apparent devotion to Alma. Michael Molina: Despite the fact that the prominent member of Columbia's theater and music scene (he's a member of the Kitchen Cabinet) will actually be in Europe next semester, rumors are swirling that students have already begun to gather grassroots support for him to mount an abroad run for 2010 President. "As far as I know, nobody has ever run while abroad. Maybe it will work?" said Molina. 
 Yes, this week is just the worst and yet, next week will somehow be even worse, and two weeks from now it will all culminate into one big pile of essay-and-exam atrociousness. Have some foresight and get out now, while you still can. Friday Friday Night Fights Season Finale Friday 8pm, the Hall at St. Paul's W 60th St &amp; 9th Ave Take out your anger vicariously by watching some of New York’s most vicious fighters tear themselves apart during this Muay Thai boxing event. Bring your own bloodlust. Price: $30 The Moth Uncorked: Stories about Wine Friday 7:30pm, The Players Club 16 Gramercy Park S (212.475.6116) Vicariously enjoy your favorite beverage by listening to this talented cast enact their favorite wine-induced stories. &nbsp;Wine without a hang-over, it’s a win-win situation. Price: $20 Saturday Bowie Ball Saturday 10pm, Santos Party House 100 Lafayette St (212.584.5492) Bowie is forever cool at this all-glam event. &nbsp;Five live bands and DJs with impressive resumes will rock your spandex. Price: $20, $15 in advance Sunday Clover Club Liquid Brunch Sunday 11am-4pm, 210 Smith St. - b/t Baltic &amp; Butler Sts. - Cobble Hill (718-855-7939) Everybody knows that a day of studying gets its best start with a complete breakfast. &nbsp;So, drink up! &nbsp;These creative cocktails will really inspire your creativity. Price: Pay as you go Columbia University Orchestra's Fall Concert Includes Mosolov's "The Iron Foundry", Tchaikovsky's "Romeo and Juliet Fantasy Overture", and Shostakovitch's "Symphony No. 5." 8 PM -- SJP 
 Tipsters report several cop cars and two ambulances in front of Wien and that two cops have rushed inside the building. UPDATE 7:57 PM: Apparently a student was "unresponsive" to knocks at the door by Public Safety. Police and emergency services were called to remove the student from his dorm. Apparently calls were made to public safety regarding the welfare of the student, who was described by a ResLife staffer as "unwell." The student is now at St. Luke's. UPDATE 8:06 PM: The student lives on the 9th floor. UPDATE 9:23 PM: Bwog staffers have been in contact with the student in question throughout the incident and can assure you of his physical well-being. (Also, regarding issues of privacy: the student had requested that Bwog post these status updates.) 
Spectator has been having some internet troubles of late--Editor Tom Faure says they're "reconstructing" and "a little sloppy in the day to day stuff"--so Eye's front page is up, but not yet the articles. Meanwhile, it's the last issue for the magazine's current staff. Round of applause! "Hipster rag" no longer? (page 2) But always down for a little hipster introspection (page 5) Somebody's media criticism paper run amok (pages 7-10) Panning is fun (page 12) You thought you knew what a PS1 was? Think again (page 14) 
 Holiday merrymakers braved the drizzle this evening to drink hot chocolate, listen to a capella, and bask in the warmth of Austin Quigley’s valedictory address. The departing dean - who said he was looking forward to teaching next semester - waxed eloquent about the meaning of holiday time as a period of renewal, and a time to be with family. He then ran through the list of illustrious figures who have come out of this august institution, beginning with John Jay, progressing through Mark Van Doren, and concluding with Attorney General-almost-designate Eric Holder (who drew faint applause). You, too, can join these figures in the firmament of Columbian alumni, he assured us! And then, the traditional count down. Having seen Home Alone enough times, Bwog really expected something to blow up—or at least some sort of sound--but all that happened was a sudden brightening, and the singing resumed. One more photo by Hans E Hyttinen after the jump. 
 Bwog editor Anish Bramhandkar notes that Union Theological Seminary is hosting one of TV's most popular sex crime shows: "There's a food van/cart there with a sign saying something about serving food to film productions on location, and a bunch of people eating food.&nbsp; A few of them have nametags that say Law &amp; Order SVU." UTS seems very popular with NBC these days -- last week, the new NBC show Kings was shooting there. But hey, the main campus will always have Peter Parker. 
 It seems that the Spec's website problems are not going away - Bwog kept getting "access denied." Nevertheless, here's what's in today's paper, with a little more explanation than usual. Columbia University's Global AIDS Campaign launches several outreach programs (p. 1) Comparative Literature "Institute" looks for more resources (p. 1) A cabbie says that, despite the recession, his line of work is doing just fine. Lucky. (p. 1) What Columbia's conservatives can learn from the Gipper (p. 4) The editorial staff discovers that CubMail is outdated (p. 4) Why the Ivy League needs a playoff system. In other words, common sense. (p. 7) 
 After an "in between seasons" break, Bwog's Sports Roundup returns! Men's Basketball:&nbsp; The men's basketball team may be 3-4, but one three-pointer last Saturday would give them a winning record right now. The Lions fought back from a 15-point deficit at Stony Brook to tie the game at 60 with less than a minute. Stony Brook, though, scored a layup to go up by two, and the Lions missed several chances as time ran out, losing 62-60. K.J. Matsui had 15 points, and Jason Miller added 10 points and 6 rebounds. Later in the week, Columbia had one of its best games so far, shooting 51% from the field to beat Wagner 84-69. Patrick Foley had 18 points and 6 assists, Joe Bova came off the bench to add 16 points, and forwards Asenso Ampim and Miller each had 11 points and 11 rebounds. The team's next game is Tuesday at St. Francis Women's Basketball: The women's basketball team (3-4) were unable to make it three wins in a row, losing 69-59 at Drake. Judie Lomax, though, continued her stellar play, with 16 points and 13 rebounds. Lomax leads the team in both categories, averaging 12.3 points and 13 rebounds so far. The team hosts Denver tomorrow at 4 p.m. Wrestling: The wrestling team is in Las Vegas this weekend for the Cliff Keen Las Vegas Invitational. Swimming: Both the men's and women's swimming teams are in Princeton this weekend for invitationals. Track &amp; Field: The men's and women's track and field kick off the indoor portion of the season tomorrow at the Yale Opener in New Haven. - JCD 
 So, seniors, it's the last Friday before reading week. What to do, what to do? Well, Bwog has been encouraged to let you know that there is a Senior Pub Crawl tonight, starting at 10 p.m. at Bourbon Street (79th and Amsterdam). Arrangements have been made with bars running up Amsterdam (Bourbon St., 420, Dead Poet, Soldier McGee, George Keeley, and the Blue Donkey) so that you can imbibe the holiday spirit. Specials include 50¢ beer during the first hour. Bwog has been told that this is the first in a series of planned events, all for&nbsp;getting seniors the cheap and/or free alcohol they need.&nbsp; The full schedule's on Facebook. CUID and proper 21+ get you the wristband you need for the night. Bwog looks forward to tomorrow's Facebook detagging spree. 
Today, Saturday Morning Cartoons brings you refreshingly apolitical humor.&nbsp; In fact, today's offering hits quite close to home for the co-ed set.&nbsp; Enjoy! &nbsp; "Room, board, books, and tuition - I draw the line at corkage fees." By Danny Shanahan from The New Yorker &nbsp; "If we're going to friends with benefits, I want health and dental." By William Haefeli from The New Yorker By Roz Chast from The New Yorker "Everybody's getting together after work to do some more work - you in?" By P.C. Vey from The New Yorker 'Darwinian Socialism - by God, we may be onto something." By Charles Barsotti from The New Yorker "Do you want to reconsider that move - or shall I bring back the big pawn?" By Jack Ziegler from The New Yorker "You mean all this time you've been laughing at me - not with me?" By Tom Cheney from The New Yorker 
 Last night's Postcrpyt show featured a breakout performance by a one Mr.Anthony Da Costa of Pleasantville, New York. According to eyewitnesses, Columbia's next great folk-music lady-killer already has Postscrypters (men and women, actually) completely swooning. Oh, and he's only 17 years old. In a move that only heightened his adorableness, he brought along his dad, who videotaped the show. "His voice is like honey, he has a Harry Potter aesthetic, he hunches over when he plays the guitar and does this thing where mid-chorus he'll just nudge up his glasses a touch," said an audience member, mid-swoon. Da Costa hopes to join Blake Lively and Jim Cramer's daugher in the class of '13, and Bwog's heard that the people of Postcrypt are writing him an additional letter of recommendation. But until your new crush arrives on campus, you can get your fill of Da Costa's music on his MySpace. Or with this New York Times profile. Or his official website. 
 Come holiday season, there's a lot of hubbub about joy and all that jazz.&nbsp; But here at Columbia the first two weeks of December are decidedly unjoyous times.&nbsp; With visions of forthcoming finals dancing in our heads, at this point in the year, many of us have had it with academia.&nbsp; But today, Bwog brings you a reason to be thankful for the very scholarly stuff that has gotten you down lately.&nbsp; Today, December 6th, 2008 marks the 75th anniversary of the court ruling that James Joyce's Ulysses is not obscene.&nbsp; And who was responsible for this admirable endorsement of the First Amendment and freedom of press? Why none other than Judge John M. Woolsey of Columbia Law School class of 1900.&nbsp; Leave it to one of our own to champion the liberation, legality and love of literature -- well done, Woolsey! So as you slog through your annotated Ulysses tome today in Butler (Bwog's completely dreading Kitcher's final too), remember and relish the liberation of this fine text!&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Two tragic tales of lost items to report this morning: Says former 2010 ESC VP Lili Gu: "I lost a camera last night, and was hoping you could help me find it. &nbsp;It's a Canon Powershot SD400 (I think), has my name Public-Safety-engraved in cursive on one side, and&nbsp;was probably lost somewhere between Furnald and Butler at 3ish in the morning. &nbsp;Recent pictures include some taken of two friends chest-bumping outside Furnald. &nbsp;If anyone finds it, they will be thanked with baked goods and my everlasting gratitude." Says anonymous ironic board-game enthusiast: "My friend got me a cocktail chemistry set from Urban Outfitters for my birthday, and I left it in the Broadway Room in Lerner on Thursday.&nbsp; No sign of it in Lerner.&nbsp; It was in a clear bag and had an ornament and the program from the Yule Log Ceremony earlier that night." If you've seen these items, have information about there whereabouts, or if you yourself are holding them hostage, please contact bwog@columbia.edu. 
 Oh hello! It's good to be back home on the web again. (Though according to B&amp;W layout editor Hans E Hyttinen, we never actually left "the internet.") Bwog's crack team of computer whiz kids point to something server-related as the cause of our spotty presence this weekend. But no matter, said whiz-kids are working their tech magic as we speak and hopefully this should be the last of the downtime.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
Bwog apologizes profusely for the late arrival of this review.&nbsp; This afternoon's&nbsp; technical difficulties prevented us from posting it earlier. If you can hurry to the Wien Lounge for the final performance of The Winter's Tale, do so now. It begins at eight—run! As odd as it may seem there are traces of Othello, Lear and The Tempest all in The Winter's Tale.&nbsp; The relatively lesser known Shakespeare play is at once a political play, a domestic drama and a romantic comedy. The combination of these disparate genres could lend itself to satire, perhaps even pastiche, but in KCST's current production directors Stephanie Denzer and Katie Logan bring impressive candor and earnestness to The Winter's Tale.&nbsp; Indeed, its moments of drama are as fraught and powerful as its moments of comedy are natural and entertaining. The first act of the play opens on the unadorned make-shift stage of the Wien Lounge. Although the cavernous lounge is not an ideal performance space, the direct lack of stage design is hard to ignore. Aside from an ominously ticking metronome, an hour-glass and the occasional flourish of artificial snow, the staging team opts for&nbsp; sterile straightforwardness over artful design.&nbsp; As the play unfolds, however, it is clear that the barrenness of the stage is a directorial choice—and a fine one at that. By and large, the first act details the psychological and political drama of Leontes (Jake Green), the rather draconian king of Sicilia. In his performance, Green, however, expresses some of the king's uncertainty and affords sympathy to his character's ostensibly unmotivated irrationality.&nbsp; The audience quickly picks up on the said irrationality when within the first scene of the play Green's Leontes moves with alarming impetuousness from praising the virtues of his wife Hermoine (played by an effortless regal Lee Havlicek) to accusing her of adultery.&nbsp; From here, the the deterioration of Leontes, his marriage and his family is the focus of the rather drawn out first act.&nbsp; Despite of its length and its inevitably dreary subject matter, the actors, especially Havlicek and Michael Leibring playing Camillo, a lord conflicted by Leontes' abuse of royal prerogative, build palpable tension and give their respective performances and the entire&nbsp; production admirable force. The first scene culminates with a dramatic courtroom scene in which Leontes ruthlessly sentences Hermione to prison despite the better judgment of his counselors and the impassioned pleas of his dignified, but now, humbled wife.&nbsp; The contrast between Green's performance and Havelicek's is unsettling, almost awkward.&nbsp; But the audience's&nbsp; discomfort is not necessarily a criticism. The audience cannot help but squirm as Green stands off stage left with cool indifference and Havelicek weeps bitterly on her knees center-stage. But just as the performance reaches its dramatic climax, the action comes to a literal standstill. The effect is powerful.&nbsp; Logan and Denzer direct their cast skillfully and their creative vision comes to startling realization when the ghostly&nbsp; specter of time emerges from the audience and shrieks out.&nbsp; Immediately freezing mid-motion and mid-sentence, the actors handle the sudden break in action with impressive timing and choreography. As if to make up for its slow beginning, The Winter's Tale packs in as much dramatic action as it can before the close of the first act.&nbsp; Incarcerated confrontations, courtroom drama and shipwrecks, however, quickly give way to the pastoral settings of Bohemia.&nbsp; With this shift in setting comes a marked shift in tenor.&nbsp; Soon after entering, a wisecracking old shepherd (played by the ever endearing Dan Blank) and his ridiculous, and oddly charismatic son, the Clown (played by a lively Brian LePerche) easily have the audience laughing aloud for the first time in the performance.&nbsp; Blank and LePerche have a certain comedic chemistry and their initial exchange sets the tone for the unprecedented folly that ensues in the second act. As the second act open it is clear that the sterility that characterized the Sicilian court of the first act is easy to forget amongst the vibrant colors and spirited songs and dances of Bohemia. Although the shift is abrupt—unavoidably so—but the cast and crew of KCST's The Winter's Tale handle it gracefully.&nbsp; Instead of trying to diminish the disparity between the acts, the production embraces it. 
 Bwog meteorologist Jon Hill informs us that it's snowing! At this very moment! Go forth, huddled masses, rejoice outdoors post-haste -- these flakes don't look like they're sticking. Hans E Hyttinen's snowy shots of Van Am Quad after the jump. &nbsp; 
 Tonight, the Big Apple Dance Sport Challenge gives new meaning to a Lerner dance party.&nbsp; If you thought those were great, the Dance Sport Challenge will bowl you over.&nbsp; Although the competition started early in the morning, there's still plenty of dancing to be done.&nbsp; Dance Sport officials informed Bwog that the competition is expected to run until midnight. Bwog admittedly knows little about the ins-and-outs of the competitive dancing's rules and regulations, but we're fans of any sport involving satin gowns, bowties and plenty of sparkles. If you can't make it tonight, take a look at the pictures that follow. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Earlier this evening, University Senator Tiffany Dockery CC '09 resigned her seat in a letter to the Student Affairs Caucus. Dockery, last year's BSO president, was on trial for impeachment for not attending enough meetings of the Student Affairs Caucus. In her letter, Dockery lists several reasons for her resignation, including her belief that "there are certain structural issues that preclude me from achieving many of the things that I aimed to do as a progressive student of color." She also addressed her repeated absences, citing personal family reasons as well as over-commitment.&nbsp;&nbsp; She closed by saying "I have displayed my commitment to the Senate through my work in the Columbia College Student Council." UPDATE 12:38 AM: Earlier, we had mistakenly posted the entirely of the Dockery email when we had only meant to excerpt quotes. The email was only on the site for about 45 minutes, and we removed it as soon as we realized our mistake. We sincerely apologize that it was posted at all.&nbsp; -- Ed. 
Oh well, seasons greetings everyone! The holidays have truly begun here at Columbia, as snow fun took a classically phallic turn. Masterful, simply masterful. Thanks to Mason Fitch and Pierre Gergis for being so vigilant about looking out for this special moment.&nbsp; 
From New York City, this is AltSpec, in which we collect references to Alma Mater's dubious deeds in the wider world.&nbsp; This week, while we're all burrowed deep in Butler, the outside world is busy pointing fingers.&nbsp; A smörgåsbord of topics and lots of straight talk. Jonathan Last's column in The Weekly Standard has been floating around this week.&nbsp; In short, eminent domain = ghost town. As teens reject their parents, standard biology says fetuses ought to reject their mothers, but researchers clearly explain that there's this mysterious "process" that prevents this. From the "well, duh" department: homosexuality isn't a choice.&nbsp; A Columbia psychiatrist still thinks otherwise, however. Prof. Olsen speaks: Young people are all insane!&nbsp; That is, if you count "drinking" as a mental disorder. A Master's student at CU was in Mumbai during the attacks. 
 Here is their mothership and its adjoining, exploratory cruiser, which is a trusty gray van named "Microwave Satellite Technologies Inc."&nbsp; Both satellite and van were abandoned, so the reasons for their visit are unknown. Maybe Bollinger just wanted to get a really good picture for Pacquiao vs. De La Hoya. 
 Exciting news for fans of the Hawkmadinebwog: your winged hero is now on Facebook! United in Fear and Awe of Hawkmadinejad is our official hawk fansite, which you are all invited to join. We'll keep the group updated with pictures, videos, and lively discussion of all the terrible squirrel violence that's happening right here, at Columbia!&nbsp; 
 In the midst of finals, inclement weather and many sugary holiday indulgences, a general regard for one's physical appearance tends to decline. Although this time of year challenges the integrity of even the most savvy of style savants, here at Columbia, fashion perseveres.&nbsp; That said, Columbians are always a sensible set.&nbsp; Given the current combination of bad weather, finals and the like, pragmatism reigns supreme on campus.&nbsp; That's right, fashion during finals upholds the golden rule: form fits function.&nbsp; So forget those suede stilettos. A recent stroll through Butler proves that right now comfort and durability comes in all shapes and form of footwear.&nbsp; From snow boots to slippers, Bwog has seen it all.&nbsp; If you want to get in on this trend, Bwog recommends the thick wool socks and boots look.&nbsp; Or to maximize your Butler study comfort, tuck your favorite pair of warm booties or bedroom slippers in your backpack and break 'em out when you get to 209.&nbsp; Don't worry about decorum -- everybody else is doing it too! Bean boots are the new Uggs, but&nbsp; far more sophisticated and practical. Plus, suede in the snow is simply a recipe for disaster. Bean boots with high wool socks takes the hipster lumberjack look to a whole new level. Pairing wool stockings with '80s throwback leg-warmers is a creative alternative to your typical high boots and leggings uniform Causal wool booties make any outfit ideal study garb, even a mini skirt Norwegian knit slippers are Bwog's favorite thing about winter. &nbsp; Minimalist Norwegian sock slippers combine warmth and a winter wonderland appeal.&nbsp; Pink bedroom slippers are ideal for a Butler cigarette break or a trip down the hall -- MEQ 
 Bwog has a paper due tomorrow but is spending time on Facebook instead.&nbsp; And, lo, Sir Zuckerberg's creation led us to another way to procrastinate. Tonight, CCSC (of the freshman and senior variety) will be hosting Midnight Milkshakes: free chocolate, vanilla, strawberry, and Oreo dreams in John Jay Lounge tonight from 11:00 PM until 1:00 AM (one hour before and midnight, Bwog notes, not in tune with the name). The event page, demonstrating some rockin' young people slang, invites you to "come get your study break on and chat up some seriously upper &amp; under classmen before finals destroy everyone's souls."&nbsp; For those of you not on the main quad, today's wind advisory ensures that you'll all be frozen before you even get there.&nbsp; Enjoy! 
 When released last Monday, it was unclear how the NROTC results would affect the University Senate proceeding with the issue. Not only were the results controversially tallied, but they were not broken down for three of the four schools (Barnard being the exception).&nbsp; However, Council and Senate sources confirm to Bwog that NROTC will not even be presented to the Senate. Whether individual school results will be released for CC, SEAS, and GS is still unknown. 
Although Hawkmadinebwog does not profess to be the highest authority on raptors, we have recently made the informed decision to call Hawkmadinejad by female pronouns. There is no absolute way for us to tell if the campus hawk is male or female other than DNA sex testing or actually watching Hawkma mate or lay an egg. This is because there is no uniform difference in coloration between male and female red-tailed hawks. Most raptors are not differently colored for each sex, though the common, local&nbsp;American Kestrel is one of the exceptions. The male American Kestrel has slate-blue wings, whereas the female does not: More reasons for the decision and raptor information after the jump. Perhaps if&nbsp;Hawkma takes&nbsp;a mate, we will be able to figure out with certainty as to its sex. Although most male and female raptors of the same species&nbsp;have the same coloration,&nbsp;they also&nbsp;exhibit sexual size dimorphism. This means that there is a difference between the size of males and females. In raptors, the females are the larger of the sexes, with female red-tailed hawks up to 30% larger than the males. However, there is plenty of overlap in the size of the sexes, so it is almost impossible to tell the sex of a single raptor as it perches by itself in a branch as our Hawkma does. After making observations and talking with other birders, the conclusion seems to be that our bird is on the larger side of the 19-25 inch range of red-tail size (in terms of length). Therefore, Hawkmadinebwog will use female pronouns to refer to the bird we have named Hawkmadinejad, just as we have assumed it is the same hawk that was the juvenile that started hanging around campus about this same time last year. See&nbsp;in the picture below: the smaller hawk above the other one is more likely to be male. 
Bwog has a penchant for corralling disparate topics under the umbrella of broad themes.&nbsp; Here's what happened this week. NROTC continues to haunt us.&nbsp; The survey came and went for Columbia and Barnard and everyone had a problem with it.&nbsp; The GSSC President was politely disagreed with the outcome. And Bwog tried to decipher the results, past and present, but the Senate ignored it all anyway. Student government had other things on its collective mind as well.&nbsp; What to do, for example, about next winter's "Study Day"?&nbsp; And about ringing in the new semester with a real Presidential Inauguration?&nbsp; The Student Governing Board handed out its annual lumps of coal, a University Senator resigned, and Bwog started the gossip for the upcoming CCSC elections, far, far in advance. The laypeople of Columbia were busy as well.&nbsp; PrezBo, after being accosted/punched-in-the-face&nbsp; last week, was well enough to host this year's third Fireside Chat.&nbsp; He's far too cool for Facebook, unlike the professors Bwog found while procrastinating.&nbsp; Quaintly, Quigley Quickly Quashed his last light switch as CC Dean.&nbsp; And there's this potential Thirteen we're actually excited about -- Bwog was caught swooning in his presence. When Hawkma's not around, there are plenty of other creatures to keep us on our frozen toes.&nbsp; The first noticeable snowfall of the year (though it was gone by morning) resulted in the first snow-monster of the year, smiled down upon by the sky gods.&nbsp; Tired of the cold and bemoaning next week's stress, one creature hid in the Carman elevators and ate freshmen. 
 Wondering what's going to happen to Tiffany Dockery's former University Senate seat? According to CCSC bylaws, the Council will select a new Senator to occupy the seat for the rest of Dockery's term via nominations from the student body.A nominee must then win 2/3 of the vote of the Council, and voila, a Senator is born. No word yet on when the nomination process will begin. UPDATE (10:05 PM): CCSC will solicit nominations from the student body until the end of the semester, before interviewing and voting on the candidates. 
 Tomorrow's opinion section of the Wall Street Journal features a familiar byline: a one Mr. Learned Foote, CC 2011 President. Foote, speaking as a gay pro-ROTC student, said that he felt conflicted in his eventual decision to back repealing the ROTC ban. "I wanted to fight discrimination, but I also wanted Columbia to restore its relationship with a fundamental American institution," he said. Foote argued that if students are unhappy with the current DADT policy, they would be wise to permit the return of ROTC to campus, to influence change "from the bottom up." He concludes by stating that since Columbia is "a university funded in part by taxpayer dollars, we cannot excuse ourselves from actively engaging with the military."&nbsp; 
 Tipster Aki Terasaki, CC '12, says: "There are 30 gallons of ice cream left in John Jay lounge from the Midnight Milkshake event. Everyone is invited to come and enjoy!" Though, Bwog notes, there's still technically another hour until the former event is officially over. 
 PrezBo had already "conceded that the endowment was down" at his last fireside chat, but now Bwog has some information on the scale of the damage: At the University Senate's monthly plenary on Friday, PrezBo told the Senate that, over the fiscal year, Columbia's endowment has lost "about the same" percentage as Harvard's, which lost 22% of its value in the first four months of the new fiscal year.&nbsp; He declined to give more specific figures at the public plenary, but Bwog has been told that the number may be a little less than Harvard's -- somewhere around 20%. More specific figures should be coming in the near future. Regardless, the loss marks a steep fall from last fiscal year's 2% rise 
 At last, Harvard doesn't have an infinite endowment. Oh right, but now we have even less money. This semester, the Columbia bureaucracy did stuff we didn't want it to do. 2008: sucks. 1956: that sucked too.&nbsp; What to do about the world crashing in around Columbia, with some improvised Dylan lyrics.&nbsp; World continues to spin on its axis at least for today, this line: “Turn that down!” Oh, I’m sorry. I didn’t realize you couldn’t hear The Real Housewives of Orange County over my attempts to beat back the Nazi hordes" runs in Columbia Spectator. 
 Today is the day, Columbians! Today, you will go to your very last day of class ever this semester. (It feels as good to type that as it does to read!) You may feel guilty for never going/doing your work when your professor expresses his or her gratitude for your heart-warming enthusiasm, or you may feel simply elated. Either way, tell us how your professors feel. Send professors' closing remarks to bwog@columbia.edu or post in the comments thread.&nbsp; 
Bwogger Lydia DePillis informs us that there is a smorgasbord of free food on the Lerner landing now! Lydia reports that there's&nbsp;couscous, pita and spreads, petits fours, cheese cubes, and lots of candy, plus stressbusters masssages and Jack Johnson.&nbsp;Find the picture of the goods on your right, and hurry!&nbsp;
 RoomHopping returns with a tour of an otherwise-mundane Carman double jazzed up with a massive Crayola-paint mural.&nbsp; "This wall has been blank for a long time," Ben Krusling, CC '12, informed Bwog as we walked, gawking, into his Carman double. Aside from your classic college dorm string of Christmas lights hanging from the ceiling, the room is quite spare indeed. Ben has one poster up: a Rasterbated image of Dorothea Lange's 1936 "Migrant Mother" photo. "I had another poster up there," Krusling told Bwog sadly, "but it fell down." So, Krusling and three of his floormates, Jenny Shen, Jordan Hollersmith and Sofia Pancheco-Fores, headed out to Rite Aid to pick up some Crayola paint. Combining permanent acrylic paint and washable Crayola, the four Carmanites created a massive mural that spans the entirety of Krusling's wall. The impressive mural is of one massive ghost surrounded by colorful bubbles, with a smattering of "personalized ghosts" in the bottom corner, each smaller ghost representing a different floormate.&nbsp; With the four Carman 4-ers working on the mural together, the whole project took less than the hour. Krusling originally got the idea for the mural from a drawing Shen did for her Drawing I class this semester.&nbsp;When Bwog asked if this artistic endeavor was legal, Krusling replied simply, "I don't think so" but added that he intends to paint it white again at the end of the year. The most scorn Krusling gets for the mural, at least for now, is from the "Migrant Mother", who is perched on top of the ghosts in the bottom corner. Krugling told Bwog that he and his floormates believe that "she's condemning the mural" from her spot on the wall.&nbsp; &nbsp; Photos by Liz Naiden 
 With a mere half-day left of classes left, popular lecture activity GChat is tragically broken.&nbsp; Despair not, Columbia: This'll all be over tomorrow.&nbsp; Except the GChat being broken thing, which could very well continue into Reading Week.&nbsp; Could you even imagine? 
 Prolific tipster Jason Patinkin has just reported that a pipe has burst on the tenth floor of Schermerhorn, resulting in the evacuation of the building. "Thankfully, the building is filled with environmental scientists well equipped to deal with such hydrological catastrophes," Patinkin rationalized in this time of crisis.&nbsp; UPDATE 3:33 PM: According to a second tipster, the burst pipe makes the 10th floor of the Extension look "like a thunder storm." Our tiptser sends reports of "guys running around in the Extension shutting off breakers, etc. and at least a dozen public safety guys all over the place." UPDATE 4:40 PM: The Extension remains closed, with several classes already having decamped to Schaprio and Fayerweather. Public Safety people are standing at all the doors, telling students it will be "closed for awhile." Bwog hopes no one left anything important inside - it's only exam period. UPDATE 4:58 PM: VP for Public Safety James McShane announces that "all of today’s remaining classes are being relocated or cancelled." Full email after the jump. Dear All, There has been significant flooding in the Schermerhorn Extension this afternoon resulting in its evacuation. As a result, this building is not accessible. Therefore, all of today’s remaining classes are being relocated or cancelled.&nbsp; Please contact your Academic Department or professor for additional details on classes.&nbsp;&nbsp; Classes in Schermerhorn Hall have not been affected by this situation.&nbsp; Thank you! Jim McShane James F. McShane&nbsp; Vice President for Public Safety Columbia University &nbsp; 
 Everyone's favorite Harvard-ditching academic, (Jeffrey Sachs is like so 2002) Cornel West, will be co-teaching a class titled "Christianity and the Deepening U.S Crisis" at UTS next semester along with&nbsp;Gary Dorrien and Serene Jones. The class will meet on Wednesdays from 5-7 PM, and, best of all, all the lectures will be open to the public. Huzzah! Read the full course description and announcement from UTS after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; Christianity and the Deepening U.S. Crisis Cornel West, Gary Dorrien, Serene Jones Union Theological Seminary Wednesdays, 5:00-7:00 p.m. UTS 02380 Course Description As the world waits anxiously for news of the market's every fluctuation, as artistic programs feel the purse strings of their funding begin to pull tight, as we watch global violence escalate in conflicts where religion seems to play a key role, as new poverty for some means an exponential increase in suffering for those who have always been on the underside of global prosperity, and as a new generation in North America begins to navigate waters swelling with the waves of new technology and greater human diversity – we feel ourselves caught in the web of a crisis whose origin is murky and whose voracious grasp covers all aspects of our common life. This course will attempt to describe the various edges and contours of the deepening U.S. crisis and to chart various Christian responses to it. In particular the course will ask: how could the resources of the U.S. progressive Christian tradition enable Christian responses to the current crisis? How can Christians think theologically about markets, globalization, and social justice? How do structural forces of oppression – sexism, racism, homophobia, classism – undergird the crisis we are facing and what constitutes Christian social witness in the face of these structural forces? What role do new media and new technologies play in crafting our sense of the common good and how can we understand these technologies theologically? Can we think systematically and theologically about a crisis with so many overlapping layers – economic, ecological, social, moral – and what core beliefs would Christians draw on to do so? The course may be taken for credit by Master's and Ph.D. students at Union Theological Seminary and students at Columbia University and other affiliates. In addition, all lectures will be open to the public. All lectures will be held at Union Theological Seminary, unless otherwise noted on the syllabus. 
 An hour of strolling through Butler these days is generally a fruitless mission: you are not guaranteed even one lonesome seat. Your classmates have resorted to cozy nooks on the floor, windowsills, and perches along the main stairwell to spread out their research and write papers, or drown themselves in textbook photocopies for finals prep. Bwog has offered you several Butler-alternatives and little-known study spots in the past: check out our reviews of The Andrew Heiskell Braille and Talking Book Library, the Math and Science Library, the Social Work Library, the TC Library, and Lincoln Center's Performing Arts Library. Also, the Columbia Library mafia also has some vague interest in helping you out this week! Extended hours for all the campus' libraries and Lerner are posted here. Best of luck, its only Monday!&nbsp; 
 Today, you attended your last classes of first semester. This week, you will take finals and write papers. Tonight, you will go outside. The city is your classroom and all that stuff! So shine up your fake Florida IDs and breathe a few hours of fresh, non-Butler air. it never hurt anyone.&nbsp;Columbia-related events are listed below, and off-campus events can be found after the jump. &nbsp; See&nbsp;XMAS! North by Northpole&nbsp;in Roone tonight. Shows at 7:30 PM and 11 PM. Free. Go to the French Cultural Society's&nbsp;Eurotrash party&nbsp;at Club 72 on 72nd and Columbus. $5 cover, 21+, techno music, French people.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Bacchanal hosts: the 3 BANDitos End-of-Semester Fiesta tonight from 9 PM-midnight in Lerner Party Space with Kitchen Cabinet, Movie, and Raul. Free food and pinatas! &nbsp; The CSC and KSA host their Shanghai Seoul-themed Semi Formal tonight from 8 PM-10 PM in James Room, on the 4th floor of Barnard Hall. $15 at the TIC, $20 at the door. Afterparty at the Heights from 11 PM-4 AM (!) with drink specials. 18+ to get in, 21+ to drink. Facebook event here, buy tickets here.&nbsp; &nbsp; Monday night standup at Pete's Candy Store in Williamsburg. (ever heard of it?!) 7:30 PM, 709 Lorimer Street near Richardson Street. Free. &nbsp; Wine tasting at Ribot, 48th and 3rd. ~$20. Your classiest option. Study for your Post-45 Lit final, but in a different room than usual! Toni Morrison reads from her new novel, A Mercy, at the 92nd Street Y at 92nd and Lexington. Buy tickets here for $19.&nbsp; Partake in the ruckus of Wii Mondays at the downtown Village Pourhouse, at 11th and 3rd. Open bar on Bud Lite from 7-8 PM. $10. The most exercise you've gotten all semester.&nbsp; 
 The list of the twenty most popular living CC alums and parents is in! The CC 2009 Class Council has just released your top twenty choices of who you want to see as this year's Joel "Who?" Klein. Class Day Speaker nominees include Eric Holder, Warren Buffet, Seymour Hersh, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Terrence McNally and yes, obviously Barack Obama. Tomorrow a website will appear through which seniors and only seniors (it's password protected) will vote for their eight favorites of the twenty. The top eight choices will then be presented to Quigley in order of popularity. Again, voting starts tomorrow and lasts for three days. We'll be posting a link to the website as soon as one exists. UPDATE 12/9, 4:28 PM: Bwog has just received word from the CC '09 class council that the much-anticipated voting website has just been posted and may be found here.&nbsp; Seniors will be able to vote 8 times for the candidates, and while you can technically vote 8 times for the same person, the data will be checked by the council and counted as a single vote.&nbsp; Bwog wishes you happy voting! Full list of all your favorites (including brief biographical sketches courtesy of CC '09 Class Council) after the jump. Columbia College Class Day Speaker List (in no particular order): &nbsp; Warren Buffet, Columbia B-School CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, and businessman extraordinaire. Remember when he backed Goldman Sachs earlier this year? We do.&nbsp; &nbsp; Barack Obama, CC ‘83, He is the President Elect of the United States. Kind of a big deal right now. &nbsp; David Paterson CC ‘77 The first African American and blind man to hold the position. He has thus far illustrated incredible “vision” for the state of New York, and currently is deciding on the senate replacement Secretary of State Designate Hillary Clinton. &nbsp; Benjamin Jealous CC ‘94 Now president of the NAACP, previously served at Amnesty International as the director of the US Human Rights Program. &nbsp; Eric Holder CC ’73, Law 76 The first black Attorney-General Designate, Eric Holder formerly held the post of deputy Attorney-General under President Clinton. &nbsp; Maggie Gyllenhall CC ‘99 Beautiful actress, she is best known for her roles in, Dark Knight, Donnie Darco, Mona Lisa Smile (alongside fellow alumna Juil Stiles),&nbsp; and let’s just say a whole let of other flicks. &nbsp; Paul Auster CC ‘69 Renowned author, he is best known for a series of New York detective novels penned under the pseudonym, Paul Benjamin&nbsp; Julius Genachowski CC '85 Obama’s tech and finance guru, he will definitely be appointed to the incoming administrator and is rumored to be the favorite for the newly established position of Chief Technology Officer. Obama likes technology, we like Columbia, we like a Columbia alum running the country’s technology. Simple logic. &nbsp; Ruth Bader Ginsburg Law ‘59 The second female to hold the position of Supreme Court Justice, she was appointed by President Clinton. Prior to serving on the Court, she was the first director of the ACLU’s Women’s Rights Project in the 1970s. &nbsp; Seymour Hersh, Parent ‘04 Pulitzer Prize winning investigative journalist and author, he contributes regularly to the New Yorker. Best known for his work on Abu Ghraib &nbsp; Art Garfunkel, CC 65 One half of Simon and Garfunkel and a V-Show alum. &nbsp; Marcus Brauchli, CC ‘83 Managing editor of the Wall Street Journal&nbsp; Marcellus Wiley, CC ‘97 Drafted to the NFL in 1997 by the Buffalo Bills, he went on to play for the Chargers, Cowboys and Jaguars. He is now an analyst for NFL Live on ESPN.&nbsp; &nbsp; Lawrence Brilliant, M.D, Parent ‘07 He is the Executive Director of Google.org, Google INC.’s philanthropic branch. While working at the World Health Organization, he focused on eradicating small pox. &nbsp; Alexandra Wallace CC ‘88 Executive producer of NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams, she is the first woman to lead a nightly newscast in a decade. She has also covered Hurricane Katrina and the death of Pope John Paul II. &nbsp; Fred Katayama CC ‘82 Correspondent for CNN Business News and Money Line, he received an Honorable Mention from the Asian American Journalist Association. &nbsp; Terrence Mcnally CC ‘60 Phi-Beta Kappa while at Columbia, this American playwright has received 4 Tony Awards, Two Guggenheim Fellowships, and a lot more hardware than the Columbia Athletic Department.&nbsp; &nbsp; Kenneth Cole, Parent ‘10 CEO of Kenneth Cole, this clothing designer and social promoter’s name speaks for itself. Check your shirt label. &nbsp; Emanuel Ax CC ‘70 Prominent figure in the classical music scene, this pianist has 7 Grammy Awards, three of which were earned for collaborations with Yoyo Ma &nbsp; Vikram Pandit, SEAS '76, SEAS (M.S.) '77, B-School '80, B-School PhD '86 Columbia Trustee and CEO of yet-to-be bankrupt Citigroup, he joined the firm when it was already in financial turmoil and has made a gallant attempt to bring about stability in these stormy economic times. 
 More bad news regarding endowments, this time that of Barnard. In an email sent to alumnae, President D.Spar announced that the school's endowment, which was around $200 million when she assumed the presidency, will be just $150 million at the end of the year. Both numbers, she admitted, are small compared to those of peer institutions. (Wellesley, for example, has an endowment of $1.67 billion.) Spar was also quick to point out that "contrary to what many people believe, we have no connection whatsoever to Columbia's endowment, so every dollar we spend on faculty salaries, or library books, or heat for our classrooms must come from one of only three main sources: our endowment, our current students, or our annual fund." Full email after the jump ----- Forwarded Message ---- From: Debora Spar &lt;c+bc@trusted-sender.convio.net&gt; To: Sent: Tuesday, December 9, 2008 10:30:05 AM Subject: An Important Barnard Update December 2008 Dear Friends, I hope this note finds you happy and well, enjoying some time with family and friends. It has been a wild ride in 2008 and we all could use, I suspect, a bit of a break. I wanted to take this end-of-the-year opportunity to let you know how things stand at Barnard, to reassure you of our underlying strength, and to ask for your support in what remains a very troubling time. The bad news is obvious. Barnard, like nearly every college, non-profit group, and individual in the United States, has been hit hard by the financial turmoil unleashed this year. When I assumed the college presidency in July, our endowment, always small compared to those of our peer institutions, had passed the $200 million mark for the first time. By year's end, it will almost certainly hover closer to $150 million. Our financial aid commitment has risen from $27.3 million to $28.7 million, and we are now fielding calls daily from parents unable to pay their daughters' tuition bills. Contrary to what many people believe, we have no connection whatsoever to Columbia's endowment, so every dollar we spend on faculty salaries, or library books, or heat for our classrooms must come from one of only three main sources: our endowment, our current students, or our annual fund. And all of these, as you can imagine, are facing unprecedented stress. The good news is that we have long been accustomed to managing on a much tighter budget than many of our peers. We never invested in fancy dormitories or superstar salaries, and so we do not now have the burden of supporting them. We have accelerated a review of our entire cost structure and, at our December board meeting, our trustees personally provided $535,000 in new gifts to begin to meet the increasingly urgent need for financial-aid funding. Together, I know, we will not only weather this storm but emerge stronger from it. We will strengthen cherished programs in dance, writing, human rights, and art history; grow new initiatives in globalization and women's leadership; and give our faculty and students the support they need to thrive. But we need your help now, perhaps, more than ever. In these tough times, we are loath to raise tuition or reduce financial aid, yet tuition, room, and board cover only 76% of our annual operating budget of $112 million, $95 million of which is purely fixed costs: the costs of our outstanding faculty, of energy, of our security staff, of the nurses who staff our clinic and the counselors who advise our students. We are trying to cut costs wherever we can, but there is only so far that we can, and should, go. Because we aren't willing to compromise what matters most: our commitment to provide an outstanding liberal arts education to women who aspire to greatness. I know that this year has been hard for us all. But we enter 2009 with a new administration in the wings, a palpable sense of hope among our students, and a resolution to create a new and more diverse group of leaders to bring our communities, our nation, and our world toward a better future. Barnard's women will be part of that future. I look forward to working with you to make it happen. Sincerely, Debora Spar P.S. Any additional philanthropy we can raise at this time will be put to immediate use. To offer your support, please contact the Development Office at 212-854-7806 or visit giving.barnard.edu/support.
 Say goodbye to off-campus Flex at two of its previous locations: Samad's Gourmet, and the dubiously sanitary Amir's. Oh and one other thing: It's not them, it's you. According to Michael Novielli of Student Auxiliary and Business Services (heretofore known as SABS), "neither establishment had the volume of Flex business it had hoped for." 
 Gather ye rosebuds Columbia, it's time to wish a fond farewell to the 132nd Executive Board of the Columbia Daily Spectator.&nbsp; Bwog offers a hearty congratulations to outgoing Editor in Chief Tom Faure, Publisher Manal Alam, Managing Editor Amanda Sebba and the entirety of their staffs for all the fine work they've done this year. We here at Bwog have enjoyed all of our mornings together. The new residents of Spec's upper echelon, courtesy of Faure, are after the jump. CORPORATE BOARD Editor in Chief – Melissa Repko Managing Editor – Elizabeth Simins Publisher – Julia Feldberg MANAGING BOARD Eye Editor – Thomas Rhiel Eye Managing Editor, Features – Melanie Jones Eye Managing Editor, A&amp;E – Hillary Busis News Editor – Joy Resmovits and Betsy Morais Online Editor – Lara Chelak and Ryan Bubinski Photo Editor – Angela Radulescu Head Copy Editor – Dino Grandoni Production Editor – Ben Cotton and Yipeng Huang Opinion Editor – Sheri Pan A&amp;E Editor – Julia Halperin Sales Director – Gizem Orbey Finance Director – Akhil Mehta Alumni&nbsp; Director – Christina Patterson 
 We've received a few questions about the trailers on 111th and 110th between Broadway and Riverside. Bwog's Best Boy and Key Grip Jon Hill scoped out the scene, and he reports that they're for a new ABC network TV series called Cupid, which stars&nbsp;"Vince" from Will&nbsp;&amp;&nbsp;Grace&nbsp;as a "modern day" Cupid. Eh. So now you know, etc.! 
 CC '09 Class Council Rep. Colin Felsman has notified Bwog that the much-anticipated voting website for CC '09's Class Day speaker has been online for the last few hours and may be found here.&nbsp; So if you are a senior who wants to take a break from that 25-pager you've been "working" on in Butler all day, head to the newly launched site and exercise your finest of democratic priveleges, times eight.&nbsp; Seniors will be able to vote eight times for the candidates, and while you can technically vote eight times for the same person, the data will be checked by the council and counted as merely a single vote.&nbsp; A final ranking of the speakers will be made public when the poll closes in a week.&nbsp; Thankfully Joel Klein is not an option, but Bwog has its inklings on who we think might just take the cake this year. Bwog wishes the seniors happy voting and reminds you that should you have any questions please email ccsc09@columbia.edu. Photo via Gothamist 
 To All Columbia College Students,&nbsp; Dean Yatrakis will know if you plagiarize any of your final papers, which you most certainly will. And when you inevitably try to pass someone else's work off as your own, she will remove you from your precious leadership positions and probably expel you. And then when you try to get a job, she will tell your future employer how dishonest and awful you are. And by the way happy holidays! After the jump, an absolutely terrifying email sent to CCers, which we admit is not our own work but that of Dean Yatrakis! It is in quotes demonstrating such! "To all Columbia College students, As the semester draws to a close and you are focused on final papers and exams, I write to bring your attention to the matter of academic integrity. You know, of course, that academic integrity is the cornerstone of any academic community. The Faculty of the Arts of Sciences have published a statement of the meaning of academic integrity to here at Columbia, which reads as follows: The intellectual venture in which we are all engaged requires of faculty and students alike the highest level of personal and academic integrity. As members of an academic community, each one of us bears the responsibility to participate in scholarly discourse and research in a manner characterized by intellectual honesty and scholarly integrity. Scholarship, by its very nature, is an iterative process, with ideas and insights building one upon the other. Collaborative scholarship requires the study of other scholars' work, the free discussion of such work, and the explicit acknowledgement of those ideas in any work that inform our own. This exchange of ideas relies upon a mutual trust that sources, opinions, facts, and insights will be properly noted and carefully credited. In practical terms, this means that, as students, you must be responsible for the full citations of others' ideas in all of your research papers and projects; you must be scrupulously honest when taking your examinations; you must always submit your own work and not that of another student, scholar, or internet agent. Any breach of this intellectual responsibility is a breach of faith with the rest of our academic community. It undermines our shared intellectual culture, and it cannot be tolerated. Students failing to meet these responsibilities should anticipate being asked to leave Columbia. While Columbia's policies are clear, some students choose to ignore these rules and submit work that is not their own.&nbsp; If found responsible of academic dishonesty through the process of Dean's Discipline, sanctions such as disciplinary probation, suspension or expulsion can be imposed.&nbsp; In some cases, students found guilty of academic dishonesty have been prevented from taking leadership positions in the student groups in which they are involved.&nbsp; It is also important to note that disciplinary outcomes become part of a student's permanent record—so each time these students submit an application form for graduate school, professional school, fellowships, and in some cases a job, the act of dishonesty may be reported. Remember, it is your responsibility to ensure that the work you submit for your coursework is your work alone, that you receive approval from your instructors to collaborate on work with a classmate, and that references are properly and completely cited.&nbsp; If you are unsure about any aspect of your work, you should ask your instructor for clarification.&nbsp; I refer you to the College Bulletin for more information on plagiarism and the disciplinary process -&nbsp; http://www.college.columbia.edu/bulletin/universitypolicies.php - and remind you that there are many resources available to you on campus to assist you in ensuring that your work maintains the academic standards that are the hallmark of a Columbia education.&nbsp; Your advising dean will be able to assist you in identifying the right resource for you. I wish you well as you conclude your classes and hope that you have a strong finish to the semester and a restful and restorative break. Sincerely, Kathryn B Yatrakis Dean of Academic Affairs" 
 Bwog theater correspondent Morgan Childs saw last night's annual XMAS! show. Please don’t ask me to explain XMAS!.&nbsp; In case you missed last night’s two-show run, the bare facts may seem a little out of left field.&nbsp; Things begin like an off-color joke when a pagan, a Jew, and a frustrated Kwanzaa observer conspire to kidnap Santa Claus, only to find their plans thwarted by Charlie Brown, Tiny Tim, and a rapping Lil’ Drummer Boy.&nbsp; The Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come is looking for love, and Santa wears skinny jeans.&nbsp; Two goats fall in love.&nbsp; It all works out in the end. There’s a lot going on in this year’s XMAS!, but for one reason or another, nobody seems to mind.&nbsp;&nbsp; XMAS! North by Northpole, the third installation of the annual student-produced holiday musical, is the story not of Charlie Brown, not of Tiny Tim or Sally Pagan or Cindy Jew Who, but of all of them as well as all their friends.&nbsp; In that way (and in Jew Who’s confession that she secretly prefers Christmas to Hannukah), XMAS! is a rumination on the universality of Christmas.&nbsp; But let’s not kid ourselves, lest we forget the real meaning of XMAS!: wit, irreverence, and a respite from the stress of final exams. All of these things, it should be noted, XMAS! achieved in spades.&nbsp; Rarely have I seen a more receptive audience than last night’s eleven o’clock crowd, most of which jumped to their feet en masse at the show’s end.&nbsp; Rachel Leopold and Michael Molina’s script, while by no means cerebrally taxing, sustained the audience’s riotous laughter from beginning to end.&nbsp; The poor acoustics in Roone Arledge Auditorium once again did a disservice to performers, but no one in the seats seemed to mourn the smattering of lost lines.&nbsp; The transitions between scenes ran a little long, a little quiet--but no matter.&nbsp; For all its foibles, the evening was a delight, perhaps because neither its audience nor its creative team would have it any other way. Of course, credit is due in large part to the show’s remarkably talented cast, and while XMAS! functioned most successfully in its ensemble numbers, several individual performances cannot go without mention.&nbsp; As Belsnickel, the pagan leader of the Anti-Santa Society (or A.S.S.), Tobin Mitnick was somewhat magnetic, lending thoughtful and impressive physicality to an under-developed role.&nbsp; Austin Smith (Kwanzaa Karl) commanded the crowd’s attention from the moment he entered the stage, projecting his remarkable vocal and physical talent with ease.&nbsp; Mary Jo Holuba gave a near-perfect performance of the song “Jew for Santa Claus” as Cindy Jew Who.&nbsp; And Emily Kaplan’s Tiny Tim -- or perhaps the pairing of her cockney accent and “That’s What She Said” wisecracks -- had the woman sitting behind me doubled over with laughter (admittedly, so was I).&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; But perhaps the most notable strength of XMAS! lay in Allie Paddock’s choreography.&nbsp; Paddock crafted the play’s movement with a deft hand, and the end result was an ideal complement to a show of this sort -- confidently tongue-in-cheek, and a hell of a lot of fun to watch.&nbsp; Near its end, the play came to a sudden, thrilling halt when its entire cast convened for an impressive step routine.&nbsp; XMAS! is pure glee, and this moment was its most gleeful.&nbsp;&nbsp; At the end of the day, there are strings left to be tied.&nbsp; Zlathe the Goat is still set to be sacrificed, the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come is still single, and our downtrodden Santa still owes a debt to society.&nbsp; But with just an hour of winter bliss to spare on the last day of classes, none of these things really matters.&nbsp; XMAS!, like few other shows on this campus, promises to all a good night. 
A while ago, we reported the development and implementation of columbiaclasses.com, a new way to rate and search for classes.&nbsp; But have no fear, traditionalists!&nbsp; CULPA, the original professor-rating site, has come into the 21st Century with a new and spiffy website that might actually work when you need it!&nbsp; Bwog is giving you a brief tour of the site for quick acclimation. &nbsp; 
 Take a break from studying and hurry out of your hard-fought Butler cubicles!&nbsp; Relay For Life committee members are giving away s'mores, hot drinks, and snacks in a study break from 12-2 on the Lerner Ramps.&nbsp; They will also have some fantastic t-shirts on sale, with slogans such as "Great Boobs Are Worth Fighting For" and "I Put Out...Cigarettes" with proceeds going to the American Cancer Society. 
Bwog remembers its very first final exam as a first-year.&nbsp; As a service to our youngest readers, Bwog staff and friends have compiled summaries of Lit Hum books...in limerick form!&nbsp; Stay tuned for tomorrow's very special CC study guide. The Iliad Achilles, the raging Achaean, Agamemnon's war plans was derailin'. For the city of Troy, And for Helen, a ploy With a horse was the Greek soldiers' way in. The Odyssey After Troy, brave Odysseus wandered, Adventured and tarried and pondered, Saw Calypso and Cyclops 'Pon Ionian outcrops, Thence home ere Pen's honor was squandered! The Histories Father of history, Herodotus Wrote of wars, and lies and lust: "Gyges ruled, Scythians were cruel, But remembering human achievement's a must."&nbsp;&nbsp; Medea Jason was not a good guy. To Medea he had said goodbye. So you know what she did? She killed all her kids And then she flew off in the sky.&nbsp; Lysistrata Of war all Greek women had tired, So together they met and conspired. They knew what men wanted, So their husbands they taunted: "For sex, complete peace is required."&nbsp; Symposium Some hung-over Greeks had doubt Over what love was all about Was virtue correct? Or trading wisdom for sex? But "Forms!" was Socrates' cop-out. &nbsp; Old Testament (Two verses for the price of one!) When God said "let there be light" He showcased all of his might. He plagued Pharaoh with flies, Made the Red Sea dry And then gave Job quite a fright Job and job are capitonymic words Like Polish and polish, or Herb and herb And though this doesn't have much to do With the story of that unfortunate Jew It does make the story a little absurd New Testament So God was feeling frisky, decided to be a bit risky. Got in bed with Mary of course he did not tarry! You know the rest of the story. 
 The Blue and White is in the market for a new publisher, who would begin in January and hold the position until January 2010. Applicants should ideally have some experience in production, sales, advertising, or PR (whether via an internship or working with campus publication/creative production/student group), but we'll be considering anyone with an enthusiasm for the magazine. The publisher is in charge of everything business- and publicity- related, which includes but is not limited to: soliciting ads on a monthly (and longer-term) basis, handling requests for subscriptions, working with our printer/ABC, brainstorming fund-raising opportunities, sitting atop the masthead and glad-handing the staff (pictured at right) during our monthly parties. Interested parties should email bweditors@columbia.edu a short note detailing their background and interest in the position before New Year's Eve. If you have any questions, please feel free to email this address as well. 
 Uh well, yikes: a husband and a wife have been arrested for trying to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars from Columbia. John Bzdil III and his wife Heather Brooke Rinehart scammed the University by sending in fake invoices that somehow, in fictitious criminal land, related to the Pediatric Neuroscience department at the Med School, of which Bzdil is the former manager. They also tried to bill personal items -- like their own wedding (at the pretty fancy looking Skytop Lodge, in Skytop, Pennsylvania) -- to the University.&nbsp; They managed to steal about $200,000 in total. Documents detailing the team's corruption after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Free jelly donuts on the Lerner Ramp now, courtesy of Chabad. And actually, they're not technically just jelly donuts, they're sufganiyot, which is a Hebrew Jewish jelly donut that's being served in celebration of Chanukah.&nbsp; Maybe the best part? They're right next to a table handing out free bibles. 
 So we've gotten approximately 700 emails over the course of the last half-day or so relating to what you're all calling The Cubmail Outrage. So, let's see what's happening here shall we? UPDATE 4:34 PM: There's a new message on the CUIT website.&nbsp; Full text after the jump, but the essence is "most mailboxes working, some still aren't." According to Mathilda McGee-Tubb, a Communication Specialist at Student and Administrative Services who also contacted Bwog about The Cubmail Outrage: "On December 9, one of our email servers suffered significant hardware failure.&nbsp; Approximately 5% of Columbia email users may have problems accessing their email.&nbsp;&nbsp;No mail has been lost, but visible symptoms include an empty inbox and no access to email folders.&nbsp; Affected users can access temporary mailboxes to send and receive new email effective 11:00 a.m. today.&nbsp; From Cubmail, select "Open Folder," "Public Folders," then "Private." Within "Private," there will be a mailbox with your username.&nbsp; We are projecting full resolution and access to all email by tomorrow morning.&nbsp; We apologize for this inconvenience and regret the impact of this outage for our affected customers." Still, you, the Affected Cubmail Users, are outraged. According to one tipster, CUIT has received around 130 calls about the downtime. And the problem is affecting the faculty too: History Department administrator/frequent emailer Eleanor Kaye is without Cubmail, so an email was sent around to the History Department announcing her lack of email. Other students have emailed Bwog using comically outdated AOL email addresses, bemoaning their lack of @columbia.edu. New message on the CUIT website posted at 3:09 Access to most customers' mailboxes has been restored. Mailboxes can be accessed via Cubmail and Mail clients such as Outlook and Thunderbird as well. &nbsp; Please note the following: Some mailboxes are still not available.&nbsp; This means ONLY that the mail server software can't see those mailboxes yet.&nbsp; We are still restoring mailboxes, and more will appear as we continue to work. For some users the inbox is not available yet. New mail is still being delivered to Public Folders.private.&lt;username&gt; where &lt;username&gt; is each user's name. Customers should avoid creating new mail folders or move messages until&nbsp; the recovery is completed. 
 When the results of the NROTC survey were released last week, students complained that the results had been combined for CC, SEAS, and GS. While the breakdown may no longer matter that much, Bwog has finally obtained the percentage breakdown by school: &nbsp; &nbsp;NO &nbsp;YES &nbsp;ABSTAIN CC &nbsp;53.0%&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 46.8% &nbsp; 0.2%&nbsp; SEAS &nbsp;46.4%&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;53.6% &nbsp;0.0%&nbsp; &nbsp;GS &nbsp;44.4%&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;55.1% &nbsp; 0.5% Combined with Barnard's results, this means that two schools voted for, and two schools against, with the depth of opposition in Barnard and the size of the CC vote making the difference. Again, not that it matters any more. 
In light of the tragic Cubmail Outrage, there have been several requests for us to re-run our tutorial on how to forward your Cubmail to your Gmail account. So, we proudly present "Better Living Through Gmail" by Mark Holden, way back from September 2006:&nbsp; Being a Columbia student means dealing with e-mail. Craploads of it. You have an account through the school, but you’d do yourself a favor by getting a colorful Gmail account from our friends at Google. Why? Infinite storage space, accessibility from any computer, rapid-fire messages that don’t clutter your inbox, the best spam filter available, and a fun chat feature! Bwog staffer Mark Holden offers this guide to the best e-mail system out there. Step 1: Join the club&nbsp; First, you need to get a Gmail account. (If you already have one, skip to the next paragraph.) As we'll see shortly, your account name doesn't matter, so sign up for whatever's available. If you have a cell phone (you do have one, right? you are a college student, right?), you can sign up directly at www.gmail.com; if you don't, you need to find a friend to invite you; if that fails, try emailing hottchik6969@gmail.com for one (read on to find out); if all of the above fail, look here for more options. So get Gmail and come back when you're done. Bookmark this page if necessary. I'll wait... ...Done? Good! Next, we need to forward all your Columbia mail to Gmail. To do that, log in to Cubmail, go to options, then delivery settings, then "edit your delivery settings," then "edit your email delivery settings," then "Login to edit your UNI account," then about 2/3rds down click "Email forwarding." (Do you still wonder why you're switching? Good grief.) Enter your new Gmail address and click save. Phew! Take a good look at Cubmail, because this is the last ti me you'll be seeing it for a very long time (forever if all goes well). If you feel any sort of nostalgia, slap yourself in the face right now. Step 2: Set up your accounts So now all your Columbia email is forwarded to your Gmail account. But you may be wondering -- when I respond to a message someone sends me, will it show as my Columbia address or my Gmail address? This is especially important if you chose "hottchik6969" or something goofy like that for your Gmail name. Fortunately, you can spare the world your silliness. Log in to your shiny new Gmail account and click "Settings" in the top-right, then click the "Accounts" tab. See the option "Send mail as"? Surprise surprise, that does exactly what it sounds like -- allows you to send mail from your Gmail account and have it appear as if it's coming from another account. Click "Add another email address". Enter in your CU email. Click "Next step &gt;&gt;" then "Send verification". Now, here's the nifty part. Gmail sends a verification email to the account you've just specified to make sure you really own the account. But since your email is already forwarded, the e-mail goes straight to your Gmail account. So go to your inbox, grab the code, and verify your account. Then go back to the accounts tab in settings and make sure that you've told Gmail to reply from the same address the message was sent to for all your accounts (it's right below the account list). Voila! You can now receive and send email from your Columbia account in Gmail with no one on the outside world the wiser. Go take a break and celebrate with some champagne. Step 3: Make it pretty Inebriated? Good! Since our aim in switching is maximum efficiency and sanity, it will pay to take a few minutes now to configure Gmail for ease of use. Go to settings again, then go to the general tab. The important options are keyboard shortcuts, personal level indicators, and snippets, all of which should be enabled. Then click on the "Web Clips" tab and uncheck the box that says "Show my web clips above the Inbox." They'll only distract you when you need to work. Trust me. Personal level indicators and snippets make it easier and quicker to understand the context and contents of a message. Keyboard shortcuts allow you to use Gmail about ten times faster. Here's a list of Gmail's keyboard shortcuts. It looks daunting, but once you start applying them it becomes second-nature. Learn them. Use them. Love them. Step 4: Be an e-mail packrat Gmail gives you almost three gigabytes of storage (and growing). That's twelve times as much as Cubmail offers. It's enough so that you'll probably never have to delete a message. That, in fact, is Gmail's great strength, and it's where "archiving" comes in. Anything you want to be able to refer to later, highlight and press "Archive"--the message will leave your inbox, but be availible forever. To access archived messages, you can click "All Mail" on the left, or use Google's immensely powerful search technology to find exactly what you want. Enter your query in the text box right next to the Gmail logo and hit enter to find any e-mail containing that search term. Voila! Here's a further explanation of searching in Gmail. As with the keyboard shortcuts, it's well worth spending some time now to learn the ropes. It will prevent much greater headaches later. Step 5: Streamlining (or the "secondary inbox") You've probably used folders in the past to group your email (I'll bet you had one for your college applications). Labels are similar to folders. The nifty thing about them, though, is that one message can have multiple labels at the same time. So if you have an email from one of your professors (label "classes" or "LitHum") that's really important and needs action soon, you can also apply the label "!important" to it so that you'll remember to deal with it. Pretty cool so far. But the real power of Gmail comes when you combine labels with filters. Supposing, for example, you're a member of some campus group whose members are especially prolific with the email exchange (cough blueandwhite cough), you probably don't want all those messages cluttering up your inbox. However, you do want an easy way to read and manage them. Enter filters. Filters simply specify a certain set of actions Gmail should take when it receives an email that fits certain criteria. So for our imaginary student group's mailing list, you'd simply specify all messages sent to "mailinglistaddress@columbia.edu", as shown on the right. Simple, right? Here comes the magic. Go to the next step and tell Gmail to archive the message and apply a label for the group. Now, whenever you want to view the messages for that group, you can simply click the group's label on the left. The label will even tell you how many unread messages there are! What you have created is in effect a secondary inbox within your main Gmail account. Don't tell me that's not useful. Step 6: RTFM! Look up the acronym. What I've discussed here only scratches the surface of the sophisticated uses to which you can put Gmail's filters, labels, accounts, and forwarding if you're creative. If you want to learn more, the best place is Gmail itself, then searching the web. Read the help pages. Learn. It will pay off in saved time and headaches down the road. 
 According to the wonderfully neurotic obsessives over on College Confidential, today's the day for Early Decision acceptances. If you thought your week was going badly, Bwog recommends stepping over for some healthy schadenfreude. The not-so-coveted "First Facebook Group" award goes to the members of the Undergraduate Recruitment Committee, who took advantage of already being at Columbia to create their own group. Bwog says good luck to all those who are waiting, and congrats to all those who will be reading us in the fall. Bwog's first piece of advice to 13s? Do not post on your new Facebook groups - it will invariably be embarassing. &nbsp; 
 Yesterday we posted a LitHum study guide in limerick form. Today, we move on to CC, where we've summarized some texts as text messages. Leave your own creations in the comments.&nbsp; Machiavelli's The Prince U wnt pwr? akwr ur state by ne meenz necesry n mak sur ur feerd n not luvd.&nbsp; crush ur enmys qick n nvr use foran rmyz. ps. giv me a job, plz. Plato's The Republic Socrates + ppl @ athens tlk abt jstice theory of govt. theory of philo., theory of forms (rem, cave allegory!). s's goal is an ordered polis; in end S thinks philo.kings RULEZ (4 realz). Locke's Second Treatise ok its like, u have ur private property u have ur strong legislative branch now STFU Epictetus What is urs is urs, screw every1 else. Epicurus Dnt wry, b happy. St. Augustine's City of God 2 cities - in 1, chrstin values &gt; rthly plesures, in 1, opposite. they fight. 
 Let's be honest, Columbia: most of you voted for Barack Obama, and many of you would like to see the swearing in of Columbia's first graduate to reach the Oval Office. Sadly, though, the first day of classes falls on the same day (January 20) as the inauguration, leaving you to wonder "why not give us the day - or at least the morning - off?" The Columbia administration rejects your pathetic attempts at logic. Instead, according to an official PrezBo communiqué, they've decided to use the go-to method for all important university events: "a 'Jumbo Tron' screen will show the inauguration live on Low Library Plaza beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m." The screening will take place "unless there are extremely severe conditions," and hot chocolate and warm cider will be there to keep you (luke)warm.&nbsp; Of course, this entire post is predicated on the belief that PrezBo's e-mail scribe meant to write "JumboTron," not a gigantic 1982 movie (although it would be interesting to watch the inauguration parade as one big lightbike race). Full e-mail after the jump. Dear fellow member of the Columbia community, I write to invite you to join together in watching the historic Presidential Inauguration of Barack Obama (CC'83) on Tuesday, January 20, 2009. &nbsp;While other notable Columbians Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt and Gen. Dwight Eisenhower have served in the nation's highest office, this non-partisan event will mark the swearing-in of the first Columbia graduate as President of the United States. &nbsp;A "Jumbo Tron" screen will show the inauguration live on Low Library Plaza beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. &nbsp;Additional information to follow. Hot chocolate and warm cider will be served. No tickets or registration required. &nbsp;Please carry your Columbia University ID with you throughout the day. &nbsp;Like the inaugural on the Mall in Washington, the live broadcast event on Low Plaza will take place rain, snow or shine unless there are extremely severe conditions. &nbsp;Please join us. Visit &lt;http://www.universityprograms.columbia.edu/&gt; for event details. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President
 A brilliant, brilliant friend of Bwog's just informed us (well, reminded some of us) of this little life-changing trick: If you're writing a paper and need another page or two but have nothing more to say (surely, we can all relate!), you should bump up all the periods to size 14 font. It's impossible to tell (on the page or printed out) if the paper is double-spaced, and it results in an extra page of text. Right before our eyes, the history paper of a friend grew from 7 to eight and a half pages. It was breathtaking. Happy highlighting!&nbsp; 
It was a dark and stormy night -- and o! the rain, did it pour -- but a fair number of umbrella'd visitors came to Butler tonight for this semester's Orgo Night. Hm, what had happened this semester? Bwog wondered, who or what will find itself or themselves at the butt of the Marching Band's jokes?&nbsp; Well, quite frankly, we expected it to be the penis that CUMB brought along, it of Giant Inflatable Penis-Gate-fame, but it just bopped around in the background (see video), evidently the strong and silent type. Most jokes actually revolved around Obama. According to CUMB, due in large part to his success (coupled with that of Attorney General to be Eric Holder and New York Governor David Paterson), Columbia is now the nation's "foremost elite black college." From there on in, things progressed, for the most part, chronologically. Bwog even received a shout-out when talked turned to Obamacain, September's debate about the merits of service between Obama and "a trusty old white guy with funny arms." In the weeks that followed Obamacain, new Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visited the ladies of Barnard, educating them on the things they hold near and dear: sewing, cooking, and gender pay equity. Barnard jokes were liberal in quantity, the most clever among them described an evil plan against Columbia in which BC attempted to convince the world that Columbia is just the New York campus of Yale. A consequence of this evil plot? We might all be forced to play in "rape whistle choirs." And with that, the Band segued into "I Don't Wanna Be Sedated." ROTC was next up on the CUMB's hit-list, where discrepancies in the vote were blamed on a one "Lee C." who, in an act of "meta-terrorism," allegedly abstained from the vote some 300 times just to demonstrate his right to freedom of expression. The Band also addressed the 4000 students who didn't bother to vote at all, suggesting that the ballot should have read "yes" "no" and "who gives a fuck? I have three midterms this week!" And onto the topic of our terrible economy. Columbia's endowment troubles were noted (though Bwog was shocked there wasn't a sexual innuendo here!), and so were Dining Services cutbacks, including John Jay's "sub-prime rib." There was a special sympathy shout-out to economics majors and their "three summer internships worth of swallowed Lehman Brothers semen." Other aspects of the zeitgeist were summarized in a fantastical trip to Health Services, in which PrezBo received a Flintstones Band-Aid for his "PrezBooBoo," James Franco was diagnosed with unseasonal heat stroke, and students were treated for throwing up green bile and parading around with a cross. The night ended with a stirring rendition of "Wipe Out" and some sexually explicit mnemonic devices for tomorrow's Orgo Exam. The Band packed up its merriment and took leave, and with a little shh-ing from residents of 209, Butler transformed back into its natural state, one Giant Inflatable Penis emptier than it had been just moments before. -- JNW 
 The semester's last issue of The Fed is out online! Advice for when you go home Chanukkah vs. Christmas Some vacation possibilities Courses you do not want to take Always remember, kids: when you ask the Blue and White's blog to link to you, leave out that you've made fun of us And congratulations to the Fed's new masthead! E-I-C: Rachel Paige Katz Publisher: Benjamin Ehrlich Managing Editor: Nina Pedrad Head Submissions Editors: Aarti Iyer and Jeffrey Scharfstein. 
 The four undergraduate councils are halfway through their regimes, and Bwog thought that the best way to celebrate that would be by giving students a chance to sound off. With that, Bwog introduces its "Extremely Scientific Approval Ratings." In the tradition of our exit polls, we want to know: Do you approve of the job that the CCSC has done this semester? Use the commenter name to share your school and class year, and the comment for your answer and any explanations. Approval ratings for ESC, GSSC, and SGA will be added over the next few days. 
 Even at Columbia, Reading Week doesn't stop sports. Here's the Friday Sports Roundup. Men's Basketball: On Tuesday, the men's team lost another close game, falling 59-57 to St. Francis, despite leading by seven with 4:30 to go in the game. Joe Bova led the team with 11 points and 9 rebounds. The weekend after exams, Columbia plays its toughest games of the season, as they take part in the Aeropastale Holiday Festival at Madison Square Garden. On the 20th, they play Virginia Tech, and then either St. John's or Marist on the 21st. Both games will be shown on MSG. Women's Basketball: Last Saturday, the women's basketball team won at home against Denver, 67-56. 4 Lions - Chelsea Frazier, Danielle Browne, Sara Yee, and Katrina Cragg - all scored in double figures, and forward Judie Lomax added 14 rebounds. On the 22nd, the women's team takes on NC State at home. Wrestling: The men's team finished 27th out of 44 at the Cliff Keen Las Vegas Invitational last weekend. Sophomore heavyweight Ryan Flores, though, finished 5th at the event, and is now ranked 13th in the nation. The wrestling team does not renew action until January. Swimming: The men and women both finished fourth at the Big Al Invite in Princeton, New Jersey. Both teams finished behind Princeton, but ahead of Brown and Harvard. The teams return to the pool in January. - JCD 
 CCSC 2011 President Learned Foote writes to let us know that the council is celebrating the end of today's CC exam with pizza and Red Bull ("for renewed studying") in McBain Lounge today at 5 p.m.&nbsp; "It's primarily for sophomores, but if happy first-years want to join us, then that's cool." 
 This evening, running from 6 - 8 p.m. in Butler, Columbia is unveiling a war memorial to "honor those Columbians who gave their lives in service to the United States." The memorial will include a plaque (seen at right) in the entrance to Butler, and an interactive kiosk that will allow students to see the names of Columbians who have fallen while serving in the armed forces. The kiosk's site is available online as well, including a list of deceased, brief entries on Columbia's involvement with American wars, and a list of military-related 'points of interest' on campus. Bwog highly recommends it for procrastination. 
 Looking for a reason to get some fresh (cold) air tonight? According to Bwog jack-of-all-trades Jon Hill, tonight's moon is in fact as large and bright as it will be in the next 15 years. NASA has estimated that the moon will be 14% bigger and 30% brighter than other full moons this year. The phenomenon is the result of the full moon coinciding with the near-end of the moon's elliptical orbit. And in case you were wondering, Fox News wants to assure you that "there is no proof the full moon makes people crazy." There goes Bwog's exam excuse. Bwog's Hawkmadinebwog editor Courtney Douds and Bwogger Sean Zimmerman did their best to get pictures (more high res photos after the jump), but we'd love to see your best images - send them in to bwgossip@columbia.edu. UPDATE 12:35 AM: Dems VP Anna Brower sends in her shots, including a rather spooky one through the clouds. &nbsp; - Third and fourth photos by Anna Brower 
 Frontiers of Science mastermind David Helfand has gotten a promotion! After embarking on a bold experiment last year at Squamish, Canada's Quest University, he has been named&nbsp; "acting president". According to the National Post, "he will take a paid leave of absence from Columbia and move to Squamish in January, where he will work, gratis, for the full calendar year, trying to get Quest back on track, attracting more students, and finding his replacement." According to the Post, Quest university has seen four university presidents in the past year and continually suffers from "administrative blunders, low enrollment numbers, and negative articles in the press." The school is just one of the latest attempts to establish respectable small private universities in Canada, whose most famous universities are generally large and public--but at this point, the article says, "Quest is on the brink." Bwog would like to remind Professor Helfand to write all his graffiti in both languages. UPDATE 6:00 PM: As a commenter has suggested, for posterity's sake, Bwog also asks Professor Helfand's students to send us pictures of him "getting freaky" on the dance floor. 
 Yesterday, the Philolexian Society announced the winner and runners-up of its 23rd annual Alfred Joyce Kilmer Memorial Bad Poetry Contest, named after journalist, poet, Philo member, and Spec editor Alfred Joyce Kilmer, CC class of 1908. Held every November, the contest selects the "best" (i.e. worst) poetry submissions, and there were some good (bad?) ones this year. The awards go to: Winner: Stephen Blair, CC '11 - "Anatomy" 1st Runner Up: Edward A. Rueda, CC '05 - "Trees 2008" (sung to the tune of Katy Perry's "I Kissed A Girl") 2nd Runner Up: Jacob Rice, CC '12 - "Hamlet" 3rd Runner Up: Peter Day, CC '12 - "Choices" "Dishonorable Mentions": Adam Katz, CC '08, Robyn Schneider, BC '08.5, Amitai Schlair, GS '09 Stephen's poem is after jump, and for the rest of the poems, hop on over to the Phlog. Bwog congratulates the "winners." "Anatomy" by Stephen Blair, CC '11 The girl who sits in front of me In Intro to Anatomy Is lovely as the laurel tree And with a glance could shatter me. When first my sight did chance to light Upon her curves so ample, I threw away that book by Gray To study her example. For Beauty is the spark of knowledge (Plato says nothing lesser), And in Beauty's prestigious college, She is full professor. So close your books, collegiate youth! Forget Fermat's equation! Her beauty is the only truth: One glance, an education. Close up your books! Forget your Euler's Constant! Smash your lyre! Unlearn your Latin! Snap your rulers! Throw into the fire Historians inveterate And poets tragicomical: For in her form hath Nature writ Perfection anatomical. One day I chanced to come to class A minute or two early; I found her there upon a chair, Her hands entwined demurely, Her hair pinned up (Ah, she could look No lovelier than that to me!); Her nose was buried in a book: It was her Gray's Anatomy. No one was nigh save she and I, Nor student nor professor; In loving wise she raised her eyes, And thus did I address her: "O gentle lady, tell me: art Thou god or art thou mortal? For, ah! - my every aching part Thy beauty sets achortle, And fain would I conclude, thou art A heaven-dwelling goddess. But if a tender human heart Doth beat within thy bodice, Have pity on a lovelorn youth, Love-maddened by your figure, Beauty's own image! (Though, in truth, Your pelvis could be bigger, But we'll let that alone.) Oh, I Could spend a lifetime gazing On thee; how thy calcanei Do set my marrow blazing! How graceful thy navicula! How lissome is thy femur! How sweet is thy clavicula, As sleep to the dreamer, And how I've dreamt, with tearful eye, That cradled in my lap you lay, Whilst I did ply my humeri About your snow-white scapulae! O let me drape my radii Across thy smooth patella And plant a trembling kiss on thy Superior maxilla, And press your os frontale fast Against my lovestruck sternum, Send shivers running through my filum Terminale internium! In vain I vaunt your beauty, for I have not words to tell it in; But ne'er did I - nor shall I more Behold so fine a skeleton. For skin and hair may rip and tear And Time our flesh may sever; All mortal clay will soon decay, But bones endure forever." Thus spake I - and she blushed! - but not The blushing of a lover: She seemed, with bubbling rage red-hot, About to boil over. Alas, how women change their moods, And how their temper ranges! For with a shriek she smote my cheek With her distal phalanges. A yellow bruise did straight suffuse My cheek, where she had hit it, And with an oath (which I am loth T'repeat, so I omit it), She said, "All men are of a par: A lewd, lascivious lot, As pesky as mosquitoes are, And worthier to swat. Hence from my sight! No closer come," She said, "by Saint Cecilia! If men could use their cerebrum Like their membra virilia!" 
Entrenched in finals, begging for mercy.&nbsp; Outside the reading rooms, the real world keeps working. Sex Starting with the good stuff:&nbsp; CollegeOTR may have been correct in saying Columbians are "oversexed":&nbsp; A Columbia sex ed professor (oh yes, we have those) is worried about the rise of what a popular television show termed "What What in the Butt" among teens.&nbsp; Yikes.&nbsp; But another Columbia professor has shown that using protection is actually sexy.&nbsp; Alice! is pleased, since hookups are totally replacing dates. Conflict The best way to communicate with extremists is to do it in their own language.&nbsp; And hope that they read what you give them.&nbsp; Unfortunately, some of them will still hate PrezBo. The Internet Columbians in charge of the Pulitzer in journalism have decided that the Internet is real.&nbsp; And an exciting proposition: the music industry is considering blanket licensing for universities, and Columbia witnessed the presentation. Thirteen Alert! Two of the winners of the Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology have applied early decision to Columbia, but Bwog can't ascertain whether they got in.&nbsp; One has a perfect GPA, a perfect SAT score, and seven AP classes under her belt.&nbsp; Under the gaze of Alma Mater, however, everyone slides down the totem pole a little bit. 
In celebration of the almost-time-to-actually-enjoy-the holiday season, an attempt to draw connections. The broke Flex retreats, and Barnard begs. ...and the broken Gchat died, Cubmail stopped, and Schermerhorn flooded. Our studying LitHum limericks, CC gimmicks, Culpa gutted. ...and their stealing A couple takes, and plagiarism fakes. The Past A war memorial. ...and the future "Obama" is a correale. ...and the other-worldy A huge moon in the sky, and ghosts passing by. 
 The December issue of The Blue and White -- our Denominational Domination issue -- will be on stands (and online) later this week. In the meantime, here's something to read besides your old class notes.&nbsp; "O Ye of Little Faiths" by Alexandra Muhler While Columbia is an institution regularly accused of godlessness, our Student Governing Board (SGB) allocates considerable funding to faith-oriented student groups. The three largest religions on campus have robust memberships and budgets, though there's no correlation. According to SGB data, here's the breakdown: Hillel (2,000 members, $35,100 budget); the Muslim Students Association (700, $19,500); Columbia Catholic Undergrads (354, $10,800). The Bhakti Club, despite associations with the off-the-beaten-path Hare Krishna sect, claims 170 members, making it the fourth largest campus club of its kind. Then there are the true minorities. This year, the Jehovah's Witnesses just managed to claim its 14 members, the bare minimum for SGB recognition, and declined a request to participate in this article. Other small groups present on campus include the Seventh Day Adventists (20 members, $500 budget) and the Baha'i (39, $2,485), who didn’t respond to interview requests. The Unitarian Universalists have a campus chaplain but no club. There is no Scientology club; most individuals who practice the religion stay closeted. Below, meet a few the loneliest practitioners in Morningside. Lutherans There are nearly 11 million Lutherans in the United States. At Columbia, there are 14—that is, officially. Blake Arnold, SEAS '11, the president of Columbia Lutherans, says he just has trouble getting them to show up. Arnold, who runs track, says two of his teammates promise every week that they will attend Sunday night services. They never do. It's almost Monday morning, and they are busy with work. Nationwide, the Lutherans are growing less devout, and in that sense, Columbia is no exception. It's a quaint sort of group. The once-groundbreaking doctrine of faith before works has long been a commonplace belief of Protestantism, and Columbia Lutherans casually co-sponsor study breaks with the more numerous Episcopalians. Arnold says that most of its members are Michiganders, homesick for church potlucks and networks of Lutheran cousins. Earlier this year, the group planned a country retreat to the Catskills. The plan fell through, but Arnold is working to make it happen next semester. Despite their size, they are not without institutional support. Much of their $400 budget goes to pay a pianist at their Sunday services, which are directed by Reverend Nicole Schwalbe, an employee of the Office of the University Chaplain who also directs their weeknight Bible studies. During her services in St. Paul's Chapel, the eight-odd congregants truly congregate; sitting in the first row of chairs and interrupting the sermon with comments and questions. "It feels more intimate," said Arnold. Indeed, in small, surprising ways, Columbia has proved a fertile ground for this struggling faith. Arnold admits that before he took Contemporary Civilization, he had never read the works of Martin Luther. Buddhists "To be a Buddhist can be quite lonely," says Mike Wong, TC '09, president of the Buddhist Meditation Group, which was founded this October at Teacher's College and is organized through the Interschool Governing Board. Students from most every school at Columbia have responded enthusiastically—at least at first. The group's listserv has 60 subscribers, but many only stop by once, their curiosity sated or their stress busted. Wong acknowledged that the group accommodates people who have "the mentality of picking and choosing what they find beneficial from Buddhism." The Columbia group is not, after all, associated with any specific temple or teacher. To accommodate the nature of the demand, Wong plans on offering a more eclectic curriculum—possibly even yoga—next semester. He estimates that there are two or three committed Buddhists in the club, and between five and ten more who attend meetings every week. Several of these members went on a retreat together, during which they meditated five or six times a day. It wasn't easy for some of the newer meditators. "Some people come in thinking it's a sort of easy, nice feeling," explained Wong. "It's really not in the case, at least not in the beginning. It's really tough on your knees." That said, Wong was not born to meditate, either. Though his mother kept a Chinese Buddhist shrine in their Bronx apartment, he did not attend temple until high school, when he grew frustrated by SATs and girl trouble and became intrigued by mentions of the religion in his world history class. He continues to try to integrate his faith and his education, but for now Columbia's Buddhist population lacks religious discipline, so Wong worships at a temple in Flushing. Sikhs About 20 people receive general body emails from the Sikh Student Association, and about five or six of them are Sikhs, estimates the group's president, Rajkaran Sachdej, CC '11. Many subscribe out of curiosity, and Sachdej gladly sends out educational notes on gurus' birthdays. The group's secretary, Ravi Singh, CC '09, who was raised mostly attending his mother's Hindu temple, is still investigating the religion. But that's okay—a "Sikh" is, by etymology, a "learner." The religion has a vast and flexible definition of God and relatively relaxed code of behavior. The SSA lay dormant between 2002 and spring 2008, at which point it was reactivated "with really, really, like, really, really small expectations," according to Sachdej. The club's funds are currently frozen because the small executive board always had scheduling conflicts that prevented them from attending SGB meetings. The club does not meet regularly, though it recently co-sponsored a vigil for the terrorist victims in Mumbai. Though the finance trouble makes co-sponsoring difficult, communication with other South Asian cultural groups is fairly simple. Sachdej works on the executive board of Club Zamana and dances with CU Bhangra. On the way home from Bhangra practice last year, the SSA's former president cornered him in an elevator and, quite without consulting him, tagged him as the new president. Nevertheless, for Sachdej, this is the largest Sikh community he's ever encountered. He was born and raised in Guam, where his extended family constituted the entire Sikh population. Determined to expand his group, Sachdej keeps a weather eye out for anyone wearing a turban or iron bangle. Mormons &nbsp; The Mormons on campus use other signs to identify their fellow worshippers. Evan Johnson, GSAS '09, encountered his first Columbia Mormon when a friend recognized he was LDS because he used the word "freakin" to avoid the more profane alternative. But of all the small religious groups on campus, the Latter Day Saints Students Association is certainly the most visible. The club president, Alex Cheung, CC '10, and Jane Wilson, Law '11, often staff a Meet the Mormons table on the Lerner ramps. They are open to debate and friendly to questions, but also wired to convert. While this reporter was chatting at the table, Cheung slowly and without explanation pushed his laptop toward me. On screen was a man speaking. "Who's that?" I asked. "That's a member of the Church. He's giving his testimony," he replied. Perhaps it's only habit. Most young Mormons serve a two-year mission, during which they study scripture for three hours a day and proselytize nine hours a day, often in a language they picked up in two to three months of training. The LDSSA gathers every Tuesday—religiously—for Institute, their scripture study. While only seven people attended one meeting The Blue and White visited, it must be among the most racially diverse on campus. The Columbia student population is small, supplemented by missionaries doing their service in New York as well as recently converted neighborhood folk. But however disparate their origins, the Mormons are remarkably uniform in presentation; clean and perky, and they all read aloud with confidence, a skill cultivated in years of group religious study. Sharlieka Williams, who is planning on being baptized this month, stumbled while she read and bit her fingernails down to the quick. Still, it is the comfort of this kind of group that has brought her to the church. "They talk and greet you and love you," she explained in an e-mail. Evidently, the open-arms strategy has been successful. "We've had baptisms every few weeks, every other week lately," said Sister Johanson. When Mormons are on mission, they are referred to as either "Sister," "Brother," or "Elder." Chris Haueter, SEAS'12, insists that Columbia and New York are not inhospitable to his faith. "It's not hostile. I've never, ever felt any opposition to my belief," he said. Nevertheless, it must be difficult to stand in opposition to so many of the school's and the city's cultural norms. Work—including homework—is not allowed on Sundays. The precept called the Word of Wisdom forbids the consumption of alcohol, cigarettes, and caffeine. One of the potential converts, Karen, who asked that her last name not be printed, had a question about the Word of Wisdom. "I thought it extended to not being able to eat chili peppers," she said. The Mormons were happy to clear the matter up—it did not. "The LDS Church and the Jewish religion have one thing in common. We believe that the more educated you are, the more devout you become," explained Cheung, paraphrasing a lecture by a Harvard professor who addressed his mission group. But the textual discussion in Institute falls short of exegesis. "It inspires me to know that Joseph Smith was so young and so uneducated when he saw his vision," said Cheung. Sister Diray concurred, and affirmed with a smile, "I'm so blessed." "I had been to so many churches before," said Karen. "Why didn't I come to the Church earlier?" It's a difficult question to answer, but Wilson immediately knew where to turn. "First Nephi, 11:17." It turned out that Karen had a fairly clear idea of why she had come to Institute. "I saw a special on TV about Mormons and I thought, I think I'm going to join that church," she recounted. "That's awesome," replied Cheung, who admits he was so touched by the same PBS documentary that he bawled in front of the television. The meeting was only scheduled to last an hour, but Haueter and Cheung stayed late to answer Karen's and my questions. For their faith, they are happy to give their time. Haueter explained it best: "In every single sense, in every single way, my actions are influenced by the eternal truth."&nbsp; 
 There's a silence over campus, which will only be punctured by tonight's Primal Scream. Heads hunched in Butler or in dorm rooms, the collective Columbia population slogs through the start of exam week. Ugh. But we at the Bwog wanted to focus on the light at the end of the tunnel - all those things waiting for us over winter break. We've compiled our own list, and encourage you to add your own (or, of course, ridicule ours) in the comments. A warm fire Reading books that I've actually chosen Catching up on TV (Thanks Hulu!) Hours upon hours of English soccer Actually enjoying Christmas carols The inauguration of Barack Obama Using an automobile ("I'm going to the grocery, Dad. Wait, you mean I don't have to use my own legs to get there?!") A mattress without stains A tile shower that won't make my toes sprout mushrooms Movie tickets that cost less than $12 each Not needing to swipe an ID to enter my home People standing "in line," not "on line" Eating real food Sleep Not doing laundry Boxsprings Introspection Putting insanity on pause, literally Reducing Gmail to a trickle Not gambling on the functionality of washing machines Deer Live television Mid-season premieres Spacious aisles Well-rested, well-adjusted, well-fed, normal people A view from your window Sunlight in your room from said window A bathtub (for some) A dryer that's not a steamer No MPAA or RIAA or anti-free-culture University watching your every move (for Europeans) Planning out all the classes you're going to take in the semesters to come (well, they seem fun and interesting *now*...) A real refrigerator Christmas tree(s) Christmas/holiday food Christmas/holiday music Not having to go up four flights of stairs and half a ramp to get your mail No print quota Not having to worry about the fire alarm (being too sensitive or being too tolerant) Air conditioning GPS- and WiFi-enabled public transportation&nbsp; Being half a year ahead of the TV schedule (for many abroad) No Uggs or Crocs in sight No cheeseburgers A reliable heating system and, with it, the ability to feel my toes (god damn you Woodbridge!) High school friends High school drinking playlists The wonderfully tacky jewelry I will receive from ancient relatives. Being able to walk to the movie rental store. John's Roast Pork Sleeping in pajamas, not jeans. (Santa!) My couch Protein in my diet A fridge that doesn't freeze all of my vegetables or make everything soggy My sister! Sketchy south Jersey bars where every night is Ladies' Night The beach being 5 minutes away Eating all of the food groups every day Not drinking coffee Singing along to the music of Barnard's Sarah Dooley while driving with your friends Not having to worry about flooded parts of campus and the risk of wet socks Lower costs of living No more lucid dreams about writing papers The 60+ Santa Clauses that will be decorating my house. My mother collects. Yule log Driving to the hills or the beach to watch the sun set Christmas shopping...for everyone. Two days before Christmas. Drinking with my grandmothers Hippies! Being at home as a legal dependent for maybe the last time in my life Another degree of removal from the financial crisis A piano I can play without being embarrassed Bike rides with dad Ferries All the Culturally Important TV Series I've missed out on over the past four years That air of cosmopolitanism from being a New Yorker on the West Coast That fear of retribution from being a New Yorker in south Jersey Baking My mother and I decorating the tree, while my stepdad tells us that the tree is askew. Sleeping Receiving holiday cards Being with my family Upgrading my Ubuntu server to Intrepid (hopefully someone will understand this) Turing my Debian server into a mail drop so I can use imap on my pop3 account (again, hopefully someone gets this) Eggnog! Stoves Real food, especially stained glass cake (a family dessert; I recently inherited the recipe) Most requested classical music countdown on WQXR Watching a Charlie Brown Christmas with my mom Not worrying about when the next problem set is due. Road trips Samosas Knitting in front of the tv Borrowing movies from the public library Getting a ricer to make the creamiest mash potatoes mmmm! Time to be idle, to think Counter space Weaver Street Market ( http://www.weaverstreetmarket.com ) Touring Christmas lights with the fam Guinea pigs (all five) Making Chex mix with my father Being among last-minute shoppers on Christmas Eve Patrick Stewart's one-man "A Christmas Carol" on audiotape (that's right, cassette tape!) As I walk up the stairs at night, looking down on the darkened den and gazing at the flecks of colored light cast on every surface from the Christmas tree Finishing The Wire Finishing Magic Mountain Finishing the frozen Thanksgiving leftovers in my home refrigerator Showers and baths that make you feel cleaner, not dirtier, than you had been previously Chestnut Hill Coffee Co. S L E E P 
Bwog took a stroll around Butler this fine Sunday evening, for such is our time-honored tradition. What we saw is a haunting portrait of the terrible side-effects of caffeine and what must be at least half of Starbucks' yearly revenue. We also observed the masses try to escape their madness: literally, below, and figuratively, at Facebook.com. See more portraiture after the jump -- if you dare. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Does your study space rival these in filth, sheer volume, or Starbucks patronage? Send photographic evidence to bwog@columbia.edu and we'll gladly add it.&nbsp; -- JNW 
At midnight, Columbia has one of its few annual rituals—the Primal Scream. For new students, here's a four-step guide: If your clock's not auto-synced to the NIST's Cesium Fountain Atomic Clock (i.e. the Internet), make sure you've set it correctly. At midnight, open your window or go outside. . Loudly. Keep it short. If you're still screaming past 12:04, you're a tool. Just stop. For those of you waiting to whack people with pillows, you'll have to wait until the spring to avoid assault charges (remember, folks, consent is sexy!). Make yourselves heard, people! 
 AHHHHHHHHHH! Now get some rest! Really! Follow the lead of this adorable couple who apparently live in Uris by snuggling up with your loved one and/or Red Bull-filled Nalgene. Good luck with tomorrow morning's finals! 
 A Freudian slip became a Freudian scream just minutes ago: Someone in an upper floor of McBain screamed out his window, "I want to suck your cock, Lee Bollinger!" Now, correct us if we're wrong, but isn't the person you're taunting supposed to be the, um, sucker? Or perhaps the McBain resident just has a fetish for sprightly, page-boy 'dos and steely -- but gentle -- blue-gray eyes. We know we do.&nbsp; Remember to send us your Primal Scream/Reading Week gossip and overheards! bwog@columbia.edu 
Here's another one from the upcoming December issue of the Blue and White: staff writer Jon Hill sat down with Nobelist/Columbia professor Joseph Stiglitz.&nbsp; Economist and Columbia Professor Joseph Stiglitz made a splash in the academic world with his pioneering work on information asymmetry, the problem of hidden surprises faced by used car buyers, eBay bidders, and insurance policyholders alike. Stiglitz’s insights earned him the 2001 Nobel Prize in economics, but now that information asymmetry has returned to the headlines in the form of failed banks, subprime loans, and a credit crisis, people are turning to Stiglitz for analysis and advice more than ever. The Blue and White has been among those seeking out the professor’s expertise, as our coffers are quite low.&nbsp; The Blue and White: We read the headlines, we see the news stories, but from your perspective as a Nobel Laureate economist, how bad is it out there?&nbsp; Joseph Stiglitz: Oh, quite. The decline in employment in the last month is symptomatic of obviously a very severe downturn, so the dynamics are extraordinarily negative. &nbsp; The fact that the Bush administration seems to have checked out a little bit early before the end of the term is not very helpful, and combined with the fact that Paulson doesn’t seem to know what he’s doing, we’ve been spending money to very little effect and we’re going into the second inning, as it were, with a huge deficit. We’ve had a negative savings rate and a housing bubble. It’s a very pessimistic outlook. Investment will decline. States and localities are facing huge deficits.&nbsp; B&amp;W: You’ve been warning about the dangers of giant banks and securitized mortgages since at least the early 1990s. &nbsp; JS: That’s right. The paper I had written on it was published in 1992. &nbsp; B&amp;W: So could we have anticipated these problems? &nbsp; JS: This was all predictable. Man-made, and predictable. In my paper, I even forecasted what some of these critical errors were that they’d make, like underestimating the price declines and drops, incentive problems with securitizations ... Since then, the patterns of mistakes had built up, so by 2000, it was even more easy to predict. The only thing we couldn’t predict was the recklessness with which the deregulation movement proceeded.&nbsp; B&amp;W: How was it reckless?&nbsp; JS: It’s hard to know where to begin. You allowed a culture of risk taking to permeate what should be conservative commercial banks that are investing other people’s money. You allowed incentive structures that encourage excessive risk taking, myopic behavior, and bad accounting practices. You allowed excessive leverage. Some of these practices have been associated historically with booms and busts over and over again. The only difference with this situation and the previous ones is that the innovations allowed us to take mistakes further than had been done in the past. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Do you feel like a bit of a Cassandra, then? &nbsp; JS: In other countries there were people who were paying attention. If you look around the world, some of those central banks didn’t allow the extremes that went on in the United States. India and Brazil had regulatory bodies that didn’t allow this. There were people in those countries encouraging the same excesses, but I was in India at the same time as Paulson and we were engaged in an active debate. And clearly what I think you saw there were forces pushing those countries in that direction, but there were others in charge who understand history and economic history, including the Indian Central Bank Governor Reddy. And Arminio Fraga, the Central Bank governor of Brazil at a critical time in their history—a former student of mine—he was aware of this excess. They understand the dangers.&nbsp; B&amp;W: What about people listening back in the United States, though? So far, you’ve not been publicly offered any position in the Obama administration. Newsweek’s Michael Hirsh wrote an opinion piece characterizing you as being “left out in the cold.” &nbsp; JS: &nbsp; B&amp;W: Why do you think Obama hasn’t asked you to join his team so far?&nbsp; JS: You’ll have to ask him. There are a variety of ways in which you get ideas into play, and hopefully the actual team will listen to people outside. I know some of them are. And I also know that he has said he wants to hear a diversity of views, and I’m hopeful that he will.&nbsp; B&amp;W: If you were to get your own ideas into play, though, what would they be? &nbsp; JS: I think there are some areas that have broad consensus. We need a very big stimulus. The risks of no stimulus exceed the risks of a deficit, but because we have deficit, we have to get the most bang for our buck—maximize the returns—especially to the economy. That’s why it’s important that we spend money for research, which has a very high return.&nbsp; Especially research in green technologies, which addresses one of our major problems and makes us competitive in the world we’re going into. &nbsp; Increased spending on the military, from an economic view, would be a very big mistake. It doesn’t yield the long-term economic benefits. We could get more secure with less spending and a better economy. I think there’s a broad agreement on that, but there are a lot of people in the military-industrial complex who would disagree.&nbsp; The second thing I would argue for is that we have to change the incentives and behavior of the financial systems that got us into this mess. We have to have new regulatory systems and changes that aren’t just cosmetic but are deep and profound. We have to reform TARP . Never has so much money gone down the drain so quickly. &nbsp; The whole bailout was very badly managed. Given the resource constraints we face, we have think, “How do we maximize the impact on our economy?” And finally, I think we need a deeper understanding of the links between the financial sector and our economy. &nbsp; B&amp;W: What is the biggest mistake Obama could make as he works to pull the country out of recession?&nbsp; JS: The biggest mistake would be a stimulus that’s too small, but that I don’t see that as a critical, likely mistake. The most serious mistake is to neglect reforming the marketplace. There will be those who go through the rhetoric about “preserving the innovative ability of our financial sector,” but the fact is, they didn’t innovate. They didn’t improve. Their social effect is probably negative. They utterly failed. They misallocated capital.&nbsp; I think one has to take a harsh look at what they did and think how we can correct it. &nbsp; B&amp;W: You alluded to military spending, and that’s a lot of what your latest book is about, The Three Trillion Dollar War. You say the Iraq War is depressing the American economy because of its tremendous cost, but some politicians would counter that the price is nothing when compared to the cost of future terror attacks and future loss of lives here at home. Is that $3 trillion price tag so unreasonable when viewed in such a context?&nbsp; JS: One of the things I point out in the book is the way we have spent that money. We have probably undermined our security, if anything. Spending money to provide security is obviously a matter of extreme value, but the point is the Iraq War may make us more vulnerable. We may finally have secured that little piece of turf, but things are going badly in Afghanistan and now spreading to Pakistan. I don’t think anyone would say after six years of fighting that our country is any more secure or that the world is a safer place.&nbsp; B&amp;W: What about the rest of the world—and that’s another topic you’ve written on—how will this recession shape the future of globalization?&nbsp; JS:&nbsp; I think it will have a profound impact. It’s not that globalization is bad; it’s the way it was managed. Capital market liberalization, finance market liberalization—these were very specific in shaping the world to the advantage of America’s financial institutions. Now that they’re failing, I think that part of the agenda will get looked at very closely in the future. A particular brand of economics has shown its weakness. Deregulation failed, and we see now from the United States that a country that doesn’t have regulated markets can cause disaster for the entire world. I think the neoliberal philosophy on globalization will be looked at with skepticism in most parts of the world. Hopefully what will emerge from this is that countries will work together and become more aware of how they affect each other.&nbsp; B&amp;W: Who are some of the young, rising economists whose work you’ve been reading?&nbsp; JS: That’s really hard. There are lots of good, young economists, but most today are very technical, so they are people making contributions in very particular areas. One of the sad things, though, is that some of the prevailing paradigms in economics have shown their weaknesses in the current crisis. Many macroeconomists were pushing ideas like, “Central banks should focus on inflation to keep inflation down,” and that would be sufficient for maintaining economic stability. I think most people would recognize what a flawed strategy that is. Not surprisingly, this has been a wakeup call and many young economists who will turn to looking at these issues more seriously. &nbsp; But the unfortunate thing is that the young economists have been looking at behavioral theory and attracting a lot of attention with specialties, curios, curiosities. Economists like Steve Levitt and Freakonomics. They are people looking at technical issues, like game theory and irrationality, but they haven’t addressed these fundamental issues causing this current crisis. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Should undergrads still think about going into economics these days?&nbsp; JS: Just like the 1930s inspired young people to get interested in economics and produce many great theories and scholarship, I think this will inspire people, too. And I didn’t mean to deride this other kind of work—about individual behavior and irrationalities. No one who looks at this past economic crisis can honestly say there wasn’t a degree of irrationality involved, and it’s very important that we understand that. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Speaking of irrationality, do you think a lack of understanding has helped grow the current troubles? Do you consider economic literacy—or maybe I should say, the lack of economic literacy—to be a problem in the U.S.?&nbsp; JS: Yes, clearly. Even among some very senior politicians. &nbsp; It’s a problem because it makes it hard to have very serious policy conversations. People can’t take part in the democratic process as thoughtfully as they need to. Good politicians will engage in that education, but it’s so much better to have an education system that can do that from the start.&nbsp; B&amp;W: How has Americans’ economic illiteracy shaped the current crisis?&nbsp; JS: They’re reacting symptomatically and not unreasonably. What they’re seeing is that the actions the government took haven’t worked and they’re seeing money pouring into Wall Street not working. They’re seeing Washington refuse to bail out Main Street, and then they see the arrogance of executives with bankrupt companies walking off with huge amounts of money. Americans have to say there’s something wrong with the market economy, so it’s raising profound questions. I think that will be good in the long run.&nbsp; B&amp;W: You’ve branched out into film now with Around the World With Joseph Stiglitz. Why did you decide to explore this medium?&nbsp; JS: You were getting at it just now. I’m not going to be able to get people to listen to a 20-hour class, a 40-hour class. I’m not going to be able to make them read The Roaring Nineties. I have to reach a media that most people can understand, and film is a very effective medium. I think it succeeded in posing the serious questions and providing perspective. What we tried to do in that movie was give a middle way—a balanced picture—so that people can see the problems and the strengths. In a media like that, you can’t craft careful responses, but you can at least get people thinking.&nbsp; B&amp;W: So if you were to boil down your economic message into a few sentences, what would it be? &nbsp; JS: That’s difficult, but I think there are three. The positive message is that a successful society requires a balance between free markets and the government taking action, because there’s a need for collective action. There’s a need for social justice, social action, and social cohesion that many of us, I believe, feel strongly about.&nbsp; The negative message is that the extremes of communism are failures, and the extremes of free market fundamentalism are failures on another hand. They both failed but in different ways.&nbsp; The third message is that our democratic institutions are undermined by campaign contributions, tax laws, deregulation, and lack of transparency. Our political system and financial system needs to be strengthened, and I know we can do it.&nbsp; -- Interview by Jon Hill, Illustration by Sonia Tycko 
 The perennial Carsplit enthusiasts have resurfaced! And they've asked that we post a link to this thing in hopes of securing cheaper airport-bound cab rides for everyone. So sure, here's Carsplit. We know it's hard to see past your last final, but if you're headed to JFK, LaGuardia, or Newark by taxi in the coming days, use this thing to find new friends who are doing the same, thus saving everyone money.&nbsp; 
 Butler corresponent Sara Vogel breathlessly reports the following: Around 11 PM, in 209 Butler, the following Dramatic And Exciting Events Occurred: A book fell to the ground. A bunch of students stood up and pointed finger guns at each other, as if holding everyone hostage. They all pointed their fingers and then said "bang" and shot each other. And then everyone clapped. According to Bwog Media Analyst Jon Hill, we can expect the following coverage from Fox News: "Where does the final casualty count stand today after a surprise hostage stand-off at a Columbia University library last night? We'll have the details of the shocking incident and the crazed students that sparked it at the top of our 9 o'clock hour..." Anyway, Bwog has been promised video of this Dramatic And Exciting Non-Standoff soon.&nbsp; UPDATE 1:49 PM: Dramatic Video can be found here.&nbsp; Be patient, it takes a few tens of seconds for the action to start. 
Bwog's received the following photos of students who've "camped out in the boardrooms on the 5th floor of Lerner for days on end." These people, who apparently moonlight as Red Bull company employees, believe that their misery rivals that of their Butler-bound peers. If you think your study space is better/worse, send us the photos to prove it and we'll add to this post. Winner will receive our condolences.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
The Lerner boardroom group sends us another photo, this time "as proof that not all hope it lost." We'll let you be the judge of that. Again, remember to send us the best of your study space/group, and/or any slightly insane sleep-deprived shenanigans. Good luck on today's finals! 
 While you're trundling through&nbsp;another night of studying for this year's exams (or have joined the lucky few who are done), let's look ahead to the&nbsp;New Year. More specfically,&nbsp;CC '10 VP (and potential presidential candidate) Sue Yang got in touch with Bwog about&nbsp;how next year's "Study Day" conundrum is being handled.&nbsp; Two options remain on the table, in slightly different format from what was proposed&nbsp;a few weeks ago. The first, canceling class on the last Monday of the semester, and giving students three more days to study, remains intact. The second option keeps the idea of using&nbsp;Sunday as an exam day, but, instead of shifting the start time back, "this would allow us to end exams on Tuesday December 22 instead of Wednesday December 23." In short, if both were adopted: Classes would end on Friday the 11th. "Study Period" would run Saturday the 12th to Tuesday the 15th Exams would run from Wednesday the 16th to Tuesday the 22nd, except for the Saturday in between. As for administration approval, Yang&nbsp;informed Bwog&nbsp;that CC Dean of Academic Affairs Kathryn Yatrakis "personally sees no issues facing these solutions," but the steps have to be cleared by the university registrar. "Whether we can pursue one or both of these options will depend on the response received from the Registrar,"&nbsp;said Yang,&nbsp;"Ideally, we would be able to implement both." As for interschool cooperation,&nbsp;ESC president Peter Valeiras&nbsp; has apparently&nbsp;obtained SEAS administration support for both steps, and the deans have&nbsp;also suggested a third option: a&nbsp;10pm-1am exam time slot. Bwog thinks that may be taking the whole "city that never sleeps" idea a little too far. 
For those who have not looked out their window this evening (entirely possible, we know), it's snowing! Mabo Imosili and Bwoggers Hans Hyttinen and Jon Hill send photos from around the quad. UPDATE 12:29 AM: We have a confirmed snowman sighting in front of Butler. The snowman's name is Ozymandias, and it is drinking Red Bull. Pictures below and after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - Photos by Hans Hyttinen, Mabo Imosili, and Jon Hill 
 Issue 2 of C-Spot, Columbia's "erotic review," is now on the shelves and online. There's a new gallery of your classmates, and here's some quotes from the new issue for your titillation. "Conceivably, Columbia gives us everything we should ever need to be all-stars in the bedroom: perseverance, open-mindedness, creativity, confidence, adaptability etc." "Once perhaps my vagina was special." "Do you want to get your contraception from the same administration that brought you John Jay dining?" "This month: The Promiscuous Barnard Bassoonist, BC 2011." "The Fukuoku 9000 is now one of my favorite toys." 
 Three pieces of Columbia-related real-world news: first, some dude named Barack Obama has been chosen as TIME Magazine's Person of the Year. The most interesting part of the feature are "previously unpublished photos" of a very cool lookin' Obama, taken while he was at Occidental, a year before arriving at Columbia. One of the photos (at right) has a cigarette that looks enough like a blunt that Matt Drudge has it up on his front page already. In endowment news, Yale estimates that its endowment has fallen 25% since the end of June, further adding that it expects no growth until fiscal 2011. As a result, Yale will be cutting expenses by slowing salary growth and delaying construction of several new buildings. Finally, a Columbia University tech start-up has won a national award. Hey, if this is a good time to found a bank, maybe tech start-ups can work as well. 
 The new issue of the Columbia Political Review is out on shelves and online! Unfortunately, it's only online in&nbsp; PDF form, so we can't link to individual articles, but CPR has updated its website, and the issue is now available both as PDF (55mb, be warned) and as individual articles: Professor Jenny Davidson on politics and politeness What a Democratic state senate will do (or not do)&nbsp;for abortion and gay marriage The NROTC debate analyzed: "Both sides have staunch answers, but neither has it completely right"&nbsp; Internet piracy and industry inflexibility The Internet's role in the South Korean mad-cow protests 
 For those of you staying in East Campus or McBain over break, Columbia University Facilities will be using the time to fix your residence. In McBain, elevator repairs will mean that both elevators will be out on Monday, December 29th. In EC, the story's slightly less chipper, and quite a bit longer. Facilites "has identified significant deterioration to&nbsp;the plumbing lines for&nbsp;the sink and washing machines in the East Campus laundry room," and so "the East Campus laundry room will need to close during the upcoming weeks." The work could take all of&nbsp;Winter Break. This&nbsp;seems like an appropriate time, then,&nbsp;to remind everyone&nbsp;sticking around&nbsp;in EC over break&nbsp;that there is&nbsp;a tunnel&nbsp;in the basement&nbsp;to&nbsp;Wien, the closest building with a laundry room. Thank us later. 
CityRoom has a snazzy slideshow thing depicting the excitement surrouning the "topping off" of the new Interdisciplinary Science Building, located on 120th and Broadway.&nbsp; Look: there is Future You, in the library -- exactly as you are right now. Comforting, kind of. 
 At a news conference this morning, the Empire State Development Corporation unanimously voted to use the power of eminent domain to seize the remaining commercial holdouts in Columbia's Manhattanville expansion zone. That's bad news for the two property owners who have still refused to sell: storage space owner Nick Sprayregen and gas station owner Gurnam Singh, who can now legally be forced to sell their property to the state, which would then let Columbia take over the land. Sprayregen, the far more vocal of the pair, has vowed to fight the eminent domain decision in court, having already entered several different lawsuits challenging whether Columbia's acquisition of the land will actually help the "public good." "I don't want to have to sue you," said Sprayregen's lawyer, Norman Siegel, to the staid ESDC board members. "You leave us no choice but to litigate." He said he felt sure the case would reach the Supreme Court, where ESDC's awkward history with AKRF and previous allegations it was colluding with Columbia would be weighted heavily. For Columbia, though, today's decision marks the end of several years spent pushing its Manhattanville expansion through various government approvals, and the beginning&nbsp;of&nbsp;what's likely to be several years of tussling with Sprayregen. Though the Singhs have been reclusive throughout the process, they attended the meeting today and spoke through their 17 year-old daughter, Aman Kaur.&nbsp; "I'd appreciate it if everyone put down their BlackBerrys and listened to what I have to say," she began, going on to describe her family's 15-year history in the neighborhood. The two gas stations the family owns are their sole source of income, and Kaur wondered how her parents, immigrants from India, would make a living or pay for her to go to college. "I am literally begging the state for these properties. This is my past, my present, my future," she said. In their comments, many of the plan's critics expressed a sense of resignation. "It's very clear to me that this is an exercise in futility," said one. "Your decision is virtually already 100% made," added another.&nbsp; A representative from the West Harlem Local Development Corporation (LDC) asked the ESDC to consider pushing back the vote until Columbia and the LDC signed the community benefits agreement. Though Columbia already owns over 80% of the property in its proposed expansion zone, it says it needs the land under the Singh and Sprayregen properties to construct a 7-story underground structure that will house a bus depot, parking, loading docks, and utilities. The decision comes seven months after the ESDC approved Columbia's expansion plan and declared the area "blighted," and a year after the city's Land Use Committee approved the plan. Check out our past coverage for more background on Manhattanville. --AMP Manhattanville for Dummies: Community Board 9 (CB9): a group of West Harlem (Hamilton Heights, Manhattanville, and some of Morningside Heights) residents and business owners who applied to the Borough President's office and were selected to represent their neighborhood. Local Development Corporation (LDC): Because CB9 doesn't have the power to negotiate with developers, the city created the West Harlem LDC. It's a group of CB9 members, public housing tenants, environmentalists, artists, and elected officials who meet regularly to decide what they want from Columbia in return for the expansion. Community Benefits Agreement: This is what the LDC is working for. It's an agreement that will decide how much Columbia will put into an affordable housing fund, what environmental standards it will use, how much funding it'll give to the arts in Harlem. 
 Though the preferred protest at Columbia now involves food and camping, we always like a good ol' building takeover. Students at the New School have obliged us, taking over one of the buildings Tuesday morning, and vowing to stay put until their demands are met, which include the resignation of their president, former Nebraska senator and presidential candidate Bob Kerrey. The trouble started when Kerrey, who has been president since 2001, fired his fourth provost in seven years. A week ago, university professors voted almost unanimously for "no confidence" in Kerrey, and both professors and students have been calling for his resignation since. Kerrey has been meeting with faculty since then, and, in a gesture we assume must have been dreamed up to show he's "with the times," decided to start a blog to face his critics. It's unclear if a solution will be reached any time soon, but if it's resolved in favor of the occupants, maybe this is how Columbia students can defeat the War on Fun. Councils, take note. 
&nbsp; While the site was broken for much of yesterday (Bwoga maxima culpa!), many of you had emailed a link to Lee C. Bollinger's Twitter page.&nbsp; Now, you can follow the minute-by-minute goings on of "President Bollinger" with this Twitter thing. Just yesterday he asked if "ne1" wanted to go to HamDel with him. We bet you would have wanted to, hm? Never miss another PrezBo epiphany or outing again.&nbsp; 
&nbsp;This weekend, Bwog ventured into the heart of Brooklyn to find the best and the bushiest of&nbsp; the pinus genus.&nbsp; If you know of any noteworthy XMAS tree purveyors around town, please let us know in the comment section below. Last week, Bwog posted a list of "Things We're Looking Forward To,", which at the time seemed like a romanticized montage of normal life.&nbsp;&nbsp; But this week, Bwog hopes to find you fulfilling fantasy by sitting in front of a fire, standing "in-line," eating free home-cooked food, hanging out with high school friends and enjoying many, any or all of the other activities on the list.&nbsp; Fortunately the aforementioned activities are relatively self-explanatory, but one of the more popular activities on the list, trimming the Christmas tree, is decidedly more difficult for those of us in the city and away from home for the holidays for the first time. Despite the logistical difficulties that fifth-floor walk-ups, studio apartments and dorm rooms pose on the whole Christmas tree orchestration thing, New Yorkers, even the young, cynical, tight-fisted Columbia types, go to extremes to make their homes festive for the holidays.&nbsp; Here Bwog offers a rough guide on how to purchase a high quality tree in the city.&nbsp;&nbsp; If you've got a car or can get your hands on a zip-car (which you can,) Bwog recommends taking a mini-road trip to the Brooklyn Terminal Market, where holiday kitcsh meets Carnarsie, Brooklyn. On a recent visit to the Terminal Market, Bwog arboriculture experts purchased a robust nine foot Balsam Fir for $45, a four foot diameter wreath for $20, six feet of pine swag for $15, two spools of gold ribbon for $1.89 each and a cup of much needed hot chocolate for $1.50 - ideal for sharing and hand warming.&nbsp; Although Green in Vermont, a rather right-on organic tree farm that boasts of its award-winning maple syrup and its high-tech blog, monopolizes many a street corner in upscale residential neighborhoods like Morningside Heights, Brooklyn Heights, Park Slope and the like, they charge over three times as much for a tree of equal size and quality to one found at the Brooklyn Terminal Market.&nbsp; The yuletide accoutrements decorating Green in Vermont's wreaths are arguably in better taste than the rather garish designs of the A. Visconti and Sons at the Terminal Market, but again the price is far greater and the size selection is far smaller.&nbsp; You'll be hard pressed to find a wreath exceeding a foot and a half in diameter at Green in VT. By making a trip to Carnarsie, you're basically cutting out the middle man.&nbsp; That said, it's anything but your typical twee tree retailer. If you're looking for organic, authentic maple syrup and rosy-cheeked tree-farmer boys,&nbsp; the Terminal Market is not for you.&nbsp; The guys who work at the Market are more efficient than they are bright-eyed and cheery, but when it comes to getting a 6-foot tree on a small sedan, it's competence, not comaraderie you want. If the expedition into the heart of Brooklyn seems a bit ambitious sans GPS (navigating Carnarsie can be a bit of a horror,) the ultimate savings prove worthwhile - despite of the extreme distance and weather.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Lawrence J. Lapide strictly sells pines. Other vendors, like Batampte Produces, carry seasonal regalia in all colors and combinations. &nbsp; The wreath selection at A. Visconti and Son. Note the five foot diameter wreath in the upper right hand corner.&nbsp; Over-sized wreaths are the Brooklyn Terminal Market's specialty. Things can look bleak at the Terminal Market... &nbsp; And dilapidated... But they also can look bright! And cheery! Happy Holidays! 
 A few tipsters have informed us that CourseWorks is now host to Columbia's annual nondenominational seasons greeting slideshow! O, happy day. Let's check out this year's offering, hm?&nbsp; &nbsp; A few rather dreary pictures of a snowy Central Park (see above) and then a non-exclamation-marked wish of "happy holidays." Well, Bwog certainly prefers last year's fancy alumni-only video animation thing, in which a student drew a lion that came to life and spread joy or somesuch. 
 Hey there! Merry Christmas to you. Many of you, like many of us, were expecting a special gift by today: fall semester's grades. And many of you, like many of us, are without said grades. So, we've begun to compile a list of professors who have yet to upload your final marks. Use the comment thread to shame your professor, and we'll add him/her to our list. With a little Christmas magic -- and some Google-able dishonor -- we might all be able to get our grades by New Year's.&nbsp; (Grades are actually due two weeks after the last class -- making some seminar grades overdue -- or two weeks after the last final.) The Damned: Billinge, Simon, Thermodynamics, Statistical Mechanics, and Kinetic Theory Blake, Casey, US Intellectual History 1865- Bollinger, Lee "PrezBo", Freedom of Speech &amp; Press Brandt, Kim, Intro to Japanese Civ Cole, Brian, Accelerated Physics Crawford, Julie, Later Shakespeare Culligan, Patricia, Fluid Mechanics Debaene, Vincent, Major Literary French Works Since 1800 Dutta, Prajit, Game Theory Edwards, Brent, Literature of the Black Atlantic Fowles, Severin, Origins of Human Society Hoffman, Justin, Music Hum Jorgensen, Troels, Calculus III Kessler-Harris, Alice, American Social Welfare Policy Keyes, David, Numerical Methods of PDEs Kockelman, Paul, Intro to Language and Culture Laudanovic, Mladen, Stats 1211 Massimilla, Stephen, Modern Poetry Menke, William, and Terry Plank, Solid Earth System Mutter, John, Intro to Earth Science Nathan, Andrew, Intro to Human Rights Parsons, Coilin, Lit Hum Pizzigoni, Caterina, Latin American Civ Sachs, Jeffrey, Challenges of Sustainable Development Sala-i-Martin, Xavier, Intermediate Macroeconomics Segal, Alan, Judaism Shapiro, Jill, Human Species and its Place in Nature&nbsp; Sloan, Herbert, American Civilization to Civil War Sohrabi, Nader, Theories of Culture Timberlake, Alan, Intro to Linguistics Tuttle, Gray, Intro to Tibetan Civ 
 Many graceful hat tips to the handful of tipsters who sent word of the huge article about the Columbia Ballet Collaborative in Saturday's Times. The CBC was formed in 2007 by GSer Victoria North and four friends over a meal at Deluxe (naturally.) And as the article explains at length, the club is designed to provide a outlet for dancers who aren't in a professional company but still want to perform.&nbsp; The piece also includes smaller profiles of North as well as other CBC dancers, plus glimpes into what the Collaborative's meetings and performances look like. (Oh, and also, there are apparently free professional-level ballet classes open to all on Saturday mornings.)&nbsp; For further ballet and dance department reading, check out a similar article in the March 2007 issue of the Blue and White by current LA Times reporter Kate Linthicum, BC '07. 
 Before you relive your halcyon days of Fall 08, an announcement: As of January, James Downie (of Political Weekly and Sports... on Bwog! fame, and the fantastic reporter and writer behind our NROTC coverage, among other things) will be taking over as Bwog Editor. Many daily editors and other staffers will be staying on, but expect new faces in that arena as well; Hawkmadinebwog Editor Courtney Douds has already begun to do tremendous work with the hawk blog. On behalf of the entire Fall 08 staff, it's been a pleasure and an honor that you've all hung out with us every day. We are truly humbled and grateful that you do. -- JNW August/September: The year began with an Orientation Week of cancellations and showdowns. Upperclassmen learned that the Global Core was much, much simpler than Major Cultures, and that the much beloved Hawkmadinejad was in fact several Hawks-madinejad. Freshmen experienced the last three weeks of the Kim's Era (before it was inexplicably replaced by a costume/cosmetics establishment), though its DVD collection will live on. The biggest event of the semester, the McBama Summit, was here and gone within two weeks. The first Wednesday night of school, PrezBo sent out the announcement email, and student groups, governing boards, and press outlets quickly moved to get their share of the action. Everyone entered the ticket lottery, and 99% failed to get in. Bwog elbowed its way into the Low steps crowd, and livebwogged the entire evening extravaganza (including Dean Shollenberger looking dapper, Tobey Maguire looking stoned, feeds continuously going out, and a near entrance of Obama along College Walk). Not to be outdone, Secretary of State-designate Hillary Clinton held her own press conference at Barnard. Much outside coverage mentioned Obama and McCain's joint support for ROTC, and three days later student leaders announced they had been spending the summer planning a referendum on Naval ROTC. Within six hours, the referendum plan was already being changed by the student councils -- a preview of the confusion to come. Quickly, more groups demanded entry, public forums were hashed out, and the referendum became a survey, while non-participants just as quickly began to wonder what the point of it all was (although PrezBo cared enough to add his own thoughts). In other news, the stock market took a nose dive, Alan Brinkley retired as provost, we met Robby the vending machine. October: As the campus slipped into the routine of the school year, election and economic news dominated Columbia's headlines as well (and derailed the NROTC plans, which largely dropped off the radar for a month). Rashid Khalidi briefly became William Ayers 2.0, the campus Dems and Republicans held debates, dueling economics forums were held, and we used a British car show for election "analysis." In campus news, CCSC 2012 chose its Fearless Leader(s) (as did the Varsity Show), and Gossip Girl pretended we were Yale (still ouch). A Sunday night assault spree once again exposed the slowness of university-wide emails, and we said hellooooo to C-Spot (as did Fox News). Just when it looked like Columbia might make it through an October without a controversy, the Spec decided to make some news of its own with "Giant Inflatable Penis-gate," which flared up quickly, burst, and quickly subsided. In other bias news, by the end of the month, Columbia was biased against the entire human race. In other news, the football team lost a homecoming heartbreaker, we welcomed CubPub, Google created (the only somewhat effective) mail goggles, and we created "Butler Bingo." November: The first week of November was all about Barack Obama, CC '83. Upon his victory, spontaneous celebrations broke out on Broadway and campus (joined early in the morning by the College Democrats, who did their part for his election by sending 150 people to Virginia).&nbsp; Professors, speakers, and PrezBo all announced their happiness with the election results, as Columbia students discovered what it felt like to be on a happy campus. With the election over, the NROTC survey reared its head again, with the first signs going up two days after the election. Pro and anti coalitions solidified (including an anti-NROTC panel), but both sides were united in confusion for almost two weeks over how the public forums and the survey would work. Professors got involved on both sides, and the public forum not surprisingly failed to sway anyone, When the survey was finally released, students ended the month waiting for the results, while trying to not cancel out their votes. NROTC aside, we also discovered "Study Day" and exorcisms. In other news, Barnard Public Safety began patrolling hallways, McBain suddenly had a waterfall, women's soccer barely missed out on an Ivy League title, and we looked at Westside Market's music choice. December: While the councils moved quickly to fix "Study Day," NROTC results were less suredly dealt with. In CC, SEAS, and GS, NROTC lost by 39 votes, but no one knew the breakdown (while Barnard's results were definitive). GSSC president Brody Berg was so skeptical about the results he wrote a whole email about it. Bwog later unearthed a school-by-school breakdown (showing a 2 vs. 2 split by school), but by then the issue was dead. During finals, CC deans tried to scare the crap out of us, Orgo Night and Primal Scream took their turns, and students showed off how sad they were. Bwog coped by chronicling the sadness inside Butler and the things we're now enjoying. Elsewhere, Columbia's Manhattanville takeover was completed, the endowment took a hit (though that didn't stop "PrezBo" from starting a Twitter page), Tiffany Dockery suddenly resigned, a Pennsylvania couple tried to steal from Columbia, we speculated about CCSC elections, and a Carman elevator suddenly acquired a vagina. From start to finish, then, it was a whirlwind semester, both on and off campus. Between McBama, NROTC, Study Day, the death of job prospects, and more election news, the campus felt even busier and more alive than past years, which haven't lacked for controversy. It could be this was the last semester of an era for Columbia as well -- the past year has now seen a hunger strike and the likely end of the ROTC debate for several years, the completion of the Manhattanville expansion, and the election of a president who many Columbians will support. Gone (for the time being at least) are some of the biggest lightning rods for student activism. No doubt students will find things to protest and organize around -- that's Columbia, for better or for worse -- but campus activism could be in for a big change. Regardless, we at Bwog thank you for your support in 2008, and look forward to 2009. -- JCD 
 Campo, the frat-friendly New Pertutti, has posted a rumor on its Facebook group -- which evidently exists -- that states the following piece of puzzling news: "Campo On Campus"- Campo is opening a second, new restaurant, on Columbia University, between the Graduate School of Journalism and Furnhaldt Dorm. We'll be offering warm sandwiches, soups, salads, pastries, great coffee and possibly wine and beer! Look for us in late January/early February!" "Furnhaldt" is overpriced-Italian-restaurant-speak for "Furnald", so that's easy enough to figure out. But the area between Furnald and Journalism is currently occupied by a strange, Sims-like glass cube known as the Journalism Student Lounge. Bwog called up Campo to ask if there were any plans for expansion onto campus and were told that there were not. 
 Bwog Know Your Web Series Critic Rob Trump sums up the year in stand-up. Here's what you missed in 2008 and what to make sure you catch in 2009. 2008 didn’t have as many incredible releases in stand-up comedy as 2007, but overall I’d say that it was a little deeper and had more worthwhile stuff.&nbsp; Here’s the best.&nbsp; 5. Doug Benson – Professional Humoredian If you’re familiar with Doug Benson, it’s probably from his appearances on Best Week Ever or his stint on Last Comic Standing losing to people much less funny than him.&nbsp; It took me a little while to warm to his sing-songy delivery, which makes him seem like a goofier comic than he really is.&nbsp; One you get used to it though, you'll realize that it’s his way of making the audience feel at ease so they’ll come along with him to his strangest, funniest bits.&nbsp; Benson’s jokes and stories aren’t usually about himself, but his perpetually oblivious persona is at the center of his best jokes, like this one: “Someone just the other day asked me, ‘Who are you voting for president, and why?’And I said, ‘That is my personal business, and because he’s black.’”&nbsp; Or at the end of his album -- by which time a listener has come to appreciate Benson for the oddball he is -- he whips out some real weirdness: “Have you ever been driving along in your car, smoking&nbsp; a cigarette, and you flick it out the window, and then you drive for a few miles, and you start to smell smoke, and you turn around and you look in the back seat, and Grandma is fingering herself?”&nbsp; Benson is self-aware, absurd comedy at its best. 4. George Carlin – It’s Bad For Ya One of the saddest losses in a year that seemed full of them, George Carlin was one of the greatest stand-up comics that ever lived.&nbsp; But along with many other fans of his, I’ve frequently been down on Carlin for abandoning his earlier punchline-heavy material on Class Clown and FM &amp; AM for more preachy but less funny material in his later years.&nbsp; Which is why I’m glad to report that his final album before he died, It’s Bad For Ya, is much funnier than most of his late-era stuff -- even if not quite at the historic heights of his first few releases.&nbsp; It’s amazing that after fourteen of his own HBO specials and countless comedians imitating him, he still can find stupid religious and cultural foibles to ridicule.&nbsp; In one surreally prescient bit, he makes fun of how people talk after someone dies: “‘Phil Davis died?&nbsp; I just saw him yesterday!’ ‘Yeah?&nbsp; Didn’t help.&nbsp; He died anyway.&nbsp; Apparently the simple act of your seeing him did not slow his cancer down.’”&nbsp; Lots of other comics wrote paeans to Carlin after his passing, but I might direct you to Louis CK’s tribute, which is one of the best, and allows me to mention that CK’s album would have been #6 if I were making a bigger list. 3. Andrew Daly – Nine Sweaters Character-based stand-up comedy is hard to do right.&nbsp; In fact, I think that before I heard Daly, I’d have written it off as something that across-the-board never works.&nbsp; But Andrew Daly’s collection of eleven characters -- who share themselves with the audience for anywhere from six to thirteen minutes -- completely changed my mind.&nbsp; Every single one of them has a great comedic hitch, most of which are dark: his Irish master of Blarney tells tall tales to cover up the violent, misogynistic truth of what he’s actually done; his former son of a C-list celebrity now gets coked up and attempts to run terrible scams; his fortune-teller sees a future that is perverted and specific to his own desires.&nbsp; For my money, though, the funniest characters are the parodies of certain types of stand-up: one of his characters only makes extremely specific local references, one is a content-less observational comic reminiscent of Fred Armison’s Nicholas Fehn, and one spits out dirty-old-man humor.&nbsp; Maybe the funniest is a comic who’s recently been turned invisible (performed with an offstage mic), rendering his self-deprecatory fat jokes -- “I’m not allowed to go to the circus anymore; after the crowd gets a look at me the elephants don’t seem so impressive!” -- completely dead.&nbsp; The confused pause, then huge laughs from the audience is twice as fun to listen to as the jokes. 2. Mitch Hedberg -- Do You Believe in Gosh? Is it bad that two of these albums are by deceased comics?&nbsp; I don’t think that indicates that it’s been a subpar year, just that stand-up has lost some giants as of late.&nbsp; Hedberg, in contrast to Carlin, had not in my mind put out a truly great album while he was alive.&nbsp; Most big fans disagree with me, but I think that both Strategic Grill Locations and Mitch All Together have some pretty weak spots.&nbsp; It took Do You Believe in Gosh? , three years after Hedberg’s death, for me to really buy the hype that he was one of the best comedic minds of his generation.&nbsp; It’s much more casual than his other recordings, in a smaller venue that I think accentuates the sharpness of Hedberg’s writing.&nbsp; He follows in the one- or two-line tradition of Steven Wright, but is usually a little more observational, and delivers everything as if he were a cartoon of a stoned surfer.&nbsp; “I went to a store that specializes in hard-to-find records and tapes,” he deadpans, “Nothing was alphabetized.”&nbsp; And, after one of his frequent comments to himself that “that was a dumb joke,” he ruminates, “If I had a dollar for every time I said that, I would be making money in a very weird way.”&nbsp; You and Carlin will both be missed, Mitch. 1. Todd Barry – From Heaven People who know me well probably know that not only is Todd Barry is one of my favorite stand-up comics, he’s almost certainly the biggest single influence on my own stand-up.&nbsp; (Entirely-earned aside: I do stand-up!&nbsp; See me at Caroline’s New Talent Night on January 26th!)&nbsp; Barry’s delivery has always been a strong point; he’s laid-back and economical like Hedberg or Wright, but instead of being surreal with his low energy, he’s viciously ironic.&nbsp; Barry is so sarcastic-beyond-sarcasm that it’s impossible to figure what parts he truly means and what parts he doesn’t, and trying to do so would be missing the point.&nbsp; His previous two albums, Medium Energy and Falling off the Bone, were both good, but occasionally picked targets too easy or undeserving of his scorn for me to follow along with him entirely.&nbsp; From Heaven, however, is filled with Barry anecdotes about people you’d want to punch, which makes it all the more satisfying when Barry slays them with a just couple sentences.&nbsp; In one bit, Barry talks about a woman who said to him, “I keep getting parking tickets. After I get a parking ticket, I go, ‘God, I hope they just give this money to the homeless.’”&nbsp; Barry pauses the perfect amount of time before his response: “Yeah, I guess they could.&nbsp; Or you could learn how to read a No Parking sign, pretend you got the ticket anyway, and write a check directly to the homeless.&nbsp; There’s no connection between the homeless problem and your shitty parking skills.”&nbsp; He’s similarly cruel to all sorts of pedestrian idiocy, and it’s hilarious every time. For the record, because someone asked last year, here’s some other stuff I heard this year and liked: Kathy Griffin, Louis C.K., Tom McCaffrey, Andi Smith, Lewis Black, Eddie Griffin, Bill Burr, Dov Davidoff.&nbsp; Here’s what I heard and didn’t like or quit halfway through: Lisa Landry, Rocky Laporte, Robert Kelly, Pablo Fransisco, John Pinette, Gabriel Iglesias, and Josh Sneed 
 Caroline Kennedy may be attracting all the national attention in the quest to replace Hillary Clinton's Senate seat, Governor (and CC alumnus) David Paterson has not limited himself to famous last names. Yesterday, according to City Room, Paterson interviewed local Assemblyman Daniel J. O'Donnell, adding O'Donnell's name to a list that includes Kennedy, attorney general Andrew Cuomo, and various members of New York's congressional delegation. O'Donnell was elected in 2002 to represent the 69th district, which includes almost all of Morningside Heights. Perhaps more significantly, he was the first openly gay man elected to the State Assembly, and led the 2007 fight to legalize gay marriage in New York (though it passed the Assembly and was supported by then-governor Spitzer, the Republican-controlled Senate refused to consider the bill). Oh, and his sister is Rosie O'Donnell. Yes, that Rosie O'Donnell. Up against such names as Cuomo and Kennedy, O'Donnell's realistic about his chances - according to City Room, "he put his odds of getting the seat at about one in 10, or 'about the same as the population of gay people in the world.'" Still, he's representing the area better than some other politicians Bwog could name. 
 With the New Year just under ten hours away (for East Coasters), Bwog waves goodbye to 2008. If you're around New York, and enjoy a big party, there's always the Times Square celebration (where police expect a million people this year).&nbsp; We have already written our year in review, but the new year also brings yet a round of things to be forgotten - New Year's Resolutions. We have compiled our own list of resolutions, and encourage you to add your own (or, of course, ridicule ours) in the comments. Happy New Year! Actually pay attention to the "difficulty" part of CULPA ratings. Keep a regular gym schedule during exam period Read at least one book for fun. Finish at least one seminar book. Wean myself off of Gchat. Figure out how to sync my Google Calendar to my phone, and actually use it Learn to ride my bike on the street, not illegally on the sidewalk Increase the ratio of homemade coffee to coffee I buy Visit friends at other schools more often (corollary resolution: actually keep in touch with friends at other schools) Not work on a Friday night. Brush daily Go to a concert (free or otherwise) once a week Be active in all of my classes Write 1 paper at least 2 days before it is due Get a summer job before spring break To spend less money on dispensable goods - i.e. coffee, diet coke, cabs, booze, cigarettes Skype more and facebook less Take up swimming To be on time, to do my homework, to clean my dorm and do my laundry once a week, and to practice what I preach Leave Morningside Heights more Stop complaining about taking the subway on weekends Work in places that arent butler Watch more TV Stop talking about how much I work all the time No more passive aggression&nbsp; Go to &gt;80% of my classes Go to every institution made free by my Columbia ID that I haven't been to yet Go to Orgo Night, 40s on 40 unless it sucks, and at least one entire sports game Play more frisbee Get a job Learn the name of the sweet lady who cleans Claremont Do as well in engineering classes as in humanities classes Actually read The Economist the week each issue is published Prove that Columbians aren't too neurotic for relationships Rotate the libraries I study in so friends can't find/interrupt me Make an effort to understand football Make progress in my research project Manage my time more effectively (get at least one physics problem set done early) Attend more office hours Check cell voicemail within than two days of receiving a message Learn the password to ROLM voicemail (so I can listen to the message that's been there since orientation) Keep in touch with my high school friends Call my parents and grandparents more often Spend less time on calls that have automated prompts Travel to the other boroughs more often Learn the names of all the people who live on my floor Win an entire poker match, not just a couple of hands Write more for personal enjoyment Master the mystery of the Broadway-facing Lerner turnstile Maintain a normal, healthy sleep schedule Fold and hang up laundry after removing from the dryer rather than using the "giant, wrinkled pile" method of clothes organization Hire a private investigator to find out my Calculus III grade Get up earlier than 11am Start projects before 3am on the day they're due Floss daily 
