 Bwog yawns itself querulously out of hibernation for the first post of the year 2007. There's this one bothersome blank spot on our SSOL grades report between our C+ in Principles of Economics and our B- in Music Hum. We want it filled. Call it activist Bwogging, but here's a list of the tardiest professors culled from the bwgossip alias and beyond, for all the world to see. David Rothman, Medicine and Western Civilization Jill Shapiro, Human Species: Our Place in Nature Thomas Bernstein, Chinese Politics Jeremy Waldron, Terrorism and Civil Liberties (Spring 2006. Yes.) Greg Smithsimon, Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration in Urban America Sonia Pereira, Barnard Economics Professor James Trask, Urban Studies Junior Colloquium Michael Seidel, Joyce Elizabeth Irwin, Thucydides Carol Rovane, Methods and Problems of Philosophical Thought Eric Foner, US in the Era of Civil War and Reconstruction Micheal Shaevitz, Physics 1200 Deborah Mowshowitz, Intro to Molecular Biology ...and one tipster tells us all of the TAs from Physics Lab are tardy... Get on it, folks! Those grad school and internship apps can't wait! Keep us updated -- let us know which of your profs belongs on the Wall of Shame, and which should be crossed off as grades trickle in. ADDENDUM: Bwog has been informed that the phone grade system will, allegedly, have grades available earlier than those posted on SSOL. For those willing to endure touchtone agony (and the awkwardness of hearing your grade robotically read aloud), the number to call is x4-7373. The daring can put this on speakerphone and invite their friends over for a good drinking game... 
Because a few interesting tidbits have been coming over the alias, and we're tired of talking about grades too.&nbsp; - We may have forgotten about the Minuteman dust-up, but the members of New York Immigration Control and Enforcement (a few of whom were in Roone on the fateful night) couldn't let it go. According to CNN, "several" protested outside Lerner on Thursday, demanding that the offending students be expelled. Bwog has learned that eight students have been sent disciplinary letters and decisions are pending, but we'll go out on a limb to say that they'll be able to finish out their time at Columbia. Meanwhile, protester-in-chief Karina Garcia will be back at school this semester after having taken the rest of 2006 off to go on a speaking tour of high schools, colleges, and radio stations, including a keynote address at the Socialism Conference in LA hosted by the Party for Socialism and Liberation. The College Republicans haven't got anything on their docket--could 2007 be the year of chill at Columbia? - Not weatherwise, anyway. It was 68 degrees today in the city, and 2006 marked the first time that New York had a snowless November and December since 1877. But really, it's all just hype... - Carrie Bradshaws of the world, take note! The Spectator is looking for editorial board members and columnists. Yes, including a sex columnist. - Twenty-one blocks north, a much nicer subway story than those involving chainsaw-wielding goons. - It seems that Macintosh is closed for asbestos removal. That explains some things. - The Columbia crown has been turning up in some strange places recently. But considering Public Affairs still hasn't decided whether the logo should be secular chic or trendily theist (in Bwog's estimation, crosses and spades have aboout an equal presence on campus these days), Duke Nukem is the least of their worries. Thanks to Julia Kite, Dan Gant, Jessica Cohen, Addison Anderson, and Miguel Lopez for the tips. - LBD 
 We don’t do it for the glory, but it is nice to get some recognition once in a while (even if it is from another blog). US News and World Report’s higher education page, The Paper Trail, is running a reader poll of the year’s campus news, and we’re up there for Best Alternative Media Outlet. So, go check out the offerings, and vote your college-educated hearts out. The faster our numbers go up, the less we’ll have to self-servingly bug you about it. Just please don't let us get beat by Wesleyan. Now, back to our regularly scheduled programming. - Whoa! She almost made it—Esther Reed that is, who was attending GS under the name of a missing woman, Brooke Henson. The tale of her undoing, which the New York Post is following with all the salacious zeal of, well, the New York Post, would make a good story for your dinner at Aunt Clara’s tonight. By the way, Columbia isn't being obstructionist, as the article not-so-subtly claims. There really is a law that prevents them from giving people your personal information, so you can sleep soundly again. - Your second crack at registration probably begins today, and our magical webmaster Zach "the Man" van Schouwen has whipped up a handy Firefox plug-in that will help you search CULPA that much easier.&nbsp; Don't wonder how he did it, just use. - File this under all the reasons you're glad you didn't go to Penn. &nbsp; - If you're not one of the 513 + people who've already been invited to join, the late Dogears has been supplanted...by a facebook group. Next to go, Craigslist? - BW staffer Paul Barndt spotted Professor David Sidorsky, currently Columbia's longest-serving member of the philosophy faculty, at Dreamgirls. - LBD 
 Bwog tipster Raza Panjwani sent in this picture, a view across the Major Deegan Expressway (I-87) in the Bronx, just south of Yankee Stadium, taken from a Metro North train. The sign on the building reads: Dear Columbia U: The West Harlem Community Knows How to Share. Why Don't You? STOP THREATENING EMINENT DOMAIN. At the bottom is the website (last updated in February 2005) of the West Harlem Business Group, a coalition of six businesses in Manhattanville fighting tooth and nail to stop Columbia's expansion. Meanwhile, PrezBo went on the offensive in Sunday's Daily News, offering universities as the solution to New York's economic soft spots. Especially that big one up north, in the "old Manhattanville manufactuing zone." And in their last meeting in December, Community Board 9 passed a few resolutions aiming to make it a little harder for Columbia's 197c plan to make it through in one piece. Much excitement to come! - LBD 
...are set up in the Wien lounge right now. &nbsp; Presumably, they'll be sold like last year--meanwhile, get used to the discordant sounds of tuning as your move-in soundtrack. Also, Gawker has an idea for our out-of-work opinion editor. &nbsp; 
 Sure, you can do it in your pyjamas, but running a blog is still work--and right now, Bwog is one daily editor short. Each of our staff of six Bwoggers is on call for one 24-hour period per week (or the whole weekend), QuickSpecking, making posts out of tips that come into bwgossip@columbia.edu...and bantering via e-mail about nothing in particular. Interested? Here's the application: 1. Five (5) QuickSpec headlines for the November 17, 2006 paper. 2. One (1) previous Bwog post you liked and why. 3. One (1) previous Bwog post you didn't like and why. 4. A paragraph about how Bwog could improve, not to exceed three hundred (300) words. 5. A mock Bwog post on a topic of your choice, not to exceed four hundred (400) words. E-mail what you come up with to bwog@columbia.edu no later than NEXT FRIDAY,&nbsp; JANUARY 19 at midnight. And feel free to contact us in the meantime with questions. Also! We'll be having an open meeting soon for anyone interested in writing features, doing interviews, taking pictures, covering Columbia, and generally being very distracted all the time. 
A sharp-eyed tipster noticed that the rouguishly grizzled visage of erstwhile Artist-in- Residence Vaclav Havel has a near double: that of billionaire financier Kirk Kerkorian, a revolutionary in his own right.&nbsp; &nbsp; Meanwhile, our man Sunil appears to have put his foot in his mouth regarding footballer David Beckham's move to the Los Angeles Galaxy. Bwog still loves you, professor. Plus! The long anticipated second oeuvre of Robyn Schneider, BC '08, is now available for $15.99, and the Mao-suited GS student Michael W. has published a book on something that we probably couldn't understand. Anyone read them? Reviews welcome. 
 On Thursday, Harvard released its 50-year plan for expansion in the Allston neighbourhood (think Manhattanville, except 341 acres instead of 17, Boston instead of New York, and more parking lots than people). It's long, like 72 pages (even Penn kept theirs to 32!), and Bwog didn't read the whole thing, but if we were Harvard alums with lots and lots of money, we'd probably give serious thought to sending it Allston's way.&nbsp; Why? They've got everything planned out to the last street sign, and want all their buildings to be built to LEEDs Gold standard (Columbia hasn't committed to any LEEDs certifications), and think they can generate 15-20 startup businesses per year. Although it also helps to have about $25 billion on hand to make sure the thing gets finished. But really, we don't know, because all we can find is pro-Harvard propaganda (OK, and the Crimson).&nbsp; They're at a ten-year disadvantage, but maybe the folks up in Low should be taking lessons from their homies in Cambridge anyway. Also! We knew Barack hated Columbia, but we didn't know he was such a buzzkill as well.&nbsp; Also! Have you noticed that the Morton Williams receipts still have "Welcome to the Class of 2008" printed at the bottom? I mean, juniors are great, but '10 probably would appreciate the open arms a bit more... Also! The Current wants YOU! Finally! The Columbia University Model United Nations Conference and Exposition (a.k.a. CMUNCE, a.k.a. seamonkey) is underway, which means there are hordes of coiffed high schoolers running around. Be nice to them, maybe they'll give you food. - LBD 
 Yeah, we know it's a little late, but there's still time to mark the occasion: today was Martin Luther King Day, the actual reason you don't have to start classes until tomorrow. For Prezbo, the day was perhaps a little more bittersweet. In a statement issued on Friday, he acknowledged the failure of quite a lot of time spent defending King's vision-- a failure otherwise known as Proposition 2, in which Michigan voters banned all forms of affirmative action in November's election.&nbsp; Hopefully the next one will stick, Lee.&nbsp; - LBD 
First-year Neha Shende killed in car crash. R. I. P. &nbsp; Edwards one block away from Columbia (satisfied, commenters?), uses MLK Day event to rip Bush, cynicism 15 GS students attend gay outreach party; few are gay CTV's Gates retools: copies 80s, Spanish telenovelas... and&nbsp;wins lots of money Your dog doesn't love you, but it sure looks cute when its c-fibers are stimulated &nbsp; 
 Winter Break came to a crashing close today, but for some over the holiday weekend, waiting for human contact proved unbearable. In the spirit of helping these forgotten few&nbsp;find love, Bwog presents some of the lost souls from around our neighborhood who turned longingly to Craigslist in the twilight of their freedom... I. SM seeks Hoodie Hookup Green hoodie at Columbia Library - m4w (Harlem / Morningside) You were wearing a green hoodie when I cut in front of you to get to the printer today in Butler. I was hurried. You were courteous. Can I repay the favor over coffee? (I was wearing a black hoodie.) II. Tobacco Lobby for John Edwards Staffer Endorsement? riverside church tonite - w4m (Harlem / Morningside) you were outside smoking a cig when i walked by. your greeting made my night... III. Anything but Dormcest Why are you screwing your roommate? - w4m When you know you should be with me! 
 Ambition is the theme of today's minutiae: presidential, artistic, or otherwise. Below, Bwog catches up with opportunities taken-- and opportunities you could take. It's All About Obama Bwog's favorite headline generator has stolen the day once again. Barack Obama C'83 lurched ever closer to outing his potential presidential plans today when he announced he was forming an exploratory committee to help decide whether to commit to the role a year's worth of rumor and speculation has seemingly already assigned him. His official announcement will come on February 10. Whatever luck he's had in the court of public opinion, however, hasn't necessarily followed Obama in the media. After images of Osama bin Laden were broadcast above the headline "Where's Obama?" on Wolf Blitzer's program on CNN (a move the network dismissed as a typo, to which an Obama spokesperson noted the distance between the "s" and "b" keys), a Minneapolis TV station broadcasted images of the Illinois senator's supporters marching while its anchorman detailed a story about a local sex offender. Miller Madness It seems CU Arts isn't the only campus organization seeking to lure students with the most hyperbolic email invites possible. From Miller Theatre's recent circular on the upcoming Edgard Varèse concert: "Like tornadoes or vast electrical storms, performances of the music of Edgard Varèse are always landmark occasions." Bwog thinks they may have been better off soliciting Music Hum students' concert reports than evoking deadly natural phenomena. More morsels after the jump... WBAR + U Barnard's radio station is off the air for now, but it plans to come roaring back with new DJs for the spring semester. Think your playlist is too amazing not to share with half of the city? Apply here before the 26th. More News on Your News Feed Finally, the Washington Post has ambitions of its own-- to dominate Facebook. The venerable WashPo seems to have bought into the note sharing feature completely, adding the capability to directly imput articles from the paper's website onto your profile. Bwog wonders whether it wants to see that much more of E.J. Dionne, but suspects its rival's new openness will put some pressure on the semisecluded Times Select... 
 Hot apple cider and chocolate chip cookies being served NOWby a friendly attendant in the basement of Kent! The edibles are between the financial services office and the student service center for all of you tuition payers and bureaucracy crawlers. Go get it and get that Spring 07 sticker while you're at it -- you'll need it to bypass snooty admissions takers at museums. 
Classes have begun, and you're eager to know what your instructors have in store beyond that cute introductory slide lecture. CULPA expert Owain Evans is here to help, writing Bwog to point out what he thought was a suspicious evaluation. "Was this review written by the grad student himself?" he wonders. Bwog can't say, but this excerpt was at least somewhat of an outlier among reviews that were vaguely positive but tended to include such tips as "if you put time into this class you can do well but expect to fail the midterms" and "he thinks it is amusing when the majority of the class fails an exam". John Baldwin Mathematics displaying all reviews (5) | search directory of classes | review prof Calculus I 27 December 2006 John is a young research mathematician who can check caller ID while summing Reimann subintervals. His star quality arouses nubile tittering in the first few rows, then narrowly offset with strategic downplay. John plants errors in his boardwork to weed out the booksmarts, so if you're thinking of getting some in-class doodling done, think again! Test questions are mildly sadistic, though John will provide ample crawl opps for those who care enough to botch the exams. Moreover, since John's not a generalist, he won't offer answers to questions you can figure on your own. But if you have inquiries which demonstrate genuine intellectual curiosity, John will be generous with his time and brain power- count on that! Office hours are busy and often run seminar style, so get in on it early or you just might miss him. Workload: Don't think you're off the hook as far as homework goes! Easier problems are culled from the actual assignments, which do have collaborative appeal...so split up the sets in your study group and share the answers! Unless you're feeling rigorous, well, then there's just no getting around hard work. 
 The internets are afire with talk of this weekend's "Modern Love" column in the NY Times, authored by one Ashley Cross, a reputed student at our very own university. The mysterious Ms. Cross, who could not be located by Facebook, Columbia directory, or truly thorough Googling (unless she happens to own this site), has come under attack for defending her relationship with a Harvard student suspended from the institution after being accused of rape. In her piece, Cross divulges the two are no longer together, her ex-lover's apparently attractive assertiveness having been suppressed by the&nbsp;re-education programs he was ordered to attend as part of the plea bargain he worked out after criminal charges were filed (which also included house arrest). Still, she is now seen by many as having severely downplayed the allegations against him-- and helping to cast doubt on future rape accusations. A tour of the controversy so far: a thread on the topic at liberal politics blog Daily Kos, where some seem confused by the fact the story has not run as a straightforward news item and others link the social implications of Cross' piece to the Duke rape case,&nbsp;has run to 340 responses; Gawker questioned Cross' reasoning...twice, Harvard's Gadfly ran lots of Crimson documentation on the question of the rape case, and IvyGate wants Cross' number. 
 Prezbo's December 22nd school-wide statement on "Free Speech Issues" (which managed to cover several issues, in one glorious 1,156-word e-mail) did not go over well with the kids whom it mainly addressed. Yesterday at around noon, SGB President Sakib Khan responded, in a missive half the size but with at least as much punch: Khan complained that our leader had left the student board out of the loop on a number of changes (including the institution of standardized procedures for bringing outside speakers) that amounted to a "taming of SGB." "No increase in funds or in square footage will ever be able to replace lost or encumbered freedom of expression as an asset to this institution.&nbsp; As partners in the academic endeavor at Columbia, students have the fundamental responsibility to protect free politics, free religion and free activism.&nbsp; We hope that you adopt a view of the student body as active partners in our common endeavor and begin to communicate with us equitably," he wrote. As of this posting, no administrator had responded. They do get a lot of e-mail. Meanwhile, Bwog has learned that the Chaplain's office in Earl Hall now has two staffers, down from six a month ago. There may be an explanation. Inquiries are in the works. 
 Africa, the Middle East, Asia--it's all Third World to me Open your profile! It will make you more friends than serial rapist stalkers. Nutella in the bedroom? A bit too poo-like to be pleasant. Editorial Boards agree: keep sending them e-mails, Lee Britney: the deep reading Plus! Awww, aging activists are so cute.... 
 All Columbia staff received an email yesterday alerting them to changes in the online directory; evidently, changes are not limited to the new antifreeze-blue "search" button. The email, sent out by Lisa Hogarty, Executive Vice President of Student and Administrative Services, indicates that the online directory will now have "an improved search engine," "a comprehensive browse function," and "more continual updates to directory data." Additionally, there will no longer be a printed Faculty and Staff Directory, though if you have a hankering to kill a few trees, you can place an order for a directory through Print Services. (Bwog wasn't aware that such a document existed in the first place). If you'll excuse us, we're off to pull an Ashley Cross and remove our personal information from the Columbia website - though it should be said that our mailing addresses, full names, and dorm numbers really do look great in the new interface. 
What to do this weekend? Well, you could do the usual, whatever that is - studying on a Saturday night, going to 1020, or the ever-fulfilling Carman parties. But there are some things that you can only do this weekend, because they're soon shuffling off this mortal coil. To wit: &nbsp;-Films closing Thursday include, at the AMC Loews 84th Street, the martial-arts epic Curse of the Golden Flower; at the Lincoln Plaza Cinemas, the pedophilia-in-academia heartwarmer The History Boys; and also at the Lincoln Plaza, the distinctively titled Perfume: The Story of a Murderer, which had one of the most bizarre trailers Bwog has ever seen. (Warning: trailer contains intimations of violence and Dustin Hoffman attempting some sort of pan-European accent). Hurry, because by Friday, these films will be replaced by the likes of The Hitcher. -Closing this Sunday will be the Annie Leibovitz exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum. Leibovitz is responsible for some of the most recognizable celebrity images of the past few decades, including Demi Moore naked and pregnant on the cover of Vanity Fair and a pre-Hollywood Squares Whoopi Goldberg emerging from a bathtub of milk. The exhibit covers her magazine photography as well as personal shots of herself and her partner, On Photography author Susan Sontag. Annie, if you're reading this: want to shoot a cover for The Blue and White? 
 Two female first-years were overheard bringing new meaning to "innocent until proven guilty" near the John Jay elevators: Girl 1: "My dad works with one of the Duke lacrosse players who got in trouble." Girl 2: "Really? Which one?" Girl 1: "The really hot one." &nbsp; 
A few items from here, there, and everywhere: -Columbia's duPont Broadcast News Awards were announced January 13 and are being presented on campus today. Perhaps predictably, the most awards went to PBS, with NBC the only major network to win an award. What, no love for Katie? -Columbia medical researchers, working with doctors from B.U. and the University of Toronto, have discovered a gene that has been connected to Alzheimer's. Congratulate the next med student you see getting a coffee in Strokos. -And while Maggie Gyllenhall CC '98 was nominated for a Golden Globe (she lost Monday night to Helen Mirren), her brother Jake (a Columbia dropout) has starred in the latest Saturday Night Live video to make the rounds on the Internet. After seeing this, you might understand the rumor that he was rejected from the Varsity Show. 
 As the months drag on, the Minuteman saga continues to unfold. A few weeks ago, we told you that eight students had been sent discipilnary letters by University Rules Administrator Steve Rittenberg. That was coming from Provost Brinkley, who said that eleven total letters had been sent, three of which went to non-students, noting that it had been "difficult" to identify the students involved. Spec reported a few days ago that the students have been charged with "simple" violations under the Rules of University Conduct, which means they got off easy--the last guy to go through this process, in 1996, was nailed with "serious" charges, chose the hearing process, and got suspended. From here, they'll go through Dean's Discipline, which means the worst they can get is a censure (hey, Clinton survived). But something doesn't make sense: protest organizers knew about five letters that were sent out before October 18,&nbsp; learned of a sixth on December 5 and a seventh a month later. So who's the missing eighth transgressor? Also, for your reading pleasure, we have recieved permission to reprint (after the jump, natch) the letter sent to defendants by the Rules Administrator. You know, in case you were planning on storming a stage anytime soon. - LBD &nbsp;&nbsp; Office of the Rules Administrator Rules of University Conduct Columbia University 310 Low Library New York, New York 10027 October 12, 2006 Dear --------, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have received a complaint from a member of the University that you may have engaged in conduct that violated sections 443(a)(1), 443(a)(2), 443(a)(4), 443(a)(7), 443(a)(8), 443(a)(13), 443(a)(14), 443(a)(21) and 443(a)(22) of the Rules of University Conduct ("Rules") by participating in a demonstration in the Roone Arledge Auditorium that started at approximately 8:30 p.m. and continued until approximately 9:30 p.m. on Wednesday, October 4, 2006.&nbsp;&nbsp;Some of these sections refer to serious violations and could lead to your suspension or dismissal from the University if you are charged and subsequently found guilty. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; As the Administrator of the Rules of University Conduct, it is my responsibility to investigate this complaint.&nbsp;&nbsp;Based on my investigation thus far, I find there is reasonable cause to believe that your conduct on the evening of October 4 may have violated some or all of the sections of the Rules cited above.&nbsp;&nbsp;Under the Rules, you have the opportunity to meet with me or, at my discretion, an Assistant Rules Administrator before I decide whether to file charges against you.&nbsp;&nbsp;At the meeting, you will be advised of the substance of the possible charges and given the opportunity to explain why they should not be filed.&nbsp;&nbsp;If you wish, we can also discuss an informal resolution of the complaint.&nbsp;&nbsp;Such a resolution would involve&nbsp; your acknowledging that you violated the Rules of University Conduct. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I have scheduled your meeting with Richard Tudisco, Assistant Rules Administrator, for October 16, 2006 at 1:30 p.m. in 105 Low Library.&nbsp;&nbsp;This will be a personal meeting.&nbsp;&nbsp;I may ask a member of my staff to attend, but no one else may be present.&nbsp;&nbsp;If you are unable to attend at that time, you must call my Executive Assistant, David Klahr, no later than 4:00 p.m. on October 13, 2006 to reschedule.&nbsp;&nbsp;If you fail to attend this meeting or to reschedule it, you will lose the opportunity to respond to the complaint before I decide whether to prepare charges against you.&nbsp;&nbsp;Mr. Klahr's phone&nbsp; number is 854-2254. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Based on my investigation of the complaint and your meeting with Mr. Tudisco, I will determine whether any charges should be filed and, if so, whether they should be for simple or serious violations of the Rules.&nbsp;&nbsp;I&nbsp; will refer charges of simple violations to your Dean for a hearing under your School's procedures for Dean's Discipline.&nbsp;&nbsp;Charges of serious violations may, at your option, be reviewed under Dean's Discipline or by a&nbsp; Hearing Officer in accordance with procedures set forth in the Rules, a copy of which is enclosed. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; You should be aware that if you engage in any activity that is impermissible under the Rules while this complaint is under review, it may&nbsp; be taken into account in considering the sanctions to be imposed if you are found guilty of a violation.&nbsp; Sincerely yours, Stephen Rittenberg Rules Administrator 
 Nussbaum certainly doesn't "Wu" Subway savior can find like-minded saviors outside Tom's Probably no Bollinger Halls in our future. Renaming Hamilton goes to highest bidder. Offers of int'l internships in many fields (in addition to finance) - and students still cry "Finaaaannccee" Staff agrees: Creative writing major = "Ehh" Why can't we all just ... you know the rest 
New Yorkers may spend more time underground than denizens of every other town, so says the New York Times. But those of you planning to explore the Columbia tunnel system had better do it now, reports Bwog trailblazer Armin Rosen. Because after almost forty years of  the tunnels being locked, guarded and officially closed off to students, administration has vowed to lock, guard and officially close the tunnels off to students.... I guess there’s a chance that this is something more than administrative redundancy, and that spelunkers will find the school’s sprawling system of claustrophobic underground passageways forever sealed off by swipe-points, security cameras, one-way doors (the kind with a knob on only one side of the door; common throughout the system and the subject of much speculation among tunnelers) a nd other means of depriving the enterprising student of fun and adventure. But I doubt it. My personal opinion is that the tunnels, which contain water and power conduits, generators, storage rooms and other facilities vital to the functioning of this school will remain inadvertently unlocked so long as people will have to frequently enter and leave them. Indeed, it didn’t take a lock-pick or a sledgehammer to gain entrance to the tunnels under the Schermerhorn extension on a Tuesday morning in December. A maintenance worker had serendipitously left the door open. The Columbia tunnels are a stuffy, industrial affair. The air is thick, and the subterranean calm is pierced only by the soft, mechanical hum of distant machinery. The tunneler who once described the Schermerhorn-Schapiro- Fayerweather-Pupin system as “Willy Wonka-like” had it only half right. Aesthetically, it does bring to mind the classic Gene Wilder movie, as the tunnels’  smattering of miscellaneous machinery and pipes does have a Wonka-like incoherence to it. But in terms of a mbiance the workers’ underworld in Fritz Lang’s “Metropolis” is the more apt cinematic reference point--the tunnels are not a place of industrial whimsy like Wonka‘s factory, but of industrial menace and danger. The last time I explored the Schermerhorn basement the doors pictured above were locked and included a sign reading “DANGER: ACIDIC FUMES.” That some intrepid tunneler found this of little enough consequence to live out what was once one of my top goals at this school and steal this sign shows just how attractive the danger aspect is to tunnel explorers. There are signs of danger everywhere: eye-wash stations, rusting industrial apparata, exposed power lines, the breathing machine seen above. But the most dangerous aspect of the tunnels aren’t the chemicals in the air, although I would really love to see the Spec or The Blue and White write something about the air quality in the tunnel system under Schermerhorn, because numerous maintenance people still work there and I’m willing to bet that said air quality isn’t very good.  From the administration’s standpoint the tunnels are probably most hazardous as a storage area for dangerous and toxic chemicals--lest we forget, a Columbia student was famously expelled in the early 90’s for stealing uranium from the tunnels beneath Pupin, and examples such as this collection of nitrogen tanks suggest that this concern reflects something more than just administrative paranoia (see right). The tunnels are, most importantly, history: Protestors used them as transportation between occupied buildings during the student protests in 1968 and WKCR allegedly used them to wire-tap the university’s phone system during the crisis, while the tunnels themselves include pre-Columbian remnants such as these train tracks between Schermerhorn and Shapiro. These attest to a time when the land between Broadway and Amsterdam at 116th street was home to an institution of a different (or perhaps not so different) stripe: the Bloomingdale insane asylum, which used these tracks to transport coal. And there is more, all of you aspiring-tunnelers. Second installment coming tomorrow. - Armin Rosen
 For students, shopping period (though not christened as such) is a time for self-exploration, stress, and belly butterflies.&nbsp; For professors, it's a time to show off&nbsp; remarkable wit and sometimes-sexy whimsicality.&nbsp; Prof. David McKenna in Auteur Studies: Clint Eastwood: "Don't e-mail me. &nbsp;I repeat, DON'T E-MAIL ME. &nbsp;I have the Internet to follow San Antonio Spurs games and also I watch pornography." Maura Spiegel, Intro to American Studies: "Keep it real, and stay black, man." Prof. Lydia Goehr in Philosophy of History: "The future of the present is the futurity of the past." David Yerkes in Archaeologies of Language: Introducing the first assignment: "I am a merciful God." "I LOVE catching plagiarists. &nbsp;It really gets my adrenaline going." Richard Bulliet in Islamo-Christian Civilization: "When I proposed this course to the committee on instruction, they said, well, you're just making students read your own books, aren't you? And I said, well, yeah..." On the Great Books curriculum: "Cicero is not discussable after a potluck meal." And on the power of historians: "Historians rule the world, because they rule the past...The gullibility of the readers of history is almost unlimited." 
 Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki would really like to have a mixtape review for you this week. Unfortunately, this happened two nights ago, and since Drama is the biggest DJ in the game, everyone is clamming up. www.datpiff.com, the site that streams them for free, didn't stream anything yesterday, and all of the places to buy them, online and up on 125th st. closed up shop. So as much as he'd like to talk about some of the awesome tapes that came out in the last few weeks, there's no way for you to buy or listen to them at the moment. Meanwhile, the biggest CD out this week is Kylie Minogue live, until Damon Albarn and the Shins drop next Tuesday. See you then! 
 Bloomberg to World: We're more diverse than you! Minutemen are racist, fascist etc. So don't suspend us for running onto the stage. Recycle your soda cans and call yo-self an activist. Another Manhattanville staredown begins.&nbsp; Wrestling in the Buff for all the marbles. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
In which BW culture editor Paul Barndt presents a swashbuckling throwback. Now that you’ve had a chance to see Justin Timberlake in Alpha Dog three or four times, rent Edison Force, his feature film debut, a cop thriller also featuring Oscar winners Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman, as well as LL Cool J, Dylan McDermott, and Cary Elwes. It never saw a theatrical release, and with a cast that strong, a straight-to-DVD release can only mean one thing: this movie’s bad. But it’s not that bad—in many ways it’s a poor man’s Training Day, and some of you poor souls actually liked that movie. Maybe you’ll like this one, too. The action begins with a meaningless “life on the streets is tough” voiceover from Rafael Deed (LL Cool J), the newest member of FRAT, an elite police force that patrols the city of Edison. Deed soon realizes that the FRATboys are crooked, debauched, and homicidal, and justifiably begins to have second thoughts about his new brothers-in-arms. Meanwhile, Timberlake is a plucky young journalist uncovering FRAT’s corruption, with a little help from Freeman, his editor, and Spacey, a police investigator. The story is baggy, taking up and dropping subplots as it pleases. But at its core, Edison Force is a conventional and gripping enough action flick, one that should compel you to watch you all the way through. With all these A- and B-list actors working with C-list material, some priceless moments are bound to emerge. Watch LL brandish a flamethrower! Watch Dylan McDermott shoot a cheerleader! Watch those three greats of the silver screen—Spacey, Freeman, and Timberlake—sharing a scene for the first time! In all seriousness, JT’s performance is low-key and decent. Nothing special, mind you, but never distracting, and definitely beats Mariah Carey in Glitter. And if you’re not a fan, he does get the shit beaten out of him—yet another reason to rent. 
Welcome to the next issue of Cooking with Bwog, where we bring you a few recipes made easier by the fact that many of the ingredients come from a can. If you have any dorm-style or Columbia-style cooking inspirations and would like to share with Bwog's culinary team, or you have a mind-bwoggling cooking dilemma, send us an email at bwgossip@columbia.edu! Over break, Bwog's chef stuck around the Columbia kitchens to try out some of the more risky and exciting recipes in her notebooks. She also got a little lazy. Here's a little taste of some of the more fruitful experiments. Chili This is a variation on the conventional cook-it-in-a-pot chili recipe. You need a can of black beans, a can of corn, some onion, butter or oil, pasta sauce, cheese, and some taco seasoning. To cook, you need a spoon, a frying pan, and a knife. This recipe is for one person. Turn the pan on medium heat. Add a tablespoon of oil or butter, wait for it to melt and spread, then chop about one eighth of your onion and add it to the pan. Sautee for three to five minutes or until the onion is clear. Add a sprinkling of taco seasoning at this point, about a teaspoon will do. Then open the cans of corn&nbsp; and black beans and spoon equal amounts of these into the pan (about as much as you want to eat). Stir, and as soon as these are warm (after about a minute) lower the heat and add a few spoonfuls of pasta sauce. Once this is mixed in and warmed up, the chili is done! Just add shredded cheese of your choice on top, and save the left-over ingredients for next time. If you feel like spicing it up, add some tabasco sauce, red pepper flakes, or get a really spicy taco seasoning. Pumpkin pie and pasta sauce after the jump! Easiest Pumpkin Pie Ever This is for those people who don't really care about the crust or the grandma's homemade feel of this classic pie. You will need a large can of pumpkin pie filling, condensed milk, an egg or two, and a cupcake pan. Be sure to get all the ingredients called for on the side of the can for basic prep of pumpkin pie filling (this is usually egg and condensed milk). Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Prepare the can of pie filling as written on the side of the can - usually, add condensed milk and egg to the can's contents and stir. Then, pour this mixture into the cupcake pan (greasing if you want clean up to be easier later) and put it in the preheated oven. Cooking usually takes 15 minutes, but check the consistancy of the pie after about 10 minutes. The contents shouldn't be liquidy and the top should be starting to brown. Let stand for about half an hour before eating. Store extra in a fridge. Pasta again? Here's an idea to change up basic pasta sauce. Get some garlic, onion, olive oil, red pepper flakes, 2 or 3 colorful bell peppers, and ricotta cheese (and the pasta sauce from a jar, of course). You should use a pretty big frying pan, or transfer from a smaller frying pan to a sauce pan halfway through. (Note: you might want to start boiling pasta water before starting the sauce. Bwog likes this sauce with large shells) Cut up the garlic and half of the onion and sautee with olive oil in a frying pan at medium heat. While that's happening, cut up the bell peppers into half-inch chunks. When you're done cutting them up, add them to the pan and sautee for 5 minutes, adding more olive oil if necessary. When the peppers are no longer crisp, add the pepper flakes and pour a bunch of pasta sauce over the top (about half of the jar). Stir and heat until worthy of being served. Pour over pasta and throw a dollop of ricotta cheese on each serving. 
The system's far more intriguing history is written on its walls, says Bwogger Armin Rosen. Tunnel graffiti is a running history of everyone who found their explorations momentous enough to permanently commemorate.... But there's nothing boastful or egotistical about the hastily-scrawled notes found on practically every flat and indeed most of the cylindrical surfaces in the tunnel system, and if the point of the near-ubiquitous Benoit tag is to say "I was here," then the "I" is conspicuously absent--to this day the tunnels' most notorious explorer is without face and name.&nbsp; The artist of the less notorious but just as abundant "mouse" graffito leaves tantalizing clues as to his identity: "still here in '06, if anybody cares," reads one note adjacent to the 119th street parking garage. But the mouse artist remains anonymous as well. This penchant for anonymity is hardly surprising in an environment as alienating as the tunnel system. Subterranean in both the literal and figurative sense, the tunnels are the domain of a subversive and adventurous few--It takes a particular kind of person to want to go down here, and an even more particular kind of person to actually go down here. Tunneling therefore creates a sense of kinship with the past; an ironic sense of connection within a world that doesn't seem to be connected to anything. Among such kindred spirits, identity is nothing more than an afterthought; an annoying bit of ephemera that has to be discarded in the interest of leaving something truly enduring. Benoit will endure. John Galt, who apparently misses the point of even tunneling in the first place, probably won't. More photos and commentary after the jump! &nbsp; &nbsp; Mouse tag underneath Schermerhorn. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; John Galt, lame tunneler. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Guy who writes Simpsons quotes in a storage room beneath Pupin, cool tunneler. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Wall beneath Pupin: Many taggers have the psychologically revealing tendency of casting their explorations in some kind of allegorical or even religious light. Whether they truly believe their journeys to be descents into Hell or whether they see such explorations more figuratively after reading Inferno in Lit Hum is anybody's guess. My favorite of these graffito: a tag on a one-way door beneath Kent that reads "Door to Hell." And for all we know, it might be. A very clever tag by someone with very good taste in movies. Note that self-absorbed jackass John Galt has draw attention to himself by putting a box around his tag, and in so doing has forever emblazoned his lameness in permanent black ink. Very uncool, John. Very uncool. &nbsp; The tunnel system forks a couple times before ending at this emergency power generator underneath Pupin (see right).&nbsp; And although I was disappointed that there was (apparently) nothing else to explore IÃ¢ï¿½ï¿½d be lying if I said I wasnÃ¢ï¿½ï¿½t eager to get out of the stuffy, dank and deserted confines of the Columbia tunnels and finally breathe comparatively fresh air among other human beings, as opposed to breathing heavy and very likely polluted air in complete solitude. Of course one of the best parts of tunneling is the knowledge that you have just recently gone on a fantastic adventure while the people around you have been going about the drab rigmarole of their daily lives tunnel-free. But these pangs of superiority only reminded me of the sad fact that we may soon all be living tunnel-free, although this could provide motivation for an even more ambitious tunneling endeavor: finding an above-ground entrance to the now-abandoned 91st street subway station. -Armin Rosen 
 Dear Sig Ep,&nbsp; A Global Warming party? How clever. At least the College Republicans were trying to make a statement! Love, Bwog P.S. (We may still come anyway) &nbsp; 
 You're Going Places, Kid Kudos to Davide Barillari, the creator of The Gates, the borderline salacious student-produced soap opera that we all love to hate (or hate to love). His&nbsp;opus&nbsp;is a finalist in&nbsp;ABC's SoapU contest, the winner of which gets $20,000 to make&nbsp;a real&nbsp;soap opera. Make sure to vote on the website, too- as of now&nbsp;our&nbsp;homegrown bit of tawdry satire is&nbsp;trailing the leaders by several points- if only because NYU (naturally) has two popular entries. Also, watch the clip from the second episode and commend the actors on their ability to barely contain their laughter during the opening scene where some kid starts convulsing on a Carman dorm room floor after snorting too much coke. Brilliance. The Lion, the Witch, and the Democrat The CU Dems have launched a blog full of political commentary and news updates from the blue side of politics. It's certainly thorough, but in our humble opinion, it needs a little sex appeal. We suggest pictorials of Edwards, Obama, Ted Kennedy,&nbsp;just the hotties.&nbsp;Remember it's a blog, friends, try to say that word three times without smirking a little. Young, Rich, and Totally Fucked Up Many readers were (mildly) scandalized by the Eye's report from the trenches of investment banking. (We'll never say i-banking again, we promise.) Bwog can't help but wonder who "Paul Owen" is, though, and&nbsp;half-hearted stalking attempts have proved futile. But, really, can you blame us for our fascination after all that business about jetting to Puerto Rico, $800 for Flashdancers, etc.? So, "P.O.", We summon you to proclaim your identity. And, hey, if you ever need another drinking buddy, shoot us an email... And Most Importantly... Do you want us to lose? Do you want to see us suffer and crumple under the weight of defeat? You do? Oh, nevermind. Could you vote for us anyways over at PaperTrail? It'd be swell, and voting ends on the 23rd. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -KR 
US Presidential candidates form exploratory committees. CCSC presidential candidates, it seems, get quoted in the Spectator as being interested in the top job, as George Krebs and Michelle Diamond (basically) did in Friday's issue. Because it's never too early to engage in wild speculation (and because we're already tired of Obama) Bwog presents this survey of the field. CC '09 president George Krebs: He came out of nowhere to oust the CC '09 incumbents last year, and might ride that enthusiasm to the presidency a year before his time. Although the famous Krebs bear hug generates a significant degree of his support, the garrulous flesh-presser has a genuine interest in policy and a hard headed practicality that makes him more than a popular kid candidate. Plus, his e-mails are pure gold, and we can't wait to see what he means by this quote: "I'm going to explode onto the scene in my own way should I decide to run." CC '08 VP Michelle Diamond: Were there parties in CCSC, Michelle would probably make them work together and throw a kegger to celebrate. Her effectiveness is debatable--haven't seen any sign of Project Athena yet--but there's no denying that 100-watt smile. While she does get points for experience, she can't quite match the Krebs soundbite. "It's something that I really want to do," Diamond said in her quasi-declaration. "I love being on student council and I have a lot of stuff I want to do ... but I want to make sure that I'm 100 percent ready because it's a huge responsibility." See more prospectives after the jump!&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; VP Finance Sarah Hwang, '08: Why this race is so wide open. She would be President Flaxman's designated successor, were she not graduating early. AAA vice-chair Calvin Sun, '08: He’s been through one elections cycle (on last year’s losing Evolution ticket) and might have ideas of how to do it better this time. He’s got awesome spiky hair. AND he’s a party promoter, and ran Cultureshock—best Glass House Rocks ever? Money quote: "Some people who don't know me might not believe that because they think I'm a cocky motherfucking asshole. And I'm sorry, because sometimes I do act that way, but I'm really just trying to address the views of my close friends." CC '08 President Neda Navab: Probably eyeing the senior class spot—there are benefits to kicking back and running Lerner Pub—but might decide to go for higher powers. Potential wrinkle: along with University Senator David Ali, she ran on her success in passing the Non-Recording Option, which should have meant that Bwog could’ve gotten an actual grade if we pass/failed a class and did ok. Haven’t heard much about that recently. &nbsp; Dems VP and SGB Vice Chair Josh Lipsky, '08: The Dems to CCSC pipeline could always come through for a second year—and it must be nice to hold the purse strings rather than take what you get (CCSC provides the bulk of SGB’s annual budget). &nbsp; College Republicans Alumni Affairs Director and erstwhile candidate for CC '08 president Matt Schoenfeld: Could very well challenge for ’08 president, having lost the spot as a sophomore and again against Navab/Diamond last year. Although he is in England for the semester. No rules against it, though... University Senator Tiffany Davis, '08: She’s got a two-year term if she wants to sit out campaign 2007, but fair game nonetheless. Lindsey Lazopoulos: Almost beat Navab/Diamond last year as Schoenfeld’s VP. And is a cheerleader! And was on Playboy online! Academic Affairs rep Alidad Damooei, '09: This self-starter would be a good choice for an executive board ticket if he doesn’t decide to put one together on his own. College Republicans president Chris Kulawik, '08: Sure wouldn’t have to work for name recognition—and look how many politicians he’d have on his side! Could definitely bring some interesting speakers, but Bwog worries that he might just abolish student life fees and develop a system of free enterprise for student organizations. &nbsp; Wayne Ting, '06: Back for more? Don't see your favorite dark horse? Juicy campaign gossip we missed? Let us know: bwog@columbia.edu. - LBD 
 Chinese pride (at right) This afternoon at 1:00 PM. Lou Dobbs, eat your heart out. Discoveries of New Burial Plots For a mere $25,000, you can get buried at Duke. But hurry--already 200 reservations have been made. According to the Chronicle, "the one-and-a-half acre area first opened in response to requests from alumni in the past few decades who wanted to have a final resting place at the University." Pity, Columnia alumi will have to make do with Manhattanville... Self-Promotion, Health Promotion As part of their health promotion program, Go Ask Alice! (the friendly Q&amp;A health website that brought you answers about sexy role plays and tattoo guides)&nbsp;is sponsoring a photo contest only a month away. All Columbia students are eligible to send in photos that will be published on the Ask Alice webpage. And that's right kids, you'll get your own photo credit! Deadline: February 23rd. SIPA, Student Soldiers, and Kitsch The Morningside Post (Delivering SIPA's Global and Local Enterprise in their very own blog) brings another point of view to the student-soldier debate with a video&nbsp;produced by SIPA students Caroline Bray and Aaron Ernst. Highlights include varied interviews and kitschy classical (juxtaposed to hard rock macho)&nbsp;music. Just another example of Columbia students' talent with&nbsp;video&nbsp;equipment!&nbsp; Raising The Bar Abe Handler overheard this in the business school library today afternoon: "I feel like everybody and their dog has 100 million dollars. The question is how to go from like here (gestures to his waist) to like here (gestures to his shoulders)." - YS 
The first Ivy League fees for next year have been set: Princeton has&nbsp;ra ised total fees to $43,980 while keeping tuition at $33,000. Interesting tidbit: currently, Columbia is the most expensive Ivy ($45,444, as your parents likely know), followed by Penn and Harvard. Columbia will announce next year's tuition in June, last of all the Ivies; stay tuned to see just how much Alma Mater will cut into your cigarettes-and-Pinnacle budget for '07-'08. 
 Admissions Office Receives More Applications, Prepares to Crush More Dreams than Ever Before That Pass/Fail Thing Actually Happens; Newly Cold Weather “Just a Coincidence” New West End Owners Plan to Write Book About Establishment’s History, Drunk, on a Single, Continuous Roll of Industrial Paper Towels It’s a Boy! 
Everyone and their sister (publication) has a sex columnist these days, and--being the blatantly imitative blog that we are--Bwog decided to get one of its own. There's a lot we could say about this nameless muse...but we'll let her introduce herself. Welcome to the Belle Jar. Update, 1/23, 8:38 PM: You can e-mail the Belle Jar at bwogsex@gmail.com. I am explicitly, absolutely, without a doubt, not a straight woman. I’m not a member of the Columbia Queer Alliance, and I don’t play rugby—unless we’re talking euphemistically. If I you passed me on the street you’d have no idea I was gay (“lesbian” has too many syllables). But here I am, anonymously, a Bwog sex columnist, at least until one of you delights me by creating a website about how I violate everything you hold dear. Why am I writing this column? What you want to hear: I have always dreamed of being a sex columnist.&nbsp; Ever since I bought my first pair of Dr. Martens, learned to fire a gun and realized I wanted to be cuffed to a bedpost by Detective Olivia Benson on SVU, I’ve pined for this very moment.&nbsp; My hero: Dan Savage, my enemy: Rick Santorum. I learned about dental dams at the age of 12. I’ve never used one, but I’m ready.&nbsp; God’s honest truth: my editors thought this college should have a sex columnist who knew what it meant to be a feminist, to admire and understand women’s bodies, and to be slightly more enlightened than your average Druid dressed in Dolce. I just thought it was funny as hell that they asked me. You see, I don’t have regular sex; I have head on, high-speed collisions. I get whiplash and there’s usually broken glass. I take down insurance information, not phone numbers.&nbsp; And I’ve never slept with a guy, although I know many, many people who have, and who have reported back.&nbsp; I’ve thought about it the way I’ve thought about taking Econ—probably better for my financial future and legal rights but, at the moment, terribly tedious and likely soporific. It’s something I’ve been meaning to get around to doing and just haven’t had the time or willpower to accept or even correctly interpret an advance.&nbsp; I have slept with girls. Occasionally, I’ll have a drunken encounter with a vagina and more or less bullshit myself through it, which is truly amazing because you can’t talk about Kant with a clit. I have problems with girls, I have problems with guys, but mostly, I have problems with people.&nbsp; And this, according to my editors, is where I am oddly qualified for this position.&nbsp; Last year, a staggering percentage of Columbia students sought psychological help at Health Services. I’d look up the actual number but it’s probably in the Spectator and what I lack in confidence I make up for in flagrantly ignoring sources. Sources are for pussies. Don’t be a pussy. Anyway, at the end of this experience you were likely given anti-depression medication and pretzels and told to stop facebook poking your Ex. No?&nbsp; We are not a sane people.&nbsp; We, by and large, don’t really know how to interact with each other.&nbsp; And amazingly enough, a large percentage of us believe that comparing anti-anxiety prescriptions and course schedules is foreplay. In the simplified, digestible notion of the world, there are two types of people: those who are sex positive, and those who are not.&nbsp; It is my greatest hope that this column is for both types (especially with the aim of turning the latter wannabe-saints into the former unrepentant sinners).&nbsp; Because, let’s be honest, this college needs to get laid. Badly.&nbsp; And I can relate. Columbia is full of neurotic people who can't seem to have satisfying sex lives. Why would you want to read a column by someone who suffers from none of those problems? But, rather than talk about myself, I’d like to make this a variety show of sorts.&nbsp; I’d like to answer your questions, I’d like to occasionally interview friends and classmates about bizarre/awesome sexual experiences, and I’d like to take you on a literary tour of Japan’s love hotels. And I’d like to remain anonymous. Because this isn’t about me, it’s about you and your insignificant others, your conflations of power and romance, and your paralyzing mistakes—even through no one cares, at least it’s nice to know that someone’s been there before you. &nbsp; 
If you have been following the news in even the vaguest capacity over the past few years, or if you've ever tried to get a computer in Lerner around 1 PM, you're aware of the major space crunch Columbia is experiencing. But who needs to move into Manhattanville when you have the garage below Uris, with a carport-sized space devoted entirely to old computer monitors? (Even without the old iMacs, we know that's the purpose because of the snazzy signs Columbia made up). Bwog recommends a new freshman dorm, and perhaps a Jamba Juice franchise, for the space. &nbsp;More computer-riffic pictures after the jump! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;-DPD 
Tipster Bobby Brennan writes: "There's a sketchy high school senior wandering College Walk in a trenchcoat offering anyone $800 to take the Biology SAT II right now." Hmm... sound familiar? At this point, we're convinced Fox News is just setting Columbia students up for an expose. Trenchcoat? You can do better than that, O'Reilly. 
&nbsp;In which Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki forgives the Shins their trespasses and disses the music blogosphere...oh wait... “Phantom Limb” – The Shins Depending on whom you talk to, the new Shins album is either lethargic and dull or some more euphemistic variation on those words.&nbsp; Except for this song.&nbsp; This is THE SHINS.&nbsp; This that Zach Braff shit.&nbsp; If you listen closely, you can actually hear the A+R guy yelling “I smell money! It smells like money!”&nbsp; What’s strange is that there aren’t more of these “New ‘New Slang’” sorts of songs on this album – at least “Phantom Limb” has a chorus/is compelling.&nbsp; Apparently James Mercer was cool with doing three-minute pop songs when he was 35, but now that he’s joined the big 36 mafia, he aspires to be a more wizened, mature dude singing in quasi-falsetto?&nbsp; “80’s Life” – The Good, The Bad, and The Queen Before YouTubing them, I didn’t really get GB&amp;Q, Damon Albarn’s new side project.&nbsp; On record, the music is maddeningly minimalist and yet puffed up by Dangermouse’s obnoxiously over-mixed production.&nbsp; It seems pointless, too, to have so much talent – the bassist from The Clash, the guitarist from The Verve, and Tony-“Oh shit, really?”-Allen – and to let Dangermouse either bury it or reduce it to what might as well be a $10 loop from a session player.&nbsp; Sure, it’s clearly not a solo record, but then again, its hard to really give anyone daps on this one except for Albarn.&nbsp; Oh yeah – almost forgot - Dangermouse’s mix sucks. But live, GB&amp;Q becomes a little clearer and a lot more impressive.&nbsp; Sans le ‘Mouse, the group is essentially four old dudes – ranging from kinda old (Albarn) to really old (Clash’s Paul Simonon) – who have all done their fair share of rocking and are now just innately cool (by both the standard and the Miles Davis definitions of the word).&nbsp; Watch “Herculean,” their first single – they’re playing to a huge hall of screaming kids and yet they’re barely even touching their instruments.&nbsp; The songs are already extremely quiet, introverted, and anti-Chris Martin, but when underplayed, they border on chilling, in a way that doesn’t come through without the power of YouTube.&nbsp; The group is so restrained that when there’s just a little upswing like the “it all looks good on YOU” part in “80’s Life,” it feels like the slow-burn equivalent to Albarn’s first “woo-hoo” in that one little Blur single from back in the day.&nbsp; Add the theatrics of Simonon stalking around the stage and GB&amp;Q is an early front-runner for best live band of the young year.&nbsp; &nbsp; “Heimdalsgate Like a Promethean Curse” – Of Montreal Of Montreal is pretty standard indie-pop fare.&nbsp; They’ve been around for a while and they have plenty of fans.&nbsp; Unfortunately, this latter detail kinda works against them, because while a few years ago such people were relegated to the front corners of shows where they could stand with their minidisk recorders and ball out, now they all have blogs.&nbsp; And they write things like “this album manipulates your senses with unbridled exuberance” or “I also wonder who controls love: a supernatural force of an individual? I don’t think it’s either and it appears Barnes is perplexed as well” (Barnes being the group’s ostensibly perplexed songwriter).&nbsp; Even more detrimental is that while the blog system gives bands exposure, the bloggers often tend towards the more polarizing, fan-favorite pieces.&nbsp; Such is the case with our friend “Heimdalsgate” here, a bad Hot Hot Heat rip that’s somehow the most blogged-about song from Of Montreal’s new album.&nbsp; It really will either completely sell you on the band or, as a result of that “c-c-c-chemicals” chorus, cause you to make like the dude in Pi with the brain-drill.&nbsp; I’m kind of tending towards the latter.&nbsp; On the other hand, the very pleasant, dig-able “Miss Blonde, Your Papa Is Failing” (from this EP, also out tomorrow) only pops up twice online.&nbsp; Go figure.&nbsp; I’m really only interested in listening to this album – titled Hissing Fauna, Are You The Destroyer? - just to see if they actually want beef with the real Destroyer (that being the popular pseudonym for Daniel Bejar, king of the indie-people).&nbsp; Maybe not, but it’s tantamount to a rapper making an album called Squabbling Fish, Are You The Hova?&nbsp; Like, come on Canada, we know who Hova is. 
 Why Lee C turned the Harvard job down? Whopping salary still derided for paucity by&nbsp;admiring SEAS kids Free downloadable music! Just for us! No, wait, scratch that, you can only stream it. And it doesn't work on your iPod. Student reaction: as long as it "isn't mainstream" or "have janky strings" After Bwog commenters' aesthetic assault fails, LCD screen permanent in Butler. Religion student worships at altar of technology, but plagued by doubt M. Six Silberman, architect of civilizations, plots path to sustainable future: "heinous...labor-intensive...technocultural mess" PLUS: Yet another reason why we'll never be comparable to Penn... 
The Core has frequently inspired as much acrimony as intellectual curiosity, and no one class has borne so much&nbsp;controversy as the disproportionately-loathed Frontiers of Science. From amid the tepid grumblings of the meekly subjected, however, comes the roar of the freshman class, taking a stand - where else? - on Facebook. Sports, science, and general "file under S" categories correspondent Christopher Morris-Lent reports from the front lines of first-years'&nbsp;quarrel&nbsp;over David Helfand's brainchild. Few topics outside the quality of food at John Jay can arouse the sort of passionate vitriol or resigned apathy amongst freshmen that Frontiers of Science does. With half of Columbia College’s Class of 2010 already subjected to the insidious doctrine of climate change, astrophysics, and other infinitely complicated concepts such as bar graphs and standard deviations, the CC ‘10 Student Council has devised another way to pretend that it does something constructive, creating under the guise of a Facebook "event" a sort of forum where the disillusioned can air their frustrations and the contented can defend the third nipple of the Core, either on the wall of the event itself, or by sending mail to Academic Affairs. Barely four hours into the proceedings, a lively rhetorical boxing match has already began to explode on the wall, with those who thought Frontiers bit the proverbial big one comprising one side, and those who thought it was merely mediocre forming the other. The administrators, composed of the aforementioned CC ‘10 apparatchiks and a groupie or two, are collectively playing the roles of both the impartial referee and Don King. A blow-by-blow, after the jump! Five minutes into the fight, Student One attempted to open things up with a defensive right hook, heavy with trepidation but precise in its placement: The concept behind FroSci is a good one, however I feel that the lectures are very far separated from the seminars. The lectures seem like the real Frontiers of Science, with interesting and thought-provoking information presented by a very capable staff. However, the seminars seem like a statistics class. In response to the sluggish punch, Student Two went for the jugular with reckless abandon, stating: People who are interested in science find it boring and tedious, while people who are not interested in science have trouble caring about the class and learn nothing. But Student Three was able to block the savage attack by channeling the power of The Man: I agree with Student one. The lectures were really interesting, and it's a testament to the intellectual strength of our school to be able to hear lectures from such accomplished and knowledgable professors. And finally, student four tried to bite off the ear of his adversary with the epigrammatic: dumbest class Maybe everyone should be made to take University Writing during his first semester instead. Hegel would have been proud. With about six days left to post one’s thoughts, the outcome of the match is still in doubt, though a knockout blow to Frontiers seems outside the realm of possibility. Nevertheless, debate is good for the community, even if nobody that matters pays attention to you. Pontificators of the CC class of 2010 (whose last names fall between L and Z), opine! You have nothing to lose but a few minutes of your time. 
 From the Barnard Theatre Department listserve comes this invitation from Christina Myers, the director of yet another campus&nbsp;production of The Vagina Monologues: "So far, the rehearsals have been a blast and the show has a fresh and different presentation this year. &nbsp;Unfortunately, one of our talented cast members was hired by a theater company out of state to star in Romeo and Juliette. &nbsp;We now need to fill the role of 'My Vagina was My Village', a dramatic piece about a Bosnian war victim. &nbsp;I have attached the monologue." Bwog couldn't resist taking a peak at the script, but it hasn't been quite sure what to say since.&nbsp;The opening&nbsp;reads, uh,&nbsp;pastoral enough: "My vagina was green, water soft pink fields, cow mooing sun resting sweet boyfriend touching lightly with soft piece of blonde straw." After that it gets a bit more...grizzly. And literal. Then somewhat metaphorical. Then very, very literal again. The&nbsp;entire scene&nbsp;is reproduced below the jump...if you're titillated by this sort of thing and&nbsp;feel you have what it takes&nbsp;to audition for the part of the aforementioned Bosnian,&nbsp;contact Christina at chrimye (at) gmail.com. The performances will be Feb. 13th, 14th, and 16th, the tech rehearsals, Feb. 8th and 9th. MY VAGINA WAS MY VILLAGE My vagina was green, water soft pink fields, cow mooing sun resting sweet boyfriend touching lightly with soft piece of blonde straw. There is something between my legs. I do not know what it is. I do not know where it is. I do not touch. Not now. Not anymore. Not since. My vagina was chatty, can’t wait, so much, so much saying words talking, can’t quit trying, can’t quit saying, oh yes, oh yes. Not since I dream there’s a dead animal sewn in down there with thick black fishing line. And the bad dead animal smell cannot be removed. And its throat is slit and it bleeds through all my summer dresses. My vagina singing all girl songs, all goat bell ringing songs, all wild autumn field songs, vagina songs, vagina home songs. Not since the soldiers put a long thick rifle inside me. So cold, the steel rod canceling my heart. Don’t know whether they’re going to fire it or shove it though my spinning brain. Six of them, monstrous doctors with black masks shoving bottles up me too. There were sticks and the end of a broom. My vagina swimming river water, clean spilling water over sun-baked stones over stone clit, clit stones over and over. Not since I heard the skin tear and made lemon screeching sounds, not since a piece of my vagina came off in my hand, a part of the lip, now one side of the lip is completely gone. My vagina. A live wet water village. My vagina my hometown. Not since they took turns for seven days smelling like feces and smoked meat, they left their dirty sperm inside me. I became a river of poison and pus and all the crops died, and the fish. My vagina a live wet water village. They invaded it. Butchered it and burned it down. I do not touch now. Do not visit. I live someplace else now. I don’t know where that is. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Hey Girlfriends! Barnard correspondent Juli Weiner here. You could be drinking Macintosh's Java City coffee and you might not even realize it!&nbsp; Take Bwog's quiz and find out!&nbsp; Yay! I. Does it taste like lukewarm SplendaTM? II. Does it look better than you thought it would look sitting next to your Art History textbook? III. Do you look forward to displaying it on top of said textbook in such a way that when you lift the cup and put it down you will draw attention to the fact that you take Art History? IV. Did it provide just the perfect complement to your broccoli, goat cheese, and sun-dried tomato low-carb, no-sodium "pizza"? V. Does it remind you of your old babysitter, Nicole, who never played games with you and who later stopped watching you when she went to Bryn Mawr and interned at the Philadelphia Inquirer? VI. Does the chalky aftertaste linger in your mouth through Intro to Psych and later through Feminism and Post-Modernism? VII. Did it come from the same general vicinity of Blue Java but in a slightly different cup, (though both cups say Columbia University on them!!!), and do you take it to the same classes as people take their Blue Java cups, but it's slightly different from a Blue Java coffee and so you feel the need to loudly rally against the constructionist overtones in your Women and Culture class? VIII. Did you just wipe some off your H&amp;M messenger bag with a copy of the Bulletin? 
 Bwog would be covering the State of the Union, but we decided to outsource it to the Dems and watch Veronica Mars instead. Meanwhile, political junkies watch it in the Lerner Piano Lounge. It's jointly sponsored by the Dems and the Republicans--stand, applaud, sit, repeat! - LBD 
Left Wing Jihad scores funds? Left Wing Jihadist scores funds!&nbsp; Spec dreads us having to "likely spend more money on better fakes" Oh, you didn't know? Yo' ass better caaallll somebodyyy!&nbsp; Man, I forgot how good Giuliani was. Maybe we should have let him cancel that election.&nbsp; Class of 2010 apparently most athletic in history, too&nbsp; 
 At the same time as the Manhattanville debate is increasingly becoming polarized, Columbia is at the center of another controversy concerning urban planning.&nbsp; This time, the subject is the historical legacy of Robert Moses, who earned his Ph.D. at Columbia in 1914.&nbsp; Moses was responsible for the construction of many of New York City's highways, skyscrapers, and parks as well as the disruption and sometimes destruction of the neighborhoods previously occupying the space.&nbsp; Columbia professors Hilary Ballon and Kenneth T. Jackson, who recently co-edited a book on Moses, are both involved in a three-part exhibit reexamining his legacy, which has up until now been largely defined by an anti-Moses book, The Power Broker. Robert. A Caro, the book's author, is quoted in yet-to-be-released articles by both the New York Times and New York Observer as arguing for his interpretation over Ballon and Jackson's, which is more in Moses's favor.&nbsp; The third part of the exhibit, "Slum Clearance and the Superblock Solution," is set to open here at the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery (8th floor Schermerhorn) next Tuesday, January 30th.&nbsp; The other portions, held in the Museum of the City of New York and the Queens Art Museum, open this coming Friday and Saturday, respectively. Further Bwog coverage to follow. - DHI 
 Apparently the job opportunities Columbia hooks up don't all involve $145,000, 80-hour work weeks, maybe some blow, and a fancy suit. The Center for Career Education's temp work listserv has a listing offering a job with $80, 8 hours of work, maybe some dry ice, and, well, possibly still a suit.&nbsp; It may not be as "high-powered" as a career in finance, but is there really any higher power than the power of magic? How does the chance to "possibly assist on stage" sound for an "exit opportunity"? 3) DESCRIPTION: Magician seeks strong, handy, smart assistant to help transport props to gigs, run errands, and in the future... possibly assist on stage. QUALIFICATIONS: Knowledge of showbiz, sound, lighting, etc. a plus. Must possess a nice-looking shirt and dress pants, or a dark suit. We can meet in person to go over the details. DURATION: Thursday, January 25, 2007 Approx. 3 to 11 PM COMPENSATION: $10/hour CONTACT: Susanna Mitton Organization: Mark Mitton email: suus64@yahoo.com Also, Spec's departed sex columnist continues to make headlines. Spec writer Joanna Zuckerman Bernstein's article on Miriam Datskovsky for the Philadelphia Weekly&nbsp; is less controversial than ya'll might be used to, but is worth checking out. &nbsp;- DHI 
Reflecting the noble efforts of its students, redefining the known world in experimental breakthroughs and subversive anthropology theses alike, Bwog has recently come upon a couple examples of Columbia's own willingness to fight the dominant paradigm. Follow our earth-shattering eye to... The World of Pop Culture: According to Metro (New York's #1 newspaper...in contributing to subway litter) Columbia is involved in negotiations to take over TriBeCa's ARChive of Contemporary Music, a private collection of two million recordings frequented by international DJs, and turn it into the "country's first major center for the study of popular music". The "ARC", like Noah, has collected two of every album made since 1950, including a signed copy of the first Rolling Stones album on which "Keith Richards’ autograph is blurred because the original owner kept it in a pile where his dog always went to pee". Sounds like something to finally replace that stage model exhibit that's now been occupying Butler's hallways for years. The Source of That Nasty Smell: Whoever was in Manhattan on January 8th will recall (willingly or not) the horrific smell that permeated the borough's atmosphere. In Sunday's New York Times, Columbia researchers (with a Barnard associate) proposed what they thought was the answer to the quandary over the stench's source. "The odor was caused by gases released from saltwater marshes in the metropolitan area," the researchers state. The stinky swamps were, of course, in Jersey, which will no doubt give new meaning to the already encouraging nickname "Armpit of America". But wait, there's more - the scientists used "Columbia University instruments on rooftops in Manhattan" to measure the speed of the wind carrying the revolting odor. It all gives a new meaning to the name "Pupin". -CJS 
Restaurant Week is upon us! It's your semiannual shot at climbing into the City's swankest restaurants through the backdoor--you best hurry to make those reservations before your time runs out next Friday. Surveying the offerings, Bwog freelancer Bari Weiss takes us to Bolo, the Spanish sensation run by that guy you may have seen on TV. I must admit, I don’t get Bobby Flay’s appeal.&nbsp; As an avid Iron Chef America enthusiast, Flay always struck me as awkward in front of the camera, at times even coming off as irritated.&nbsp; For his fans, this is precisely Flay’s allure; his awkwardness is charming, his irritation is edgy, his furrowed brow evidence of the ingenious recipes marinating in his head.&nbsp; But what most of us know of Flay is just branding.&nbsp; And though image seems increasingly important in the world of food, chefs still earn their reputations with what comes out of the kitchen.&nbsp; Flay may not have been able to woo me with any of his four shows on the Food Network—but could he win me over with the recipes that have won him high praise?&nbsp; I set off for Bolo (23 East 22nd Street), a participant in this year’s Restaurant Week, to try some of the food that earned the joint a rare three stars from the New York Times. &nbsp; Bolo calls itself contemporary Spanish cuisine and gets its name not from the tie or the hat, but from its two partners: Bobby Flay ("Bo") and Laurence Kretchmer ("Lo"). Unlike similarly priced bistros, it doesn’t take itself too seriously.&nbsp; Excellent service creates a warm atmosphere, even as the Picasso-esque wallpaper feels a bit dizzying (perhaps “eclectic” and “fun” in interior design-speak, but strikingly similar to the mass-produced collage paper swathing your neighborhood Starbucks). The night started off with four tapas ($16), which we added to the three-course prix-fixe menu.&nbsp; My partner in gluttony enjoyed the sautéed squid and bacon with garlic oil, (“subtle”), but was underwhelmed by the crispy frog leg with mint and garlic, mostly because they seemed to have run out of fresh mint, inadequately replaced by dried chives.&nbsp; I enjoyed my salt cod fritter with parsley garlic sauce (you can’t go wrong with fried fish), but it paled in comparison to our favorite tapas of the night: a twelve-layer potato with caramelized shallots that literally melted in my mouth. The most memorable course of the night, anticlimactically, was the appetizer.&nbsp; A simple presentation of chick peas, cucumbers, red beans, crispy bread chips, and Spanish farmer’s cheese belied a zing of wasabi dressing at the end of each bite—straightforward and refreshing.&nbsp; But the star of the meal, beautifully presented, was the salmon tartare.&nbsp; Served on top of a crisp polenta cake, red pepper pesto and lemon chive oil made the fish really pop, with just enough capers to let you know. On to the main course: roasted cauliflower risotto with caramelized shallots, charred tomato vinaigrette, and fresh thyme, loaded with cheese, was gourmet comfort food—but too rich for an entire course. We also tried the grouper—roasted in parchment paper with mint, parsley, and anchovy butter—with a side of sautéed spinach.&nbsp; The grouper was cooked perfectly, but as before suffered from a lack of mint…and I could have found more inspired spinach in EC on a Friday night. Chocolate, port and vanilla flan rescued us from the limp greens. If you survive the year on soggy sandwiches from 212, Flay’s food will probably taste like ambrosia.&nbsp; But if you love the Iron Chef and love good food, Mario Batali will flay Flay every time: his significantly more affordable Otto is, like Batali himself, delightful.&nbsp; Restaurant Week continues through the 26th, and picks up again from January 29thnd.&nbsp; Lunches are $24.07; dinners $35. until February 2 For a list of participating restaurants, click here. &nbsp; 
Busy Bwog reporter Bari Weiss found herself in Hamilton Wednesday evening, listening to the stories of students who stepped outside their comfort zone this summer. Her account follows.&nbsp; Two Jews, two Palestinians, one half-Jew half-Palestinian—sounds like the introduction to a bad joke.&nbsp; But tonight in Hamilton 603, these were the identities (or, as they will be happy to remind you, just some of the identities) of the five women who presented to a smallish crowd about their experience this summer in the Balkans.&nbsp; While the war raged in southern Lebanon, SGA President and Project Tolerance founder Eman Bataineh B’07, Yael Hammerman B/JTS ’07, Hannah Assadi C ’08, Shira Danan C ’07, and Tina Musa C ’09 were among twenty-three students (12 Jewish, 11 Palestinian) who traveled to the Balkans as part of a program run by Abraham's Vision, an NGO aimed at creating a new generation of mutually respectful American Jewish, Palestinian, and Muslim leaders.&nbsp; Participants were chosen from schools--like Columbia--that are often hotbeds of controversy surrounding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.&nbsp; &nbsp; The plan?&nbsp; By traveling to Serbia, Kosovo, and Bosnia-Herzegovina and engaging in comparative conflict analysis, the participants would be able to, in Assadi’s words, “de-exceptionalize the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.”&nbsp; Traveling to a place where a similar conflict has occurred, in other words, may show the participants that the Middle East turmoil need not be eternal.&nbsp; The conversation tonight was at times hard to follow (and equally challenging to sum up). Perhaps the most interesting part of the evening was Batanieh’s explanation of various models of such dialogue groups: while the encounter model focuses on mutual similarities and common humanity (‘hey, you’re actually not the terrorist I thought you were!’), participants said the Abraham’s Vision model accounted for, and even seemed to even accentuate differences.&nbsp; By recognizing and confronting political realities, and approaching the notion of dialogue itself critically, the hope is that the experience will actually lead to further goals of changing the status quo.&nbsp; The program insisted on, as one speaker put it, “not just going home and say ‘I met the other.’”&nbsp; What was clear was that the trip had and continues to have, an incredibly profound effect on the participants.&nbsp; As Musa commented this evening, “the trip ends, but it’s never actually over.”&nbsp;
 Columbia goes chartreuse Morningside Heights not a euphemism for this corner of Harlem (And a hearty welcome to SoHa) Staff can't wait for special pass/fail option until next semester, citing "no incentive to work" Bill O'Reilly knows a lot of shit, has own highly-rated television show And the quote of the day: "In a way, all people of color on this campus could be called sellouts" 
 It wasn't exactly a nailbiter, but the final poll results are in: Bwog got stomped in US News' poll for "Best Alternative Media Outlet," coming in second to the Blogspot sensation Wesleying. Our pride, it's hurting a little bit.&nbsp; In their winner's circle interview, Wesleying seemed a little disgruntled about how we initially pitched the contest, which included an appeal to Columbia's pallid ego.&nbsp; For the record, we're really not Ivy snobs -- we just didn't want to be beat by anyone, anywhere. And we both sank a blog at Harvard, so high-five, buds. Meanwhile, the rest of the world seems to be more in the loop than we are: the best story of the year went to Zachary Fox of USC for fighting the powers that be, that central government of ours has caused some price-hikes in the pill, and President Gordon Gee of Vanderbilt is a pimp-and-a-half. - JDC and LBD 
In the very public Cafe 212: &nbsp; Girl A: Can you even get a urinary tract infection from rough sex? Girl B: I think so, if you don't clean yourself up afterward. And in Tasti D-Lite, dessert-prime time: Girl C: &nbsp;(said with a certain amount of disgust) She's going to an Ivy Singles Ball. Girl D: &nbsp;Umm...I'd be kind of embarassed to go to that. Girl C: Yeah... but that's where you meet a husband. Girl D: Yeah. &nbsp;All Ivy! Girl C: &nbsp;All Ivy--all single! 
 1) If you've been ignoring your inbox lately, you probably haven't heard that Columbia will be graced with the presence of the MIT linguistics expert, sometimes-anarchist, and general wise old man, Noam Chomsky.&nbsp; First, Chomsky will speak about Renaissance man Harold Pinter (weird, no?) for five dollars at Miller Theatre.&nbsp; But if you'd rather hear him talk about the topic that made him famous, he'll be at the Italian House on the night of February 5th.&nbsp; Get tickets for the Miller event here. 2)&nbsp; The website of New York Magazine recently launched an interactive version of its approval matrix online.&nbsp; Now web-crawlers can vote on what's high-brow, low-brow, despicable and brilliant, rather than being indoctrinated by the editors of the magazine.&nbsp; Example: Marcel's performance in last night's Top Chef = low-brow + despicable. 3) El Presidente Bush. In an interview with USA Today's David Jackson, 43 responds to Columbia historian Eric Foner's accusation that he's the worst President ever.&nbsp; When he is asked to share the lessons he learned from LBJ's war in Vietnam, Bush replies: "Win."&nbsp; - JDC 
 Albert Maysles, with his brother and co-director David, is responsible for some of the most famous and influential documentaries of all time. If you haven’t heard of him, just pick up Grey Gardens at Kim’s. The story of two of Jackie Kennedy’s lesser-known relatives living in a crumbling Long Island mansion, it has inspired a musical and generations of fashionistas (Sienna Miller, anyone?), as well as adding a personal touch that hadn’t existed in documentaries prior. So, Mayles is a great documentarian. And don’t think he doesn’t know it. In an event hosted by the Columbia Undergraduate Scholars Program in Low Library on Tuesday evening, Maysles spoke for two hours, interspersing clips from his films with anecdotes from his career and reflections such as this: “This is the best film ever made about the Beatles” (about his 1964 documentary What’s Happening!). Other reflections, while similarly self-congratulatory, managed to illuminate the filmmaking process. Maysles discussed his typical six-week shooting process and his methods for getting subjects to open up. Here, Mayles set himself in contrast with Michael Moore and other controversial contemporary documentarians; his interest is not in subjects that champion his particular political agenda, but rather intrinsically fascinating characters. And, his disgust with the current market for documentaries was typically, well, Maylesian: “A great filmmaker like me can’t get on ABC, NBC, CBS, HBO. My God, what kind of country do we live in?” While it may be untrue that Maysles invented the documentary feature film (as he claims) there’s an undeniable influence to be seen in the humanity of his work – for instance, in the tender sympathy of Grey Gardens’s “Big Edie” Beale sings a showtune while combing her hair. A lesser director would have pitched the scene as simply grotesque, and missed the pathos behind Marlon Brando’s lascivious leer in Meet Marlon Brando, or looked only at the legend and not the humanity of Christo and Jean-Claude in the upcoming The Gates. Maysles put it this way: “In all of my films, it is the human element that predominates.” Here, at last, Maysles was dead-on. &nbsp;-DPD 
 Once again – it's time for last chance arts. After this weekend, these things will be gone forever, so take advantage while you still can! (Is it appropriate to apply the expression "carpe diem"&nbsp;to a Renee Zellweger movie?) 1.&nbsp; Miss Potter closes at the AMC Loews Lincoln Square this weekend to make room for the re-release of The Departed. Martin Scorsese's movie may have gunplay, mob intrigue, and a potty-mouthed Marky Mark, but does it have Beatrix Potter? I, for one, have absolutely no recollection of Potter's stories, but apparently they were good clean fun. $11 worth of fun? You decide. Notable for: shafting Kate Winslet by casting a Texan woman as a&nbsp;British cultural icon – yet again. 2.&nbsp; The Good German ends its run at the Paris Theatre (West 58th Street) on Thursday, when Breaking and Entering (Jude Law! Juliette Binoche! No hype whatsoever!) opens. If you love black-and-white movies and old-Hollywood glamour – and Casablanca isn't in stock at <!-- D( ); D( ); D(); //--> Butler Media – you might as well see Cate Blanchett and George Clooney romp through post-war Berlin. Notable for: Tobey Maguire as another man with a hidden dark side. (This is only notable for those who have yet to see the Spider-Man 3 trailer.)&nbsp; 3. &nbsp;Restaurant Week is ending soon, so get out there, make like a tourist, and stuff your face on the (relatively) cheap. Notable for: Better than Ferris Booth, and with desserts less "Tasti," and thus less obviously toxic.&nbsp; - DPD 
 Movin' Out Parents to Bloomberg: Step off, biatch Like Odysseus, Lions journey to Ithaca to meet large burly men...in Speedos Will work for course credit But you like us...right? 
In which BW culture editor Paul Barndt indulges a taste for blood and gore. You may have caught Pan’s Labyrinth, a violent fairy tale set in fascist Spain written and directed by Guillermo del Toro. It has a good shot at the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar this year, and I, for one, am a big fan. But regardless of your taste for bizarre dreamlike monsters, you should see Blade II, del Toro’s second best movie--and his most exciting. Blade is an obscure Marvel comic book character who is half-human, half-vampire. Wearing a leather trenchcoat, dark sunglasses, a belt of silver stakes, and a giant sword across his back, he kills vampires. Wesley Snipes has played Blade in all three movies (steer clear of Blade: Trinity), and he really inhabits the character—he takes it dead seriously.&nbsp; As his bloodthirsty foes are fond of saying, “He has all our strengths, none of our weaknesses!” I enjoyed the Blade the first, but del Toro and the screenwriters totally blow it out of the water—Blade II is an order of magnitude bigger and leaner. This time, Blade isn’t just fighting vampires—he has to team up with the vampires to fight mutant super vampires that feed on other vampires. They’re bald, jaundiced, emaciated creatures that call to mind Max Schreck in Nosferatu. In the first movie, vampires’ corpses smoldered to ash; this time, they burst into showers of spark and flame, and the super vampires explode-die even bigger. Blade’s uneasy vampire allies, the Bloodpack, are a shamelessly motley crew. There’s Jigsaw, a mute Asian guy with a sword, Lighthammer, a vaguely Native American bruiser with body tattoos and a spiky hammer, and Verlaine, his red-bobbed Eurotrash girlfriend. Their leader is Reinhardt, a beefy skinhead who makes really bad racist jokes—you’re immediately looking forward his inevitable death scene. The story is loopy, but not hard to follow, and that’s what matters: just enough stuff happening for Blade to up the body count in creative ways. Squirmy, gross-out violence typifies del Toro’s movies, and while it’s used to unsettling, dizzying effect in Pan’s Labyrinth, the gore and gristle are a natural fit for the Blade universe. My favorite is an extended mutant vampire autopsy, complete with churning fluids and puckering organs. And all this without a hint of a love story…what more could you ask for? 
It's cold outside. Like really really cold. Which means that you probably had nothing better to do than sit inside, drink coffee, and check Bwog all day. But in the off chance that you had homework, or something, here's what you should have read. - Our new sex columnist. You'll never know who she is, but you'll read her anyway. - Bwog gets beat. Soundly, firmly, depressingly vanquished. - The nasty bits of Columbia: a good way to scare yourself shitless, and where computers go to die. - How do you like your sustenance: posh, pretentious, or non-perishable? - Expand your horizons! Throw knives! Say VAGINA, loudly, over and over again! - So, you want to be president? Are you sure? - Academic spats...easily resolvable through facebook groups. 
This installment of Cooking with Bwog may see a bit briefer than usual, but only because the recipe in question, Cookie Pizza, is profound enough stand on its own. If you can think of something more tasty, write it in the comments or send it along to bwgossip@columbia.edu. Cookie Pizza - The simplest version 1 package of your favorite type of premade cookie dough (sugar cookie recommended) 1 bag semi-sweet chocolate chips (Ghirardelli morsels are available at MW's) 1 small can of condensed milk (NOT evaporated milk) Your favorite candies: peppermint patties, peanut M&amp;Ms, oreos, gummie bears, marshmallows, etc. A pan for baking, an oven, and a microwave. &nbsp; Preheat the oven to 350. Press the cookie dough into a pizza dough shape in the pan (you may need to grease it - look at the dough package). Bake for 8 to 10 minutes or until it is almost completely cooked. Meanwhile, pour the condensed milk and the bag of chocolate chips into a microwave safe bowl. Microwave for 30 seconds at a time, stir, and repeat until all of the chips have melted (shouldn't take more than 2 minutes). When the cookie is out of the oven, spread this chocolate sauce all over the cookie, and add toppings. Put it back in the oven for 2 or 3 minutes. Wait for it to cool a bit and then enjoy these delectable slices. &nbsp; If you're looking for something more complicated, try the following google-generated pizza cookie ideas: Make the crust yourself Add cake mix Rocky Road it Apricots instead of pepperoni Add fresh fruit &nbsp; 
 A gadfly, according to Billy Goldstein (CC’ 09), is “some big-ass fly,” and also the only non-defunct undergraduate philosophy magazine at Columbia University. The Gadfly has so far printed one issue with a medley of contributions: a letter of explanation, a few art pieces, a fictional work, a quasi-Socratic dialogue, a lecture review, and--as a centerpiece--interviews with Columbia professors David Albert and Brian Greene. As a magazine rather than a journal, its founders say, it focuses less on academic theses and more on anything that can provoke thought. “It's not a formal magazine, it's mostly just thought-provoking,” Goldstein said. Basically, the magazine stays true to form. It usually provokes thought rather than positing specific opinions, and a couple of the pieces present multiple views without really advocating any in particular. In general, even if you don’t find yourself agreeing with it, it raises interesting discussion points, and the articles are long enough to develop the authors’ ideas but not so long as to get dragging. Goldstein’s description of the Gadfly’s function as “a forum for ideas that people otherwise only talk about with their friends, or when they're stoned” fits perfectly with the fiction piece, by Maddie Boucher (CC ’09), which includes the journal of a wandering philosopher/outlaw from which the veracity and meaning of any entry, whether ultimately true or not, is ample fodder for discussion.&nbsp; The interviews with Albert and Greene, while much more formal and scientific, become accessible to the humanities-minded among us through a somewhat meta-philosophical letter. Roberto and Gadfly VP Adam Waksman, who interviewed Greene and Albert, respectively, are as much physics nerds as they are philosophy geeks, and hope to draw in some of both. Interview with the editors after the jump! BW: Tell us some about how you see science and philosophy being related. Waksman: While there’s often a distinct difference between the students here who associate themselves with the science majors and the students who associate themselves with the philosophy majors, I don’t think there’s much of a difference between the two subjects inherently. I’ve always been interested in philosophy, and I did take a couple classes in the philosophy department my freshman year as well as the ones this year.&nbsp; With respect to the general goals of inquiry and enlightenment, philosophy and physics (along with some of the other sciences) serve pretty much the same purpose.&nbsp; For myself and I think for a lot of scientists, philosophy is always in the back of my head, and it makes for great late night discussions, but in the lab, I’m only worrying about the equations and the theories that are currently in place. Do you see philosophy as connecting more with physics than other sciences, or in different ways? Waksman: As someone who will likely do a physics major, I’m biased, but I do think that philosophy is more closely tied to physics than the other sciences.&nbsp; The other sciences generally function on a very macroscopic level and are primarily concerned with what is observed and what is apparent, whereas physicists often have to provide answers that are not obvious based on the data alone.&nbsp; For example, if an evolutionary biologist discovers a trend between a certain chemical and some genetic change in a species, he or she is going to publish that without worrying so much about why it happened or what that means for the rest of the world.&nbsp; On the other hand, if a physicist runs and experiment and sees that Bell’s inequality doesn’t hold, there are a lot of things he or she can say about the make-up of the universe, and there isn’t one obviously correct answer.&nbsp; In my experience, if you ask a physicist a question about the world, you’ll end up in a very long metaphysical debate. So how, and why, did you start Gadfly? Roberto: Well, I guess I was looking to get involved with philosophy around campus. There was the Philosophy Forum, which is a causal philosophy discussion group, and the undergraduate Philosophy Journal, which publishes several fairly technical philosophy papers on a biannual basis. But it didn’t seem that either of these was reaching out beyond those who are particularly interested in philosophy to get to the greater undergraduate community. And that’s really why I wanted to get The Gadfly started. I think that philosophy has the power and the ability to ask and attempt to answer some really exciting and important questions that everyone thinks about at one point or another. It’s a unique subject in that nothing but simple reflection without any technical expertise can lead you to some of its deepest questions. Anyone can ask “Am I free?”, “what is good?”,&nbsp; “what am I?” These are all very valid and very interesting philosophical questions, questions that deserve some attention from more than just a few well-read scholars. How do you see the Gadfly fitting in on campus? What role does it play that other publications don't? &nbsp; Waksman: There are no other philosophically driven magazines on campus, and I think a lot of students spend their entire time here oblivious to philosophy.&nbsp; People tell me that CC is supposed to be a course on philosophy, but in my experience, that’s using the term “philosophy” very loosely.&nbsp; I’ve also been informed that there’s a Columbia sponsored Journal of Philosophy, but I’ve never met a student who has read it.&nbsp; One of our primary goals is to avoid being esoteric and to be accessible enough that the average student will be interested in it.&nbsp; Reading a philosophy magazine shouldn’t feel like homework. Do you see the Gadfly expanding in variety or size? What sort of things do you think you'll be doing in the future? Waksman: Things are pretty open-ended right now.&nbsp; Our first issue had a couple of creative pieces, some art and a book review, as well as the articles.&nbsp; We’ll generally accept anything as long as the creator can convince us that it has philosophical relevance. Assume my goal is to make well over $100,000 straight out of college. How does reading or writing for the Gadfly increase the amount of money I stand to make in the future, and if not why should I possibly care about it? Roberto: Assuming that your goal is to make well over 100k straight out of college, you are definitely not a philosophy major, nor is it likely that you are majoring in English, anthropology, history, linguistics, classics, sociology or dance. You are probably majoring in I-Banking. (I’m pretty sure that’s not a major, but you get the point). Even so, The Gadfly is for you! It probably wont help you with making 100,000, but as I said before, I firmly believe that philosophy is an extremely far-reaching subject that can be engaging for most people regardless of specific interests. And even if you are an econ-math major, we would always be open to some economic theory. The Gadfly has a good chance of surviving: its board contains many sophomores and even a few freshman, though it does seem strange that a magazine with a staff of eleven only featured six writers, two of whom did three pieces each.&nbsp; While the group has not yet acquired ABC recognition (opting to go ahead and publish what it had online first), the publication does fill a described niche among Columbia’s publications, and Roberto says they have already gotten more contributors, and will start incorporating themes into their issues, the next one being language. As upstarts go, its purpose seems clear and its future positive, and it will be interesting to see what Gadfly yields in the future. - DHI &nbsp; 
 Gail Archer, associate professor, organist, and music director of the Barnard/Columbia Chorus, played a concert Sunday evening, January 21 as a way of thanking her mentor who continues to mean so much to her. Archer commissioned her onetime teacher, the avant-garde composer David Noon to write an organ piece on the Pascal plainchant, Pange Lingua. Dr. Noon is an especially lively composer, beloved, if not well known, for his percussion pieces, such as Hit the Deck, in which 4 percussionists sit at a table and “play cards” in complex rhythms, and Swept Away, a percussion piece for brooms. The commission arose when Dr. Noon, for his 60th birthday, invited, among others, a large number of old students to his composing retreat on the island of Crete. Archer had to miss the retreat, so to make up for it she commissioned the Pange Lingua, for which Noon in the audience as she performed it Sunday. “It was a chance for me to give him this birthday-present, but also to thank him,” says Archer, who traces her fast-paced, energetic, and often humorous teaching style to his influence. Although Dr. Noon could not be reached for comment, Archer was quick to step in. She calls him “a passionate teacher. He has such high standards and academic expectations. He just brings out the best. He’s the kind of teacher you want to work for.” She said they shared a love of early music and particularly of the old Venetian Republic, and that he was her advisor when she transcribed and translated a 17th century Venetian manuscript by Barbara Strozzi—“A woman!” she emphasizes. (A copy of the piece, “Cantata, Ariete a una, due, e tre voci, opus 3,” can be found in the Music Scores Reference Library of Dodge Hall). Archer’s next gig, the Barnard/Columbia Chorus Concert, will be held in the James Chapel of Union Theological Seminary, on Saturday, April 21, at 8 p.m.&nbsp; And this Sunday at 5:15, the free organ recitals of St. Thomas continue at 53rd and 5th, in a co-production with Columbia University’s Miller Theater,&nbsp; with the music of Gyorgy Ligeti, played by John Scott. - Adam Katz 
 This maintenance van has been parked on College Walk intermittently for the past week.&nbsp; Go refurbish in Cambridge if their moldings are so nice, then. 
 Whacko Alums Who Amuse and Inspire Wayne Allyn Root, C'83, is considering running on the Libertarian ticket during the next presidential election. More importantly, he has gotten rich&nbsp;by peddling crap, and he knows it. Nevertheless, after a career involving sports news, TV production, gambling, and writing best-selling books&nbsp;such as Millionaire Republican&nbsp;(part of subtitle:&nbsp;"Why Rich Republicans Get Rich"), Root has remained true to his... background and feels comfortable admitting he's a real "S.O.B. (Son of a Butcher)." We wish we could make this stuff up. PLUS: Read the first paragraph of Wayne's bio to see what he thinks of his former classmates at "the most liberal college in America". Like Real Life... With More Gun Violence Apparently Law and Order have spent too much time in Morningside Heights: art is starting to imitate Columbia life.&nbsp;Guess which events of the past semester have inspired an upcoming episode of the show, at least until the&nbsp;embryo part,&nbsp;in the following synopsis from the official site: STUDENT SHOT DURING ASSEMBLY FOR RIGHT-WING POLTICAL SPEAKER - Judith Barlow (Guest Star Charlotte Ross), a controversial speaker participates in a Question and Answer at Grammercy College when the stage is mobbed. Someone in the crowd fires a gun, leaving one student dead. Detective Ed Green (Jesse L. Martin) and Nina Cassady (Milena Govich) question the victims friend Malcolm Yates (Guest star Louis Cancelmi), an older PhD student who creates human embryos to harvest stem cells. It is discovered that Yates has Parkinson's disease and finds Barlow's tactics as a direct threat to his job and life. Yates' attorney, Bernie Adler (Guest star Ron Silver), is from the ACLU, during the trial Silver infuriates the jury by calling everyone racial epithets, which angers the judge. S. Epatha Merkerson, Sam Waterson and Fred Dalton Thompson also star. TV-14 DL And Now Something Legitimate On a sobering note, Bwog received a bit of solemn news over the weekend regarding the death of a GS student. Apparently Eric Posner, GS'06, one of the most outspoken MEALAC defenders&nbsp;during the&nbsp;controversy several years ago,&nbsp;was in Jerusalem visiting family when he passed. Rest in Peace. 
O tempore, o mores! Oh “Grannies for Peace” mingling with black-scarved anarchists! Oh one-block marches and celebrity speakers! Yesterday, three chartered buses of Columbia students made the trek down to Washington, D.C. to participate in a massive anti-Iraq war&nbsp;troops “surge,” anti-Bush march. The march, which was organized by the activist group United for Peace and Justice, drew “tens of thousands” of protesters according to CNN, and “1.2 million” according to others. Columbia’s Dems, ISO, Students for Justice in the Middle East and Working Families Party (quite a melange of groups)&nbsp;helped&nbsp;send about 150 kids to the capital, and Bwog was there for the ride. Here’s the account. 5:30 AM - Bwog schleps down to 116th and Broadway, where the Dems have spread out some lukewarm bagels and Dunkin Donuts coffee. We half-heartedly mingle. 5:55 AM - We finally board the buses. 8:15 AM - Bwog wakes up bathed in the neon glow of a highway rest-stop, not having been aware that we were sleeping. We suddenly recognize we are extremely hungry; however, we have a mere ten minutes to procure sustenance&nbsp;so all we have time to get our hands on are some fig Newtons, Wheat Thins, and bottled water. 8:38 AM - Buses pull out once everyone has finally returned. Apparently some kids had decided risking missing the buses was worth it for some Arby’s fast food. 10:00 AM - Overheard on the bus: “Yeah, like, do you think we’ll get arrested or something?” 11:15 AM - We arrive at the Greenbelt Metro stop outside of DC, where we are informed we will be leaving the buses in order to take the Green line into the heart of the city. Dazed and hungry, we stumble off the bus. Students pick up ready-made signs provided by the Dems et. al. and make their way into the station, which is bursting to capacity with every stripe of activist. If one has been to a protest before/recently, one will understand this term, which encompasses hippies, preppie college kids, communists, suburban mothers, Vietnam vets, current war vets, old people, punk high schoolers, and others, usually organized into visually coordinated factions with names like “Make Hip Hop Not War” or “Code Pink” for women protesters.&nbsp; 11:25 AM - We are informed that after we board the Metro trains, we will most likely split up, but that we need to get back to the buses by 4PM or we will never get back to New York and rot away on the Mall, where they will find our remains in two hundred years covered with anti-Bush stickers. 12:40 PM - We reach the Mall, which is completely packed. Someone says that Jane Fonda and Susan Sarandon are speaking, but we only have the chance to hear a veteran, an Iraqi man, and an angry woman of unclear ideological impetus. Again and again throughout the protest we hear about Jane Fonda, which warrants the question, “Who the fuck cares about Jane Fonda?” 1:00 PM - Bwog notices the following among the thousands of protesters: A coordinated dance troupe of girls wearing American Apparel leotards, an old&nbsp;hippie with a small sound system that plays the Byrds exclusively, and Historians Against the War. (When we go to take a picture of them, they ask what school we attend, and say they “support our professors,” whatever that means. They also ask if the picture&nbsp;is for the Spec.)&nbsp; 1:02 PM - Crowd chants: “Racism means we got to fight back. Imperialism means we got to fight back. Occupation means we got to fight back.” 1:03 PM - Bwog notices that gobs of press guys are running towards a lawn closer to the Capitol, and we run over to get a look ourselves. It appears that a chanting mob of about 300 black-clad anarchists have come up against police resistance as they tried to march towards the Capitol. Bwog witnesses brief scuffles, motorcycle-butting on the part of the police, and etc. However, to our knowledge, no tear gas is thrown and no blood is shed. We then stand by, with many a video-camera capturer, and watch as the anarchists break through the police and make their way up to the reflecting pool. Stymied by the lack of ice on the water, they try to get around the pool, but not before they pose for a terrific photo-op with the Capitol in the background. 1:14 PM - Bwog watches from across the pool as the mob fights through police to make their way up to the steps of the Capitol. The police presence around the event swells, with more motorcycles, cars, and mounted cops showing up. A helicopter, for the media or otherwise, hangs above the chaotic scene. 1:22 PM - While some speaker elicits thunderous applause on the stage behind us, another mob of SDS kids starts storming towards the Capitol. Bwog decides to go in for a closer look, and watches several kids rush towards the higher levels of the building, only to be thwarted by cops. Tourists wave cheerfully as if they’re watching a staged event, which confuses the protesters. All in all, it’s a peaceful scene, however, with protesters kept at bay by piecemeal fencing. Bwog overhears a super-disgruntled Reuters reporter (“I said get him on the fucking phone, what the fuck are you doing!”) and wonders which other media outlets the several dozen cameramen we see represent. 1:40 or so PM - The actual march finally mobilizes as the speakers wind up, an hour behind schedule. Some instruments (accordian, woodblock, melodica) provide a marching beat to the activists, but the swollen group generally moves about a foot per minute. 3:00 PM - Bwog’s section of the march passes the “counter-demonstration,” which is fenced off on the side of the road and is comprised of about 15-20 individuals holding signs including, “Al Qaeda Appeasers on Parade,” “Hippies Smell,” and “Jane Fonda is a Bitch,” (Again- Who cares about Jane Fonda?). An official march marshal tells protesters to “Ignore the assholes, keep moving.” 3:00-4:00 PM - The march continues to inch around the block, behind the Capitol, in front of the Supreme Court. We pass a Metro station close to 4PM and, remembering how long it takes to get back to Greenbelt, ditch the waning march and catch the next train. 5:00 PM - Too tired to speak, we get back on the buses. 8:00 PM- An episode of the “The West Wing” is aired. 10:40 PM - We pull up on Amsterdam, unload our garbage, and tip the bus driver. Bwog is out cold by eleven. Baby Starfish, is that you? &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The road to New Harlem - READ THIS SHIT 2010--not quite out of high school Ithaca falls, Lions justify existence Mmmm....toasty....and sweaty.... One more route to liberation dashed. And this one was so fun! 
FOB (Friend of Bwog) BW graphics editor, Tablet Editor-in-Chief, and all-around badass Jerone Hsu has a new project. Says he: "There is a brand new publication at Columbia as of this semester. With any luck (and hopefully with your assistance), we can put together something quite unlike anything else that currently exists on campus. The name for this small project is Eclectica Esoterica ("dub-E" or for short). With it, we hope to offer both the eclectic and the esoteric in the form of Columbia student papers. Of course, we this means we need your papers. Badly." Bwog encourages you to submit any academic paper you have written for a Columbia class (the weirder, the better, apparently) by January 30 (that's tomorrow!). eclecticaesoterica@gmail.com - make us proud, kids. 
Live from Weapons of Mass Destruction, where Professor Paul Richards, wearing a moss-green jacket and flowered tie, cracked the following joke: A sodium atom walks into a bar, looking dejected. Barkeep: What’s wrong? Sodium atom: I’ve lost an electron. Barkeep: Are you sure? Sodium atom: Yes, I’m positive! OK, maybe you had to be there. 
 Constantino Diaz-Duran,&nbsp;GS '09,&nbsp;alerted us to a rally at the Egyptian Consulate (2nd Avenue between E. 58th and E. 59th) in support of Kareem Amer. Amer is a 22-year-old college student who has been imprisoned for criticizing the government in his blog. He is currently facing up to nine years in prison and is being kept in solitary confinement, and his sentence will be handed down on Thursday. Diaz-Duran can be reached at constantino@c-dd.com. The rally will take place in front of the Consulate this Wednesday at 3:30 PM. Go support free speech and make PrezBo proud. On the same political note, the 1954 animated version of "Animal Farm" is being screened in 1219 IAB tonight at 6:30, with an introduction by Political Science Professor Timothy Frye. No word on any upcoming screenings of the 1973 animated version of "Charlotte's Web," starring Debbie Reynolds and Paul Lynde. 
New semester, new season of CTV. Same hosts; same production values (note the dropped audio in the first few seconds of the show); thankfully, same opening sequence, featuring a CTV correspondent stepping out from behind the Butler stacks. Pure gold - and we're only being half sarcastic. Notable stories on the first episode included: Now we can finally take that Anthropology course! All we need is for Obama to admit he went to Columbia... Better than Ferris Booth, even if you can't use Flex. 
The following e-mail was sent to all ABC groups not exactly one hour ago, but instead 84 minutes ago, and has so far stirred some consternation among prickly group members. ---------- Forwarded message ---------- From: Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:10 PM Subject: ABC Information Needed ASAP To: abc_clubs@columbia.edu Dear ABC Clubs, In an effort increase our database of information and knowledge, we would like each ABC recognized club to write a succinct description of their organization, describing what the club does and what kind of roles it fulfills on campus. &nbsp;We would also like each club to provide the total number of people in the group. &nbsp;Please email this information to no later than 11:59 pm on Friday February 2nd. &nbsp;If we do not receive any information from your organization, there will be an investigation of your group's activity on campus. &nbsp;Thank you for your understanding and we look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Allison Fortune ABC Secretary ------ ABC president Keith Hernandez had this to say on the subject: "ABC, in an attempt to continuously enhance our services, is requesting information from groups so that we can ease communication, better our archiving of group information, and put this new information on a soon to be released new website.&nbsp; If groups do not respond to the ABC request, we will then seek out the information through personal emails to the group leaders.&nbsp; If they do not respond to those, then we will consult with SDA on getting a description.&nbsp; Suffice to say, not having a description from a group really hampers ABC in our ability to serve the group."&nbsp; 
 Maybe you can win the Marshall, too! The indiscernible likelihood that Barnard women will stay strong, connected, beautiful, bold while waiting for the Nexus It isn't easy being green Laughing as a evolutionary relic. LOL On the defense, for Israel Bonus: Video on gentrification (yes, a video) 
 Vast uptown expansion? Check. Globe-trotting presidential trips? Check. Providing basic amenitites, like heat, to university buildings? That's always seemed to prove a little more challenging for this institution. As temperatures in New York plunged over the last two weeks, the radiators at Columbia's Computer Music Center&nbsp;(the vaunted&nbsp;125th St.&nbsp;mainstay where the world's first music synthesizer, the RCA Mark II, was invented, and the likes of Edgard "electrical storm"&nbsp;Varèse and Charles Wuorinen have experimented)&nbsp;have struggled to keep up. As a result of the unbearable cold, professors have gotten angry, classes have been cancelled, and work at the center has ground to a halt until the university does something to remedy the situation. Bwog was made privy to an email from a CMC professor with details, available after the jump. But first, in other faculty protest news, Bwog has also been told that Prof. Achille Varzi of the Philosophy Department has threatened to go on strike if his&nbsp;Symbolic Logic class, enrolled at 140+, isn't moved into a room that&nbsp;can seat more than the 90 currently accommodated.&nbsp;It seems&nbsp;the heat will be on, at least, over at Facilities today. Email from within the Computer Music Center "The lack of building heat that plagued our last two meetings is not confined to our classroom alone, but to the entire Computer Music Center, and has been such for some time now. Today's classroom temperature hovers around 40 degrees. It has gotten to the point where the teachers, staff members, and students cannot work and are even getting sick. The administration and the maintenance department of this university have done little to remedy the situation. The director of the center, Professor Brad Garton , has decided to stop his repeated and futile complaints to the school, and simply refuse to hold classes until the situation is fixed. Therefore, the MIDI class will not meet tomorrow, and will not meet again until the room is heated properly. I must also unfortunately ask you to not use the studio until further notice. I will email you with updates as they develop. I regret that this disruption hurts your access to knowledge, but I completely agree with Professor Garton's decision. It is ridiculous for this university to charge you 30K+ a year and expect you to learn in these conditions. I especially hope that this is remedied quickly so that we can get back to music making! I hope that this stand against the university's sloth solves this problem within the week, but given the illegal actions we are taking, we don't know what will happen. I also encourage you all to spread the news of this disgrace amongst your friends. The complaints of tuition-paying undergrads often have a lot more sway than the complaints of those in the school's employ! Please contact me if you have any questions, and I hope to see you again very soon in tolerable temperatures…" -CJS 
The first in a series of pieces by B&amp;W artist Rachel Lindsay: 
Herein&nbsp;dumpeth Bwog various unrelated chunks of news, information, and gossip... SoA Films Score Big Three films produced by School of the&nbsp;Arts alums have received major accolades. At the Sundance Film Festival, Padre Nuestro, written and directed by Christopher Zalla and produced by Ben Odell (both SoA '04) took the Grand Jury Prize for best dramatic film, while Grace is Gone, written and directed by current MFA writing candidate James C. Strouse (who also won the Walter Salt Award for best screenplay) and co-produced by Jessica Levin (SoA '02), won an Audience Award for favorite dramatic film. In Hollywood, meanwhile, Little Miss Sunshine, produced by Albert Berger (SoA '83) has received four Oscar nominations, incuding one for best picture. SoA isn't the only Columbia school celebrating filmic success, however. The Audience Award for favorite documentary at Sundance went to Hear and Now, directed by Irene Taylor Brodsky (J-School '97), and (update!) Rosie Bsheer, a PhD student in the History Department, worked as an assistant producer for My Country, My Country, nominated for an Oscar for best documentary. The university homepage is only too happy to gloat, not to mention provide a teleological narrative of the SoA film division's rise to greatness. Bask in vicarious afterglow here. Opine! Spec's editorial page wants to get the word out - it's looking for 200-300 word reactions to Saifedean Ammous' Jan. 26 piece "Recognizing Palestine's Struggle". The short articles should not be point by point refutations but address generally some of the issues with which Ammous' piece is concerned, e.g. the direction of the anti-war movement or Israel's human rights record. The articles will run on Monday as part the first of many "Spec Symposia," a series of 4-7 short takes on a single issue. Submissions are due to&nbsp;specopinion columbia.edu&nbsp;by Friday at 6PM; anyone remotely connected to Columbia or Middle East studies is ecouraged to contribute. More minutiae after the jump... Advisors Who...Care? Reminding us what makes Barnard (well, at least the Barnard of the 1960s) truly special, Ellen Handler Spitz writes in a sentimental piece in the Chronicle of Higher Education about what the term "Alma Mater" means to her - she found that Barnard provided her a sort of substitute nurturer after her mother passed away. Somehow, Bwog can't see its JSAAC advisors attempting to inspire resolve with a monologue as dramatic and compassionate as Spitz' Barnard dean, and momentarily wishes it, too, could be strong and beautiful. Diss Prof. Lydia Goehr in Philosophy of History: "Tony Blair?&nbsp; Ugh, he's not world-historical." She admitted, however, that Margaret Thatcher was. Bwog closes with a heartwarming image of the Iron Lady advancing her nation's Hegelian Volksgeist...or something. -CJS 
Bits and pieces gathered from the musical universe by Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki: The new Norah Jones comes out today, and her two parallel existences continue. One is the more popular Norah “always a safe bet for Mom” Jones, or Snorah for naysayers. The other is her insanely cred-garnering alter-ego, the one who covered Dylan and Townes Van Zandt, sang out-of-this-world duets with Andre 3000 and Ryan Adams, and does a better version of “Bessie Smith” than The Band (besides getting Garth Hudson to play accordion on her second album). On this record, Bizarro-Norah has a song called “Sinkin’ Soon” with troubadour du jour M. Ward. It’s a lead-footed pub-jaunt filled out by a trombone solo and little piano-roll here and there, and after a few listens it starts sounding pretty darn political (“a captain who’s too proud to say that he dropped the oar”). This is normal fare for someone like Tom Waits, but so far not Ms. “Come Away With Me”—which is why she’s still so exciting. The Bizarro-Norah doesn’t get much press, but would the regular one be nearly as relevant if she cut that side of her persona entirely? In the 90’s, our own WKCR carried a late-night show hosted by DJ Stretch Armstrong and Bobbito Garcia. It ran for a little under a decade, at the end of which Source Magazine called it – pretty inarguably - the "Best Hip Hop Radio Show of All Time." There’s a lot of folklore to the show’s history – Jay-Z, Nas, and Wu-Tang all got their first breaks there – and a lot of it is explained in this video, passed along by WKCR DJ Martin Kostov. The best part? Stretch now has a blog with old shows, and a few are gems. Read on for more musical morsels... Via a flier found in Mac: “Diddy’s Back! And this time, he’s looking for the best MALE talent in the nation for…Making the Band 4.” New York auditions are next Tuesday at the Roxy (more info here). Go try out. And take a camera. Ten points for an Ashley Angel sighting, 20 for Dylan John. Prince is playing the Super Bowl halftime this weekend. A few notes: 1. You know how during March Madness, for example, they’ll cut away to shots of campus bars and the fans are going nuts? They should do something like this while Prince is playing. Put a camera in some strip-joint. Put another one in some old pint-and-a-shot Chicago pub. Compare and contrast. 2. Over Prince’s career, he’s definitely made a combined 20 minutes of music that the FCC can OK – but can he really be on stage for 20 minutes without saying something triple-X? There’s an outside shot he starts shaking uncontrollably in the middle of “When Doves Cry,” before launching into the chorus of “Erotic City”. 3. It seems like the Super Bowl folks picked up on Prince’s lack of crossover appeal to a lot of football fans. Howard Stern played a clip yesterday morning of Prince singing a mish-mash of “All Along The Watchtower” and the Foo Fighters’ “Best of You.” Odds are you’ll hear this on Sunday and the Foo Fighters will probably play back-up, since the Super Bowl traditionally adores collabos and the Foos play a great cover of “Darling Nikki,” which brings us back to point #2. 
 Facebook&nbsp;f you Bwog received several tips regarding the glorious Facebook Flyer displayed at right, which we are sure brought smiles to procrastinators throughout campus (and, perhaps, panic to a certain scarf thief). We wish the flyer's anonymous poster good luck bundling up, although (s)he probably needs to cool off a little anyway. Come now, Chris Okay, Dean Colombo, we'll take your enrolled student survey for the chance to win a $60 gift certificate to the bookstore (after all, we need some souvenirs&nbsp;to remember this place by beyond drunken photos and loan repayment reminders). But did it have to come from a generic template hosted on the MIT server? Bwog wonders what other schools might be soliciting this information from their students... (hint: one question mentions "secret societies" and&nbsp;"eating clubs") Seth Strikes Again For those&nbsp;too lazy&nbsp;to read all of CCSC President Seth Flaxman's latest, greatest&nbsp;email, a FastFlax (by way of highlights): On Glass House Rocks: "really, it’s actually fun and people go" On Subliminal Advertising: "Books on Campus lets you buy and sell textbooks online. GLASS HOUSE ROCKS. You can log in using your Facebook account and buy or sell books..." On the Art of Peer Adivising: "help students make or not make the same mistakes you did" On&nbsp;Ulterior Motives&nbsp;"There is free food inside the attachment." On English Majors: "please keep all grammatical corrections to yourself" The best parts, however, Bwog will leave for those with the patience to scroll... -CJS 
Domain expansion plan emimminent, waiting for eminent domain Homeless wish they were paid $75 to act homeless&nbsp; The Green Monster? Strippers? In case you're wondering which Republican to vote for... "I Don't&nbsp; See Any Snakes In This&nbsp; Eden"&nbsp;
 Everybody is talking about animals now, according to three separate things that three separate people said. IT IS ABSOLUTELY TRUE THAT THREE OF ANYTHING MAKES A TREND! &nbsp;First, a pair of professors: "Sex with animals...it doesn't seem like something we might do today. But in a rural world, it does happen!" - Professor Alfred MacAdam, Latin American Literature in Translation, on One Hundred Years of Solitude "Everyone here loves camels. They are beastly, beastly mean animals."&nbsp; - Professor George Saliba, Contemporary Islamic Civilization, on the Safavid Empire&nbsp; ...and then, a student continues the trend: "... and that would be fine, except that I'm allergic to scorpion blood." - Girl in McIntosh in between bites of (hopefully scorpion-free) sushi &nbsp;Overheard by Juli Weiner - DHI 
&nbsp; Molly Ivins, the nationally syndicated columnist and Columbia Journalism School graduate, died of cancer at the age of 61 today. Ivins, a witty Texan,&nbsp; was known throughout her life for an unpretentious, down-to-earth style as well as her strong, self-proclaimed liberal views. Most recently, Ivins had written in strong opposition to President Bush and his planned troop surge in Iraq.&nbsp; The Nation has a good tribute piece worth reading even if you haven't been&nbsp; acquainted with Ivins' work. &nbsp; 
In which the Battle of the Spicies comes to a satisfactory conclusion, as narrated by Armin Rosen. I was drunk as fuck the first time I encountered the Spicy Special at 109 Gourmet Deli--but then again, who isn’t drunk as fuck when they first encounter the 109 Spicy Special? Plenty of establishments cater to a more sober, discerning clientele, but the shitfaced among us will always settle for the 109’s signature stomach-churner: a disgustingly delicious combination of cajun turkey and pepper jack cheese, at any hour of the day (between 2 and 5 in the morning), and in any state of mind (drunk). The Special loses a bit of its mystique during the temperate daylight hours, although if you crave for liquefied cheese atop an anemic slice of tomato and some oddly-spiced deli meat on a Wednesday afternoon then I guess you could eat one sober just for curiosity’s sake. The deli itself is nothing special (although I’m told it’ll deliver cigarettes right to your dorm, which pretty much gives you an idea of what kind of a place this is), but the Spicy Special— the culinary embodiment of many a wasted Thursday, Friday and Saturday night—certainly is. Which is why I experienced a feeling similar to that of a die-hard Cat Stevens fan upon hearing the Flaming Lips' blatant rip-off of “Father and Son” when I saw that another of my favorite corner delis had started serving a spicy special of its own. Uni One deli is an inconspicuous hole-in-the-wall relegated to the barren hinterland between Columbia and the 125th-street commercial district. Its magazine selection is a small and disorganized heap of back issues and second-rate porn; its alcohol offering incomplete six-packs and bottles of Olde English malt liquor. Dimly-lit under the shadow of the Broadway IRT, Uni One is probably one of the few places on earth that actually lacks some of the creature comforts of the 109 Gourmet. That this fourth-rate establishment should have the chutzpah to rip off a creation of such culinary and sentimental value seemed ... impertinent. In the inflated economy as the Upper West Side, Uni's $4.50 soda/foot long combo earns them the benefit of the doubt (if it didn't, then forgiveness is officially dead). So with a Uni Del Spicy in one hand, a notebook in the other, and venom in my heart, I asked the man behind the counter when his deli had begun serving the sandwich. He explained that the other deli he owned--yes, the 109 Gourmet--had been serving it for the past 13 or 14 months. In my quest to find the pilferer of the Spicy Special, I had found myself standing face-to-face with its creator. I was overwhelmed, and curious as to how one of my favorite drinking buddies had gotten its spicy start. Ahmad was evasive, as the creative tend to be, although he insisted that there was no real, material difference between the Gourmet 109 original and the updated version, which includes honey mustard, hot peppers and roasted onion. “It’s no different,” he said. “It’s the same meat, the same company. Sometimes there’s extra meat, but when there’s a lot of meat it didn’t taste as good.” Moderation and simplicity: the secret of the Spicy. Delis—unlike bloggers—exist in the real world, and the burgeoning midday crowd was making my interview seem more ridiculous by the minute. So I left the deli, walked up to Sakura Park (Uni One's proximity to the underutilized park is an added bonus), and dug in. While the original Special is more tangy than spicy, its latest incarnation deserves the title—perhaps even spicier and more filling than its southern cousin, making the complimentary soda a welcome addition. Of course it isn’t the Spicy Special, and as I and many other lovers of strong drink know that the Special is equal parts sandwich and experience—namely, the experience of giggling drunkenly as some withered old man stumbles into a couple of frat boys while on his way to the counter to pay for another couple of 40s, while you wonder bitterly why every fucker in Morningside Heights with some kind of substance in his or her system just had to get a Special at 4:30 in the morning. It’s not the Special, but it’s a special. And it does come with free soda. 
 Welcome to February! And Black History Month! Columbia's 22nd annual celebration of African Americanness kicked off last night in Roone Arledge with, among other attractions, the best catering this Bwog reporter has smelled at a Columbia event. People of many shades attended the affair, made more festive and vaguely African by gold kente cloths on white. After a hauntingly beautiful rendition of the Black national anthem, Office of Multicultural Affairs dean Ajay Nair welcomed the assembly with lovely phrases like the "political and aesthetic power of the polycultural" and "counterhegemonic dialogical paroochialism" (ok, those words came separately). Amidst the presentations of awards, musical productions, and introductions of speakers came a brief address by President Bollinger, fresh from a junket to Tanzania with J. Sachs. After a brief mention of the Institute for African Studies, Prezbo launched into a sermon on the insidious forces "chipping away ever so significantly from Brown vs. Board of Education"-referring to the recent court ruling that overturned his work at the University of Michigan in 2001. He predicted dire consequences should the Seattle and Louisville cases concerning race-based admissions currently under review by the Supreme Court go the same way. He stepped down to less-than-thunderous applause, and the show went on. Meanwhile, Bwog can't find the Black History Month calendar of events. Little help, anyone? - LBD 
 Girls discuss sexist ageism, M. Cheney talks about forthcoming bundle of joy (Today's New York Times has great coverage of the fem-fest here) Prez Bo: Columbia has a new...wife? There are five gazillion books in Butler (Could it be more impressive than the iPhone?) Staff to Columbia, re: M'ville: Please don't embarrass yourself again A student who hasn't liked his many-an-internship 
 In a debate that could serve as a case study for a 2007 edition of James Davison Hunter's Culture Wars, followers of conservative Judaism have fought long and hard over whether to ordain homosexual rabbis. At the center of the argument lies the Columbia-affiliated Jewish Theological Seminary, the generally-accepted center of Conservative Jewish thought. Although a decision for the broader congregation was made in early December (pro-gay rights), individual institutions (like JTS) have been left to resolve the issue for themselves. Some mensches at JTS took the matter on and have lobbied for the implementation of the progressive policy, but a verdict hasn't been made as of late. The newest development is JTS' cumulation of opinions of Conservative Jews across the US, picked up by the national news. Armin Rosen sent in JTS Chancellor-elect Arnold Eisen's e-mail with the results of the survey on homosexual ordination ("and other hot-button religious issues"). Rosen writes that the e-mail reflects "remarkably consistent support for gay ordination across the board... whether clergy or other Jewish professionals or lay leaders or students", and the respondents' "no-less-striking... commitment to a number of key principles of Conservative Judaism, notably the centrality of halakhah and egalitarianism; the need for a centralized Rabbinical Assembly Law Committee; and opposition to both patrilineal descent and rabbis officiating at mixed marriages." In sum, it ain't over 'till it's over. Which it's not.&nbsp; Text of the e-mail and more commentary after the jump.&nbsp; - JDC Writes Eisen in Wednesday morning's email: "I am pleased to present the results of the survey undertaken at our request by Steven M. Cohen with co-sponsorship by the Rabbinical Assembly and the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism. Our intent was and is to know what Conservative Jews - rabbis and cantors, educators and executives, board members and students - think about the matter before us: admitting and ordaining/investing openly gay and lesbian students in the rabbinical and cantorial schools. We have all heard guesses - often presented as firm convictions - about what some or all of these groups believe on this issue. The survey gives us data on this score, not in order to have polling dictate policy, but as one factor among many to bear in mind as we consider a complex and controversial decision that will undoubtedly have a major impact on the future direction of JTS and the Conservative Movement. " Armin Rosen comments: "Eisen's email deliberately sidestepped the issue of a future seminary decision on gay ordination, as the chancellor-elect wrote "each person can decide whether the results have or should have any bearing on what JTS ultimately decides to do." Eisen, a liberally-inclined lay scholar whose personal philosophy could best be described as a kind of forward-thinking traditionalism, is a supporter of gay ordination, but if he ultimately stalls on making it decision, it could be because of the tension between the movement's forward-thinking tendencies on the one hand (the "remarkably consistent support for gay ordination") and its valuation of tradition on the other (the support among respondents for "the centrality of halakhah"). This survey might bring JTS one step closer to gay ordination--but for the time being its impact remains almost as murky as the contradictory Law Committee decision that precipitated it." 
 1) Closing at the Lincoln Square 13 today after a mere week in release&nbsp; - the evocatively titled Blood and Chocolate, making room for what promises to be the best bad movie since Perfume, Factory Girl. Quoth IMDB about Blood: "A young teenage werewolf... is torn between honoring her family's secret and her love for a man." If you're in the mood for blood and chocolate after the movie closes, go see Leo's Oscar-nominated performance in Blood Diamond, but stop by Godiva first. Zing! 2) Rocky Balboa leaves the AMC Empire 25 today (is this really the end?) to make room for Because I Said So. If I had to choose between Diane Keaton getting laid by Reverend Camden or Sylvester Stallone fighting&nbsp; Mason "The Line" Dixon (actual name of character in film), I'd probably choose death. 3) The National Black Fine Art Show closes at the Puck Building (Houston and Lafayette) this Sunday. The exhibit showcases original&nbsp; work from contemporary as well as past African, African-American, and Caribbean painters. Just to be clear, this is the most culturally enriching experience in the entire post, with the possible exception of Factory Girl.
 Glass House Rocks starts in ONE HOUR. Get there soon before the PILES and PILES of FREE FOOD run out...like they did last year. Also make sure to check out ballroom dancing lessons, the Gay Marriage (Dems), Date That Dictator / Hit That Head of State (Model UN), Sex and Chocolate (ALICE! and the PanHellenic Council), and Seth Flaxman in a tuxedo (himself).&nbsp; Or, if you've got better things to do, get a full report from Bwog when the house stops rocking.&nbsp; 
Is nothing sacred? Fox News (which one tipster spotted shooting b-roll on campus earlier today) having run through every other permutation of "wild sex" and "Columbia students," decided to take aim at Bwog's favorite site at Columbia and possibly ever: www.goaskalice.com, our source of wisdom on everything from dried fruit to dental dams. The host and guest sexperts, set against decidedly un-Columbian scenes of scantily clad bodies, gasped over the site's descriptions of bestiality ("people who engage in these activities have very serious mental health issues") and "other things we can't put on the air." Said Unprotected author Dr. Miriam Grossman: "I'm horrified by the site goaskalice.com." According to one anonymous tipster, Health Services at Columbia is aware of the segment, but hasn't yet issued a statement. - LBD 
For those of you who rocked Glass House Rocks on Thursday night, perhaps we can admit that, for once, Lerner couldn’t have been put to better purpose. If you were fortunate enough to show up in the earlier half, food was (for the time being) in great abundance – some of the delights included international treats by the Culinary Society, baklava and falafel (corrected) from the Arab Students Organization, and tasty sausage bits from the Polish Club. The 2010 class councils proved to be better than your loaded neighbors on Halloween, transforming the piano lounge into a Willy Wonka room stocked with sweets through the evening. The place really got moving, however, a bit after 10 PM, when the fashionably late student body began rushing in for the evening’s events. Meanwhile, improv and a capella groups provided entertainment throughout the night. Several student organizations took to the sides in carnival style, with various distractions including Dance Dance Revolution, ballroom dancing lessons, and poker tournaments. The much-anticipated half-time show was a hit as usual, drawing the crowd with a spectrum of campus dance groups performing in a well-executed program that nearly shattered the ramps. When all else simmered down, remaining students dispersed between multiple dance parties and the lower-key amusements (if you can call large-screen Guitar Hero in the cinema low-key). The evening was, of course, complete with its quirky characters. Visitors included our endearingly-named mascot, a constantly reappearing Christmas elf, and the King of Rock’n’Roll himself. Any possible explanation for the elf is greatly appreciated. Photos and commentary on the madness after the jump. - MIP Circa 10 PM - Packing the house, as the crowd files in. A MUN'er demonstrates "Eat the World," a game in which prizes included free food and condoms.&nbsp;How about that, Fox News? Human Whack-A-Mole, brought to you by the Columbia Japan Society. CU Dems got politically groovin' with a mock gay wedding reception in the Satow Room. Gaming in the Sports Arena, AKA Roone Arledge Auditorium. Bet they didn't bring this into the house for your cousin's bar mitzvah. Dancers stomping the Lerner ramps in the half-time show. PS: the DJ definitely said, "Peace to the Middle East!" after Bhangra's performance. Guitar Hero on the Roone Arledge Cinema screen. At the time of the photograph, the following was witnessed: Guy to friend: "Dude, what if there's Halo!?" Both gasp, turn to each other and stare wide-eyed, then rush to the auditorium with sheer teenage excitement. For the record, Halo was indeed present. &nbsp; Clear 'em out folks!&nbsp; 
 Good-for-nothin' vermin! Gatherin' round the campfire with Uncle PresBo New pass/fail policy finally wrangled Administration: the snake in yer boot The Superbowl: bigger tradition than last year's hoedown 
Carly Hoogendyk's alert on the kill: A Peer Major Advising event going on in C555 means an almost certain excess of pizza and soda. Grab it there (no one would care) or wait for the many boxes that'll end up in the lobby of Lerner. 
 In which Columbia dining connoisseur Dena Yago informs how much soul she got for her swipe at last night's John Jay dinner: Kicking off Black History month, John Jay held what is colloquially referred to as “Black Night.” DVD’s and CD’s of Sidney Poitier and Mary J. Blige were tactfully set up over the yams and ribs, but by far, the main centerpiece was the Barack Obama shrine set up over the salad bar. Biscuits and cornbread were the runaway favorite, perfectly matched to the collared greens and pulled pork. Wilma took real pride in her creation, barbecue sandwiches and some unidentifiable veggie patty with cole slaw. The more adventurous set had fried plantains and baked yams at the vegan bar. Breaking from John Jay tradition, the food had soul. Soul food, perhaps? The presence of spices and flavor threw a couple visitors for a loop, as did the plethora of flags hanging in the dining hall. I’m not really sure what countries they were; I’m not really sure if they knew what countries they were.&nbsp; If I recall, there was an Armenian flag, and that is definitely a white country.&nbsp; Ultimately, along with the informational brochure provided by the Black Engineering Society of Columbia, the meal lived up to the hype and left me feeling strong, black and proud. 
 In this week's issue of New York Magazine, Provost and American History professor Alan Brinkley follows in the steps of department collegue Eric Foner by slamming President Bush. Brinkley's commentary is a part of the issue's "psychopolitical survey" in which "a team of historians, Oval Office veterans, and psychotherapists tries to figure out whether Bush is depressed or delusional—and what combination of poor parenting and personality disorders brought things to this point." To digress, in the same issue the magazine also offers a brief review of restaurants within three blocks' range of Amsterdam and 113th. Whether or not the enticing dining descriptions are accurate is your call. 
 You're likely wearing sweatpants and a shirt from the book store right now, but no matter! The Eye wants to bring the glamour and flash of&nbsp;Fashion Week&nbsp;to your slobbish form, and they've launched a special&nbsp;website (of which they are&nbsp;super proud) to do so. And, in the category of another thing "a lot of people (but&nbsp;probably not you)&nbsp;care about," Spec has a new sports blog- The Press Box. So far it seems to be a daily listing of other Ivy League sports headlines, but they promise to include "exclusive audio, video and photo of Columbia athletics." We suggest lots of Roaree, all the time. 
 OK, just kidding. But just for a second, the Harvard class of 2010 thought the Hutt-like former president had been brought back for the job: someone sent the gullible young ones an official-looking e-mail announcing the appointment. The buzz over at Bored@Lamont is pinning the prank on the Lampoon. The best part? The practical joke forced Harvard to declare their real pick a day early, and it's perhaps more exciting: law school dean Elena Kagan, who will be the first queen of the Crimson (i.e. female president).&nbsp; Looks like Bollinger really is sticking around a little longer. Faux and genuine e-mails after the jump, courtesy of Zachary Katz, Harvard '10. Update, 10:30 PM: Gullible? That would be us. Looks like we post-happy Bwoggers called the race too early, while other Harvard blogs had the sense to be skeptical. &nbsp; ---------- Forwarded message ---------- From: Presidential Search Committee &lt; psearch@harvard.edu&gt; Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:26 PM Subject: Announcement from the Presidential Search Committee To: undisclosed-recipients February 2007 Dear Members of the Harvard Community, On behalf of Harvard's governing boards, we write to inform you that a decision has been reached regarding Harvard's next president. The search for Harvard's next president has been a long and arduous process.&nbsp; Students, faculty, and alumni alike have dedicated countless hours throughout these past seven months. Special thanks are in order to the&nbsp; undergraduate student advisory committee: Whitney S. F. Baxter '07, Katherine A. Beck '08, and Vivek G. Ramaswamy '07. We are pleased to announce the reinstatement of Lawrence H. Summers as Harvard's once and future president. We understand that the decision may&nbsp; come as a surprise to those that have been following the selection process. After reviewing the candidates, however, we have come to the conclusion that Dr. Summers is best suited to lead Harvard, particularly in our plans for Allston and beyond. <!-- D( ); D(); //--> To address concerns regarding Dr. Summers' previous tenure, we will be hosting an open forum discussion with Dr. Summers to be held in Sanders Theater on February 5, at 5:00 P.M. Three hundred seats will be&nbsp; available for undergraduate students, to be distributed by an open lottery. To enter the lottery, please call the Presidential Search Committee at (617) 576-6565, and leave your name and e-mail address. The deadline to enter is tonight, February 3, at midnight. Again, thank you for your patience and support throughout this process. Sincerely, The Presidential Search Committee And the follow up: ---------- Forwarded message ---------- From: Office of the Dean of Harvard College &lt;gross@fas.harvard.edu&gt; Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:01 PM Subject: Please Read To: undisclosed-recipients Dear Students, Please disregard the earlier e-mail labeled "Announcement from the Presidential Search Committee."&nbsp; The e-mail was a hoax.&nbsp; We are currently looking into the source of this misinformation. Given the substantial confusion caused by the incident, we feel compelled to make the actual announcement one day early.&nbsp; Former Dean of Harvard Law School, Elena Kagan, has been selected as the 28th President of Harvard University.&nbsp; An official press release will be issued in the upcoming hours, as well as a more formal introduction. 
Since putting something into an oven (virus infested or not) is really scary, this week's installment of Cooking with Bwog brings you a few tried and true fudge recipes that you can make in the safety of not-your-oven.&nbsp; Stove Fudge 3 packs (4 oz ea.) German sweet chocolate (break into bits) 1 cup semisweet chocolate chips 1 can sweetened and condensed milk 1 cup pecans or other nuts 2 teaspoons vanilla (not necessary if you don't have it, rum is a good substitute) More nuts to put on top (if you want) Grease or butter of some kind A sauce pan, a low dish, pan, or tupperware to put the fudge in, and a spoon&nbsp; Butter a pan that you can pour the fudge into to set. Melt chocolate stuff in the saucepan over very low heat - make sure to stir. Remove from the heat and stir the condensed milk, nuts and vanilla. Pour into the greased pan and put it in the fridge until firm. Even easier recipes after the jump! &nbsp; Microwave Fudge 1 lb. powdered sugar 1/2 cup cocoa 1/4 cup milk 1/4 cup butter 1 tsp. vanilla 1/2 cup nuts Dish to store the fudge in, microwavable mixing bowl, spoon. Grease the dish for storing the fudge. Put powdered sugar and cocoa in the microwavable mixing bowl. Stir. Add milk and butter but don't stir. Put it in the microwave uncovered for two minutes. After heating, stir briefly and add the vanilla and nuts (too much stirring will make the chocolate crusty and hard). Pour into the greased dish and let it set in the fridge for an hour. No Cook Fudge 7 tbsp. butter 6 tbsp. cocoa (steal this from John Jay) 1 egg, beaten 1 tsp. vanilla 3 cup powdered sugar 1/3 cup nuts (optional) Bowl, pan, spoon&nbsp; Melt the butter (okay, so you do have to cook something. But technically you could just set the butter on your heater or in a metal cup inside of some hot water from the tap and it would melt). Pour into a bowl and add cocoa, stir. Add beaten egg and vanilla. Slowly blend in the sugar, only adding 1 cup at a time. Add nuts if you're going to. Press into a pan and stick it into a fridge for 15 minutes. 
3111 Broadway between 122nd and 123rd Morningside Heights has a new spot to satisfy your sweet tooth. Chokolat Patisserie, long a shuttered storefront, opened within the last month in the beyond-Barnard, downhill stretch of Broadway (although its website is still under construction).&nbsp; If you’re looking for a Hungarian substitute to hunker down and study, Chokolat is probably not the place for you: it’s tiny, with just four bar stools assembled around a meager counter top. But when it comes to food, the newcomer will beat its bohemian cousin hands down every time, with an impressive array of delectable breakfast pastries, cakes, pastries, tarts, breads and other goodies. Cakes and pies come in individual servings as well as full-sized. And the best part is, the prices aren’t ridiculous – I paid $1.75 for a lemon raspberry muffin, perhaps one of the best I’ve tasted. In addition, their coffee is delicious, though their tea selection may be lacking. Stop by for a snack and some coffee to warm up and help this establishment stay open! Open M-F from 7:30am to 10, and Saturday and Sunday from 8-11. - Downing Bray 
 Composer Portraits – Frank Zappa Miller Theatre February 2, 2007 I often try to think about things in terms of how I would explain them to Benjamin Franklin. On Friday night, I attended the latest in the Miller Theatre’s Composer Portrait series, in which Fireworks Ensemble and Zephyros Winds (a string quintet and a chamber orchestra conducted by Jeffrey Milarsky) paying homage to the late Frank Zappa. Trying to explain Zappa and his scatterbrained classical compositions to Franklin may seem impossible, but since Franklin was quite the wild man himself, I’m pretty confident that if someone had exposed Benjamin Franklin to LSD, he would have grown a mustache and soul patch, moved to California, and explored musical territory would qualify as avant-garde 40 years later. So, Ben: The crowd was composed of an interesting mix of white haired men discussing the merits of Captain Beefheart (think Patrick Henry, but batshit insane), and Columbia students and hipsters (think Thomas Paine, but in tighter pants). The accessory of choice was either a beard or a musical instrument case, and all crowded into the sold-out theatre for a psychedelic Zappa experience (think of Betsy Ross’ 4th of July party when someone spiked the punch). As it turns out, Zappa, more widely known for his satirist rock and roll capabilities, was actually an accomplished classical composer. The first part of the concert featured many of Zappa’s later compositions, standard scores with parts re-arranged in odd ways, waeving various instruments into an intricately textured piece. Imagine breaking every rule of classical music in a single piece of music, in a way that paid homage to the greats, while acknowledging a need for progress. Ben, it’s the type of music you might hear at the places you frequent in France. As the woman behind me exclaimed at intermission, “That was so much better than that Supernova band I saw at Radio City. Tommy Lee , he’s just not a good drummer.” Fireworks Ensemble, however, stole the show. Their performance of Zappa’s earlier works was inspired, while their jams on pieces such as “The Black Page – Number 1” and “King Kong” proved just how much Zappa influenced all types of music. The crowd responded with a standing ovation that lasted nearly 5 minutes, while the same woman behind me screamed, “That was a crazy Zappa experience!” All I wanted to say was, “Lady, if you think that’s crazy, you’ve never had a Ben Franklin experience. You know…he’s not on the $100 bill for nothing.” - Parker Fishel 
 So the Superbowl's tonight. Whoohoo and etc. One good thing this does mean is that you&nbsp;are at liberty to&nbsp;eat and drink lots of food&nbsp;and beer&nbsp;to&nbsp;quell the nagging feeling&nbsp;that you should be in Butler. May we suggest: Browsing through the local establishments and ordering online. Lion's Head is offering $7 pitchers of beer. Nacho's is doing $25 wings-and-Coors Light. The Heights has 75 wings for $50. (Lame.) Havana Central has wings-and-pitcher for $15 and a special Super Bowl appetizer menu. (The other bars wouldn't answer our call, but when they do, we'll let you know.) Finally, everyone's favorite secretary of state did an interview with ESPN in which she weighs in on the upcoming game. Bizarre. But not as bizarre as Prince! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -KR 
While you're all recovering from your Super Bowl excitement and realizing that your first quiz of the year is on Tuesday and you haven't read for it, reminisce briefly about the week gone by. - Clubs threw food at us while recovering from the news that ABC actually cares that they do something. - New publications for the esoterically eccentric and the phenomenologically physical. -&nbsp; The perfect joke, and one considerably less than perfect but still kind of excellent when said by a bearded man in a flowered tie. - Decidedly unsalutary neglect, for which you'll need lots of spice and sweets and soul food (with a side of solidarity). - Zappa and Ivins: sticking it to the man in their own special ways. - Fox lies. Again. 
 Double-sided, super-sticky, extra-thick red tape Our own high-profile university admin search&nbsp; Those who take time off gain perspective, face problems A glut of Israeli-Palestinian conflict pieces: More Left, Left, Right, More Right &nbsp; 
 Columbia student (and Spec style editor) Xiyin Tang '09 was featured in&nbsp;New York magazine's feature "Say Everything," discussing her use of LiveJournal and, of course, Facebook. “Xiyin clicks to her Facebook profile, which features 88 photos... 'To me, or to a lot of people, it’s like, why go to a party if you’re not going to get your picture taken?'” How very Edie Sedgwick. &nbsp; 
 Bwog recently found this note on the Hewitt Dining Hall suggestion board; yes, "4 days" actually is emphasized that heavily. I think it's great that you have soy and Lactaid milk for us. I think it is silly, however, to keep them in a chilled creamer dispenser, because they run out much too quickly. This coupled with the fact that they are not checked regularly means I've gone without Lactaid for the past 4 days. This is a common occurence. Please either invest in a new container or refill them. Thank you! 
We told you about Pressbox, the originally named new Spec Sports blog, and now The Steps is back too! Welcome, Splog children, to the shiny world of new media (and most every other college newspaper in the country).&nbsp; So far they're taking on political philosophy, national politics, sports and...nothing related to Columbia at all. But the scope of Splogs is capacious, its potential without limit. We look foward to a wonderful spring together.
Update, 3:00 PM: The Dems, who were not consulted in the reporting of this post (to Bwog's discredit) have some additions and clarifications after the jump. The College Democrats, who collaborated with several anti-war groups (Students for Justice in the Middle East, the Working Families Party, Lucha, World Can't Wait, and the ISO) on sending people down to DC last week, are done with all this left wing solidarity: Dems President Mike Nadler just sent an e-mail announcing that his group would pull out of the coalition's next event, a walkout planned for February 15 (the anniversary of the massive walkouts in 2003). David Judd of the ISO had this to say: "The Dems have decided to not participate as a club in the walkout and rally, though individual members will do so. they have left because of ideological differences which could not be reconciled despite much effort to do so. the remaining members of the coalition are disappointed with this decision and continue to hope that the Democrats will reconsider. the walkout and rally will continue, and the Columbia Coalition Against the War believes that it will be very successful. a broad spectrum of groups and individuals are still participating in planning, student strikes are moving forward on a national level with endorsements by Howard Zinn and Noam Chomsky, the latter delivered at Columbia yesterday, and we are all very excited to take concrete action against the war on the 15th." Both sides are staying mum to avoid a public shit show, but one person less personally invested gave Bwog the backstory. In a nutshell, the groups parted ways over how to request that Columbia study divestment from certain defense contractors to protest the war. Representatives of the Coalition groups compromised on only three companies (Raytheon, General Dynamics, and Lockheed Martin, which constitute $4.3 out of Columbia's $836 million in public holdings) for the duration of the war, but the Dems said no. The Coalition reps declined to say definitively what they would recommend to their groups, which the Dems took as a sign of bad faith, finally pulling out of the deal altogether. Is this how it's like in the real world? Full announcement from Dems Board after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - LBD "Over the past week, representatives from the Columbia University College Democrats have met with representatives from the ISO, Students for Justice in the Middle East, LUCHA, Working Families Party, and World Can't Wait. We did so in a spirit of optimistic&nbsp; cooperation, hopeful that we could build on the success of our joint trip to Washington D.C. for an anti-war rally. There was much positive discussion between the groups, but despite good faith efforts and compromise on the part of all groups involved, we were not able to reconcile our fundamental ideological differences. As such, we will not be participating in the student walkout and rally planned for February 15th. &nbsp;As Democrats, we call upon Congress to wield its legislative authority to bring this unjust war to a close.&nbsp;&nbsp;We will continue to work to promote dialogue and empower students to advocate for real alternatives to the administration's failed policy in Iraq. If you have any questions or concerns, please come talk to me, or to other members of the Dems' board, at our body meeting Wednesday night, and we will try our best to address them. Sincerely, Mike Nadler President, Columbia University College Democrats Columbia College, Class of 2007" And, from Dems Public Affairs Director Jacob Taber: 1) Divestment wasn't the&nbsp;issue.&nbsp; At several meetings last week it had been taken firmly off the table, and we were concerned that it (and other key sticking points) were continually being brought up for renewed discussion.&nbsp; In addition, we didn't walk because of divestment - we walked because the assembled members could not (or rather, would not) agree to to tell us where they stood on the issue; without openness there is no trust, and without trust there is certainly no coalition 2) The Coalition "compromise" wasn't to limit it to specific groups - that was absolutely something never communicated to the Dems.&nbsp; The compromise was to call for study rather than demand divestment, and to call for it only for the duration of the war.&nbsp; The Democrats are anti-war, and not anti-military (we don't want tanks in Iraq, but we do think that someone needs to make tanks because they do need to be used legitimately on occasion), and as such we are very wary about any calls for divestment from defense contractors. In addition, at least one corporation discussed is also involved in rebuilding the Gulf Coast, and we felt that pulling our investment from that company sent the wrong message. 3) We weren't going to get involved in this blame game - as you'll&nbsp; note in the Spec story, I declined to comment on the reason for our breakup to keep things civil.&nbsp; Obviously, though,&nbsp; not all sides were into the whole civility thing, and given that we're being attacked for our spinelessness for refusal to protest corporate interests, I'd like to get a few things straight: The Democrats, ultimately, have a philosophy that is entirely distinct from and opposed to that of most of the other groups, and that is why we walked.&nbsp; We advocate change within the system, however imperfect it may be.&nbsp; while we know it will be difficult to force Congress to act, we think it's ridiculous that there are groups who feel it&nbsp;inappropriate to ask Congress to do anything, 'because Congress is part of the problem' — like it or not, they are the only ones (besides the President who isn't going to do anything) with the power to end this thing, and a failure to recognize that point was a major source of frustration for the Dems.&nbsp; While we tried to forge common ground, it's incredibly difficult to work with a group that considers your group to be pro-war and a part of the problem, and is intent on spreading an Anti-Democratic message whenever possible, even to the point of obscuring the larger and clearly more important anti-war message. 4) We're not "done with all this left-wing solidarity".&nbsp; The Democrats are committed absolutely to working with more policy-oriented members of the Campus Left (i.e. ACLU rather than LUCHA), in a coalition that better reflects our&nbsp;commitment to effecting meaningful change.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Veritas Forum&nbsp;subjects: infinitude of knowledge, the Almighty, plagiarism Message of a loving God creates schism, property rights issues, "trouble" Surprise! Noam Chomsky is anti-war! Poverty = another reason to worry about Global Warming? ...never fear, J-Sachs' anti-squalor sustainability squad is here!...just don't ask too many&nbsp;questions. 
You'll never know who she is, but you'll read her anyway. Send questions, propositions, and fan mail to bwogsex@gmail.com. Welcome to the Belle Jar.&nbsp; Singles Awareness Day (February 14) approaches and already, I overheard someone bitching about lacking a date. Problems like this are often best dealt with by reminding the offender about Darfur or telling them that they’re fat, but this time I actually stopped and considered the person’s complaint. It got me thinking about singlehood, and how it manifests itself differently in all of us. What follows is not a celebration of that diversity so much as a guide to how to be a good single person; how to wear your solitude—sorry, “freedom”—well. The Whiner: You know this person. In fact, you probably know 50 of these people or 49 plus vous. He or she won’t go to Hot Jazz without a date, is bitter about relationships without being entertaining, and will insist on buying a full body pillow and naming it after an unrequited love (who was probably less of a sexual being than the pillow). This person has clearly forgotten that they were born alone and will probably die alone. Try reminding them of that and if they cry, let them cry alone. This will sound harsh, but indulging this person’s belief that they can’t be complete without another person is a betrayal of their friendship. You can’t grow a backbone for someone else, but pointedly ignoring their spinelessness is the next best thing. Comfort them and run the risk of conversing with a person—probably decent and intelligent most of the time—who speaks with more whine than words. Screech back at them and maybe they’ll realize they sound like a creep. I fully support the idea that anyone who constantly complains about being single should be penalized with another month of singledom. This generally happens anyway because the more you complain about being single, the more unattractive you become. The Piner: Aww, poor babies can’t stop reading their gchats. These people are the epitome of pathos. Every time they see a previous love interest, boyfriend, or girlfriend cross college walk, it’s like the Furies have decided to play cats cradle with their heartstrings. If this is you, find a new idea, theory, person or art project to invest your time in. That said, celibacy is not a valid coping mechanism. Friends who have fallen out of love’s favor have presented themselves before me, declared themselves celibate for college, and waited for me to clap. Being single on principle doesn’t make you glacially aloof and above the hormonal turmoil--you’re sewing your own habit with the word “desperate” stitched into all the lining. The Walking Disaster: This person reads the Craig’s List “missed connections” every night looking for their description. This person thinks of Butler as a social watering hole, and describes it as such. He or she hits on strangers in elevators, convinced that finding a companion will lead them to emotional nirvana. Face it: this person, perhaps someone you see wandering alone at strange hours in the stacks, may be alone for a reason. The whiners and piners are bad, but they can easily be single out of bad luck or awkwardness. The walking disasters are derailed, and people can smell it on them The Jumper: This person is in a relationship but for all intents and purposes is single. They never learned to be alone and now, regardless of how personally satisfying their relationship is, they won’t get out of it until they’ve got someone lined up and signed up to full on, balls to the wall, date them. Like most of us, the jumper wants all social interactions to involve no personal sacrifice or potential for harm, but is bound to get hurt anyway, and more importantly, take others down with them. The Enlightened: When I think of an enlightened single person, I think of Angelina Jolie. This is partly because I often think of Angelina Jolie and partly because the collective “we” gets the sense that she was doing fine without Brad and is glad to have him around but could just as easily be by herself. Most single people aren’t like Angelina Jolie, but most single people aren’t enlightened. Being enlightened doesn’t mean that you’re completely fine with singlehood, but it does mean you can negotiate the difference between being single and being lonely. The enlightened single is not waiting for someone to come along and complete them. They know that a night out with friends is more fulfilling than a thousand bar hops. And the enlightened single probably won’t stay single for long. Because backbones are sexy. The On His or Her Back Disaster: These ones can be a lot of fun. Essentially, the OHBD has found that love sucks, reality bites, and the best way to handle this situation is to sleep with as many people as possible (or, to quote Peaches, fuck the pain away). If this isn’t you, at least use this person for a few wild nights. If this is you, be careful, because the second you fall for someone—and you will fall for someone—you’ll morph into the Piner. Or you’ll get the clap. In fact, you may have it now. Might want to get that checked out… Next week: how not to be annoying in a relationship. 
Chomsky's second speech, a discussion of Harold Pinter's censorious Nobel Prize acceptance speech, failed to impress contributor Armin Rosen. He sends this evaluation of the MIT linguist's decidedly uncritical reception. I remember reading somewhere that Noam Chomsky was a controversial figure, but if I had to depend on my own sense perceptions for evidence, I’d have serious trouble believing it. Yes, a few people stood outside of Miller Theatre alleging that Chomsky was in fact a "radical adviser to < ?xml:namespace prefix = st1 />U.S. imperialism." But, the fact that these people were Sparticists, and the fact that they provided what was virtually the evening’s only counterpoint to Chomsky’s polarizing views on American foreign policy, is evidence either that the entire educated world is in accord with Mr. Chomsky’s somewhat divisive political views, or that students at this University are, simply put, intellectually impotent. And then there’s a horrifying third possibility, which is that some intellectually impotent faculty organizer went ahead and assumed that the entire educated world is in accord with said linguist-cum-ultraleft polemicist, and deliberately engineered this event as a means of reinforcing Chomsky’s abominable political views. A cursory glance at the program description led me to logically eliminate this possibility: the concept of the event, which was to juxtapose playwright Harold Pinter’s 2005 Nobel Prize acceptance speech with Chomsky’s own views on American foreign policy, implied the kind of differentiation of opinion that makes for intriguing, provocative intellectual discussion. After all—if Pinter and Chomsky were in complete agreement then screening the speech in front of a sold-out Miller Theatre would be the most ludicrous possible act of redundancy.&nbsp; I was hopeful through the first third of Pinter’s speech, in which the English playwright brilliantly dissected the concept of artistic truth before discussing his own process of creating that truth. Artistic subjectivity is solid ground for discourse and debate, as would have been the last two thirds of the speech, in which Pinter disingenuously de-contextualizes 60 years of cultural and geopolitical history in order to portray the United States as a merciless, aliberal rogue state guilty of the worst human rights abuses in history—had anybody but Noam Chomsky been there to respond to it. But Chomsky was, alas, the night’s main attraction, and he precluded any chance of dialogue between himself and the Nobel Prize winner when he read an excerpt from a New York Times opinion piece asserting that one of the only people who would agree with Pinter’s radical politics was Chomsky himself. But, in very crude terms, it takes two to tango—and the students and audience members who questioned Chomsky weren’t interested in dialogue either. The ass-kissing began when an anti-war coalition member asked for Chomsky’s support for a proposed student walkout on Feb. 15, a query which was followed by softballs on such Chomsky favorites as American hegemony, possible war with Iran, and neoliberal economics. None of the questions demanded even a modicum of thought or analysis on Chomsky’s part, and his answers, which were delivered in his trademark, low-decibel growl, seemed more like recitation than argumentation. This is inexcusable—Chomsky, like all divisive public thinkers left or right should always, always be on the defensive, and asking him what he thinks about the fall of the American Empire is the intellectual equivalent of pissing yourself in front of Justin Timberlake. I’d expect this kind of thing at say, Brown. But not here. While the almost immediately-discarded purpose of the event was to explore the unlikely political and intellectual kinship between Harold Pinter, a giant of the creative arts, and Noam Chomsky, the giant of modern linguistics, the comparison I found myself most intrigued by was somewhat more abstract. The perception of the German operatic composer Richard Wagner as a creative genius has long overwhelmed that of him as a virulent anti-Semite andGerman supremacist—which is to say that in history’s opinion, genius is grounds for forgiving even the gravest of deficiencies in character. Chomsky the linguist will likely long outlive Chomsky the armchair political scientist, just as Wagner the composer has long outlived (or at least long overshadowed) Wagner the racist. History is usually kind to the extraordinarily brilliant—or at least a certain diminutive, obnoxiously soft-spoken MIT professor had better hope so. 
 Noam Chomsky stormed campus yesterday with a lecture double-header. Bwog commences its in-depth coverage with the linguist's more academic engagement. Below, Linguistics major Sara Maria Hasbun reports on deep thoughts. Noam Chomsky isn’t exactly known for his engaging lectures, but even so, he packed the theatre of the Casa Italiana by 2:45 for a 4:00 booking yesterday. His lecture was titled, "The Mysteries of Nature: How Deeply Hidden?"; the most entertaining line was the first sentence:&nbsp; “For those of you anxious to hear the punchline, if you have something else to get to, the answer is, ‘Everything.’” The event, sponsored by the Heyman Center for the Humanities, was hyped as a linguistics lecture, though it turned out to be something more closely approximating a history and theory of the academy. Chomsky delivered his remarks straight from a pre-written paper, complete with awkward gaze-shifting from paper to audience. But of course, this was Chomsky. So we made do. While his political views and loud criticism of the American government have made Chomsky a household name, the Pennsylvania-born academic became famous for developing an entire field of linguistics called “generative grammar”, a theory that claims that language is an innate, and uniquely human, ability, as well as claiming that all the languages of the world are inherently based on the same innate syntactic structure.&nbsp; Yesterday’s lecture spanned the history of scientific breakthroughs and ideologies, focusing especially on the Scientific Revolution of the 1600s and its mindset-shattering consequences. Chomsky explained the how the “hard problem” has shifted over the years. “Movement” used to be the hard problem, he told the audience, until physics and medicine came along. &nbsp;Now “consciousness” is the problem that philosophers and neuroscientists are struggling to analyze. Chomsky warned, however, that academics should never move on to the next step before mastering the previous one. Despite the fact that academic disciplines are constantly being reinvented intellectuals often take for granted the firmness of the ground they build their theories upon. He quoted from Galileo – “We must refrain from futile toil…” – and cited Bertrand Russell’s dismissal of the idea that world might be made “intelligible.” But, Chomsky was perhaps most eloquent when finally made the point in his own words: “Do people think? Well, that’s like asking if submarines swim. They do, if you call that swimming. What do you call thinking? Can a human fly? No in English, yes in Japanese…” We can never take what is meaningful, or meaningless, for granted.&nbsp; “We have to be as agnostic as Bertrand Russell should have been.” Listening to his lecture, one got the curious feeling that the wizened academic was looking back on his days as a linguist and putting a disclaimer on his many works, works that are still causing such disputes across the field of linguistics. &nbsp;Indeed, in the first page of his book On Language, Chomsky justifies his departure from his original field: “Critical analysis in the ideological arena seems to me to be a fairly straightforward matter as compared to an approach that requires a degree of conceptual abstraction. For the analysis of ideology, which occupies me very much, a bit of open-mindedness, normal intelligence, and healthy skepticism will generally suffice.” Tracking down truth in theory may be discouraging; working for practical improvement doesn’t have to be. 
Podcasting His Life Away: Electrical Engineering Prof. Daniel P.W. Ellis has a hobby even his wife finds creepy: digitally recording every waking moment of his day. Seeing it as an audiologged diary (or a "lifelog"), Ellis recounts such&nbsp;highlights as the fight with his wife in which he made "asshole" comments and his pleas to doctors for information on his injured infant son (as well as their queries as to why he was holding an Mp3 player the whole time). See the rest in this piece from the Chronicle of Higher Education on the lifelogging phenomenon. MIDI-Makers Frozen Out...Again: In the week since Bwog reported on subzero temperatures shutting down the Computer Music Center in Prentis Hall, the heat has been turned on...and then off once more. After CMC officials thought the problem had been remedied, the chill returned. Now, CMC director Brad Garton is demanding a permanent solution - and spare heaters installed, just in case - before the center reopens and classes are resumed. Seriously, admins, it's one thing to cut essential services to Columbia's computer musicians - and another to give them a brief spell of hope before shutting them back&nbsp;out in the cold. Get Your Beauty Rest: All nighters can make you fat. Really. According to the Daily Times of Pakistan, which assembled a compendium on US universities' sleep research, Columbia scientists determined that "adults who sleep less than seven hours a night had an increased risk of obesity. The risk ranged from 23 percent for six-hour-a-night sleepers to 73 percent for individuals who slept only two to four hours. Experts attributed this phenomenon to the fact that sleep deprivation lowered the level of leptin, a protein that suppresses appetite, and raised grehlin, which makes you want to eat." Columbia researchers: doing their homework so you have an excuse not to. -CJS 
The second in a series by B&amp;W artist Rachel Lindsay--for all those mired in Kant right now. 
 Coalition Against War strikes to cut ties with the only guys actually winning in Iraq I Think This Shit Is Pretty Sweet Skiing: A Great Southern Tradition Before the Creative Writing Major, Nobody Majored in Creative Writing? Kulawik Offers To Save School "oh, $93,743" &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The Varsity Show has a new website up, and, as the kids are saying these days, it is "quite nifty". The rectangles of different colors that make up the home page fit together to make a giant rectangle in a very pleasing manner, and there is an excellent picture of several people intensely concentrating on something while moving their hands around.&nbsp; For real though, it is a nice website, and although it does not at the time have any information about V113 (besides the cast list), either the preview material or the show is "coming soon."&nbsp; In the meantime, you can sign up for their e-mail list or give them more money. - DHI&nbsp; 
Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki explains the world of mixtapes, the reasons to buy them, and how to choose them well. You used to be able to walk up to 125th any time of day and there’d be half-a-dozen guys camped out between 7th and Lenox selling mixtapes – five bucks a pop, four for $15, selling hundreds of copies of a hot new mix between meals.&nbsp; Piracy?&nbsp; On paper, yeah.&nbsp; Black market?&nbsp; Sure.&nbsp; But these weren’t boot copies of Kill Bill getting hocked – at their best, these were serious, critically-acclaimed rap pastiches, pieced together by some of the biggest DJ’s in the nation. Then, two weeks ago, a big name DJ got busted and the entire mixtape world – including the uptown vendors – closed up shop.&nbsp; This Saturday, a couple people reappeared on the main drag (though not in plain sight), and next weekend there will inevitably be more.&nbsp; Rappers and labels rely on mixtapes to build fan bases, hype, and&nbsp;&nbsp; hits (“What You Know,” “We Fly High,” and “Hustlin’” were all on big tapes months before they got Clear Channel-ed).&nbsp; With demand building since the bust, the comeback looks to be colossal.&nbsp; A practical guide, after the jump! &nbsp; &nbsp;1. Why to buy mixtapes: You like rap music and need more of it.&nbsp; Most mainstream rappers only release, say, a third of their verses through their label.&nbsp; The rest is on mixtapes.&nbsp; Jadakiss, for example, has dropped gems by the hour since Thanksgiving and Kiss My Ass isn’t even coming out until mid-year. You particularly like Southern rap… which is historically underplayed by New York radio, meaning that the two chief ways to hear new material are Myspace or mixtapes.&nbsp; You like but can’t sit through an entire album. Mixtapes are never a one-ring circus – hence their essential draw.&nbsp; There’s usually a primary artist and the DJ plays maybe 20 of their tracks in short two minute blasts, but in between you get both kit and caboodle – likeminded artists, freestyles, posse cuts, and – always appropriate – remixes.&nbsp; Memphis rapper Yo Gotti was the host/epicenter of DJ Wally Sparks’s Southern Conference 4.&nbsp; He’s diggable but certainly not the be-all-end-all dude in rap.&nbsp; Yet S.C. 4 was more listenable than most rap albums simply because it kept things interesting: nice doses of Mr. Gotti and the good new songs from Young Jeezy, Fabo, T.I., Birdman, Trick Daddy, UGK, Lil’ Wayne… &nbsp; 2. Where to buy mixtapes: All over the place online, but they’re cheaper on the street.&nbsp; First you have to find them, and since mixtape vendors are, for the time being, illegal, it’s not wise to broadcast their exact whereabouts. Walk up to 125th and feel it out.&nbsp; The dudes at Atmos are super nice and known to enjoy a good mix, so ask them about the local vendors.&nbsp; There are also a few reliable spots downtown, specifically on Canal St., but their stock is often bootlegged and a titch sandpaper-y on the ears. 3. How to buy mixtapes: For the newcomer, take your time and try tapes before you buy.&nbsp; Mixtapes aren’t wrapped, so just ask the vendor to play it for you.&nbsp; However, you can usually count on big names to deliver.&nbsp; Before the bust, DJ Drama’s track record was clutch beyond belief.&nbsp; Even if you hate the artist, if Drama was doing his or her tape it would be at least very good if not excellent. There are half a dozen or so other DJs on that level – guys like Mick Boogie, Big Mike, and Whoo Kid.&nbsp; If the tracklist is compelling and one of these names is on the front, it will be worth the five bucks. &nbsp;Also keep an eye out for series – Purple Codeine 14 is always a better bet than Mannie’s Hot Shizz. 3.a. How to buy mixtapes well: Get in with your supplier.&nbsp; He’ll recommend the good stuff since he listens to the new tapes all day long.&nbsp; Ask him about the new Hell Rell disc routinely.&nbsp; Don’t worry if you don’t know who Hell Rell is (he’s cool and local and a Taurus).&nbsp; Mixtape dealers in New York LOVE Hell Rell.&nbsp; They make up at least 40 percent of his fan base.&nbsp; And there are always rumored new Hell Rell tapes, so you’ll prove your savvy again and again. &nbsp;3.b. How not to buy mixtapes well: Going in for the Best-of-the-radio style mixes.&nbsp; These are typically small fry DJs with less noble aims than Drama and Co.’s goals of collaboration and exposing new music.&nbsp; Just walk around your floor with a USB key for ten minutes and boom: Alison’s Hot-Radio-Shit Vol. 1.&nbsp; Save five bucks and buy yourself half a drink at Havana Central. 
 "Harvard introduces Major Cultures requirment, new Core Classes. World breathlessly applauds Harvard for trailblazing. Columbia yawns, wonders what the big deal (asks self why Harvard always gets the press and credit?)" - writes one anonymous tipster, who discovered this article on CNN's website. According to the article, "the university is also expected to soon announce a new president to steer the changes." It is no surprise, then, that Bollinger made the short list of Harvard's presidential candidates, as they probably wanted somebody with Core experience. The proposal has not been voted in yet, but is sure to generate major headlines again when it passes. It includes "eight new required subject areas" which are not described in detail, and, in some mysterious way, "plagiarism is also addressed," but "limelight plagiarism" does not appear to be.&nbsp; On the plus side for Harvard, they do have an innovative idea of how to introduce science into their core curriculum: with actual science classes. 
 Wednesday night saw a beginning of sorts to the CCSC election season – the first of three information sessions for prospective candidates in Carman Lounge. Spotted at the meeting were ’08 VP Michelle Diamond and ’09 President George Krebs – widely considered the frontrunners for the CCSC Presidency, should they decide to run – as well as other current Class Council members from each class and some fresh faces, including SGB treasurer Jonathan Siegel. As Subash Iyer, Chair of the CCSC Elections Board, discussed the at-large positions, interest flagged somewhat; there didn’t seem to be many potential Student Services Representatives in the room. “If you want people to take you seriously as candidates, ask us questions,” Subash urged. A long and somewhat awkward silence fell over the room, broken only when Krebs asked why the schedule for the elections had been moved up this year (the elections are to be held March 28 and 29 to accommodate religious holidays, said Iyer). But the most telling question came from Diamond, who asked when candidates may start asking for endorsements. (She, and her fellow candidates, were advised to begin seeking endorsements before midterms.)&nbsp; Meanwhile, Krebs has told friends that he plans to show up at the next two information sessions. Candidates are only required to attend one, but further visits would allow him to scope out his competition. Only forty-nine days until the election… let the games begin. - DPD More photos after the jump! (l-r) CCSC VP for Communications Andrew Russeth, Iyer, and Elections Board member Emily Griffin lay down the law. (l-r) Krebs and CC '09 VP Mark Johnson share a moment. &nbsp; 
 SEE CORRECTION ABOVE.&nbsp; As part of Black History Month, there was a blood-free HIV testing event on College Walk today (Wednesday) in order to raise awareness of the AIDS epidemic in the African-American community. It was open to the community, and we're not sure how many test-ees were Columbia affiliates and how many weren't, but we've heard some of the results were rather sobering. At the end of the event, speaker Miss Black New York Shade Ogunleye mentioned that out of the 57 people who were tested, 13 were found to be HIV-positive. Remember: One out of four people who have HIV aren't even aware that they do. If this isn't reason enough for you to be safe(r), we don't know what is. 
 Score One for Us - Greek Recruitment Generally Wholesome SEAS Shot Glasses On The Way (Finally!!!!) A Garden Variety Critique That Historians Should Stick to History Towards a Super-Sexual Theory of the State Postscrypt: Chilling Out, Maxing, Relaxing All Cool Aspiring Dentists (hehehe)&nbsp; In an S&amp;M Club, Is Everyone Each Other's Valentine? Web-Only: Interview with CC Alum in The (Fog of) War Reading companion to The Eye 's Robyn Schneider piece: Andrew Flynn on student authors, April 2006 
The Spectator hits newsstands every weekday morning, and it's easy to forget that actual people work around the clock making it happen. Last Thursday Bwog caught up with the News Editors, Josh Hirschland and Erin Durkin, to talk about riots, skipping class, and what makes it all worth it. I know it’s kind of a strange request, but I thought the campus would appreciate knowing a little about how the news is made. Josh: We’re happy to help Bwog. Erin: So, why would you want this job? Josh: I, for one, love the organization. I think that Spectator is an incredible thing. I know that when I came into Columbia, I was a very different person than I am now, and it’s because of this organization. I’ve met some incredible people who have shaped me and helped me to become a better person. I believe that this organization can do some wonderful things and make for a wonderful college experience. And the opportunity to help a new group of reporters to do that was just a breathtaking opportunity. That’s what gets me excited every day. Erin: I agree with what Josh said, and to me it’s really a privilege to be able to decide and shape what goes on a front page that the campus and the neighborhood is going to get their info from every day. It’s an important responsibility and it’s hard and I like that it’s hard, but to me it’s something that has to be done because I love the opportunity to find out something that no one knows and to tell them. And especially when it something that’s really important to their day-to-day lives, I like being able to do that on a larger scale by being in charge of a news section. I like intensity, I like things that are challenging and difficult, I need something to do. I like the feeling that I’m—I’m so inarticulate, I knew this was going to happen! Something that my training editor told me that I never realized how true it was until now was even if you didn’t want to be a reporter, even if you didn’t really like Spectator that much, it’s just a great way to be a students at Columbia University and a great way to be a resident of New York City because you’re so much more engaged with what’s going on around you. Isn’t there an irony in being so engaged as a reporter and yet being so busy, and so bound up in objectivity, that it’s really hard to be engaged on a personal level? Erin: Yeah, and not only on a personal level, but on the level of, I can’t join the advocacy organization that I might because of my personal beliefs might want to join because it’s a conflict of interest. I’m just not really allowed to do it, and even if I was, I wouldn’t really have the time. It is a challenge for me and we have conversations a lot in this office of “what would you be doing if you weren’t on Spec?” There are other things I would like to do. There are so many great organizations on this campus in this city, places I could be working, stuff I could be pushing for, and it’s a tradeoff. Most of the time I feel that I made a good choice. If you’re going to throw yourself into something, that’s going to be the thing you do. You know what it is? It is hard to have the constraint on you in terms of if something’s going on that I really care about, and I would personally like to get involved, I just can’t. And that’s difficult, sometimes. But I am of the belief that information is important, and just by letting people know what’s going on you’re making a contribution. I guess I have to believe that to do this, otherwise it would just be too hard, and I don’t think I would be able to accept that tradeoff. Josh: I don’t think I accept the premise of the question. I very much am a part of the life of Columbia students. Before I came into the office, this morning I got to sleep in because one of my professors cancelled class, had lunch at Ferris Booth, then I went to this discussion with Nat Hentoff, not as a reporter but because it was something I was genuinely interested in, went to Glass House Rocks for a half hour. I don’t necessarily believe that you have to give up being a student, and can’t be a part of the life of Columbia University. You pretty much have to be, at least on the campus side. You’re a student, and are necessarily involved in the things that you report on. Erin: We skip a lot of class, that’s true. Josh: I’ve only skipped one class. Erin: Well, Josh is a better person than me. It’s weird. Sometimes you’ll be dealing with sources in Public Affairs, and they don’t even realize you’re a student. They’ll be like, I called you three times and you didn’t pick up and you’ll be like, yeah, I was in class. How is being a campus and city reporter different? What goes into that decision? Josh: Well, I’ve never been to a meeting of CB9. Erin: And I’ve never met Eleanor Daugherty. Josh: I spend a lot of time with university administrators. . Erin: On the city side, we like to say that the difference is that city reporting is real reporting. As a city reporter and a city editor, you are not involved with Columbia stuff, simply because our coverage area is Morningside heights and West Harlem, on which Columbia has a huge impact. What I covered for two years was Manhattanville and that was the consummate crossover story. I have to know Robert Kasdin and everyone in Public Affairs, but I also have to know Community Board 9 and all the elected officials. And so to me, the things Josh was saying, I have the same experiences in the neighborhood. I’ll be sitting outside Nussbaum, and two or three people will come by and say oh, did you hear about the tenant issue up on 103rd? I love that, it’s a amazing for me. Bwog has changed us a little, in some sense there’s more competition. A lot of things we’re reporting on are also things that other major newspapers are reporting on. And that’s both good and bad. On the one hand, it’s like, oh this is so cool I’m competing with the Times. On the other hand, I really like the feeling of giving people information they’re not going to get anywhere else. On the city side, we do the really small-scale shit that no one else is going to be reporting on. Josh: Are you belittling the campus side? Erin: No! I’m not at all. Josh: Most covered New York story this year that was involved in Spectator’s coverage was-- Erin: Minutemen. I was not belittling the campus side! I have nothing but respect! What do you think has been one of the weakest parts of Spectator’s coverage since you’ve been here? Josh: We don’t like to talk about things that are weak, we like to talk about things we’d like to improve. Erin: I mean, we can be honest. Josh: This past weekend, several editors attended a retreat hosted by ROOTed, where we were talking about the issue of representation. Through that dialogue that lasted 15 hours over three days, we were able to explore a number of areas that people had concerns with, in terms of Spectator. As Josie wrote in her “White Pages” piece, we have certainly been criticized for and I believe with merit, we have been criticized for our handling of issues of cultural diversity and religious diversity, and it’s something that we are very much trying to pay more attention to this semester. Erin: I agree. What’s one of the hardest things about your job? Erin: I think you touched on one of the things when you started talking about being involved but not being involved. Our job is to be involved in the areas that we cover, and if we’re not out there and we don’t know what’s going on, there’s no way we can do our job, but at the same time, if we’re in this office all day, then we’re not out there and don’t know what’s going on. Balancing that is a tough thing. Josh: There are times when my parents wish I didn’t have this job. And there’s a difficulty in spending 40, 50, 60 hours a week here, either in the office or sending e-mails. But the most difficult thing isn’t the amount of time you put in. I can only think of one managing board person who’s ever gone on academic probation. The problem is helping people to improve. At this level, Erin and I aren’t doing as much reporting. Erin’s got 105 stories, I’ve got 170. We’re not doing that anymore. We have all the respect in the world for Megan Greenwell, who, when she was news editor, wrote something like 70 or 80 stories. But that’s not our job at this point. Our job right now is helping others to understand how to become reporters, and that’s the hardest part. And because it’s the most challenging part, it’s the most rewarding. Erin: Josh was saying we don’t do the reporting anymore, and for me personally, that’s hard, because I love it, I miss it. I did do that one story for yesterday, and that was in some ways the most fun I’ve had all semester. I was doing final reads the other night, and sometimes I get really discouraged, and I’m like oh these stories are all so bad and there’s nothing I can do about it, but two of my reporters had just turned in these incredibly solid stories, and I read them and I didn’t have to change a thing. And I wouldn’t shut up, I was really really happy about it. One of the hard things is how much of it is left up to luck and chance. You do everything you can, or everything that occurs to you, and how much of it you can’t control sometimes has been something for me that’s been difficult. You can’t make it perfect. And it’s fabulous because you can start all over the next day. Did you come into the job having anything, either coverage-wise or operationally, that you wanted to change? Josh: Both Erin and I wrote up lengthy proposals about the things we wanted to do when we got here, something like 15 pages each. Hopefully you’ve noticed a couple of things that have changed. Off Lead, for instance. We wanted to do a physical change to the page. I wanted to do that so it had its own visual identity, something that people could look to every day. I wanted to begin focusing more on some of these areas that have been less covered in the past, and to that end we hired more beat chiefs to cover those areas that have been less covered in the past. Erin: I want to get more depth in our coverage, not to be doing the easy story, the fluffy story, the story you get based on the press release, but to be really doing the hard nosed, on the street, getting the real story. That is a know it when you see it thing, but I think we’ve improved that somewhat although we still have a ways to go in terms of having substance in every story. I want our reporters to know how to act like reporters, and that means knowing how to get information from human beings. I want to be able to train the new people to really form relationships with people and get information that way, and not to think that they have to rely on the official statement, and I think that we could be less top-down and more bottom-up in terms of reflecting information coming from and concerns that are held by the bulk of our readership—students and people who live around here. What advice would you give to people who have to or want to deal with Spectator? Josh: Representation is active. The number one reason we don’t write a story isn’t because we don’t like your group or we don’t care about you, it’s just that we don’t know. And the number one thing that I can say is tell us as much as you can. We&nbsp; have a process by which we evaluate stories and not every story can make it into our one or two or three pages of space per day, but if we think the story’s interesting, then we’ll write about it. Regardless of what your politics are or whoever you are. The one thing I would say to our sources, frequent or not, is get in touch. If you don’t know who I am, I’m a very easy to approach guy, talk to me, meet me on campus and say hey this is what I’m doing. If you don’t see me on campus, send any tips that you have to specnews@columbia.edu. We’ll read it, we’ll talk about it. We have long, long e-mail chains. You can’t cover it if you don’t know. Slightly more personal question: what’s some of the funnest reporting you’ve done or the craziest thing you’ve done for a story? Josh: I reported on a riot. Spectator had gone out for the night, and I was going back to McBain, and I go past and there are 200 people standing outside the West End, and not standing around but throwing punches and pulling hair. Two or three hours later, we had a story that our internet counter told us had an enormous number of hits. That was some pretty crazy reporting. Erin: believe it or not, I have a lot of fun with the Manhattanville stuff, because even though it’s a lot of zoning and a lot of policy and a lot of jargon, there’s so much passion that goes into this. When I covered the scoping session, for instance, it was a six hour meeting, people just getting up there and yelling and being passionate for a cause, and it was just really exciting to me. I get that a lot, and that’s fun for me. Chasing down the information, even if it’s like combing through documents, this is really lame and boring, but it’s exciting to me because I’m a nerd. Another story that I worked on a lot last semester that convinced me that campus reporting is in fact real reporting was a story about some allegations of pretty serious corruption in the facilities union, and I had fun with that because I had like six anonymous sources and I had to meet them in garages and janitors closets and all this weird stuff. It was also a really hard story to get. More stories ensued… &nbsp; 
Once again, Bwog brings you the things that, after this weekend, you may never do again... After receiving only one Oscar nomination (good luck in Best Art Direction, you guys!), The Good Shepherd closes today at the AMC Loews Lincoln Square to make room for Hannibal Lecter’s latest outing. Go to see a surprisingly good Matt Damon not playing a corrupt cop, or to see a surprisingly awful Angelina Jolie not playing Mother Teresa. Epic Movie closes at the AMC Loews 84th Street to make room for the man-in-fat-black-woman-drag comedy Norbit (starring Oscar nominee Eddie Murphy!). Just wait two weeks, though, and it’ll be on DVD. The New York Design Fair begins today and ends Sunday at the Seventh Regiment Armory (Park Avenue at 67th Street). Celebrate Fashion Week by picking up some discounted fashions to benefit Project ALS, and forget the fact that you weren’t cool enough to get into the Marc Jacobs show. 
 Outgoing Dean Zvi Galil sent out this bundle of love just a few hours ago.&nbsp; Bwog hopes you're gutsy enough to step up to his challenge: To SEAS students, &nbsp; You may want to take a stress test just before the midterms. Here we go. I am not sure exactly how it works, but this is amazingly accurate. The picture you are going to see has 2 identical dolphins in it. It was used in a case study on stress levels at St. Mary's Hospital. Look at both dolphins jumping out of the water. The dolphins are identical. A closely monitored, scientific study revealed that, in spite of the fact that the dolphins are identical, a person under stress would find differences in the two dolphins. The more differences a person finds between the dolphins, the more stress that person is experiencing. Look at the photograph and if you find more than one or two differences you may want to take a holiday. No need to reply. I took it and I'll be on holiday. Are you ready? Relax!!! and click: http://ipa.seas.columbia.edu/seas/pix/1.jpg Meanwhile, CCSC President Seth Flaxman's e-mail's got a Napoleon Dynamite reference (old-school scroll-down), is signed "Sparta King," and calls for e-mails if readers are flummoxed by the sheer appearance of his messages.&nbsp; His most notable blurb broadcasts Ruckus, the free music service.&nbsp; To those who complain that the songs can only be streamed, take note that NYC may prohibit the use of iPods, cellphones, and other gadgets while crossing the street.&nbsp; To those who complain that the service is incompatible with Macs...no dice. 
 Julia Kite, an urban studies major (?), sent this one in to give SEAS students and science majors one last thrill before midterms. Bwog thinks SEAS guys and gals are probably too jaded to enjoy this, but if you're not at least one iota thrilled (or made slightly nauseated) by this, there's probably something wrong with you. 1. Go to an image-heavy website, may we recommend the Columbia homepage (not a blog). 2. Erase the address bar and insert the following code: javascript:R=0; x1=.1; y1=.05; x2=.25; y2=.24; x3=1.6; y3=.24;x4=300; y4=200;x5=300; y5=200; DI=document.images; DIL=DI.length;function A(){for(i=0;i-DIL; i++){DIS=DI.style;DIS.position='absolute';DIS.left=Math.sin(R*x1+i*x2+x3)*x4+x5; DIS.top=Math.cos(R*y1+i*y2+y3)*y4+y5}R++ }setInterval('A()',5);void(0); Make sure each line is copied into the bar -- you may just get the first line if you try pasting the whole thing at once, so try copying and pasting each line on its own. 3. Press enter. 4. Watch the magic.&nbsp; 
 CORRECTION to earlier post: It appears that our source on the statistic that 13 out of 57 people tested for HIV yesterday must have misheard: according to a staff member at the Gay Health Advocacy Project, Bronx AIDS Services (who provided the HIV antibody testing) clarified that only 29 people were tested--none positive. For future reference: GHAP offers free and confidential HIV testing to everyone--gay, straight, staff and students--during walk-in hours, Monday through Thursday from 4:00-7:00 PM, or by appointment (854-6655).&nbsp; Results are available the day following the test. 
 The guest list read like a who's who of journalism: a J-School dean, the Associated Press Executive Director, a former TIME magazine Editor-in-Chief, publishers, professors...and Walter Cronkite. The audience was probably more illustrious than your average lecture-hall crowd, too. Only one person there had any executive power to do anything, but free speech is always good, right? The "Media Reform" buzzword has been bandied about liberally in the last few years, but even those leading lights of journalism weren't able to come up with a definition of what it really means at today's Media Reform conference, a succession of panels convened in the J-School's third floor auditorium. The venerable Walter Cronkite, speaking to a reverential silence that overlooked a decline in his diction since his days on the air, intoned against the “sound bite culture that turns political campaigns into political theater,” while Seattle Times publisher Frank Blethen warned of a "crisis of democracy" brought on by media consolidation (although his own Seattle Times company owns six papers in two states). The main contrarian, Northeastern University professor Ben Compaine, argued for a pure free-market approach--but noted that he felt like "Ahmadinejad walking into a synagogue in Tel Aviv" sitting in a room full of public interest-oriented scriveners. The best speech of the afternoon--surprise!--came from the one government bureaucrat in attendance, FCC Commissioner Michael Copps, who railed against the legacy of former Commissioner and local media bogeyman Michael Powell. “When no longer required by law to serve communities…it’s not a surprise that viewers and listeners become the products that they sell to the advertisers,” he said. “Stockholders have totally trumped stakeholders.” The red-tied Commissioner, in keeping with the other panelists, admitted that he didn't know the answers, suggesting the appointment of a blue ribbon commission to figure it all out. Slate's Jack Shafer, as per usual, injected a jolt of skepticism into the fervor for protection of the little guy. "When I hear media reform, my bullshit detector goes off," he said, holding a can of Coke (regular). His take: media reform should really be called media regulation, since it almost always take the form of rules restricting the industry. That stance put him in the camp of both Compaine and former TIME Editor-in-Chief (now an advisory to the Carlyle Group) Norman Pearlstine, who advocated more open entry into publishing and broadcasting rather than corporation breakups. - LBD 
 UChicago: We ain't divestin'&nbsp; The Ivies: We ain't changin'&nbsp; Fun with Neanderthals and the likes &nbsp;Keeping the protest tradition alive Sometimes guys deal with creepy men too &nbsp; 
 &nbsp;Whether you've noticed or not (and whether you like them or not), there have been several pigeon nests on campus recently, baby pigeons included. Julia Kite gives the scoop on this campus bird trend -- and includes cute pictures! It's understandable if you've never seen a baby pigeon. Formally known as "rock doves," parents build their nests on small ledges, just as their wild ancestors constructed them in crevices on the cliffs of Europe. In the urban environment, this usually means a window ledge, underneath an air conditioner, or anywhere else they can find a stable platform and shelter from the elements. When it comes to nest-building, pigeons don't pay much attention to aesthetics. They typically throw a few dead pine needles and small twigs into a pile and let that suffice. Their own droppings, and later those of the chicks, bind this material together -- not a pretty sight, and certainly not something you'd want to touch, so if you see a nest, leave it alone. An interesting fact is that pigeons almost always lay two eggs per clutch -- never more. The male and female, who are closely bonded, will take turns sitting on the nest for about eighteen days. Unless you're very lucky, you probably won't know there are hatchlings around until you hear the unmistakable, high-pitched, whiny squeaking of the babies. They make this noise the get the attention of their parents, who regurgitate food into their open beaks. This food, known as "pigeon milk," is the thick, protein-rich secretion from the lining of the parent's crop (a part of the bird digestive tract). Both males and females produce pigeon milk. For the first few days of life, the baby's eyes are shut. Without feathers, the beak looks much too big for the head. They are naked except for a covering of yellow down. When feathers finally poke through, they resemble hard spikes which later open to reveal the soft feather typically associated with a pigeon. Nature helps the squabs (baby pigeons) survive by allowing them to grow very quickly. By about one month of age, the baby will be nearly as large and fully-feathered as its parents. Chances are, you've actually seen loads of baby pigeons, you just didn't recognize them because they were almost identical to adults. So how do you recognize a baby pigeon? First of all, the eyes have it -- an adult bird's eyes will be orange with a black pupil, but babies (and some all-white adults) have completely black eyes. The beak will be a soft peach color, not black. The nostrils will not&nbsp; be as crusty and hard as those of an adult, and the baby's feel tend to be smoother and lighter-colored. Younger fledglings may still have some thin yellow down poking through their larger feathers, especially on their heads. Around Columbia in the past few weeks, I've noticed a surprising number of baby pigeons. From the size of them, I would guess they hatched during the period of warm weather at the end of winter break. One nest is located on the side of Dodge Hall, facing College Walk. There's also a nest on the Law School which is easily visible from the library. But my favorite baby pigeon has to be the one I watched grow up behind the window bars of Low Library in November. The little guy (or girl -- there's no way to tell the sex of a pigeon until they start displaying mating behavior) was the only baby in his clutch, and was unusual in that he was a completely white pigeon born to a black-and- white mother and dark-gray, wild-type father. On my way to class, I would stop to check on the baby, throwing little scraps of food to the parents. The security guards at Low started noticing me, and one day, to my shock, the baby was gone. I knew it wasn't old enough to fledge (take flight), and I had seen it being harrassed by other territorial pigeons, so I feared the worst. Suddenly, a security guard appeared. "You looking for your little bird? He's in my office, behind my computer. It's nice and warm back there. He won't leave. I tried feeding him bread and milk, but he won't take it." Armed with a massive roll of paper towels, I crawled underneath the desk in the Public Safety Office, and lo and behold, the baby was sitting there looking quite pleased with himself. Unfortunately, if he stayed there, he'd starve as he was not old enough for solid foods. I grabbed the little thing with the paper towels and carried it, shrieking and flapping, back outside. I climbed up on the ledge and plopped him back down on his nest between the wall and an air conditioner, then retreated to wash my hands five times. On that note, while pigeons are often referred to as "rats with wings" and are certainly not the cleanest creatures around, much of their bad reputation is undeserved, and even diseases spread by pigeon dropping are very rare in New York. The Department of Health and Mental Hygiene reports that while histoplasmosis, cryptococcosis, and psittacosis can be spread by pigeon droppings, there is typically only one case of psittacosis reported each year. 70% of the time, the cause is a pet bird, not a feral pigeon. People with compromised immune systems should not clean pigeon droppings, but the average New Yorker's risk of contracting those&nbsp; diseases is slim to none. It's also important to note that the reason they breed so prolifically is because we, as humans, provide them with plenty of food in the form of our own trash. Pigeons were brought over to America by European settlers, and they have only thrived because we have created the proper conditions for them to do so. Because pigeons choose sheltered places for their nests, it's difficult to get clear pictures, but here's the best I have. Better pictures of captive-bred racing pigeons are at http://www.speedpigeon.com/baby_racing_pigeon.htm. 
 In the latest news from the rest of the Ivy League,&nbsp;Harvard plans on naming Drew Gilpin Faust as its next president,&nbsp;according to&nbsp;the&nbsp;New York Times and Harvard Crimson&nbsp;(and most definitely not&nbsp;to a hoax email).&nbsp; If Harvard's Board of Overseers gives her full approval as expected, Faust, who is currently Dean of the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study at the university, will be the first female president at Harvard in the school's 371-year history. In the meantime, Bwog finds it unnecessary to make any clever references to German folklore, since they've all probably been used within the last 24 hours (although admittedly, President Faust is a pretty damn awesome title). 
Political Science Professor David Epstein showed up on a friend of Bwog's G-chat contact list at 12:30 AM.&nbsp; His away message: "funniest site I've seen in a while: http://blackpeopleloveus.com/" 
Since Valentine's Day is just around the corner, Cooking with Bwog's chef thought she'd bring you a few recipes for angry dateless people to cook on this special day. Note: for locating the following ingredients, try here.&nbsp; Lamb's Heart Lamb's heart Rosemary Oregano Garlic Tin foil, an oven, and a pan&nbsp; There are many ways to cook a lamb's heart. Because the meat is not as tender, slow cooking usually works the best. If the hearts are whole, you can split them on one side, rinse and clean out blood clots and then season with rosemary, fresh garlic, and oregano. Then, wrap loosely with foil, making the wrap tight around the seams, and bake in the oven at 300 degrees for 2-3 hours, checking the meat for tenderness and rawness. If you don't have an oven, you can try simmering on the stove in water for the same amount of time, but some of the flavor will be lost. You can also slice the heart thin and fry them quickly in olive oil, but it will be much tougher. &nbsp; Pig's Heart Pig's heart Pig's liver (optional) Gravy powder salt onion parsley green pepper butter good over rice or pasta Boil the pig's heart in just enough salted water to cover the membrane. When it is almost tender, add the liver, 2 tbsp. grated onion, 1 tbsp. of chopped parsley and 1 tbsp. green pepper. Simmer until the heart and liver are tender. Remove them, chop them up, and mix with the pan drippings. Mix 2 tbsp. gravy flour with 2 tbsp of butter and then add to the mix. Cook for a few minutes to blend. Serve over rice or gravy or eat alone. Artichoke Hearts (Recommended for vegetarians) Whole Artichoke Scissors Knife Lemon Juice Butter Thyme First, remove the tops of the artichoke leaves where the thorns are located using a sturdy pair of scissors. Once the outer leaves are trimmed, cut the top off using a knife. Boil water and cook artichoke in this with salt and lemon juice (1 tbsp lemon juice per 2 quarts of water) and add thyme. The artichoke is done when a knife slips in easily. Serve with melted butter for dipping. 
Yeah, we know they're still two weeks away, but Bwog likes to get things rolling early. Because there's not much else exciting about February, we bring you an abridged set of Oscar predictions from daily Bwog editor Dan D'Addario and contributor Ashley Nin--because no one cares who did the best sound mixing anyway (Dan's responses first, then Ashley's). Best Picture Will Win - "Babel." "The Departed", while well-executed (no pun intended), received fewer nominations and seems too "genre" to win. "Babel" seems far more "important" in the way that "Crash" was last year. The spoiler in the race is "Little Miss Sunshine," but as a light comedy, it has a tough row to hoe with the Academy. "The Departed." It’s got nine awards exclusively in the Best Picture Category (Letters has 6, Babel 1, Little Miss Sunshine 3, The Queen 3). Do the math. Should win - "The Departed" shines in every aspect - ensemble acting, writing, directing. It only improves on repeated viewing, and the final ten minutes alone will stand up as one of the best closing scenes of the decade. "The Departed". It really is very well done in all aspects: the ensemble cast is balanced, everyone bringing unique and impressive efforts; the cinematography is polished, the script is engaging. Best Director Will Win - Martin Scorsese, "The Departed." The Academy has been splitting its Picture/Director slates far more in recent years, which clears the way for Scorsese's first win. Reactions to "The Departed" have been far more enthusiastic than those to his last two films. Scorsese (The Departed). This is not the first time that Scorsese and Eastwood have gone head to head. In 2005, despite the fact that “The Aviator” was the most nominated film at the Academy Awards that year (with 11), it walked away with only 5 awards; Eastwood took home Best Picture and Best Director for “Million Dollar Baby.” Though it shouldn't be, this may be something the Academy thinks about with they cast their votes. Should win- There are actually TWO veteran and Oscar-less filmmakers who have never been recognized in this category, and I'd give the trophy to Stephen Frears, director of "The Queen." He approached a project of a smaller scale than the other four nominees but made it one of the freshest and most relevant films of the year. Clint Eastwood (Letters from Iwo Jima). It's true, Scorsese made “The Departed” into an amazing film all-around; however, Letters is beautifully done, and the audience is left very aware of the hand that Eastwood played in it. The cinematography in particular is smart and satisfying. Best Actor Will Win - Forest Whitaker (The Last King of Scotland). A respected actor who has never received an Oscar, playing a notorious historical figure to great effect? Whitaker's won the Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild award and seems like a lock. Forest Whitaker (The Last King of Scotland). His only true rival is Peter O'Toole (Venus), who has received his 8th Academy Award nomination for Best Actor and has yet to actually win. Again, its history like this that is likely to sway votes. Also, there is some criticism that Whitaker is not actually the main character of his film; McAvoy is, after all, in more scenes. Should Win - Ryan Gosling creates one of cinema's most sympathetic drug addicts in "Half Nelson" - his jittery mannerisms and eyes clouded by deadened optimism were truer than anything else in film last year. Whitaker. The first thing I asked myself when making my “should win” list was "Could someone else have done just as well in the role?" The answer when considering “The Last King of Scotland” is a big "hell no". The energy and sincerity, aided by his distinct facial features, really made this role pop off the screen. Best Actress Will Win - Helen Mirren, (The Queen). See Whitaker, and add in a beloved Best Picture nominee. Helen Mirren (The Queen). Daily Variety called this one a "slam dunk." In 2006, she won more awards than any other actress by far and was ranked the number two Entertainer of the Year by Entertainment Weekly. The critics at Daily Variety maintain that every other nominees chances are "slim." Am I gonna disagree? No. Should Win - In one of the best years for actresses in recent memory, there are arguments to be made for four of the five nominees (I'd say Streep's film is too fluffy and insubstantial). That said, Penelope Cruz's performance in "Volver" is the most truly alive in the category. She runs the gamut of emotions without ever seeming calculated, and shares a mother-daughter bond with Carmen Maura that's not just convincing, but beautiful. Streep (Devil Wears Prada). I can't say that I agree with the critics at the aformentioned publication; the other four actresses were all phenomenal and deserve a second look. Most impressive, I thought, was Streep, who took a potentially shallow role and added depth with subtlety that makes every one of her roles convincing. Best Supporting Actor Will Win - Upsets, when they happen, often happen in the Supporting categories, and the Oscars seem overdue for a Marisa Tomei-style surprise. Given the apparent Academy love for "Blood Diamond" and the size and emotional weight of Djimon Honsou's role, he seems like the most likely contender to beat out "Dreamgirls" (and "Norbit"!) star Eddie Murphy. Eddie Murphy (Dreamgirls). This is a big year for ensemble casts who are crowding the Supporting Actor and Actress categories. “Dreamgirls” is the front-runner with eight nominations. The amount of acclaim it's received seems to have been enough to make both Oscar-newbies Murphy and Hudson favorites in each category. Should Win - In willing to find the humanity in a loathsome criminal, "Little Children"'s Jackie Earle Haley gave the bravest performance of the year - perhaps because he had nothing to lose. A tip of the hat, too, to Mark Wahlberg, who is compulsively watchable in "The Departed" - so much so that he's starring solo in its sequel. Haley (Little Children). While I’m surprised and impressed with Murphy's ability to appear in a film for more than five minutes without either being obnoxious or dressing up in a fat suit, I am unconvinced that his performance was Oscar-worthy—entertaining, yes; unique or outstanding, no. Haley, on the other hand, seemlessly combined innocence and creepiness to salvage what could have potentially been a very awkward role. Best Supporting Actress Will Win - Jennifer Hudson has been everywhere for three months, and her competition consists of two actresses from Babel that no one has heard of, a little girl, and Cate Blanchett, who won two years ago. This is almost TOO easy a call. Jennifer Hudson (Dreamgirls). Babel got two nominees for this category, which is likely to split the vote and give Hudson the win. Should win - Jennifer Hudson, a great singer, falls short in trying to convey her character's inner life - she aimed for sassy, but Effie White seemed to me completely unsympathetic. Rinko Kikuchi is almost gruesomely emotionally naked in "Babel," and her performance grounds the film in an emotional reality both bizarre and understandable. Hudson. Much of the criticism against her has been that her singing was unbelievable and her acting was not quite up to par with it. My response: IT'S A MUSICAL. She stole the show, despite having her role minimized to make room for Beyonce and Jamie Foxx. 
A digest of activisty news we missed from the last week. Copycats! Over at UCLA--which showed up on our "WTF" radar last year because of that taser business--protesters actually shut down&nbsp;a talk by some Minutemen-affiliated speakers. (note:&nbsp;This&nbsp;is not the Minuteman Project, but the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps.)&nbsp;Or, rather, according to the site above (the media coverage of this has been rather sparse, we might add...) admins pulled the plug on the event because of "security concerns." Speaking loudly: The Dems, determined to "take a strong stance on Iraq," met on Wednesday to endorse a withdrawal plan. They didn't, but will be meeting again on Tuesday to decide on a position. Sophomore president George Krebs sez they need to&nbsp;consider-&nbsp;"What the clearest vision for us is, and then take that vision and go to the next level with it. If you don't do that, then you find yourself in a place where you're concerned about how it's going to be viewed rather than the substance of it." Aw, the circumlocutions of budding politicos.&nbsp; Carrying a big stick? In case you hadn't seen the flyers, this&nbsp;Thursday there will be a mass walk-out at noon and a teach-in at 2 PM in Lerner against, well, the War. It was organized in conjunction with a national strike by an ad hoc&nbsp;group&nbsp;called the Columbia Coalition Against the War, who also set up an online petition, which has been signed by such illustrious&nbsp;presences as Prof. Robert Thurman, SGB prez Sakib Khan, and SAMER THE JUMBALAYA DESTROYER (?). 
OK, you may have guessed it--Bwog is not a huge fan of Valentine's Day. But we have an issue coming out this week! Probably Wednesday, in time for you to settle down with your very own February Blue and White! Meanwhile, a review of the week in Bwog. - Chomsky double feature! - Cute animals: alive and DELICIOUS - Cronkite heralds the saviors of old media, while Spec rediscovers the new and we sit watching our screens for hours while listening to the freshest beats 125th has to offer. - The Dems take a walk, CCSC kids start to run, and the rest of the world talks about the race that really matters. - The Belle Jar knocks some sense into all you singles, while we knock ourselves for a regrettable fuckup - Harvard only wishes they had to worry about categorical imperatives. - Yet more evidence that Z. Galil is way too cool for Tel Aviv. 
 Summa Inflationica: Latin Honors at Barnard. Will fewer grads appear in the Times marriage announcements now? Men's B-Ball Not Half-Bad (read this piece) Clubs Fight For the Goods Hi, Would You Be Interested in Writing Us a Big, Fat Check? Or Two? Staff: Let's Hear it for the Basketball Boys 
 There doesn’t seem to be a resistance, exactly, to the strike going down on Thursday—but not everyone is happy about it. SGB President Sakib Khan says that, while handing out flyers to advertise the strike yesterday at 7:40 PM outside Carman, a “tall skinny guy” came up and slapped a flyer out of his hand. According to Khan, the kid pushed him in the chest and then the face, identifying himself as “Jose” when asked. He was wearing a grey hoodie with the word “infantry” on the front and “war lords” on the back. Public Safety is investigating.&nbsp; - LBD 
 A few gems from the Columbia College Student Council meeting Sunday night. "The theme for Safer Sex Week... well, it has to do with hot dogs and tacos." -Sophomore President George Krebs, announcing a planned Safer Sex Week study break. "We're making Valentines for old lonely people." -Junior President Neda Navab, showing compassion for the elderly in planning a charity event. &nbsp;And finally, a tidbit that may actually have bearing on the election: Marcus Johnson, a graduating University Senator, publicly encouraged Academic Affairs Rep Alidad Damooei '09 or Krebs to run for his seat, to much laughter and applause from their colleagues. Damooei's LSAT proposal passed (after losing a clause that would have compelled the CCSC officers to serve as unpaid LSAT proctors), so he may have political capital within CCSC at the moment. He and Krebs - like all prospective candidates - must register for whatever position they choose by February 19. &nbsp; -DPD 
 Blue and White Managing Editor James Williams submits this Overheard: "My parents think Flex is a New York State tax." And with a new Democratic Governor, perhaps that "tax" can increase? 
 Manhattan poll takes calculated, er, "responsible" stance on expansion: city's "success...difficult to absorb". There's always Bounty. Mudd to get greener (does that mean less muddy, or more?)&nbsp; Police rubber-stamp 11-block strike walk... ...but in opinion, we find self-conscious Iraq caution, and the same message with a lot more braggadoccio...plus, to top it all off,&nbsp;love is slaughtered by science. With V-Day and the aforementioned strike looming, we predict such selections will stay the course. 
Last night, panelists held a discussion at the Law School regarding what may be an emerging political and cultural alliance between India and Israel. Bwog dispatched not one but two correspondants to the event in order to give readers as well-rounded a perspective as possible. Below, in the first part of our series, Armin Rosen presents his take: Monday is the dreariest day of the week, and Israel is generally on the drearier end of frustrating geopolitical issues. Imagine the dual misfortune of another spiritually dehydrating Monday and another discouraging panel discussion on how Israel and the greater Middle East is completely FUBAR, and it would look nothing like last night's forum on the "emerging" relationship between Israel and India. The discussion, which included representatives from Jewish and Indian organizations as well as the former Indian ambassador to Israel (and current ambassador to the United States), ended with a surfeit of popadoms and potato curry. For those who haven’t tried it yet, veggie Indian food is the shit. But no foodstuff, no matter how delicious, can allay the piercing skepticism of one who has just been subjected to two mind-erasing hours of Asian Hum. It can only give him the taste for meat…or, in this case, curry powder. Some explanation: the event, entitled "India, America, Israel: Emerging Relations" explored the strong and somewhat counterintuitive bilateral relationship between India and Israel. According to the evening’s panelists, Israel and India conduct almost $3 billion worth of trade with one another, and cooperate in virtually all areas of security and defense. Ambassador Raminder Singh Jassal provided interesting reason for this: both countries are democracies that face unique social and economic challenges, they share similar strategic interests, particularly regarding security, and they have followed similar historical trajectories. But the more intriguing, and likely more accurate, explanation for the countries’ close economic, cultural (Jassal says his office issued an average of 36,000 Indian visas a year to Israeli citizens) and strategic ties came from Probal DasGupta, a former major in the Indian Army and a student in the School of International and Public Affairs. DasGupta’s arrestingly simple and almost unimpeachable explanation is that the alliance finds its origins in the universal human desire not to get blown up by terrorists. Israel and India are both in the proverbial "tough neighborhood," surrounded by countries that want to destroy them and peopled by a significant number of militant insurgent elements. Cooperation on defense, which includes intelligence-sharing, and might go as far as the creation of Israeli-Indian naval bases in the Indian Ocean, has benefited both countries, he notes. It was gratifying for me to learn that Israel has an apparently strong alliance with a country that will soon pass Japan as the world’s third largest economy, and even more gratifying to know that a country with about half the world’s Jewish population is dealing constructively with a government representing roughly a fifth of the human race. At the same time, the extent to which that constructive relationship relies on military cooperation and strategic calculation made it difficult to tell exactly how deep Indian-Israeli ties run. The evening’s first speaker, Mandakini Sud of the United Nations Development Program, contended that alliances have more to do with prevailing feelings of interpersonal kinship—the "common man" factor—than they do with blowing shit up. I couldn’t agree with her more. One more hop-worthy note: During the post-forum question-and-answer—at which point I was too busy drooling over the prospect of free Indian food to really be paying much attention to what was going on—a grad student asked a representative from the American Jewish Committee (AJC director David Harris was supposed to sit on the forum but did not attend) why she had dwelt so heavily on the pluralistic nature of Indian and Israeli society when her own organization had published what the questioner characterized as a "blacklist" of anti-Israel American college professors. Intrigued by the possibility that a night dedicated to cooperation between two very different communities had inadvertently exposed a rift within Judaism, I caught up with this person after the event and, in what must be the single least politically correct moment of my journalistic career, asked her, on the record, if she was Jewish. "I don’t see how that’s pertinent to anything," she replied. I am not sure whether or not she meant&nbsp;it ironically. 
Last night, panelists held a discussion at the Law School regarding what may be an emerging political and cultural alliance between India and Israel. Bwog dispatched not one but two correspondants to the event in order to give readers as well-rounded a perspective as possible. Below, in the second and last part of our series, Josh Mathew presents his take: Bwoggers, lend me your ears. I write to you in between classes so brevity must be the soul of wit. What brings India and Israel together? According to last night’s discussion lecture "India, America, Israel: Emerging Relations," it’s the terrorists…and the post-lecture free kosher Indian buffet…but…but mainly the terrorists. United Nations Development Program specialist Ms. Mandakini Sud began the series by emphasizing the importance of connections amongst common men and the necessity of philanthropy. Her message of good will deteriorated, however, when she later suggested that the Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy of nonviolence has become obsolete in an age of terror when the enemy utilizes fear and violence without any desire for dialogue. I guess the Mahatma had it easy with British colonial armies. Former Indian Army major and current SIPA student Probal DasGupta was the most blunt of the speakers when discussing the nature of the Indo-Israeli relations. He celebrated the military assistance Israel has presented to India, whether it be counter-insurgency training, intelligence, or Galil sniper rifles. While it seemed easy to get lost in his long list of arms transactions, he concluded his speech with a series of poignant yet disturbingly false analogies comparing Israel’s conflicts with Palestine, the Arab states, and Iran with India’s own clashes with Pakistan and, to a lesser extent, Saudi Arabia. His suggested justification for a close military partnership between the two countries wasn’t lost on the audience as a close friend wondered aloud afterwards whether he was actually missing MSA’s sponsored event on Islamophobia. Later, American Jewish Committee’s Director of Special Projects Ms. Rebecca Neuwirth’s discussion of the "cultural commonalities" of Indian and Jewish Americans presented equally dubious ties between the two countries' domestic situations. Drawing upon "positive" stereotypes, Ms. Neuwirth pointed to the two communities’ shared "reverence" for education, hardwork, creativity, and family values as an impetus for collaboration. Regardless of her subscription to the pernicious model minority myth, Ms. Neuwirth failed to explain how the status and interrelationships of diaspora communities serve as sound foundations for the the foreign or domestic policies of their respective "mother countries." Finally, the keynote speaker, Ambassador Raminder Singh Jassal, did not explicitly discuss the two countries’ military relationship to the extent DasGupta had; the message was implicit, however, in the structure of his speech. At several points during his presention, he returned to the question of what factors had led to the formal declaration of good Indo-Israeli relations in 1992. However, after mentions of recent scientific collaboration and some amusing anecdotes, the audience was left with only three possible factors for the alliance: the countries’ historical similarities, democratic governments, and shared "contemporary challenges." Since the legacy of European exploitation, leftist nationalist pioneers, and early Marxist tendencies form the skeleton of most post-colonial states, the historical similarities the ambassador mentioned are anything but unique. If you haven’t noticed already, the roundtable discussion strayed from the intended topic of India-Israel bilateral relations and ultimately focused more on the om than the shalom. In any case, having spent the past hour listening to false justifications for collaboration, I left Jerome Greene Hall that night feeling as if I had lost my own sense of of peace. 
Already depressed about tomorrow? Bwog has personals that might rescue your self-esteem.&nbsp; If you think that you're a match for either of these two, tell us at bwgossip@columbia.edu.&nbsp; If we agree, we'll shell out $5 for a date. And remember: if you&nbsp;become a Personal, there's an even better chance we can help make your dreams come true!&nbsp; Send us an electronic message at any hour of the day. Girl for Guy Woman for ? &nbsp; &nbsp; Name: Anna Corke Year: 2009 School: Columbia College Intended major: Environmental Biology Hometown: Bainbridge Island, WA Best Book You've Read for Class: If Not, Winter by Sappho, trans. by Anne Carson Worst Book You've Read for Class: The general chemistry textbook really sucked. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Practiced shaking my ass in front of the mirror. Drink of choice: Water What are your most played songs on iTunes? I'll have to make this up since I don't have a computer. They would probably be "Pobre Diablo" by Don Omar, "Fantasma" by Zion and "Down" by Rakim y Ken-Y What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? The same. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Pisticci's penne with fresh mozzarella and yellow and red tomatoes...the next best is anything from Noches Mexicanas The title of your memoir: "Confessions" Dream date, 5 words or fewer: Embarrassingly long bouts of laughter Stewart or Colbert? Neither. Finance and consulting: three bullet points, one opinion. - Finance: Don't go to private high school, ivy league college, and then med. school. - Consult: When in doubt, step on it! - Opinion: My friends and I think that it would be really creepy/awesome if during sex a guy were to suavely lean over to his cd player and turn on the Darth Vader theme. Um...yeah. Name: Lucy Year: 2010 School: Columbia College Intended major: Getting by Hometown: Rockland, NY Best Book You've Read for Class: Dante’s Inferno Worst Book You've Read for Class: Most of the Chinese philosophers I’ve studied in my East Asian Major Texts class have been major downers, so much for finding my inner rice queen. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Does going to a gay bar on a Wednesday night count? Princeton rub? JJ’s? Trolling Cragislist m4m? Clam joust? Box in a Box? I don’t know, I don’t have much shame. Drink of choice: Free. Though if life were an open bar: Royale Rose champagne. What are your most played songs on iTunes? Melissa Etheridge- "Come to My Window" Two Nice Girls- "I Spent My last $10.00 (On Birth Control and Beer)" The Pretenders- "Brass in Pocket" What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? GENERIC INDIE ROCK...Maybe if I listened to Dave Matthews or O.A.R., more boys will like me. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: I’m no gourmand. It’s a tie between the free wine at Columbia Cottage and the orange chicken at Ollie’s. The title of your memoir: "Life Through Slanted Eyes: My Story" Dream date, 5 words or fewer: free drink? Singlefare metrocard. Stewart or Colbert? Chuck from Strangers with Candy. Finance and consulting: three bullet points, one opinion. I Don’t Understand Sugar daddies? 
 After their second body meeting on the subject, on Tuesday evening the Dems endorsed Senator Russ Feingold's plan for withdrawal from Iraq within six months of the bill's passage, defeating the Obama plan by a healthy two-thirds majority of members present. Now they're planning a big wing ding for March 20--the fourth anniversary of the start of the war--for which they are "pumped." At Bwog's request, Columbia University College Republicans President Chris Kulawik had this response: "While we're sure Senator Feingold can take comfort in knowing that his plan has been endorsed by such an influential and important group as the Columbia College Democrats, the Columbia Republicans are waiting to hear directly from leading Republican figures before making any endorsements. Seriously, we recognize that our members have diverse views and, therefore, we do not take any positions. At the same time, we are quite shocked that the College Democrat E-board &nbsp;feels that they have the authority to speak for all their members. How are campus Democrats who do not endorse the Senator's plan represented by this decision?" Bwog is shocked--SHOCKED--that powerless campus organizations make symbolic gestures. Who do they think they are? - LBD 
Frontiers report arrogant, Helfand responds, "I simply reject the claim that 17-year-olds know more than faculty" An article about money and sex, but no quid pro quo New York beats Boston in balls &nbsp;A Cool Article About A Playwright Spec staff urges credit for club sports, and Chas Carey says exactly the same thing (fix your link Spec) tells people to talk about their problems. 
Bwog music metacritic Bryan Mochizuki critiques the iTunes valentines day mixes, and offers his own. The advanced minds of the iTunes Music Store have put together a collection of mixes for Valentine’s Day, and they’re…pretty crappy.&nbsp; It’s bad enough that some people will actually give their dude “Rock Love Songs For Him” – so does the first song really have to be by Sarah McLachlan?&nbsp; I mean, a little sentiment is necessary for such things, maybe somewhere between “Eye Of The Tiger” and the acoustic version of “Layla.”&nbsp; Within these boundaries Lilith Fair is not. Of all the mixes, the only exceptional one is “Valentine’s Alone”. Its excellence is partly due to the fact that, as an iTunes Essentials Mix, the songs come in three groups: “The Basics,” “Next Steps,” and “Deep Cuts.”&nbsp; The working title for the mix is “Free Some Oxygen Up.”&nbsp; So yep, that’s right, you can just buy the “Deep Cuts” on the “Kill Yourself” mix.&nbsp; Even better: while most of the mix is what you’d expect (“Cry Me A River,” “I Will Survive,” Tom Jones), the “Next Steps” section contains not one, not two, but FIVE classic country drinking songs.&nbsp; In a row. I made a diagram at right.&nbsp; Unfortunately, this inspired, lawless making-of-playlists didn’t happen with the un-“Alone” mixes.&nbsp; Of the country ones, the “Songs For Us” duets mix is the best, but its still hit-or-really-miss.&nbsp; Plus there’s only one (mediocre) Emmylou Harris song, which would be like making an R+B mix with only one R. Kelly song.&nbsp; Oh wait.&nbsp; You don’t say? So instead of just cut-and-pasting the entire R. Kelly catalog, iTunes decides to bring back your middle school slow dance jams?&nbsp; Romantic! Never one to just armchair quarterback, though, Bwog offers up our first ever Valentine’s Day mix.&nbsp; It’s a lot of good new music and a few dusty gems, and there’s no theme (besides love, of course).&nbsp; Love men? Women? Loneliness? Weed?&nbsp; Check out the tracklist after the jump and click here (ZShare) to download.&nbsp; Lloyd ft. Andre 3000 and Nas – “You (Remix)” (0:05) John Legend – “Show Me” (3:45) Bloc Party – “I Still Remember” (8:42) Drive-By Truckers – “February 14” (12:44) Amy Winehouse – “Love Is A Losing Game” (16:14) Regina Spektor – “Samson” (18:44) Jenny Lewis, M. Ward, other dudes – “Handle With Care” (21:49) Vietnam – “Hotel Riverview” (24:41) Lucinda Williams – “Where Is My Love?” (29:12) Gram Parsons and Emmylou Harris – “A Song For You” (34:31) Irma Thomas – “Ruler Of My Heart” (39:23) Mary J. Blige ft. Stat Quo – “Without You (Remix)” (41:56) Nelly Furtado – “Do It” (45:57) B.O.B. – “Cloud 9” (49:32) 
Sugar-loaded festivities sponsored by your student affairs office on the Lerner ramps are drawing to a close -- all that remain of the cupcakes are some round, oily stains in cardboard boxes. But there's still some hot cocoa, a few crummy-looking but deliciously-buttery heart cookies, and some chocolates. Scavenge away!
Today is Valentine's Day, and time to declare your love, and, if you are a CC Sophomore, your major. Whether you want love, a major, or neither, Bwog can help you by giving you a guide to read and criticize.&nbsp; &nbsp;Love &nbsp;For many people, and even some at Columbia, this is a beautiful day for love, and Professor David Keyes has a mathematical way to show it, reports tipster Steven Thomas: Graph the equation (2x-ax/(x^2+y^2)^0.5) + (2y+a-ay/(x^2+y^2)^.5)dy/dx = 0), and after ten minutes of mathematical foreplay, you will generate the result at right, which can be rotated 90 degrees to make a familiar figure. Success Today CC Sophomores received an e-mail saying "Time to declare your major!" to which most of them probably mentally responded "fuck you, no it isn't!" True, you can declare your major any time until March 1st, but today is the first day to make the first day of the rest of of your college life.&nbsp; This list, compiled by the National Association of Colleges and employers, tells which majors are the most profitable right off the bat. Choose wisely, and three years from now you can afford a diamond, the substance with the highest RpV (romance per volume) of any in the world.&nbsp; Unfortunately for CC students, even if they are choosing the hot hot major of Econ, they can still get beat out by their SEAS colleagues. The tables will turn! Neither There is no better natural alternative to both work and love than the act of masturbation;&nbsp; &nbsp; In today's sexually progressive era, masturbating to say "fuck you" to the world is a technique used by women as well as men, according to sex columnist "Jenny Paradise" of UCSB's Daily Nexus.&nbsp; I still think "fuck it, might as well jack off" is a more elegant way to express the same thing. 
You'll never know who she is, but you'll read her anyway. Send questions, propositions, and fan mail to bwogsex@gmail.com. Welcome to the Belle Jar. &nbsp; I dedicate this Valentines Day to Lisa Nowak.&nbsp; Some people can go the distance for love. Walking across campus last night, I counted eight guys and girls carrying flowers to their objects of love, regard, and obsession. Beneath scarves and ski masks, their eyes spoke volumes:&nbsp; “I’ve got someone, I’m going to see them, O’Keefe this motherfuckah.” The clock struck twelve, and it was Valentines Day. It was sweet. Well, at least until I remembered that these people were probably in relationships.&nbsp; Close friends and anonymous hookups rarely buy each other flowers. Flowers are a big symbol.&nbsp; They’re innocence; they’re passion; they’re female genitals. That kind of baggage is awkward in a friendship.&nbsp; But LOVE, love knows no bounds, and that’s basically the problem.&nbsp; If relationships and the people in them could restrain themselves, today and every other day would be a lot easier.&nbsp; Consider the following a guide to being the two-wheeler that makes other people want to be your third.&nbsp; The Face-Munchers: Public displays of affection are endearing on a distant, detached, entirely impersonal level.&nbsp; You laugh when dogs sniff each others' behinds, and maybe, on a nice spring day, you smile at a kissing couple.&nbsp; (Unless they’re both hideous.)&nbsp; But there are those who overstep these bounds, plunging you and your vision into a state of great turmoil. Perhaps, like Oedipus, you too reach for the dress pins.&nbsp;&nbsp; I like to go up to these people and gently ask them to part--leave room for Jesus.&nbsp; Bubble Boys and Girls These people are completely unaware of the relationships they’ve stumbled into.&nbsp; In one scenario, they don’t know that things are going well.&nbsp; Top has found bottom, swimmer has found stroke partner, and econ major has found invisible hand.&nbsp; But these people haven’t a clue.&nbsp; “He hates me, she thinks I’m lame, he’s going to leave me at any minute,” they spew, leaving flecks of sentimental bile on your face.&nbsp; Ask their partner a few simple questions and you’ll find that their relationship is healthy and happy, with the exception of one person’s self-inflicted neurotic disorder. On the flip side, there are the poor lemmings who don’t realize that they are in trouble. They don’t yet see the problem with a relationship in which an ass slap is +5 on the affection scale. Step one usually entails intervention from friends and family, but if this doesn’t work (and it probably won’t), only time can take its car and back out over their ignorance/optimism.&nbsp; The Invisible Partner: Often (but not always!) the less influential, moneyed, or attractive half of a power couple, this person is like the crust of an asexually reproductive slime-mold. He or she (more often she) makes you sad at parties because you get the sense that if they let go of their boyfriend or girlfriend’s arm, they wouldn’t be able to find their way home. Being around this couple feels like being on the set of Ghost when Patrick Swayze is trying to get through to Demi Moore but he’s dead and she can’t hear him (not like the pottery wheel scene, sadly). Stay within your league—invisibility can be avoided by dating laterally.&nbsp; Sniping Skypers: If you plan to study abroad, and you plan to stay in your relationship, do everyone around you the favor of coming to some agreement on what your relationship is before your partner leaves.&nbsp; Even those who do this become Piners for semesters at a time.&nbsp; They’re technically in a relationship, but feel single, but won’t go out with their single friends because it feels like betrayal.&nbsp; Around week suxof their boyfriend or girlfriend’s absence, they’ll start scanning facebook photos, looking for attractive foreign students their partner could be secretly screwing.&nbsp; By the time the semester has ended, you’ll wish they had left the country together. &nbsp; The Organism: They were once single people. And then something grabbed these people by the cocks and clits and fused them a single organism, the kind that finishes each others’ sentences and each others’ food—saddening to those who knew them as discrete individuals with separate goals, interests, and neuroses. There is no back-and-forth in their conversations, as there is only one organism conversing.&nbsp; Stand in front of a wall and throw a rubber ball at it.&nbsp; The ball will come back and hit you in the face.&nbsp; That’s what their conversations are like. They share seats and dreams and oxygen—this last part is especially dangerous, as the diminished supply renders them retarded, leading them to share underwear.&nbsp; The only good thing they do is cut down on the number of party invitations you have to send out—no need for one per person, one per organism is best.&nbsp; Seriously though, if this is you, you risk alienating your friends and losing yourself—power dynamics are inescapable, so either you’re subsuming or submitting to your partner.&nbsp; It’s hard to get this point across to the organism, as it’s often very stubborn.&nbsp; It has good intentions, it has high hopes, it’s in LOVE, but it’s a fucking pain in the ass. &nbsp; The Happy Open Relationship; Elusive. Transient. More or less impossible, existing somewhere between Brigadoon and El Dorado.&nbsp; The problem is inherent in the phrase itself.&nbsp; You can be Open and sleep with someone you have a passing interest in, but you can’t do this repeatedly and call it a relationship. (A relationship is best thought of as a box. A Closed box.) Repetition does not make something stable; it just means you’re unhinged.&nbsp; Next week:&nbsp; Belle is done with lists!&nbsp; She moves on to…cunnilingus: art or science? 
Huzzah! The February issue is online, on this very website, and in fact the link that is linked here is also on the left of your page. Anti-Oppression Training: The Non-Bullshit Kind of Training Sachs Heroic Again&nbsp; Terra Cognita (study abroad): Russia, France, China, Chile, Ancient Greece?, Egypt, Here &nbsp; The Original Title Already Has a Wii Pun Verily Veritas This Dude Went to School in an Actual Tough Neighborhood &nbsp; 
 Strike on Low at 12pm. Some profs cancel class to allow students to exercise&nbsp; consciences, won't be disciplined "But I'm just not sure If I want to go, It's quite freezing outside and I do eat lunch at 12"- more idealized concerns about attending addressed here Steal this edition! anti-war movements --&gt; more war --&gt; more death ahh!!! And then there's that whole divestment thing Alma Mater (translated "nourishing mother"): Columbia's purpose is "the advancement of the public good and the glory of almighty God" Note: Eye is M.I.A., 'poke will be up later. -JDC 
 Registration for the annual Engineering Student Council-sponsored water pistol-fest begins tomorrow, and Bwog's getting excited. Teams of four will compete for group fulfillment, eternal glory, and undisclosed amounts of cash in the "espionage game" that will surely bring out the chemical, mechanical, or biomedical (etc.) engineer that's somewhere (very) deep inside of you. Don't let ESC's strange slogan -- "Death. From. Behind." -- turn you away, for the Assassins lore you hear is nearly all true (someone was once killed in Washington, D.C.).&nbsp; All of you Mavericks have just a few more hours to search for your respective Ices.&nbsp; Then grab your cloak, your dagger, your confidence - the fun begins on Monday. P.S. - Check out Chris Beam's '05 coverage of people acting pretty nuttily during CUAssassins here. -JDC 
 On Februrary 17th, 2006, we had a giant party at Mona to celebrate the launch of BW's quirky younger brother, the Bwog. You, at least, are still reading our little foray into new media, so you might as well help us celebrate our survival one year later. We were going to have it at Mona again, until the state Marshals foiled that plan. But never fear! We've teamed up with the Varsity Show's preview party in the back room at the West End, so you don't even have to freeze your snot on the walk down to 109th--and happy hour lasts until 1:00 AM ($3 drafts and $5 wells). So, your Saturday night itinerary: 8:00 PM: B-Dubbers get to the Stend, start drinking. 9:00 PM: First V-Show preview show 10:00 PM: Drinking continues. 11:00 PM: Second preview Midnight: something exciting? We can't promise another life size cutout of J. Sachs, but there will be cake, and everyone who's anyone--which means you. Incessant reminders to follow.&nbsp; 
 "Money for Jobs and Education, Stop the War and Occupation!” "Cut the funding, stop the war! What the hell is Congress for?" Anti-war impatience reigned on Low Plaza this afternoon as a hundred-odd students, professors, union workers, and community members listened to a slew of speeches organized by the Columbia Coalition Against the War while huddled at the base of Alma Mater, sipping free hot chocolate. A few professors had cancelled class, but most people stopped by on their lunch breaks, lingering for a few minutes before hustling on. One onlooker, who had just come from a trial in which her friend was arrested for holding a sign saying “Waiting for Peace” at Ground Zero on September 10, said she was hoping for a couple hundred more protestors. On the other end of campus, a group huddled in front of the doors of Butler, where someone had pulled the fire alarm a few minutes before the strike started. Alarms also went off in Lerner, Philosophy, and Hamilton at about the same time, spilling everyone out into the snow. Firefighters with big hoses expressed annoyance with having to check out the false alarm, which Coalition organizers said they had nothing to do with. After the speeches, the gaggle tromped up to 120th street and back, returning to a teach-in in Lerner with speeches by profs Richard Bulliet, Noha Radwan, Rebecca Young, and Rashid Khalidi (Dabashi didn't show) as well as people from ANSWER and the Iraq Veterans Against the War. Apparently there's some stuff going down at other schools too, and the wires are starting to pick it up as a blurb. WHAT NOW, President Bush?&nbsp; Pictures by Downing Bray and Sara Vogel after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Over 300 have the balls to stand out in the cold; 150 participate in much warmer Lerner teach-in (also, Spec includes a nifty little video) In the meantime, Computer Music Center staff catches colds without protesting Chillin' with the Varsity Show Will Iran turn a cold shoulder? -- In the meantime, the pro-life perspective of feminism 
Other quirks in recent news, for your Friday pleasure. The strike is not the only thing that has put Columbia in the news lately. According to Bwog reader James Downie, the rugby team’s planned visit to Trinidad and Tobago is also newsworthy, or at least for this Tobago publication.&nbsp; The writer even refers to our athletes as “the prestigious Ivy League team, Columbus.” There must be a journalistic lesson in this for all of us. &nbsp;In the latest exceptional CCSC ’09 email, class president George Krebs gives college sophomores the first heads-up: Flex Off Campus may actually happen, starting in Spring 2008. “After years of epic struggle with the administration to move the simplicity of Flex to the more delicious realm of the area of establishments, we’ve finally made great headway,” he writes. The idea of a late-night HamDel fix via ID swipe is enticing! Nevertheless, we’ll believe it once we see it. &nbsp;Krebs also notes that in the nearer future, we’ll be able to make do the community some good with our Columbia Cards too. Thanks to CCSC '09 efforts, within the next two weeks students will be able to donate change--or any amount--in Dining Dollars/Flex charges to the Jackie Robinson Youth Center in West Harlem. Charities receiving the proceeds will rotate each semester. Naturally, Krebs closes his email in bureaucratically trendy Youtube style – or, perhaps more appropriately, “Big Willy Style.” Do you know who set off that fire alarm in the middle of your English class yesterday? According to the previously QuickSpec’d article on the protest, the group behind it has quite the name: “As the strike began, fire alarms went off in Butler Library, Lerner Hall, Hamilton Hall, and Kent Hall, forcing an evacuation of the buildings and an investigation by the New York Fire Department. Later, a group calling itself the Union of Students Advocating for the Preservation of Tedious Paperwork claimed responsibility for the fire alarms in a statement delivered anonymously to Spectator, which called the protest "symbolic, harmless, permissible" and called the strike's organizers "aspiring bureaucrats." "We pulled fire alarms on campus to disrupt the scripting of both activism and student life," the statement said. "No one should be willing to sit idly in the face of war, nor should they be willing to act as mere extras in a farcical theatre of resistance." At this point, further commentary seems unnecessary.&nbsp; - MIP&nbsp; 
 Two Bwoggers sent in this photo of the mysterious (and large) SOS in the South Lawn snow, taken earlier today from the 7th floor of Hamilton. What could have possibly caused someone to create the massive distress signal? Could it have been due to some late-night shipwreck, leaving the castaways no option but to carve the gigantic rescue call onto the lawn and await rescue? Was it, perhaps, merely crafted of drunken freshmen unable to swagger back to their dorms? You decide. Now, while you ponder on that mystery.... CC student: Freshmen have so many classes here. SEAS student: CC freshmen have a lot of classes here. CC: Smart freshmen have a lot of classes here. SEAS: Freshmen who won't have jobs after they graduate. CC: Freshmen who don't have asthma. SEAS: Freshmen who have sticks up their asses. CC: Well, it cures the asthma. Thanks to Ashley Nin and Steven Thomas for their keen eyes and ears. 
Belle Jar thinks you're pretty OK yourselves.&nbsp;
With Mona and Roadhouse closed down, the Morningside bar scene just got a little thinner. But there's still stuff out there (MOST OF ALL THE WEST END WHERE YOU'RE COMING FOR THE BWOG PARTY TONIGHT) and we thought it was time to re-run Addison Anderson's gargantuan bar crawl from our Orientation 2006 coverage. Feel free to share your memories of the watering holes no longer with us. On Friday night, I went on a bar-burning tour of every Columbia watering hole, roughly from south to north.&nbsp; I named this epic pub crawl the Boot n’ Rally Rally.&nbsp; Here's how it works: I review my experience at the bar and assign a score using the facial expression I would make if you asked me, “Hey, Addison, you wanna go to ?”&nbsp; Then I give an explanatory quote that comes out of that face.&nbsp; These pictures were taken in order, so make a flipbook and watch me get faced.&nbsp;And no, I didn’t have a drink at every bar because I would have died.&nbsp; I’m lil’, and the doctor doesn’t tell me my weight in pounds; he says I weigh a hundred and one gumdrops and half a lollipop.&nbsp; Now let’s rally!&nbsp; Here I am at the start of the night, with one black hoodie and negative one shower, the perfect look and smell for drinking a lot and alone. My adventures start after the jump!&nbsp; Underground Lounge – West End Ave. between 106th and 107th&nbsp; The Underground Lounge’s two rooms are full of leg-and-elbow room and easy conversation.&nbsp; Its got something for everyone: there’s a jukebox with Bob Marley and Lou Reed in rotation, a TV for sports, a late night kitchen serving personal pizzas, a covered nook for smokers, and comedy shows in the second room.&nbsp; Filling out the “everyone” side of the equation, the bar pulls in a wide range of genial people, equal parts undergrads, grad students, and local residents.&nbsp; The older folks seemed settled and secure, and decidedly lecher-free. Prices were okay: a vodka tonic was four bucks, you can get five Rolling Rocks for $10, and the comedy shows have a two drink minimum but no cover charge.&nbsp; It could use some 1020-style booths, but as is it’s great for groups, long visits, and laid back fun.&nbsp; And the bouncer is cool.&nbsp; Hey Addison, you wanna go to the Underground Lounge? “Oh my, what a rare choice for an undergrad!&nbsp; I’m pleasantly surprised by your adventurousness and lack of pretense, and pleasantlier surprised-ier by this wonderful establishment!&nbsp; How novel!”&nbsp; O’Connell’s Pub, corner of 108th and Broadway O’Connell’s is the sports bar for ex-high school athletes and the college athletes they want to hang out with.&nbsp; It’s packed with weekend warriors and women who would be very attractive if they didn’t look so simultaneously annoyed yet forgiving. This place is good for a guys’ night out, if you want to try to live out that “Guys’ Night Out!!!” ad campaign from a few levels of cultural dignity ago.&nbsp; There are way too many faded, buckle-adjusted baseball hats worn inside O’Connell’s, but thinning hair sucks so bad, especially for ex-second string quarterbacks.&nbsp; I wouldn’t drink here, but if you come, get pitchers of Coors, Bud Lite, or Black &amp; Tan for $8.&nbsp; That’s cheap, and that’s the one bright spot I found. Go State! Hey Addison, you wanna go to O’Connell’s Pub? “I am mad at you, and at myself.&nbsp; That bar is a stereotype, but by not liking it, I am also a stereotype.&nbsp; I’m going to go eat bread and read.”&nbsp; Roadhouse, and I don’t feel like saying where it is Okay, it’s next to Mona and owned by Mona’s owner, but perhaps only as a bizarre yet effective way to encourage people to go to Mona.&nbsp; No one was there, no one’s ever there. It’s a big, empty, red plywood shack. A handful of old guys tried to flirt with the good-natured lady tending the barren bar.&nbsp; I got a PBR for two bucks and let the sad, slow early eighties love songs on the jukebox roll over me, thinking that maybe, just maybe, Roadhouse is the place for the loners and the broken-hearted, the down-and-out in this sick brawl we call life.&nbsp; I was all ready to sulk and ponder my lost loves, when one of the old guys says, “Hey, do y’all remember when that albino black guy peed on the bar?”&nbsp; Sometimes awful isn’t edgy or romantic but just awful.&nbsp; Hey Addison, you wanna go to Roadhouse? “Whoa, let’s talk.&nbsp; Do you want to talk?&nbsp; What happened to you?&nbsp; It’s okay to tell me.&nbsp; She left you?&nbsp; And she took your DVDs?&nbsp; You want to kill yourself in the bathroom of Roadhouse?!&nbsp; No!&nbsp; No.&nbsp; Listen, I’m your friend.&nbsp; I am your friend and I want you to live.&nbsp; I want you to live.”&nbsp; 1020, corner of 110th and Amsterdam 1020 is a family-friendly pub, but just for the family you make in college.&nbsp; Try to get a booth or stake out the front table or back mezzanine with your friends, since the narrowness of the place makes for quite a few bumps and near-spills.&nbsp;Meeting your friends here and adding to your party as the night goes on is a typical experience, not because I’m Captain Friends-a lot but because a lot of people I know use 1020 as a sort of home base for their night in The Meh, and all my friends love to drink.&nbsp; The crowd is almost all undergrads and bouncer is usually a lovably bewildered old man.&nbsp; The bartenders are fast and very nice, but don’t expect them to make that one somewhat rare drink you really like. Peter Mende-Siedlecki CC 07 says he loves 1020: “I’m here all the time.”&nbsp; I suggest you take a good long look at Peter Mende-Siedlecki and decide whether or not you want to go there, too. Hey Addison, you wanna go to 1020? “Hell yeah, I want to go to 1020!&nbsp; Oh wait, I don’t have blazer-hoodie combo menswear, will I fit in?&nbsp; But oh yeah, I go to Columbia!&nbsp; Let’s go have fun now.”&nbsp; Suite, corner of 109th and Amsterdam Suite is a gay karaoke bar with an Indian fast food counter attached to it. Thursday night is karaoke night— expect the hot hostess to wow the crowd with her better-than-average voice. Bombay Frankie’s offers the best drunk food ever, frankies, which are tasty meat or potato thingamajigs.&nbsp; But back inside the bar for my Wacky Hetero-Out-of-Water Adventures!&nbsp; Suite’s bartenders perform exceptionally well considering the stifling tightness of their tank-tops. Pop and hip hop are playing at a good volume, and their corresponding videos are on the flatscreen TVs.&nbsp; Whoa, music and the video at the same time!&nbsp; Am I still even uptown?!?&nbsp; Come with a group and some songs in mind and kill your vocal cords on the mic and at the bar.&nbsp; Yes, Jimmy, a guy might check you out, so if you’re afraid of that, don’t go to Suite.&nbsp; Or O’Connell’s.&nbsp; The crowd consists of almost all guys in their mid twenties to forties, one of whom tells me that Suite is “the nicest, friendliest gay bar in the area.”&nbsp; The bartenders are also nice and friendly with the vodka, and totally bigoted against the tonic.&nbsp; Sweet. Hey Addison, you wanna go to Suite? “Why the hell not?&nbsp; Guy’s Night Out!&nbsp; Conspicuous acceptance is totally hot right now, too.”&nbsp; Sip, Amsterdam between 109th and 110 th I always walk by Sip.&nbsp; Almost everyone walks by Sip.&nbsp; But tonight I sit down on one of their really comfy ottoman things and discover that the music always sounded good when I walked by because there’s a DJ in a little booth near the ceiling.&nbsp; A bar this tiny in a city this anti-dancing, with a DJ?&nbsp; Sip isn’t playing around.&nbsp; Sip is the only place in The Meh that serves mojitos, the only place that asks what kind of vodka you want in your vodka tonic, and the only place that charges $7.50 for that maddeningly delicious drink. Intimidating yet intimate, Sip might be a nice last spot to visit while on a date before finding somewhere even more intimate.&nbsp; Good god, am I channeling Cosmo?&nbsp; Maybe it’s time to boot. Hey Addison, you wanna go to Sip? “Oooooooo.&nbsp; I am at once intrigued and distressed.&nbsp; Do you think I have the money or the cheekbones for such a sexy and pricey place?&nbsp; Oh, but I give you sexy brows anyway!”&nbsp; Lion’s Head, corner of Amsterdam and 109th Lion’s Head is the right way to do a bar.&nbsp; If the School of Athens painting were a bar, Plato and Aristotle would be descending from the back mezzanine of Lion’s Head. Ladies and gentlemen, come here for Your Respective Gender’s Night Out.&nbsp; Pitchers start at $9, a pint of Harpoon is $4, and the beer selection is impressive.&nbsp; The bartenders are aces and the bouncers aren’t enforcers as much as they are big friendly dart safety guards.&nbsp; Yes, Lion’s Head is a sports bar, but it knows what’s really important: good times for the people, and really good cheese fries.&nbsp; These melted jack and cheddar cheese fries absolutely destroy that pile of starch and plastic they serve at Tom’s.&nbsp; I also recommend the Buffalo wings, coming in five levels of spiciness, the top being “After You Eat This It Will Come Alive In Your Stomach And Eat Your Soul.” Happy hour is 5 to 8 every weekday, with $3 well drinks and $2 beers: beats the Heights in my book, because I get tired of fruity brain freezes. I love Lion’s Head, this temple of flawed humanity where we argue, flirt, and play tabletop Pac-Man.&nbsp; I’m going to propose here, and yes, to my first wife. Hey Addison, you wanna go to Lion’s Head? “All of a sudden I am compelled to say that I deeply respect your spirit.&nbsp; Go to Lion’s Head even once, and my journey shall not have been in vain.”&nbsp; Mona, Amsterdam between 108th and 109th Mona is like the West End if the West End got drunk and confessed what a slob it really was.&nbsp; There are a lot of girls here on busy nights, but tonight two tell me that Mona makes them “feel bad.”&nbsp; Huh, women!&nbsp; This is one of the not so busy nights, when guys stand around and get annoyed at the jukebox’s newly constrained selection.&nbsp; In the back of the very large room there’s an isolated, beat-up pool table for which usage in porno films might somehow be a step up.&nbsp; At least Mona has room for dancing in its fairly wide corridors and on its comfy mezzanine.&nbsp; But the bartenders are slow, your feet often get caught on the super-sticky floor and your mind jumps back to pornography and all of a sudden, it’s a bad night.&nbsp; Mona will rev up as we get into the semester and more student groups hold parties here. The prices are about the same as 1020, sometimes randomly more expensive.&nbsp; All in all, this place has a lot of potential, but you know how that goes. Hey Addison, you wanna go to Mona? “Ehhhhh, geez.&nbsp; Alright, but…uhhh…okay.&nbsp; Let’s go.&nbsp; It really could be awesome.&nbsp; I like to dance, so…hey, just be safe.&nbsp; Don’t touch the floor.&nbsp; And keep your phone on.”&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Heights Bar &amp; Grill, Broadway between 111th and 112th I ogre-sprinted to the Heights only to find, who would’ve guessed, a big line up the stairs.&nbsp; The Heights is small, fills up fast, and stays cramped for the whole night.&nbsp; They have a late night happy hour from 11:00 PM to midnight if you can make it.&nbsp; The clientele is undergrad and sexy, but sexy in that way where you think “Hmm, you meet the stated requirements of sexiness.&nbsp; Good show, miss/sir.”&nbsp; But if that’s what you’re into, the Heights can be a fun, loud little triangular room where everyone rubs up against everyone else.&nbsp; Try the margaritas.&nbsp; If you go during the afternoon, try the Vancouver fries.&nbsp; They aren’t as good as Lion’s Head’s, but they come with gravy. The prices usually feel a buck too high, and dealing with the bartenders inevitably entails someone yelling over someone.&nbsp; Tonight I stand in line alone and listen to someone complain about the line, and then leave.&nbsp; Bah. Hey Addison, you wanna go to the Heights? “The Heights has three corners.&nbsp; There were three crazy alien villains in Superman II.&nbsp; This face is how I react to both the Heights and General Zod.”&nbsp; Nacho’s, Broadway between 112th and 113th On the way to Nacho’s I realize I need another drink so that when I do boot, I can convince myself it’s from the alcohol rather than from sheer disgust.&nbsp; But to Nacho’s: this place is actually a lot of fun on slower nights when the sitcom-worthy mid-twentysomething bartenders make fun of each other, you, and innocent passers-by out the window, and you have the leisure to browse the big selection of beers on tap.&nbsp; Some lady who was on America’s Next Top Model works here supposedly.&nbsp; Tonight I stand in the empty middle of the place, between the crowded bar with its patrons walled in by a big partition and the tables way over on the opposite wall. Put the O’Connell’s and Heights crowds and prices together, you’ve got Nacho’s.&nbsp; These people have room to dance here and yet they don’t, and I don’t know if I should fault them, Bloomberg, or both. Hey Addison, you wanna go to Nacho’s? “Mmmmmmmm, nope.”&nbsp; Soundz Lounge, Broadway between 123rd and 124th Nothing like walking past Union Theological Seminary shouting “Boot n Rally Rally Boot n Rally Rally” over and over along with the opening chords of “Saturday in the Park.”&nbsp; Yes, the walk to Soundz Lounge is part of the experience.&nbsp; Make it a group experience, not because it’s dangerous alone (a grad student’s potted plant might fall on you but that’s probably it) but because bars far away are an adventure, and adventures are better with friends. The crowd is grad students and locals in a uptown room where Columbia types can drown their complicity in the Manhattanville affair in cheap rum and cokes.&nbsp; The lounge downstairs—“Free entry with CUID!”— is sparsely populated tonight.&nbsp; I walk in and one of five likely sophomores looks around the empty room before pushing his friend’s shoulder a little, and I walk back upstairs.&nbsp; The basement lounge has a stage, plush seating and its own bar, and you can rent it out and throw a great party, provided enough people like you enough to walk there. Hey Addison, you wanna go to Soundz Lounge? “Gee, way to be hip and off-the-beaten-track there, Captain Hipster.&nbsp; You’re so cool.&nbsp; Oh hey, McDonald’s.&nbsp; I’ll end my eye roll.”&nbsp; I thought the Rally ended there, but then I realized I’d forgotten about Casbah Rouge and drunk-flew there on a magical, winged goat of dreams.&nbsp; Casbah Rouge, Broadway and 110th Wow.&nbsp; Looking at it from outside, I always thought Casbah Rouge was small, a simple equation of Heights plus hookah.&nbsp; Oh was I wrong.&nbsp; There are two big rooms around back with tables for as big a group as you’ve got.&nbsp; I don’t smoke hookah, but if I did (and didn’t want to feel like a dork doing it in someone’s room or on Low Plaza), I’d do it here.&nbsp; Because then I could smoke and DANCE!&nbsp; The second I walked in, the live DJ asked me, via his music, “Why waste your time?&nbsp; You know you’re gonna be mine!”&nbsp; I’m yours, Casbah.&nbsp; Except now I have to dance-fight all these creepy old guys away.&nbsp; Yikes.&nbsp; Plus, a vodka tonic was seven dollars.&nbsp; Yikes yikes.&nbsp; Still, this would be a great place to finish a night of bar-hopping with some sock- or shoe-hopping on the mid-sized dance floor.&nbsp; Hey Addison, you wanna go to Casbah Rouge? “You wanna dance?&nbsp; We’re allowed to dance again?!&nbsp; Yeah!&nbsp; I don’t even need an overpriced drink, I just wanna dance!&nbsp; I’m so excited, I—Unh, unnnhhh!&nbsp; Uh-oh, clean up on aisle eight!”&nbsp; That didn’t really happen, but at the end of the first ever Boot 'n Rally Rally, I was indeed spent and content.&nbsp; And broke and drunk.&nbsp; And alone and un-showered.&nbsp; And sleeping on a friend’s futon for the third night in a row.&nbsp; And as you can see from the smile made by my cotton mouth and my unbrushed, vodka-and-beer-smelly teeth, I was happy.&nbsp; The Meh is big and weird and fun and lame and loud at night, and I hope you explore as much of the surrounding neighborhood as you can in the next four years.&nbsp; Or Crobar.&nbsp; Hey Addison, you forgot to go the Abbey.&nbsp; You wanna go? Yeah, I realized the next day that I skipped the Abbey on 105th off Broadway.&nbsp; The fact that I forgot to go is all you really need to know. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;9:00 PM! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; BWOG TURNS ONE! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; THE WEST END! With that Tourettically over with, a quick self-absorbed indulgence. The Bwog started as a mere twinkle in the eye of the staff of The Blue and White. Editors had been kicking around the idea of as website for awhile, but opinions on how we should present its content and tenor varied. When the Bwog finally launched in February 2006, we had QuickSpec, "free food," lots of random photos and bits of gossip, and a staff dedicated to making the Bwog as silly and witty as possible. Since then, editors have come and gone, layout styles have come and gone and come back, and we've gotten a little more serious and news-ical. Our readers and commenters have swelled in number and snark, showing us up constantly with their witty vitriol. So- reader, thou philobwoger- thanks for "reading more," and we'll see you tonight. BWOG VITALS Hits per day: A lot Comments: 17,871 Posts: 3,111 (including events and issue articles--hey, it's the only way to count) Images: 2,636 Unique tags: 1,184 Registered commenters: 203 "Free food" tags: 69 "Romance" tags: 35 "Meta" tags: 30 Major fuckups: Several Daily editors, past and present: 14 or so Gothamist shout-outs: 24 Gawker links: 8 (we thought it was more, too) Layout overhauls: 1...and one reversal Gmail addresses with the word "Bwog": bwogfan, bwogette, and bwogsex Number of times mentioned in the Spectator: 8 Number of times we've mentioned Spectator (including Quickspec): 124 Number of facebook profiles with Bwog in them: 20 
On Friday, lecture hopper extraordinaire Josh Mathew took the walk down to St. Mary's Episcopal church in Harlem to hear two scholars duke it out on the question of Israel and Palestine.&nbsp; &nbsp; After making my way past the numerous activists handing out fliers condemning the war in Iraq and the U.S.’s conceivable Iranian escapades, I grabbed a seat in one of the old wooden pews of St. Mary’s Episcopal Church on 126th in Harlem. After recognizing a few familiar faces amongst this unusual congregation, I saw sitting up at the altar Dr. Joseph Massad, Associate Professor of Modern Arab Politics and Intellectual History at Columbia University, and his cospeaker Dr. Tanya Reinhart, Professor of Linguistics at Tel Aviv University and the University of Utrecht. Massad and Reinhart’s co-lecture “Channeling Israeli Apartheid” capped off Israel Apartheid Week’s series of lectures, which focused on topics like divestment, marriage laws, and the media. Although Massad’s lecture began with an acknowledgment of Israel’s “substantive and psychological” desire for peace, he soon added that Israel has simply requested that the world recognize its “right to be a racist state.” Followed by a round of laughter, the phrase became the central rhetorical device of Massad’s speech, serving as the semi-sarcastic tagline to many of his sentences. Massad criticized all existing solutions proposed to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as having accepted Israel’s racist nature, racist laws, and system of apartheid. For example, after the 1993 Oslo Accords, the late President of the Palestinian National Authority Yasser Arafat recognized Israel’s “need to be a racist,” and following Arafat’s death, his successor Mahmoud Abbas has also been persuaded to recognize this “right to be racist.” In his conclusion, Massad, rejecting the proposed two-state plan, and recommended a “decolonized, binational state” as the only acceptable solution. &nbsp; While Reinhart focused more on the anti-apartheid model of resistance, her lecture lacked Massad’s organization.&nbsp; While initially criticizing international demands on the Palestinians to renounce violence and recognize past accords, Reinhart eventually lauded the South African model of anti-apartheid resistance through divestment and sanctions.&nbsp; She considered it the preferable, nonviolent alternative to wiping Israel off the map, the plan Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has endorsed. I raised an eyebrow at Reinhart’s faith that this anti-apartheid model had ushered in an age of “equality and dignity” for all South African citizens, whites included.&nbsp; Even Massad later countered that Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress were only able to bring about an end to white political domination by surrendering to American demands and accepting continued economic apartheid. Following the two speeches was a question and answer session during which Massad explained his use of the term “right to be racist.”&nbsp; Expressing distaste for racial theory, Massad questioned the genetic links between 19th century European Jews and the ancient Israelite kingdom.&nbsp; He instead argued that notions of Semitic identity were actually the result of European gentile racism that sought to paint Ashkenazi Jews as foreigners.&nbsp; Citing the example of Germans who trace their ancestry back to the Aryans/Teutons of northern India, Massad noted that even if such a genetic link existed, no one would agree to the Deutschland’s colonization of the South Asian subcontinent.&nbsp; In his closing statement, Massad’s vehement opposition to an Israeli ethnic state served as a more general criticism of ethnic national identities.&nbsp; However, while Massad posited that this “right to be racist” was a result of perceived Jewish exceptionalism, I wondered what was exceptional about this perceived right considering the global hegemony of ethnonationalism.&nbsp; While I share Massad’s demand for purely civic nationalism, states’ de jure and de facto glorification of specific religions, dialects, races, cultures, etc. marginalize his view into the realm of idealism. The lecture ended with a short argument between the two professors about the merits of a one- and two-state solutions; however, as expressed earlier, they both believed a continuation of Israel’s policies was, as Reinhart stated, “suicidal” for Israel and that “saving Palestinians is saving Israel.” &nbsp; 
 Well, things on CCSC are shaking out a little differently than we predicted a few weeks ago. With the filing deadline coming up tomorrow at 8:59 PM, here's where we stand: IN - CC '08 vice president Michelle Diamond. Sighted in Lerner this afternoon taking campaign photos with her ticket. OUT - CC '09 President George Krebs, who has decided to stick with class council for at least another year. OUT -Dems VP Josh Lipsky, who couldn't pull together a ticket after asking around (including former CC '09 President and Bwog staffer Jessica Cohen) and has decided to stay with the Democrats. UPDATE, 10:40 PM: Lipsky clarified with the following information: late last week, he was encouraged to run for CCSC President by ABC President Keith Hernandez and ESC President Dan Okin.&nbsp; He considered the idea, and found three out of the four other members of his ticket. Ultimately, however, "It was a move I wasn't ready to make," Lipsky wrote in an e-mail. "I started with the Democrats by being elected as a freshman representative during my first week at Columbia and I truly want to finish my time at Columbia by becoming President of the Dems next year (a primary year no less!)." OUT - GOP president Chris Kulawik, who reportedly flirted with the idea but could also not find a satisfactory ticket. He had some good ideas in his column the other week--perhaps preparing for a run--that other candidates would be wise to look over. Especially the "bumbling mass of bureacracy" bit. and, the big news... POTENTIALLY IN - Dark horse sophomore Will Snider, formerly of the Varsity show, who's spent the year writing, directing, and acting in plays. He's working on pulling together a ticket (anyone want to be on CCSC?). As far as Bwog knows, he's the only guy standing in between us and a really boring race. Which isn't much fun for anyone, is it? UPDATE, 6:18 PM: Another reason for a contested election after the jump. - LBD Sent to SDA administrator Robert Taylor: From: Mayrath, Natalie Sent: Sunday, February 18, 2007 2:26 PM To: activities@columbia.edu Subject: MTV INQUIRY MTV's True Life series is looking into doing an episode on running for class president, and I was wondering when your student government elections will be held this year?&nbsp; How fierce is the competition?&nbsp; If anyone you know is running and interested in sharing their story, please have them email classpresident@mtvstaff.com. If you could pass this information along to the students running in elections this year, that would be much appreciated.&nbsp; Thanks so much, Natalie Mayrath MTV News &amp; Documentaries (212) 654-7340 
Last night,&nbsp;a bunch of&nbsp;Bwog's closest friends met up at Havana "West End" Central to make merry and make fools out of themselves in this old blog's honor. While the antics remained slightly more subdued than we would have wanted, drunken mingling hit an all-time high. This was some hardcore mingling, man. And of course, we were well aware that the party also celebrated an institution to which the Bwog remains spiritually linked- the Varsity Show, fair tradition of the ages.We learned that&nbsp;380-odd people showed for the preview shows at 9 and 11,&nbsp;and we&nbsp;were forced to get creative in our seating and standing arrangements. While last year's "moderator" of the show was memorably Jeff Sachs, this year we were led by a drunk, smug Vaclav Havel, who paged through his copy of "The Garden Party" during songs and, with the help of his put-upon translator, made wisecracks between the numbers. Inspiration for this year's&nbsp;songs&nbsp;came from&nbsp;Tom's Diner, Wikipedia, old people in MoHeights, and the Joyce Kilmer Bad Poetry contest. And, needless to say,&nbsp;the V-show writers were bombed. Other highlights included a smuggled 40 oz. in a paper bag, a blue and white seersucker suit (ahem), a couple of knocked-over palm trees, ubiquitous mojitos, a DJ spinning reggaeton, several underaged siblings, and reams of editors past, present and future. B+W EIC emeritus/emperor of the event Zachary H. Bendiner was rumored to be present, though we couldn't pin him down for a photo. Speccies showed up in record numbers, though student government reps were largely absent.&nbsp;AND- we&nbsp;sold tons of&nbsp;Bwog buttons ($1 each!)- though we still have more for you to proudly purchase and wear. (They even have the old bubbles on them!) &nbsp; Pictures by Sumaiya Ahmed and Lydia DePillis! -KER&nbsp; 
The air was cold, the protests were hot, with enough love to go around. Upcoming this week: the Assassins race begins. Don't get caught in the crossfire. - The ramp up to the strike/protest/walkout was more exciting than the shindig itself. Meanwhile, campus cries out for help. - We got some thinking on Israel going on up in here. - These lovely ladies didn't end up with dates for V-Day after all...but graphic and musical fulfillment comes cheap. - The world discovers Belle Jar, swoons - Dems take a "firm stance," party system at Columbia proves more dysfunctional than US Congress. - Bwog brings the ruckus, talks about self
 Fresh from the newly cleaned-up Spectator website: How about just... not assigning exams in Lerner? Morningside Heights to Rangel: Draft? Seriously? Now where will we buy our discount movie passes? This just in: Professors' ideas on sexuality often out-of-date! (please read this) 
 At last night's CCSC meeting, a proposal to work towards a centralized course evaluation system was passed unanimously. Academic Affairs Representative Alidad Damooei '09, who co-wrote the proposal with Class of 2008 President Neda Navab, has been meeting with the Office of the Vice President for Arts and Sciences to come up with a uniform set of questions (ideally five or six) that can be published in an easy accessible format, similar to that of SEAS or other Ivy League schools. CCSC now plans to work with the Vice President for Arts and Sciences, Ann McDermott (with whom Damooei has been meeting recently) to come up with such a system, and to test questions through small focus groups. If the system gets off the ground, only time will tell if any of the "official" published evaluations will ever assume the delightfully vulgar tone of moral outrage that the best negative CULPA reviews have to offer. -DPD 
 Steven Thomas stopped by today's anti-Manhattanville rally, at which South Lawn was declared a blighted zone, and passed on this report: A woman declaring herself to be a long-time resident across the street from Columbia stepped up to the microphone, declaring, "What Columbia isn't telling you is that they are going to build a Level 3 Bio-Threat lab in Manhattanville.&nbsp; In colloquial terms, that's germ-warfare, over an earthquake fault.&nbsp; If we are going to speak of blights, this building will be the real blight." However, in the sake of balance, the most recent earthquake to strike Manhattan was of magnitude 2.6 in 2001 (soft enough that it was only noticed by seismic sensors).&nbsp; Also, the bioterror threat building is going to be "helping to fight such devastating diseases as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's and be instrumental in helping to improve the lives of those suffering from autism, dementia, and schizophrenia." 
 Professor Peter DeMenocal, Frontiers lecture, Monday morning, in response to a student asking why dinosaurs survived in warmer temperatures but humans can't: “That’s our world, like it or not. We’re not dinosaurs.” Spanish professor in Milbank, Monday afternoon: "Spanish is spoken in 19 countries... i mean, depending on whether there's a revolution, right?" Thanks to Hillary Busis and Ashley Nin for the tips. 
 The "Commissioner" of Assassins sends notification that you can't get your espionage on just yet: Agents: Due to the fact that we ran out of guns (despite having ordered enough for everyone) and the fact that no establishment in Manhattan seems to carry squirt guns in the month of February, we have been forced to delay the start of the game until THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22 at 9 P.M. You will be unable to log into the website until that time. Should you have any questions or concerns, please e-mail back. -The Commissioner 
 The SGO was hopping tonight, as candidates filed for their positions for the upcoming CCSC election, putting an end to days of intense speculation. The CCSC President's race was especially full of surprises, as a number of rumored candidates (George Krebs, Felipe Tarud, Chris Kulawik, Josh Lipsky, Will Snider) did not run (choosing, respectively, '09 Class Council, University Senate, College Republicans, College Democrats, and what looks like no run at all). This hardly indicates that Michelle Diamond is running unopposed, as had also been rumored. She faces three two opponents from the class of 2008, none of whom are affiliated with CCSC. Those candidates are Tracy Chung, Shoshana Schwartz, and Natali Segovia. More free-floating electoral goodness after the jump! Photos: Segovia (left), Diamond (top right), Schwartz (bottom right). No image of Chung was immediately available. The races for Academic Affairs Representative, Student Services Representative, and University Senate appear equally crowded, if not more so. Details as to numbers and specific candidates were initially unclear due to the sheer number in the field; one member of the Elections Board was heard to remark: "Wow, there are a lot of candidates." Bwog can confirm that Felipe Tarud has filed to run for University Senate, and Molly Conley, current 2010 Vice-President, for Student Services Representative. Conley's running mate in the last Class Council election, 2010 President Mark Modesitt, faces competition from two other parties, led by AJ Pascua and Maximo Cubilette, both current members of the Class Council and Presidential candidates in the last election. George Krebs and Neda Navab are both running unopposed for the top spots on their respective Class Councils, with respective running mates Mark Johnson and Calvin Sun. Many rumors seem cleared up, but the Presidential race seems more unclear than ever. Bwog will keep you updated as the field's parties and platforms become known, and as we get to know the candidates through debate season. May the best woman, and her party, win. UPDATE, 12:45 AM: Bwog has learned the full field of candidates. They are as follows: At-Large Positions&nbsp; Academic Affairs Representative: Donna Desilus '09, Kenneth Liu '10, Scott Zaloom '09 Pre-Professional Representative: Priyanka Gumaste '10, Derek Hou Student Services Representative: Molly Conley '10, Brian Leung '09 University Senate: Daniel Free, Philip Hadley '09, Kevin Jiang '10, Allan Lau '09, Jonathan Mo '09, Felipe Tarud '08, Michael Topol '10, Eric Wang '08 2010 Class Council Alma Matters : Mark Modesitt (President); Jessica Becker-Venegas (Vice President); Gabriel Castillo, Lena Fan, Esha Gupta (Representatives) Go: AJ Pascua (President); Sue Yang (Vice President); Joey Goldberg, Matt Harold, Claytoya Tugwell (Representatives) Toga: Maximo Cubilette II (President); Alexandra Lalonde (Vice President); Charlotte Freinberg, Valerie Sapozhnikova (Representatives) 2009 Class Council Fusion: George Krebs (President); Mark Johnson (Vice President); Heather Oh, Ian Solsky, Zahrah Taufique (Representatives) Unaffiliated: Kelley Gasper (Representative) 2008 Class Council : Neda Navab (President); Calvin Sun (Vice President); Scott Hughes, Rahul Jain, Stephanie Quan (Representatives) Executive Board One Columbia: Michelle Diamond '08 (President); Alidad Damooei '09 (VP Policy); Jennifer Choi '09 (VP Funding); Lindsey Lazopoulos '08 (VP Campus Life); Glenn Thompson '08 (VP Communications) Rebelcc: Tracy Chung '08 (President); Katrina Ciraldo '08 (VP Policy); Tim Paulin '08 (VP Funding); Josie Duffy (VP Campus Life); Paul Soto '08 (VP Communications) Revolve: Shoshana Schwartz '08 (President); Rahel Aima '10 (VP Policy); Lillian Udell '10 (VP Funding); Samantha Stanton '09 (VP Campus Life); Gabriella Ripoll '10 (VP Communications) Voice: Natali Segovia '08 (President); Mallory Carr '09 (VP Policy); David Coates '08 (VP Funding); Marbre Stahly-Butts '08 (VP Campus Life); Nirvikar Jassal '10 (VP Communications) UPDATE, 1:05 AM: Shoshana Schwartz pulled the Revolve Party out of the race with this statement: "The Revolve Party decided to run on the expectation that the One Columbia Party was running an uncontested race.&nbsp; The Revolve Party does not have any specific objections to the One Columbia Party, and in fact has a positive view of the One Columbia Party.&nbsp; However, we felt that for the sake of democracy, an uncontested&nbsp; election would not be beneficial to the community.&nbsp; As two other parties announced surprise decisions to run, the Revolve Party has&nbsp; decided that it will no longer run for CCSC." And then there were three. -DPD 
This time, the critics were right.&nbsp; We tried reporting on the Blight demonstration on South Lawn at noon today, which was a protest of Columbia's lack of transparency in the expansion process and the potential use of eminent doman to obtain the last few properties in Manhattanville that Columbia needs to build its new satellite campus. In order to do that, a Columbia-funded study is underway to determine whether the area is "blighted," which means the state can hand it to a private entity. The actual story will be reported in the Spec in an hour or so--read up for what really happened (UPDATE: find it here). Our "story" failed to contextualize the quote, which our tipster overheard while walking by, and completely misrepresented the character of the protest. We also tried to insert snark by quoting a Columbia planning site. It wasn't funny, and it wasn't informative, and it made this Bwog editor feel pretty bad. So, kick us in the shins. - LBD &nbsp; 
 Hm, you heard this anywhere before? Barnard Students get authentic New York experience&nbsp; STRIPPERS STRIPPERS STRIPPERS (gotcha)&nbsp; Three hours before this becomes part of someone's platform. Anti-War professor speaks at anti-war rally because he is anti-war. Stop the War! 
 Reading it in print may be archaic, but today there's a reason to pick up the New York Times -- an insert with a free wallet size fold-out bus and subway map.&nbsp; As of 6 minutes ago, there were still some copies left in Lerner. And an hour ago, there were sandwiches, cupcakes, chips, music, and "Arnold Palmer's mix" (iced tea + lemonade, apparently) in Lerner. See what's left to scavenge. 
Last night, the Columbia Republicans and Democrats met in Hamilton for a debate on energy policy. Karen Leung has this piquant dispatch (all opinions are her own--read Spec for the bland version). &nbsp; The best moments of political analysis at last night's energy policy debate came from Tedde Tsang, who spoke to no one. Tsang, three rows from the back, laughed quietly to himself whenever either side made a verbal screw-up. He sometimes made the effort to hoot. At the front, Evan Thomas, CC '08, and Dan Amrhein, CC '09, spoke for the Dems. In their opening remarks, they attacked increasing oil dependency and lack of research funding for alternative energy under the Bush administration - their strongest points. They were supported by Thomas's very active eyebrows. The Republicans' Tao Tan, CC '07, and Dana Newborn, CC '09, were forced to defend Bush's track record. Or rather, Tan mostly left Newborn to the (difficult) task. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was her crutch, and both argued for private innovation as an alternative to state policy as a solution for oil dependency. But the crowd, mostly Dems, wasn't there for policy analysis. They wanted rhetorical piss and vinegar. One softball to their team - "Is the Bush administration doing enough to counter global warming?" - got a good half-minute of laughter. While substantive arguments were sometimes alluded to - props to Newborn and Amrhein for being the most effective on this - the real focus of the evening was on Thomas's talking points and verbal barbs, and on Tan's strange, just strange, outbursts. Some "gems": Thomas, condemning drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge: "the equivalent of putting a rapist in a battered women's shelter." Tan, on the trading of emissions credit caps on emissions: "I don't see the trading of emissions credit caps as a Republican or a Democratic issue. It's a capitalist issue, we are a capitalist country, I am a capitalist. I like to make money!" Tan and Newborn might have had a good argument to make about failures in the Democratic record. Their emphasis of the Kyoto Protocol's death under a Democratic administration was one of the stronger claims. But credibility was a problem for Tan, who culled many points from his personal experience - which might have been okay, if not for his masturbatory references to working for General Electric. The Republicans' biggest loss was probably on their attempt to defend drilling in Alaska and the Gulf region. Thomas and Amrhein were the better rhetoricians, generally, and their use of statistics was more credible. But they were successful where it was easy to be successful: attacking Bush. And the grandstanding made their failure to articulate a clear and specific Democratic plan for change less forgivable. Overall, the speakers monkeyed around the topic of oil dependency, rather than debating it. But their supporters had a good time at the circus, and so did Tedde Tsang. 
 The CCSC gossip has been flowing like cheap wine at Columbia Cottage. For your edification: Item #1: Chris Kulawik may have come closer to a CCSC run than anyone realized. As George Krebs struggled to put together a ticket, he received feelers from Kulawik's associates to see if he was interested in joining a Kulawik ticket. Krebs is associated with the College Dems; Kulawik, of course, with the Republicans. Krebs turned him down, and faced with a limited timeframe, Kulawik decided not to file. Item # 2: File Felipe Tarud in the long list of candidates who claim that higher-ups in CCSC urged them to run. Tarud, who won't say which individuals wanted a candidate to oppose Michelle, considered it, but bowed out as he realized other candidates were interested were running and performing what he called a "cost-benefit analysis." Ever more whispers from the SGO after the jump! &nbsp; Item # 3: No word on how Natali Segovia's Voice Party managed to be included in the race despite turning in paperwork about two minutes late (9:00:59, by the one of the many unsynchronized clocks in the SGO that was deemed "official"). When this reporter left the SGO at about 9:20 last night, the campaign was still in limbo, though they are now officially in. Our guess as to why no one cared: it was just under two minutes. Item # 4: For her part, Michelle Diamond issued a strictly-for-the-haters (copyright Kevin Federline) statement to Bwog three hours before the filing deadline, in which she welcomed the competitors that have made a race of an election that might have been uncontested: "I am more than happy to discuss my ideas because having to defend them and think about all the specifics involved in accomplishing them would only make me a stronger president if I am fortunate enough to be elected." In an earlier interview with Bwog, Diamond discussed her hatred of looking "political" while campaigning: "Anyone who runs for Student Council has a masochistic drive." Indeed. -DPD 
Parody QuickBwog&nbsp;satirizes us and you, Bwog readers, alike. And now we're QuickFedding it. How meta is that? Thankfully, it wasn't difficult to come up with a "ridiculously forced theme" for the rest of the issue: Mock Bored@Butler Mock GoAskAlice Mock IMDB Mock Bush Iraq Strategy,&nbsp;including cartoons inexplicably anthropomorphizing bunnies and carrots Mock...er, real interview with Gulati? Finally: presses must have been stopped to insert this timely THEY Watch reference to Facebook gifts. The Fed = just one step behind&nbsp;Mark Zuckerberg, who clearly = THEY! 
 Yeah, we're Establishment now... fuck. Quite possibly better news than Chipotle Alternatively, we could hire chauffeurs. HAHAHAHAHAHAHA we love Ben Grosghal. And a little from the outside world... Bollinger dishes to Observer, avoids Biden fumble Gothamist on wheatpaste CUCRs one-upped by the NYU Republicans &nbsp; 
Bwog coffee-reviewer Downing Bray takes you off campus for a caffeine jolt. If the idea of setting foot into Butler sends you chills worse than the sub-zero wind chill temperatures of late, and your idea of getting off campus to study entails venturing beyond a 10-block radius from Columbia, you might just want to think about Think, a lively little coffee shop in the Village. True, it's in the heart of NYU territory and practically overrun by its students, but it is, in my experience of NYC coffee-shop exploration, one of the best. It prides itself on being environmentally-friendly, serving only Fair Trade, organic and shade grown coffee and tea and local milk, and encourages environmental awareness to its customers (hence the name 'think'). In addition to serving coffee that makes you and your taste buds feel good, Think has atmosphere. At the entrance are several bar stools and tables looking out onto the street while in the spacious interior there are ample tables, comfy couches and armchairs, outlets to plug in your computers, and lamps for your lighting needs. It's a popular place so you might encounter trouble getting a seat, and if you can't handle conversation this is certainly not the place for you; plus the music is on the louder side. But if you like a lively yet under-control atmosphere, this place is ideal, and it's open everyday until midnight.&nbsp; 
Emma Jacobs reports on a panel hosted by the Columbia Political Union last night in Hamilton, in which three experts concurred on the importance of not concurring.&nbsp; Yesterday’s panel on Academic Free Speech brought in three guests who found they didn’t have too much to disagree about.&nbsp; Greg Lukanoff, the president of FIRE, the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, spoke first.&nbsp; He is, predictably, a fan of free speech.&nbsp; He gave a brief history of FIRE, founded, he told the audience, in 1999, in response to the infamous “Water Buffalo Incident,” which happened in ’93. &nbsp; In Lukanoff’s eyes, Columbia’s got an awful free speech record. Besides arguing that storming the stage at the Minuteman event showed a lack of faith in the power of your own case, he also took a swipe at the University’s “Victorian” censorship in response to incidents like the hockey team’s recruiting posters, and brought up FIRE’s case against the social justice requirement at Teacher’s College, saying it confines all students’ personal definitions of social justice.&nbsp; He told us he’d seen just about everything in his years at FIRE, and if he writes a book, he’ll be calling it “Orphan of the Culture Wars.” Arthur Eisenberg, of the NYCLU for the past 35 years, also likes free speech. Eisenberg went over the “market place theory of free speech,” which says that the best response to bad speech is more speech—theoretically, the offensive speaker will realize that you’re right and change their mind.&nbsp; He pointed out we have professors to thank for academic free speech in private universities who had to convince universities to consciously incorporate free speech protections to protect their scholars from the bullying of politicians and university trustees.&nbsp; &nbsp; MEALAC had to come in somewhere. Eisenberg referred to the students’ complaints as typical conservative arguments.&nbsp; I wondered whether liberals might ever object to professors making their point a little too forcefully in class, but the consensus seemed to be that only a conservative could object to agenda-driven teaching. &nbsp; Allan Lang, the student rep on the panel from the World Can’t Wait campaign, pointed out some problems with free speech on campus: apparently holding an event deemed “controversial” costs $1000 per hour for security?&nbsp; Lang ran into this problem while trying to organize a panel on whether President Bush should be impeached for war crimes, which, he claimed, really shouldn’t be that controversial anyway.&nbsp; &nbsp; According to Lukanoff, courts have ruled that school fees have to be handed out on a content-neutral basis: because we all pay, the university can’t discriminate on how money goes out based on the content of an event.&nbsp; He said FIRE had worked on prohibitive security fees before and suggested that Lang send the case in. Watch out Columbia… Lukanoff (very quick to assure the crowd he was not a Republican), Eisenberg (who may have voted Republican once), and Allan Lang (well, he works for World Can’t Wait)&nbsp; agreed on the need for a diversity of political perspectives in every debate on campus. Even if what happened in the room last night wasn’t the best example. 
 A political statement? A new age design? An inefficient way to store things on a square surface, with walls high enough that they don't fall off? Stephen Thomas provides an investigative report of the strange object shown at right. So I was doing my normal engineer-y thing today, I noticed that there was a trashcan seemingly without a place to deposit my trash. The only logical explanation was that some poor SEAS freshmen had been assigned this "Community Trashcan Design Project" for Gateway and submitted this as their final design. Money on them getting an A- for their work. 
 Good weather, apparently, begets genius.&nbsp; Earlier today, a commenter left the following on the Think Coffee review: “i propose we get a gaggle of cu students together to go down to think on scrabble nights (thursdays??) and kick some nyu ass.”&nbsp; Kick some NYU ass? Something we do both far too much and yet not enough at all.&nbsp; Within hours, inboxes were filled, IMs were sent: Columbia University would have a Scrabble team, and Bwog would gingerly poke fun. However, a quick phone call to Think laid down the kibosh (15 points)--the Scrabblers had left for Brooklyn, or something.&nbsp; So Bwog's competitive spirit changed gears: TRIVIA NIGHT. Here's the plan. Bwog wants to start a super-quiz team with the sole purpose of putting Tisch students in their place. We hear The Baggot Inn, one block off Washington Square Park, is the pinnacle of both the NYU and the five boroughs trivia set--but since Bwog knows only what's on the undersides of Snapple caps, we need some stellar quizzers to out-quiz NYU, and we'll split the comped bar tab when you win. Try-outs will be informal – if you’re interested, send your name, phone number, and a good time to chat to bwog@columbia.edu.&nbsp; We’ll call sometime soon to ask, “Which New York ‘university’ is about to get their shit handed to them in a Morton-Williams bag?”&nbsp; Answer correctly and you’re in.&nbsp; We’ll most likely be training on Wednesday nights at our own La Negrita, then getting some road experience around the city before going for the title on a Tuesday night at Baggot’s.&nbsp; Or hell, maybe we’ll just rush’em next week and bank on first-timers’ luck.&nbsp; - BPM 
 Bwog presents a couple of blind items for campaign season. Any guesses? WHICH Class Council member, running for re-election, admitted to a Bwog reporter at a mandatory candidates' rules meeting that she was intoxicated? She spent the meeting text-messaging and gossipping about the uselessness of the meeting - and she seemed none too pleased with the top of her ticket, either. WHICH Class Council member spent all January telling friends she was running against her President, whom she had run with in the last election? She decided against it, ultimately, preventing a fair deal of drama. And finally, Seth Berliner sends in this report from his Intro to East Asian Civ: Japan class: Student:&nbsp;So, are you running for University Senator? Senator-to-Be: Yeah! Student: I feel like Student Council never gets anything done. Senator-to-Be: Paper towels! Senator-to-Be: Didn't you see my e-mail?!&nbsp; I got paper towels installed in eight frickin' kitchens! - DPD 
 I feel like I've been here before, been here before... (Watch Jeffrey Sachs on last night's Charlie Rose.) Give me your toasters, your lava lamps, your otherwise hidden appliances...while you walk out for that McBain fire alarm Peace, Not Apartheid. (Just kidding!)&nbsp; Democracy Soon! Please? Frontiers' heart:&nbsp; in the right place "In fact, the only characters that even approach anything near masculinity are, well, some of the women." 
What better season than Chinese New Year season to reflect on everything that is totally and completely over? Bwog staff and friends assembled a list of has-beens last night.&nbsp; Our hearts break for everything below. - Facebook pokes - 1968 - Rasterbation - Anna Nicole Smith and her baby's daddy - the phrase "I feel like" - the "CSI" franchise - SHOCC jokes - safe spaces - Michael Moore - the phrase "sucks at life" - Converse sneakers - finding the "New Hungarian" - personal blogs - punk music - friendships based on physical proximity of housing (only applies to first-years) - Pluto outrage - Courseworks - Foucault and Benjamin as the reigning kings of Columbia - exit opportunities - nostalgia - the word "hipster" - Queer Awareness week flyers still visible from South Lawn from last March, now celebrating almost 50 weeks of continuous, blinding awareness - ROLM - Details magazine - pretending to like "American Idol" - The Eye Many more after the jump! Read up ASAP - jeans that look like leggings - people born before 1990 (Izumi, you deserve personal credit for this one. Love, JDC) - ballet flats - making Britney Spears' bald head one's facebook picture - quoting "Mean Girls" - The Sopranos - Gawker, and any celebrity-related blogs (defamer, perezhilton) - Marc Jacobs - stealing 212 sandwiches. (was that ever in?) - Anna Wintour - journals AND magazines - upperclassmen telling underclassmen about how when they were freshmen the varsity show was so much better - Terence Koh at the Whitney - Edward Said's Orientalism - Yale - quoting cheesy song lyrics in your Facebook status so that they apply to you in some way that doesn't really make sense anyway (example: "Maryam is your wonderwall." Come on. That's gross.) - esoteric Facebook groups - MYSPACE - invisible hand metaphors - geek chic - metrosexuals - belief that having no fashion sense is some sort of indicator of moral virtue - cigarettes (sad sad sad but true, and good for you) - New York fashion week - the credibility (but not the fun) of "Project Runway" - atheism as the answer to all the world's problems - second semester seniors taking fewer than 14 credits - smoking pot - the bitter, bitter cold - the Arcade Fire's Neon Bible - commenting on how many Splendas other people put in their coffees - scrunched hair - affixing "Mc-" in front of every adjective used to modify the series "Grey's Anatomy" or its characters - the belief that "The Devil Wears Prada" is a good movie. &nbsp; - irony - those Arab "hipster" scarves (see: NY Times article in fashion section) - bangs - outrage over Bill O'Reilly - student protests against the war (sad, very sad) - Lindsay Lohan's potential - leggings under skirts - outrage over stupid comments on Bwog - stupid comments on Bwog - making fun of greek life - homework - deliberate earnestness - erudite british intellectuals - the Yankees-Red Sox schtick (this was done after October '04) - the tabloid wars - hating on Phish - the Oscars - golf - hating on Larry Summers &nbsp; - the NYPD - Mona - referencing LitHum in other classes - Barnard jokes - complainers - metacriticism - Netflix - the use of the word "snark" - the phrases "best" and "sincerely" - debates over the oxford comma - debates over whether girls masturbate - Camille's (for a LONG time) - bubble tea - ironic use of long words to shrewdly make a basic point - eurocentrism - neoliberalism - the Washington Consensus - moderation - the ice sheet of Greenland - the Cuomos - campus bands - putting fwd: loose change as e-mail subjects &nbsp; 
BW's art editor, Rachel Lindsay (also the woman behind that fantastic mural down in JJ's) was really excited to find this unusual installation, and wrote in: People try REALLY hard to get things noticed on the bulletin boards in Hamilton. But today: a clear winner -- it just comes out and bites you. Check out the first bulletin board in the right hand stairwell of Hamilton for an art installation of an orthodontic tooth mold. To the artist: I hope it wasn't bad experiences during the braces years that turned you into an angry artiste. AWESOME STUFF! KEEP IT UP! 
In which Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki programs your Friday, Sunday, and Monday nights. There are at least two really great shows in the city this weekend and two equally shiver-inducing MP3’s to share today, but first…THE OSCARS ARE THIS SUNDAY.&nbsp; Among the reasons to be excited: this year’s Lifetime Achievement Award goes to Ennio Morricone, the composer on A Fistful Of Dollars, Once Upon A Time In The West, and 504 other films/shows.&nbsp; Bank on this as THE highlight reel of the evening: the final showdown in West, the first time you hear the classic “do-ee-oo-ee-oo” theme in Good/Bad/Ugly, any scene from Bulworth, you get the picture.&nbsp; For the show, Celine Dion’s singing.&nbsp; Not mad, although I’d have preferred Warren Beatty.&nbsp; Anywho, on Sunday check in for that liveblog action that you’ve been missing from your life. But enough talk…&nbsp; “Apocalypse” – Vietnam Vietnam’s a rock band from Brooklyn.&nbsp; Make or break, right?&nbsp; Like either “oh Jesus give that Brooklyn here!” or “play Clap Your Hands again.&nbsp; I dare you.” The thing is: a. they’re originally from Austin, which makes sense considering the healthy dose of twang that pops up in their riffs.&nbsp; And b. there aren’t many Brooklyn bands that give people this much nostalgia for electric Dylan and Loaded-era Velvet Underground.&nbsp; These dudes hit those nails on their respective heads, but only enough to tease you into keep listening.&nbsp; It’s like if Marisa Miller were to do a classic Farrah Fawcett pose – yeah, she’s jacking a bit, but it also shows that she can play on that level. “Apocalypse” is the most dynamic song on their debut album, which came out in January.&nbsp; They’ll be playing it tonight at Southpaw in Brooklyn.&nbsp; Get tickets here. “Life At The Beach” – The Marina Lia Kessel graduated from Tisch a few years ago and has since been gigging around the city.&nbsp; Last winter I heard her at Piano’s, playing a piano, backed by her erstwhile group The Marina.&nbsp; The whole point was to write about mermaids/fish/aquatic things, hence the name.&nbsp; This song, which came out of those sessions, is a testament to both her singer/songwriter talents and her ability to avoid schtick (a challenge with the whole nautical theme).&nbsp; Kessel pressed up some EPs on her own, but this song never got a commercial release—which is a shame, because it could bring the house down at Starbucks, and I mean that in the best way possible.&nbsp; For the post-Cat Power piano set, Kessel is Kevin Durant, or something near that; unsigned and super promising.&nbsp; Catch her for free at Rockwood Music Hall down on the L.E.S. this Monday, playing under her new “Wild Cries” moniker.&nbsp;
 Hey, NYU students know how to organize a protest too! &nbsp;Columbia Cottage's watered-down wine is not the only foul thing there, apparently The only legit programming on the TV Guide Channel? Earbuds? Please, they are so 1999 Your CUID could ruin your life&nbsp; 
Spiderman and Scarlett Johansson are not the only ones to have visited the CU steps for some film shots -- Bwog Editor Chris Szabla came across this clip from the Indian film Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna (Never Say Goodbye in English), which was released last August.&nbsp; &nbsp; The Columbia scene kicks in at about 50 seconds in. What's particularly impressive, however, is how they've managed to get all passers-by in the scene to wear light blue (although it seems like more of a dazzling sapphire than the typical Columbia shade). The film has also won 11 Global Indian Film awards in 2006, in case you were curious. Now this is what we call globalization! 
...in the SIPA 6th floor lounge right now! Go! Vodka! 
In which Bwog freelancer Ashley Nin describes a flick that thrills in spite of itself. David Beckham's jersey number is 23. According to the Mayans, the apocalypse is predicted for the year 2012. 20+1+2=23. Pink is a combination of Red and White, and if you add up their letters (for example, R is the 18th letter in the alphabet), then you get 92. Divide that by the number of letters in 'pink' and you get 23. My birthday is September 1st, 1987. 9+1+1+9+8+7=35. However, 35-35+23=23! When I first saw the trailer for The Number 23, I figured that it would be another cookie cutter slasher film, relying solely on its outrageous premise to keep audiences from nodding off half way through. And since the basis for this film was so pathetically contrived, I accepted my free ticket as a pass to two hours of hilariously bad cinema. Instead, I left the theater disppointed, not because the film sucked, but rather because I actually enjoyed it. The cinematography as a whole was breathtaking and adds evidence to my conviction that Director Joel Schumacher is no one-trick pony. The abundant visual effects in worked where they showed up, and even the acting better than your typical horror flick. My one criticism is that it was not enough to redeem the terrible premise from which the entire movie was derived. Is the audience really meant to be convinced that 23 is the number of obsession? In any case, I can't wait until the sequel, in which a guy goes insane because the number 23 is avoiding him. "I met you when I was 37 and your birthday is the 16 of December... none of it adds up!" Find theaters and showtimes here.&nbsp; 
 Free speech or not? Why Havel might be like hearing your favorite love song, or, er, better You won't find any Maus in this exhibit Remember reading Animorphs books under the covers until you were almost in high school and loving them? You weren't alone. Chevron, Columbia, and the power of dissent all in one editorial 
 CCSC elections aren't the only democratic contest going on this month--starting at 11:00 PM on Monday, anyone who wants to run for Engineering Student Council executive board positions can nominate themselves by e-mail. But don't start practicing your flesh pressing and baby kissing: all you have to do is appeal to a small fraction of the SEAS student body, because Councilmembers are the only ones whose votes count. Again. There are two ways to change ESC elections procedures. You can put them on the ballot as a referendum, which requires 150 signatures and the approval of 2/3 of the Council, or you can propose a constitutional amendment, which requires the approval of 2/3 of the council. Last year, an attempt to change the system of internal elections failed rather pathetically when, although 67% of students voted against them in a referendum, the results of the vote were nullified because of low turnout. Last week, a similar constitutional amendment went before the Council, and "unfortunately" failed yet again to recieve the necessary support, according to ESC President Dan Okin (who called internal elections, by which he was voted into office, "a bad system"). So you can't vote for your president, and you can't vote on whether you can vote for your president, and even if you are allowed to, your vote isn't counted. And when Bwog tried to find out the percentage of those voting against the most recent attempt to bring democracy to SEAS, we learned that that information is secret and the vote was closed to the student body. At least you don't have to look people in the eye while they screw you? - LBD 
 While B&amp;W toils upstairs in Lerner, the staff of Spectator is taking their own turn at the West End, following their annual Blue Pencil Dinner and Lecture. After the elegantly attired ladies and gentlemen of the 130th and 131st managing boards filed out from behind Low Rotunda’s back curtain (having been feted on the company dime with high rolling alumni), the current Spectator pantheon arrayed itself on the dais behind retired Editor in Chief Steve Moncada, who gave a brief State of Spectator address. Just so you know, the State of Spectator is great. The paper has turned a profit for the first time since going broadsheet, remained the “most popular extracurricular activity at Columbia,” and started a “huge success” of a weekly magazine. Lehman-bound Moncada encouraged the new guard to aggressively develop web content, which may involve “freeing ourselves from the handcuffs of Viacom’s CollegePublisher.” Yes! Fight the man! This year’s speaker has also been hugely successful with her weekly magazine. Janice Min, Journalism ’90, is the youthful Editor-in-Chief of US Weekly, where she’s presided over a 2/3 jump in subscription numbers and some of the best Britney coverage in the nation (Min mentioned Spears at least 6 times in her 30-minute speech). “Some of you may not approve of my particular corner of journalism,” Min started out, before embarking on an eloquent defense of celebrity gossip rags. While acknowledging the argument that her media genre may have contributed to the dumbing down of society, she pointed out that much of educated America spends more time decrying the tabloidization of the country than “the actions of a reckless administration.” Paris Hilton didn’t start any wars, you know. Besides, it’s business, Min said. Entertainment in America is a $29 billion industry, and it makes sense to cover the titans in Hollywood as rigorously as we cover steroid scandals in sports or campaign finance reform. “There does not seem to be a limit to what certain celebrities will do, and what the public--all of you in here included--will watch,” Min said. Even if it ends up in the National Enquirer. &nbsp; - LBD 
 If you stayed uptown today, you missed the 2nd annual New York City Pillow Fight --organized by the public art group newmindspace, it attracted over three hundred pillow-wielding New Yorkers to Union Square at 2:00 to wail on complete strangers.&nbsp; Many in the crowd wore colorful and attention-drawing outfits, including a banana suit and several incarnations of William Wallace.&nbsp; Also of note: some guy who somehow lost his shirt in the fray, another who somehow found a woman’s shirt and underwear in the mayhem, and the ironic smiley-faced pillow I got hit with repeatedly. Bwog wants a repeat! &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - Steven Thomas 
We warned you. Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki has been peeing his pants all week for this moment: the Oscar Liveblog. Awards will start dropping in about an hour, so meanwhile, Bryan's got a warmup for you. Keep refreshing for the latest updates. I don't know a single person who is excited about Ellen DeGeneres hosting tonight, which means that everyone should be excited.&nbsp; Expectations haven't been nearly this low since Whoopi's return in 2001, and I think most people would even take her over Ellen.&nbsp; This is good though. Jon Stewart had to be really funny in a Jon Stewart way but still conform to the Billy Crystal footprint.&nbsp; This turned out to be pretty impossible.&nbsp; Ellen just has to not be bad and it'll be a success.&nbsp; And she's hosting after a week/month/year where the jokes wrote themselves. All the Oscar pool talk I've heard this year circles around Pan's Labyrinth (ie: "Are you gonna ride the 'Lab all the way?").&nbsp; Which is strange because the biggest category they're up for is Original Screenplay.&nbsp; I can't remember a year where the possible big winner of the night wasn't up for Picture or Director or any of the acting awards.&nbsp; The 'Lab plot-line is joined by two other big ones to watch through the evening: The Departed (hopefully) taking over and Diva-fest, aka Beyonce vs. Jennifer Hudson, aka THE MOST DYNAMIC COMPETITION FOR BEST SONG THAT ANY OF US WILL EVER WATCH.&nbsp; Seriously, besides Best Director, Best Original Diva Jam is the big attraction of the night.&nbsp; Will they let Hudson double up because she's just that good, or will "Listen" get the apology Oscar since Beyonce got snubbed as the fifth songwriter?&nbsp; OR will they snub "Listen" AND "Love You I Do" because Beyonce doesn't want anyone to get that statue if she can"t, and Jiggaman has a deep Melissa Etheridge collection?&nbsp; So many possibilities! 7:30 PM: Joan Rivers is on fire on the TV Guide Channel.&nbsp; She just scared/out-funnied Steve Carrell.&nbsp; They keep cutting away from her, usually to shots of Jessica Biel and Penelope Cruz with not funny people talking over them.&nbsp; Very conflicted over this decision... 7:39 PM: Oooh...Diva-fest begins.&nbsp; Jennifer Hudson is on some Captain Eo shit though with that jacket.&nbsp; I'm afraid to speak on fashion stuff, but, yeah, I know this jacket.&nbsp; We've met before. 7:45 PM: Portia De Rossi is here.&nbsp; The DeGeneres takeover is already looking up.&nbsp; Also: Celine Dion just spent two minutes defending her presence at the Oscars.&nbsp; And Alan Arkin's here.&nbsp; I wonder if they're gonna kill him off 2/3 of the way through with a heroin overdose and the entire show's gonna get really trite and sentimental.&nbsp; Oh, and Jennifer Hudson is here and she's ready to, yaknow, dance-fight the Whip Warriors. 7:55 PM: Anyone else mad about DiCaprio not getting the Best Actor nom for The Departed?&nbsp; They love awarding overly ambitious roles; this year won't be any different.&nbsp; DiCaprio's part wasn't ambitious per se but he was definitely the MVP of the year (as he has been for a while now).&nbsp; Would Departed be up for Picture and Scorcese for Director without DiCaprio?&nbsp; Probably.&nbsp; Would they be odds-on winners?&nbsp; No way.&nbsp; Who would you rather have in your movie, Forest Whitaker, Ryan Gosling, or Leo?&nbsp; Think about it. 8:01 PM: The ABC "official" coverage just started.&nbsp; Already one unfunny Borat reference.&nbsp; It's been a minute guys!&nbsp; Jeez. 8:11 PM: Why aren't commercials during the Oscars as big a thing as they are during Super Bowl?&nbsp; Or are they?&nbsp; Last one: Filet Mignon For Cats.&nbsp; 8:25 PM: Red carpet continues.&nbsp; Not a single actor from Letters From Iwo Jima came through yet.&nbsp; I was hoping that Ken Watanabe and the actor who played Baron Nishi would roll up tipsy and just wreck house all night.&nbsp; On that note, those two had the best on-screen chemistry of the last year.&nbsp; The best.&nbsp; They had, what, like five scenes together, but the second they meet on the beach, the screen LIGHTS UP.&nbsp; Didn't see that happen any other time this year, even during Arkin's best scenes in Sunshine.&nbsp; Robbed. 8:28 PM: Robbed!&nbsp; 8:29 PM: The real show's starting on ABC, the red carpet's still rolling on other channels.&nbsp; Make your move, smooth. 8:36 PM: The HBO ad knockoff they're using as the intro is on its seventh minute.&nbsp; But whistling Ennio Morricone is a good look.&nbsp; 8:37 PM: Scorcese is sitting directly behind DiCaprio.&nbsp; I would pay millions to hear that color commentary (especially those Ellen jokes).&nbsp; In other news, Jack Nicholson pulled a Britney Spears on his dome. 8:43 PM: Jennifer Hudson has removed her jacket/armor.&nbsp; The battle, apparently, is won.&nbsp; Ellen's jokes are pretty good - but everytime the people I'm watching with compliment her, it ends with "actually funny". 8:44 PM: Wait, Ellen's running around with a tamborine.&nbsp; The descent begins. 8:47 PM: The 'Lab vs. world: 1-0. 8:55 PM: The tradition of douchey audience reactions continues: Helen Mirren puts up boxing hands after Jack Black calls her ugly. 8:58 PM: The 'Lab has 2 now.&nbsp; What?&nbsp; Mel Gibson's movie didn't win an Oscar?&nbsp; Robbed! 8:59 PM: Christ just walked out.&nbsp; Robbed! 9:00 PM: Abigail from Little Miss Sunshine and Fresh Prince II are presenting best short.&nbsp; I can't stand how adorable this is.&nbsp; They're adlibbing!&nbsp; They just stopped presenting and started playing Legos.&nbsp; They built a fort! 9:05 PM: West Bank Story (yes, exactly what it sounds like) just won best live-action short.&nbsp; I just went ahead in my Oscar pool.&nbsp; Just saying.&nbsp; Ironically, it's a two person pool, and my friend is Jewish, and he chose the Japanese short and I chose the one called West Bank Story.&nbsp; Actually there wasn't a Japanese short.&nbsp; But still, what luck. 9:13 PM: There's a choir onstage re-enacting sound effects from famous scenes.&nbsp; Like wind and car wheels and planes and everything.&nbsp; Coolest thing I've ever seen on the Oscars (EDIT 9:17 PM: Kind of just forgot about it, Jessica Biel is onstage).&nbsp; That said, it's only fifty minutes in and there have been three gimmicky things like this.&nbsp; Eh.&nbsp; Ooh, Apocalypto's up for something else...wonder if they'll win... 9:19 PM: You don't say!&nbsp; Another loss for Apocalypto.&nbsp; A win for Iwo Jima.&nbsp; And Watanabe is here, but his date isn't Baron Nishi.&nbsp; And he's not drunk. 9:22 PM: Rachel Weisz is presenting Supporting Actor. I still can't believe she won Supporting Actress last year.&nbsp; I didn't know "supporting" meant "destroying an otherwise decent film".&nbsp; The Oscars: changing the definitions of words. 9:23 PM: Alan Arkin with the upset.&nbsp; Word is he's gonna thank Norbit. 9:25 PM: Ellen goes into audience to bug Walhberg, Scorcese.&nbsp; Marky Mark is so unhappy right now.&nbsp; He just lost so he'll probably leave soon so he can return to being typecast as a basketball playing tough-guy. 9:28 PM: You want more photos?&nbsp; You get more photos. 9:30 PM: Departed montage ends in a slow-mo of the "want some coke/don't get up til you're numb" scene.&nbsp; Just saying. 9:32 PM: James Taylor is doing "Our Town" onstage.&nbsp; Could care less right?&nbsp; Wrong.&nbsp; This means that all of the noms will be singing their own songs, which means Beyonce is definitely doing "Listen" and Hudson her song.&nbsp; Oh, we'll have our Diva fest alright. 9:33 PM: Oh dang they're playing them all in a row.&nbsp; Melissa Etheridge is on-stage doing the song from that silly liberal propaganda "movie".&nbsp; Could win.&nbsp; Unfortunately.&nbsp; I wouldn't want to take Beyonce AND J.Hud backstage, though. 9:36 PM: Oh wait, not all the songs, just the two by boring, old, irrelevant white musicians.&nbsp; Al Gore's onstage, pushing Oscar.com.&nbsp; Holla at ya boy. 9:39 PM: Al just made a funny.&nbsp; I want the old one back.&nbsp; Jeez this guy peeked at the wrong time.&nbsp; Just like Joan Rivers, actually - right when you get shoved back to the TV Guide Channel, you get self-referentially hilarious.&nbsp; But not before the beard phase.&nbsp; That darn beard phase. 9:45 PM: Happy Feet wins.&nbsp; Liberals. 9:47 PM: Kind of Oscar related (kind of) - my old roommate - who is playing Assassins - just got put on the disavowed list and he's stalking around dressed like The Man With No Name (poncho, water-gun).&nbsp; Eastwood would be happy.&nbsp; Anyways, if you see The Man With No Name on campus, shoot first and ask questions later. 9:50 PM: Helen Mirren just atoned for her earlier hand gestures by very properly reading a section of the the Borat script. 9:53 PM: Departed got its first win, for adapted screenplay.&nbsp; Shout-outs to Valium and Lawrence of Arabia.&nbsp; First use of acceptance speech music so far.&nbsp; Hour-and-a-half?&nbsp; That's a decent run.&nbsp; Also, the screenwriter for Departed looks a lot like the T.A. in the Eastwood lecture.&nbsp; And Maggie Gyllenhall's there.&nbsp; Look at all these connections to Columbia. 10:02 PM: Live-action models for the Best Costume noms.&nbsp; This includes 3 Helen Mirren look-a-likes for The Queen.&nbsp; I bet when they walk around people always call them out on looking exactly like Helen Mirren.&nbsp; Also, five fake Kirsten Dunsts: not fresh. 10:10 PM: Ellen is on it.&nbsp; She's doing a schtick with Steven Spielberg and Eastwood right now that's pretty funny.&nbsp; It doesn't sound as funny as it is though, so I'm not going to describe it.&nbsp; But it was funny.&nbsp; You should be watching the Oscars right now. 10:14 PM: The 'Lab takeover continues, beating out Children of Men for Cinematography.&nbsp; I'm gonna treat this like a no-hitter though and stop talking about it. 10:20 PM: (Pan's Labyrinth is so good it's gonna win every award Robert Downey Jr. went gel crazy this morning) 10:21 PM: When they announce the nominees, the clips are set against a backdrop of famous movie quotes.&nbsp; "It's alive" and stuff like that.&nbsp; The best one?&nbsp; "Frodo" 10:29 PM: Downey Jr.'s arrival here is like the fifteenth time that a great actor from 2006 presented/showed up without a nomination.&nbsp; They already poked fun at this with the Ferrell/Jack Black skit, but it's really too bad that comedies are never taken seriously anymore (unless they're quirky or have super established stars like Meryl Streep).&nbsp; For example, Downey in Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang and Lucy Liu in Slevin were both really great, especially compared to the old stars they channeled.&nbsp; But whatever, off the soap-box, sorry. 10:30 PM: Clive Owen's tux keeps turning from black to blue and back.&nbsp; And the 'Lab just lost Foreign Film to Germany.&nbsp; Shouldn't have talked about it. 10:36 PM: Suspicious... J.Hud just won Best Supporting, and she went to hug Beyonce, but they cut away to the losers and then cut back to J.Hud after the hug.&nbsp; I wonder what really happened... 10:44 PM: Documentaries and doc shorts back to back.&nbsp; Everyone's really struggling through this.&nbsp; Even the winners seem bored.&nbsp; They're letting Seinfeld stand up there for five minutes and the audience is being extremely hospitable with the laughter.&nbsp; It's the sort of laughing you do in class when you're doing anything to stay awake.&nbsp;&nbsp; I just dozed off in the middle of writing this. 10:48 PM: Al Gore wins, shocking.&nbsp; What better person to wake up the crowd than Al Gore.&nbsp; Global warming to Iraq: YOU MUST NOT KNOW BOUT ME 10:50 PM: Clint's introducing the Ennio Morricone tribute.&nbsp; If you haven't been watching, turn your TV on now, you won't regret this.&nbsp; We're hitting the homestretch too - Picture, Director, Actor, Actress, Diva-fest.&nbsp; I'm awake. 10:56 PM: Ok so 50-50 ain't bad.&nbsp; The montage was great and then Celine shatters Morricone's career in 3 minutes.&nbsp; They keep raising the volume of the strings, but Celine fights back.&nbsp; Also, Morricone looks borderline comatose listening to her.&nbsp; I guess I understand.&nbsp; You wait your entire life for this thing and when you finally get it, Neon Dion does the honors. 10:59 PM: Polite clapping.&nbsp; She won't get off-stage.&nbsp; Clint waits.&nbsp; She won't leave the stage.&nbsp; Ennio comes on-stage.&nbsp; Celine's still there.&nbsp;&nbsp; Ennio does his speech in Italian.&nbsp; Clint translates.&nbsp; Celine remains.&nbsp; The tension builds. 11:14 PM: Little Miss Sunshine wins Original Screenplay.&nbsp; Greg Kinnear feels so cool.&nbsp; Not just regular cool, but Greg Kinnear cool.&nbsp; He got ridiculous seats to this thing.&nbsp; He's Greg Kinnear.&nbsp; What I said earlier about DiCaprio being the MVP, well, Kinnear's the opposite.&nbsp; Honestly, you could have put any other actor in that role and you would not have noticed a change, except for the better.&nbsp; I'm not saying he was bad, just that he's Greg Kinnear. 11:20 PM: The announcer just hit on J.Lo, or as he put it, "a good reason for Hi-Definition television".&nbsp; What adds to this?&nbsp; The fact that it's clearly cold in the theatre.&nbsp; I didn't realize the Oscars could be creepy.&nbsp; 11:21 PM: Diva-fest begins! 11:22 PM: Beyonce aka "an alright reasons for Hi-Def" rises from the stage in the middle of J.Hud's number.&nbsp; Such a great entrance.&nbsp; She totally blew up that spot.&nbsp; Lots of fake smiles. 11:24 PM: They're dueting on "Listen"?!?&nbsp; This is post-diva.&nbsp; I can't tell which one of them is flipping the script.&nbsp; Probably Beyonce.&nbsp; She sounds fantastic. 11:25 PM: Ha, J.Hud leaves the stage.&nbsp; You won this one B.&nbsp; Actually, her performance was pretty incredible. 11:27 PM: Commenter 18 said it perfectly.&nbsp; I was going to make a "you must not know bout these" joke but... 11:28 PM: John Travolta loves big girls. 11:29 PM: ETHERIDGE WINS! Diva-fest totally split the votes.&nbsp; They're not even showing Beyonce, she's probably fuming.&nbsp; Etheridge was this close to quoting Mellencamp: "This is our..."&nbsp; But then she wimped out.&nbsp; Surprising. 11:33 PM: So the 'Lab flamed out early and Beyonce didn't rip out J.Hud's locks.&nbsp; The subplot left?&nbsp; Departed.&nbsp; Let's do this.&nbsp; I'm getting a bad feeling though about the Sunshine upset.&nbsp; I don't know if I can take that Crash deja vu.&nbsp; At least that little girl will get the mic some more.&nbsp; She could use the exposure.&nbsp; Because no one is talking her up at all. 11:36 PM: Dang, lots of italics in that last one.&nbsp; Sorry folks. 11:37 PM: Best montage of the night, put together by Michael Mann.&nbsp; It's about films tackling issues, so I guess I can excuse no extended, masturbatory cuts from Miami Vice. 11:43 PM: Thelma Schoonmaker wins Best Editing for Departed.&nbsp; This is always a good indicator of Best Picture, so go Thelma.&nbsp; She's maybe more MVP to Scorcese than DiCaprio (maybe), so it's cool to see her honored. 11:48 PM: Tribute to the deceased.&nbsp;&nbsp; No Departed jokes. (sorry, sorry, sorry...) 11:52 PM: Ellen's back and out of her mind.&nbsp; She's wearing pajamas and just said "My bad".&nbsp; It had to happen I guess. 11:53 PM: Actress in a leading role.&nbsp; Penelope Cruz really should get this, I realize Mirren has it locked down, but Cruz was beyond great in Volver. 11:53:34 PM: "Frodo"..."Frodo"..."Frodo"... 11:54 PM: Helen Mirren gets it, Truman Capote announces it with his best Al Gore. 11:59 PM: Down the wire.&nbsp; So Best Picture breakdown: I'm still going with Departed, but every film up for Picture won an award tonight (as the Rogaine/Viagara spokesman who's covering the green room just told us).&nbsp; Babel's got the Crash-y "let's be kind of socially conscious" aspect about it for the voters, and Little Miss Sunshine has heroine and cute kids.&nbsp; Letters really should get it but most voters can't read so that's out.&nbsp; That leaves Departed and the movie about the Helen Mirren impersonator and let's be frank: there are too many great actors in Departed who got snubbed tonight and I feel like all of their individual camps/studios are really hustling for that Best Picture nod. 12:03 AM: Best actor...I'm still rooting for DiCaprio.&nbsp; He's shooting with two barrels.&nbsp; But I think Whitaker's got it. 12:07 AM: Whitaker won.&nbsp; I just deleted a comment I made about Whitaker's eye in that BMW short with Clive Owen, because I was told after the fact that he actually has a lazy eye, so I'm sorry about that.&nbsp; Um, anyway, George Lucas actually just said "it's much better to give than receive" and gave a really creepy laugh. 12:08 AM: Scorcese finally wins! He's beaming, there's a standing ovation. This is great. 12:12 AM: Diane Keaton and Jack are presenting Best Picture.&nbsp; I'm getting horrible flashbacks to their nude scenes in Something's Got To Give.&nbsp; I thought I finally shook them last year, but nope. 12:13 AM: Annie Hall is still Annie Hall. &nbsp; 12:14 AM: DEPARTED WINS 12:16 AM: And yeah, pants were pissed.&nbsp; All-in-all, pretty good Oscars.&nbsp; Thanks for sticking around and for all the boob jokes in the comments, you took the heat off me. &nbsp; 
Last night, Bwog reporter Karen Leung went to the Chinese Student Club's annual culture show, and returned both entertained and bemused. Her dispatch follows. Give people an excuse to talk about mass, and it's only a matter of time before the fat jokes come. At last night's Lunar Gala, the Chinese Students Club's annual culture show, the theme was Momentum, in honor of the Year of the Boar and that noble animal's "persistence to motivate himself as well as those around him." The theme invited physics jokes - for the uninformed, emcee Kenny Liu declared that momentum is the product of the mass and velocity of an object. His partner, Monnica Chan, asked whether she looked nice in her dress. The collision of physics and the female body prompted a fat joke. It was the beginning of a beautiful evening. It was hard for most of the acts to fail. People are fascinated by men balancing wooden bobbles on a piece of string, and they laugh when people in lion suits throw lettuce (and rightly so). The hip hop group was cool, of course; Radiance, the classical Chinese dance troupe, was beautiful, of course; the vocal performances were uneven but ultimately successful, of course. The only exception was an interminable performance by Hsu-nami, an Asian rock fusion group which the program told me has the sensibility of "the osmosis of oriental pastime + the tenacity of modern rock." &nbsp; But the best part of a night of live performance was no performance at all: the board skit, a video featuring members of the CSC executive. Part after-school special, part Asian soap opera, the skit trafficked in stereotypes that were almost intolerable. It was also the funniest and most touching part of the show. President Stephen Choy played a single father presiding over three dysfunctional daughters. The oldest works at a fashion magazine with a Wintour-esque boss, the second is a miserably competent hospital intern assigned to doctor movie star Allan Lau, and the youngest is very angry. We know this because she drinks coffee instead of tea. In a hilarious scene, she kicks at her prone, squirming boyfriend when she finds him kissing someone else in that den of iniquity, John Jay. It was awkward, sometimes, to see CSC present the trope images of Asian Americans in the media - the uptight doctor, the traditional father - and then let them lie. I think of the organization as AAA's somewhat conspicuously apolitical little brother. But in this case, the tropes couldn't quite shed their political context. The discomfort that comes from seeing Asian Americans depicting themselves in the same way that mainstream culture would depict them was disturbing during an otherwise wonderful show. But Lunar Gala is not, after all, a show by the Chinese American Students Club, but the Chinese Students Club. It's striking that the video ends with a kind of reconciliation, when the three daughters return to eat Chinese food with their father, lending the skit a sense of preoccupation with a return to the traditions of the homeland—much like Lunar Gala itself. - Photos by Dan Fainstein&nbsp; 
 Power strugglin': student edition Power strugglin': faculty edition Not news, not important: a nifty news feature&nbsp; Do this and Bwog goes extinct&nbsp; Pro-choicer goes to pro-life event, gags Spec goes liveblogging, forgets that it's in print "We're all champions." But the women a little more so. 
 
E-weeks (re-christened Zvi-Weeks in honor of SEAS' imminently departing leader) are ending today with an, er, bang: a Mr. and Ms. SEAS contest, complete with trivia and a talent portion. Four young gentlemen and lady engineers will compete for their respective titles, under the watchful eye of a cardboard Zvi Galil (seems he's been elevated into an object of idol-worship already), followed by a Battle of the Bands between John Coombs and Band, The Folk, The Shake, Pray for Mojo, and DJ Tanner. Big prizes to the winners, and food for you if you show up at 8:00 PM in Roone to cheer on your favorite beauty queen/king. 
In case you hadn't noticed, CCSC campaigns began today at 9:00 AM. Unsurprisingly, Michelle Diamond's One Columbia came out of the gate fast, while Tracy Chung's Rebel CC debuted with a comprehensive but decidedly less flashy blogspot site. Segovia's site will replace her facebook group (touting an "e-bard") tomorrow. Meanwhile, since we at the Bwog like nothing more than making massive spreadsheets, we thought we'd give you a side-by-side comparison of the highlights. (Note: because a comprehensive review would make you want to scream and jump from the top of Riverside Church, this is an abridged version. If really want to find wade through the blizzard of campaign promises, visit the sites yourself). VOICE Natali Segovia Rebel CC Tracy Chung One Columbia Michelle Diamond SPACE - Space for multicultural groups &nbsp;- Has "Space" on her platform sidebar, but never actually talks about it -&nbsp; Streamline space reservations - Work on Lerner 6 - Gank grad space &nbsp; MONEY &nbsp;MORE! &nbsp;MORE! And CCSC should do private fundraising. &nbsp;MORE! HEALTH/ ADVISING &nbsp;- a Holistic Health and Life Center - a Well Woman Center - Diversification of offerings at the CCE&nbsp; - A "completely voluntary" student mentoring program - Overhaul undergraduate research, fellowship advising, and pre-professional advising&nbsp; - Pretty much what's on an advising resolution passed yesterday at the CCSC meeting - Centralized course evaluations&nbsp; COMMUNI- CATIONS &nbsp;- A "website portal hub" to centralize information - A CCSC blog - A centralized online events calendar (like this one?)&nbsp; &nbsp;- "Leadership summits" GOODIES &nbsp;- More laundry capacity - More satellite gyms &nbsp;- Wireless - Flat screens in Dodge (YES!) - Satellite gyms - the "Bar Crawl to Victory"--walking from bar to bar on the way up to Baker Field on game days - more food - more events&nbsp; MAKING THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE &nbsp;- will remain "thouroughly involved" in Manhattanville planning &nbsp;- a report on environmental stuff - "education" and "debate" on Manhattanville - Pushing for the community's 197A plan in Manhattanville - Appropriating the agenda of green groups on campus - Next: troops out now! - LBD 
E-Weeks, the celebration of everything Engineering at Columbia, concluded tonight with a Battle of the Bands and a Mr. and Ms. SEAS pageant, featuring performances by The Folk, Charlie Foxtrot, The Shake, Party for Mojo, and DJ Tanner.&nbsp; In the running for Mr. SEAS were Sumeet Shah, Nat Gale, Robert Sokola, and Robert Frawley while Tamsin Davies, Sarah Clarke (returning champion), Tani Othanoski, and Shella Bakke competed for the women's title.&nbsp; Bwog reporter Steven Thomas sat through the three-hour event. His highlights follow. Charlie Foxtrot’s cover of “I Want You Back” by the Jackson 5, dedicated to Zvi Galil. (The idea of begging Dean Galil, “Darling, I was blind to let you go,” is amusing). Tani Othanoski’s Cow Costume/Reference to the Zvi-mail – “This is actually a dolphin.&nbsp; If you see anything different, you may be under too much stress.” Same contestant, when asked “Why is SEAS better than CC?” completely crashed upon being asked such an obvious question and could only come out with, “Because engineers kick ass.” Shella Bakke’s reply to “If Zvi were a boyband, which would he be?”&nbsp; “He’d be N*SYNC because he’s going <!-- D( ); //--> Bye Bye Bye, but we don’t want him Gone.”f Nat Gale’s choice of costume: hairnet, apron, spatula, and frying pan as a tribute to Wilma Robert Frawley’s costume selection: colorful balloons taped to his jacket.&nbsp; When asked to describe his outfit, he paused, collected himself, then whispered into the microphone, “I’m a rainbow.” And then things got a little bit weird. Tamsin Davies’s talent: A monologue from the iconic 90’s film "Clueless".&nbsp; Total time: 20 seconds. Tani Othanoski’s interpretation of the dance from "Little Miss Sunshine."&nbsp; The hilarity in the movie comes from the fact that it is a 7-year-old child performing classic provocative dances.&nbsp; Somehow, not as funny when a college freshman does it. Shella Bakke’s confession after the first half of her African Dance: “Sorry guys, my feet are kind of sweaty.” Party for Mojo’s lead singer was detained due to a family emergency.&nbsp; But as they say, the show must go on!&nbsp; And it did, sort of.&nbsp; They performed a new song that the remaining band members only knew the chorus to, leading to minute-long stretches of guitar broken up by the same 2 lines repeated 3 or 4 times.&nbsp; (Also the invention of a new band-position: backup lead singer.)&nbsp; <!-- D( ); //--> This was followed by an attempt at a crowd-participation chant that garnered the support of about only one person. Still Party for Mojo: Begging members of other bands to come up and perform their final song.&nbsp; There were rumors of a key-tar being used during the performance, but the only documented evidence is several blurry pictures. Sumeet’s a capella rendition of “Zvi’s Lost that Lovin’ Feeling” Robert Sokola’s costume (White Power Ranger) and talent (air guitar) combined beautifully in the one phrase: “Sometimes, as a Power Ranger, you don’t need a sword.&nbsp; You need an AXE!!!” Robert Frawley’s masterful performance on the tiny-recorder gathered laughs from the audience and one left-handed compliment from the female judge, “With such a small recorder, you did a pretty good job.”&nbsp; (Crowd cry for Free Bird was particularly hilarious.) DJ Tanner’s performance was the only one that got any portion of crowd on its feet (granted it was all frat brothers).&nbsp; Notable lyrics include: “I came out of the womb, beatboxin’ to the doctor.” “Straight from the projects” (I think they mean science fair projects.) <!-- D( ); //--> And their memorable spelling of their own name: “D to the J to the Motha-Fuckin’ Tanner” 10:40 – Kid runs up to the stage, grabs the lifesize Zvi cutout, and sprints out of the auditorium.&nbsp; He is immediately pursued by ESC members and concerned engineers. 10:41 – Zvi cutout returned.&nbsp; No one takes Zvi from us (except for Tel Aviv). The new First Couple of SEAS? Rob Sokolov and Shella Bakke, who may or may not spend their $50 Radio Perfecto gift certificates together.&nbsp; Band honors went to The Shake and DJ Tanner. &nbsp; 
 Columbia-sponsored high school, created as Manhattanville quid pro quo, evicted, now homeless: ironic? CU formally apologizes to Minutemen: reactions predictable Barnard career services better than Columbia's...unless you want to be a bartender Speaking of which: bars crack down on legal IDs, but hire illegal bouncers Revelation of the day: "in certain cases drug use destroys lives, but in a lot of cases they help out a whole bunch" Columbia's alphabet soup of schools: doomed to "sad and paradoxical reality" of awkward coexistence - forever. Which, according to this, is a good thing. We think. 
Continuing today's snow sculpture-related coverage, and apropos to tonight's J-School lecture on regime change,&nbsp;one of the&nbsp;once proudly (or panoptically!) upstanding snowmen on South Lawn appears to have capitulated, inspiring Bwog to cite Shelley's "Ozymandias" and post this apt juxtaposition: &nbsp; Meanwhile, this find on Hamilton Lawn indicates it&nbsp;may not have been quite the bloodless coup: &nbsp; On the other side of the lawn, however, the week's most admirable snow folly lives on: what one contributor called "Calvin and Hobbes-esqe sculpture...there's a snowman bowling with a second snowman's head": 
A grey day dawning over snow slowly turning to carbon-saturated black mush? A snowman keeled over like a post-1989 piece of Soviet stauary? It's all put us in the mood - for Eastern Europe! Kidding aside, here are some highlights from the Birch's fantastic winter issue: A poem about...gerunds. And literal translations. Trust us, it's good. Reference check: Nietzsche, Kundera, Benjamin, Kafka, Lukàcs...and, um, Job? All&nbsp;used in a noble effort to preserve memory...and seem well read. Havel (ha, you thought you'd heard the last of him) on Communism: "it was built on blah blah blah" Czech band describes paying to be imprisoned in a work camp, emo-ness of fans Ex-President of Georgia admits: he still looks up to Stalin 
 UPDATE 01/03 at 6:00PM: Bwog regrets that it accidentally misquoted Professor Bulliet by confusing Muslim and Jewish regulations concerning pigs. The correction has been made, and we note that, as Prof. Bulliet put it, neither religion includes ritual pig-kissing. Professor, thank you for reading Bwog. We love you. His lectures might include elaborate graphs one day, a cavalcade of Arabic vocabulary the next. Occasionally, he'll admit they were thought up only fifteen minutes before class. Yet Professor Richard Bulliet manages to&nbsp;synthesize so much disparate information into his Islamo-Christian Civilization course that, however many of his own books are on the syllabus,&nbsp;few could&nbsp;say students aren't learning anything. As the first half of the semester comes to a close, however, Bwog realizes that it has taken far fewer notes on Sufism or the Crusades as on Bulliet's more amusing anecdotes and witticisms... On Religion "People with individual spiritual philosophies are so strange, I think it's better not to have one at all." "I've never been visited by the Holy Spirit, and I tend to ridicule it, partly because my cousin Martha is frequently visited by it." After reading a religion scholar's exegesis&nbsp;on Jewish and Muslim meat regulations: "He said that if a pig drank from some water,&nbsp;Muslim couldn't drink from it. But an orthodox Jew could french-kiss the pig. I think that's the first and only time french-kissing pigs will come up in a scholarly dissertation." &nbsp; On heresy: "Once someone is burned at the stake, it's sort of a buzzkill for everyone else." Paraphrasing some ascetics: "Tell you what, let's have a constipation-in! We'll sit and eat and see who will be the last to go to the bathroom." On Sufi chanting: "Pretty soon everyone is pretty stoned...um, on God." After the jump: on Writing, Scholarship, and Leaving Class Early to be on TV... On Writing After being trashed by a British orientalist book reviewer for not referencing the medieval "Book of Camels" for a book on that animal: "I asked him, where did one find the Book of Camels, and he said, 'Oh...does it not survive?' And I said, well, 'Fuck you'." Bulliet went on to note that he believed this incident alone proved the validity of Said's thoughts on orientalists. On popular religious historian Karen Armstrong: "She's gifted at rewriting master narratives - on her own authority, which is a fairly successful way, when you compare her book sales with mine." On writing a midterm: "Concreteness is not always achievable. Bullshit is achievable." On Model Scholarship On the book trade in medieval Baghdad: "Fiction was one of the least popular topics...it came just before postmodernist theory, which shows the basic rationality of the Muslim world." Upon listing all nine Crusades: "I have a bunch of dates here...but it's so much easier to make them up." On Leaving Class Early to be on the Charlie Rose Show "I'm not neglecting you. You'll notice that I've been strategically keeping you longer each time than the duration of the class period. So I'm just collecting on my superrogatory professorial overtime minutes." After answering his cell phone in the middle of lecture, twice: "I thought it might be Charlie." Upon finally leaving class to be on the Charlie Rose Show: "My vanity is overwhelming." -CJS 
 An email from Dean Colombo to Carman residents reveals that some homophobic graffiti was applied to the pillar outside the freshman dorm on February 11th, and was removed about a week later. Colombo's email, reproduced below the jump, asserts that the slow response time in dealing with such incidents&nbsp;will be looked into in the future and improved. In the meantime, the administration has met with student council representatives and LGBTQ community leaders, and will be hosting events meant to address the issue. An investigation has also been launched with Public Safety. Bwog continues to look into the incident and is awaiting further details from Dean Colombo. One pressing question: the pillar is visible and accessible to anyone walking through that part of campus, so why have (apart from the aforementioned&nbsp;student leaders) only Carman residents been involved thus far? -CJS February 27, 2007 Dear Carman residents, I am emailing to update you on the biased writing that was drawn on the pillar outside of Carman. &nbsp;As many of you know, on Sunday, February 11th, an RA reported the graffiti to Public Safety. &nbsp;The graffiti, which consisted of homophobic language, challenged the very core of our community's values. &nbsp;This is not acceptable to you, to me, or to any members of our community. Once Residential Programs and the Office of Multicultural Affairs were made aware of this act of vandalism, we immediately acted to ensure that steps were being taken to remove the graffiti, to inform and counsel key constituencies (including LGBTQ student leaders), and to launch an investigation with Public Safety. These actions were based on agreed upon protocols designed to respond to incidents such as these. &nbsp;Despite several attempts, however, the language was not effectively removed until over a week after the incident. &nbsp;We have spoken with the offices of Housing &amp; Dining and Facilities, and they have expressed regret for the delay that it took for those words to be entirely removed from the entrance to your home. &nbsp;In response to this, Housing &amp; Dining and Facilities have evaluated their methods for immediately covering and then permanently removing such graffiti. These two offices are also acting to acquire the necessary equipment to improve response time in the regrettable case that it is needed in the future. I understand that this incident violated your sense of home, and we take that very seriously. &nbsp;On March 2nd at 2:30pm in the Carman lounge, the Office of Multicultural Affairs will be hosting a program to bring us together in understanding how biased actions and behaviors impact the community as a whole. &nbsp;This program, Not in Our Home: Communities in Response and Dialogue will discuss how we can support and be allies to one another, what we can do collectively to address the issues at hand, and what proactive measures we can take to continue educating each other. &nbsp;We hope that you will participate in what promises to be an important and engaging event. Incidents such as this one remind us of the need to continually work together to strengthen the procedures and protocols that we have designed to uphold our community values. &nbsp;The success of our work thus far is in large part the result of student input through key constituency leaders, our Community Principles Initiative committee, and Student Leadership Summits. &nbsp;The work of those groups continues as we explore how to improve immediacy of response, educate those around us about acts of hate and intolerance, and engage all members of our community to work actively towards a sustained, supportive environment. We all share a responsibility to maintain the values of our community. The Division of Student Affairs is committed to ensuring that this campus is a home to all of you. &nbsp;I look forward to working with each of you as we empower ourselves to overcome acts of hate. Sincerely, Chris Colombo Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science 
Blue Java in Butler just&nbsp;increased its cup size without increasing its prices. That's what she said. -Thanks to Ellen Kessel for the tip 
 Diamond Already Pushing For Four More Years (actually two and a half more) B.C. May Go Back to Stone Age Columbia Not Only Organization Ruining Housing, Having Horribly Slow Paperwork NY Has Share of Has-Beens Besides Yankees And then we remembered that we use Macs. Feditor new wise man of protest Point-Counterpoint On CULPA Also, there's no arts section today. Hm. PLUS: Shoop Focuses on Defense &nbsp; Sophisticated New York Magazine Reviews Unsophisticated New-York-originated Chat Site Chain 
 Jim Gilchrist, founder of the Minuteman Project, has been brought down, not by protestors rushing the stage but by internal strife in his own organization, and is now fighting to regain his power. According to current Minuteman leadership, Gilchrist improperly used the organization's funds for his own purposes, illegally sent mail at nonprofit rates without filing for nonprofit status, and has not accounted for up to $400,000 in Minuteman funds.&nbsp; According to Gilchrist, bitches set him up. The LA Times reports that Gilchrist accused his accusers of being motivated by "a greed for power and a false perception of an endless stream of money." Meanwhile, they are upset with their former leader using Minuteman funds to pay his court fees in his case against them.&nbsp; Gilchrist's replacement? Marvin Stewart, his opening speaker at Columbia. Minutemen: we know they hate themselves, or at least each other. - DHI 
 If you read our February issue, you'd have heard of the Global Roundtable on Climate Change, a group of blue chips that has been meeting for the last two years to come up with some sort of statement on what do about our warming world. Last Tuesday, they came out with their joint statement, which has been garnering a lot of low-level press around the world. The statement itself is nothing to get your knickers in a knot over; mostly the conventional wisdom of what needs to happen that's been out there for years, with lukewarm verbs like "provide," "support," and "encourage." (Meanwhile, these guys are saying the same thing, but less delicately.) The list of groups endorsing is about half the size of those participating in the process--Ford, Google, and Wal-Mart are conspicuously absent. But many of those who didn't sign as organizations have added their names as individuals, and now you can too! An e-mail went out on the ABC listserv asking students to get on the bandwagon. And chuck your car keys on your way out. - LBD 
In preparation for the storming of NYU, a few Bwog editors and other interested parties will be gathering tonight at La Negrita on 109th and Columbus to sharpen our skills before going big time. Trivia goes from 8:00 - 10:00 with a two-drink minimum. Swing by at around 7:45 if you want to get in on the action.&nbsp;
 Less than a week after the start of CU Assassins,169 of the 240 agents have fallen, with more soon to come. Dissapointingly, the death reports show few exotic locations.&nbsp; Probably the closest to an exception is this all-caps report: Deceased: Red Devil Time of Death: Tuesday, February 27 at 09:39 AM Location: A GATED COMMUNITY Summary of Death: THE BOURGEOIS KILLER WILL NOT STOP UNTIL EVERY LAST ONE OF YOU BLOOD, SWEAT, AND SURPLUS-VALUE SUCKING VERMIN ARE WIPED OFF THE FACE OF THE PLANET. &nbsp;For a show of equality, however, another killer eliminated a more helpful member of society Deceased: Havarti Time of Death: Thursday, February 22 at 11:48 PM Location of Death: St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Summary of Death: After I infiltrated St.Luke's posing as Agent Havarti's friend, an unsuspecting doctor led me through the ER straight to my victim and even pointed him out to me. I made certain my target and approached for the kill. He now joins the ranks of those he had so kindly attended to as a volunteer. Oh, the irony. &nbsp; Cruel tricks did not all involve hospitals&nbsp; Deceased: The Russian Time of Death: Friday, February 23 at 02:03 AM Location of Death: John Jay 8 Bathroom Summary of Death: Killer pretended to be drunk and throwing up in toilet... victim kindly offered water... left to room to get water... came back.. dead. end &nbsp;While some reports were so boring that they had to be true, others were clearly fictionalized. Of those, this was the best. Deceased: Naptime Time of Death: Sunday, February 25 at 12:42 AM Location of Death: Carman Summary of Death: Assassin dressed up in drag and posted up on corner outside of carman. Agent Naptime, predictably, propositioned the disguised assassin for a good time. Needless to say, naptime learned his lesson for such lewd behavior. Finally, this kill report got the reward for concise wording that actually said something. Deceased: Cardinal Time of Death: Sunday, February 25 at 09:49 PM Location of Death: Spec office Summary of Death: Didn't you remember? I'm retired. 
We like blogs. Apparently, other people like them too. In its incessant web surfing, Bwog came across a couple new kids on the block:&nbsp; Editor Josh - Ever wanted to know what Spec news editors think about constantly, unceasingly, all day every day? One of them has started a blog to give a little more back story behind the headlines, and it's actually really interesting. And he has the same geeky interest in CCSC that we do, so hurray for trivia. Hash Browns...and Toast! - We know these kids, and are respecting their wish to remain anonymous. Probably a good thing, because you might look at them oddly if you knew their true identities. And, coming soon... The Eye blogs! We've been hearing that several of the top editors at The Eye have been given their very own web platforms, which may or may not launch tomorrow. Hope that goes well for them, considering that it's hard enough to provide content for a weekly magazine that also competes with a daily arts section. Columbia Political Union blogs - Still in development, but promise to be rollicking good entertainment, since we've been told that they'll include several top campus political leaders (three guesses). Hey, if they can do it, why not Pelosi and Bush? - LBD 
 Minutemen Cry, CU Gives Blanket Apology (but Gilchrist won't get a cent - he's hanging out on his cross) BC Health Services Slightly Homophobic Space on VI: The Final Frontier in Lerner This Is What Bwog Is For Solidarity Forever, Solidarity Forever,&nbsp; Solidarity Forever, Solidarity For Never.. OOHHH snap The awesome EyePoke, later as usual - JDC <!-- D( ); D(); //--> 
Last night, Columbia poli-sci professors Robert Jervis and Richard Betts tag-teamed Mount St. Vincent's College's Joseph Skelly on the situation in Iraq and Bwog artist Rachel Lindsay was on scene. This one was begging for a cartoon. &nbsp; 
Purim was the winning word for the 1983 National Scripps Spelling Bee.&nbsp; It's also a perfectly good excuse to get dressed up and drunk this weekend. 1) Midnight Masquerade: Megilahs of the Rich &amp; Famous The Chabad of Columbia is organizing a massive party on the East side and you don't need to be Jewish to carouse.&nbsp; They'll be gathering at the Chabad House (113th between Riverside &amp; Broadway) at 11pm and then pack celebrants in limousines headed towards the Park East Grill and Lounge (2nd Avenue and 81st Street).&nbsp; There's a $5 cover, but think of what it will buy you:&nbsp; sexy girls dressed as Queen Vashti, free drinks, and a performance by "Chasidic Hip Hop's newest sensation:&nbsp; Ta Shma". 2) Purim Cabaret The JCC in Manhattan (76th and Amsterdam) is holding its annual Broadway show- like extravaganza this Sunday night.&nbsp; It's a scripted musical with lots of innuendo and references that will remind you of your youth at shul.&nbsp; Previous stars have included Anna Gasteyer (SNL) and Peter Gallagher (The dying O.C.).&nbsp; If nothing else you'll spot some quality costumes.&nbsp; 3) Eat Hamantaschen, Drink Wine Get some of the best cookies in New York at William Greenberg Desserts or Bruce's (Hamantaschen mean "Haman's ears" and mock the guy who tried to kill all of the Jews.&nbsp; Revenge!).&nbsp; Then get some Manischewitz (wrong holiday, but who really cares?) and role-play.&nbsp; -JDC 
 A few tipsters report that Morton Williams has special floral baskets for single supermarket shoppers.&nbsp; Perhaps the idea is that you'll spot each other while choosing between fruits..."Do these melons look juicy?"...and leave together, or something. This development comes with lots of high- and middle-brow buzz about Laura Sessions Stepp's new book, Unhooked: How Young Women Pursue Sex, Delay Love and Lose at Both.&nbsp; It's frightening, Stepp says, what sexual experiences girls from GW and Duke will admit to, with little shame. Former Spec sex columnist Miriam Datstovsky had some words of wisdom to share on the "hooking up" culture, as quoted in the New York Times:&nbsp; “As an overall thing, I don’t think there’s anything to be concerned about...College is the time when you make most of your mistakes.” -JDC 
The Local Flavor burrito shop at Broadway Presbyterian on 114th re-opened in early February.&nbsp; They’re currently operating from 11-3 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, so Bwog stopped by today to take some pictures and taste test. The reincarnation of Local Flavor is more or less the same operation as last year – an experimental entrepreneurial project to employ homeless men and women in the city.&nbsp; The big difference? A new chef named Elton, or “Hot Sauce” as he prefers to be called (more on that later).&nbsp; Elton actually learned his craft last year during a six-week culinary program at Broadway Pres, and though he had offers for much better paying jobs, he decided to return to 114th this year to put some new life into Local Flavor. Between then and now, though, he picked up tips and secrets from chefs at Spanish Harlem restaurants, which brings us back to his nickname and the remarkably distinguished flavor of the meat he prepares.&nbsp; Hot Sauce wouldn’t tell me exactly what was in the seasoning.&nbsp; He just slammed a container labeled “Good Stuff” on the counter and boasted 67 ingredients.&nbsp; I tasted the chicken and, for fear of blaspheming my best friend’s mom’s cooking, I’ll just say that this stuff is on par with the best.&nbsp; The only place that touches this in the neighborhood is Taqueria on a good day (and that’s anticipating Chipotle, too). Elton also force-fed me some steak, some beans, a few drops of his namesake, and…a lot more of the chicken (“You can’t write about it if you don’t taste it!”).&nbsp; I might be biased because my stomach’s still full, but everything was pretty delicious.&nbsp; The hot sauce is Elton’s pride and joy; the stuff he uses in the kitchen is his own batch that he bottles and sells on the side (you can buy bottles at Local Flavor).&nbsp; The “medium” sauce was tangy and surprisingly creamy, and it carried enough scorch that the other cook had half a bagel waiting for me.&nbsp; Elton makes “hot” too and he “can make it even hotter” if you do a special order. Local Flavor’s only open two days a week right now, but if business builds they’ll try out some Saturday hours.&nbsp; Besides the convenient location, the good cause, and the really nice staff, the food is great.&nbsp; For some reason everyone who works there keeps pushing the steak, but the chicken burrito might be the best way to eat five dollars in the neighborhood.&nbsp; – Bryan Mochizuki &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The lab monkeys get to play videogames? For juice? If the money "flew in freely as wine" at the John Jay awards that must have been some party Getting artsy for Manhattanville SPRINGBREAKWOOHOO Taking better care of bias incidents 
The greatest narratives involve the pursuit of the unattainable. While Captain Ahab had Moby Dick, Bwog daily editor David Iscoe has a more humble aim: Befriend the turkey that lives in Morningside Park. Here, he recounts his foray into the wild. "Hey, what kind of bird is that?" A man pushing a hand-truck down Morningside Avenue calls through the fence, staring up at the large bird walking slowly down the hill. "That's a turkey," I reply. "Whose bird is it?" "Nobody's. It lives in the park." "A turkey?" A turkey indeed. A wild turkey lives in Morningside Park, and I decided to get to know her more intimately. Not this kind of Wild Turkey According to Brad Taylor and Jacquie Connors of Friends of Morningside Park (founded by Columbia alum Tom Kiel in 1981) surprise is a common reaction for first time turkey-spotters, but locals have come to know and love the bird. The Friends informed me, however, that the current resident may not actually be the same one who lived in the park before she went missing in 2006; in fact, they are convinced she's a different one, and refer to the pre-turkey-knapping bird as "the first turkey." "It's hard to tell if it's the same one, because they change with the seasons, sometimes getting fatter, sometimes thinner," said Taylor, who explained that when "the first turkey" went missing, he eventually reported it to the park service."They got the P.R. machine rolling," he said, and brought back the turkey, whom they called "Hedda Gobbler," the next day. Though the incident garnered publicity and did restore a turkey to the park, Hedda Gobbler is not a local name. One of park's frequent visitors calls her "Missy," a girl at the park has named her "Esmeralda," and others just call her "the turkey." Whatever her name, the turkey certainly adds character to the park. Connors, who has taken several pictures of the turkey, has seen her in spots ranging from the mulch mounds near 122nd down to the pond between 114th and 113th, where she gets her water. She competes with squirrels and other birds for food, and, when dogs chase her, "She'll fly right up into the trees," where she sleeps. Her previous incarnation, when nesting chicks, used to take a different approach to threatening canines by actively chasing them away. "She was crazy when people got near her chicks," Connors recalled. "All the dogs were scared of her." When I went to pay a visit to the current turkey, she exhibited somewhat tamer behavior. What does a turkey do all day in Morningside Park? It's impossible to be completely sure, as I only logged her behavior for about an hour, but I compiled my findings in this scientific study, performed one bright and early Sunday morning: 12:45 PM: I enter the park. No sign of the turkey yet. Where could she be? I call, "Here, turkey turkey turkey," loud enough to fetch the turkey if she's nearby, but not loud enough for the other people in the park to hear me, at least not clearly. 12:58 PM: A rustling in the leaves – the turkey is found! She's on the upper part of the park, inside the brown fence, around 117th street. She appears to be rooting around for some sort of food, and generally strutting, as is the wont of her kind. 1:03 PM: This turkey ain't goin' nowhere. I go down to get a beignet, some orange juice, and some French toast at a bakery at 119th and Frederick Douglass. The food is delicious. I consider having a... chicken sandwich for a late lunch. 1:12 PM: Walking back, I see the turkey by the basketball court, near the road and outside the fenced area. That damn turkey gave me the slip! Keeping one eye on that evasive turkey, I go back to investigate the fence, and find her path of escape: a hole in the fence, across from 117th street. 1:23 PM: This turkey is taunting me, twice spreading out her wings and ruffling her feathers right after I put my camera away. The Wikipedia entry calling her species "very cunning" seems to have been based in fact. I give up and sit down on a rock to read about the tragic failure of the bolsheviks, keeping one wary eye on the American bird. 1:28 PM: My suspicions are well founded, as the bird has moved two trees down. Trees are her favorite feature of the park, as her food appears to be located near them. Her rate of 2.5 minutes per tree is approximately equal to the number of minutes the 1 train takes per station. The bird is a true New Yorker. 1:38 PM: Why did the turkey cross the road? Unlike the chicken, she is not interested in the other side. Instead, once she gets to the edge of the road, she turns and heads down the road in search of better things. Reaching the Hugo Newman school on 120th street, she stops briefly, and I am impressed with her passion for education. I am disappointed when she opts to play hooky and continues on her stroll. 1:40 PM: That turkey is really moving! She makes it to the intersection near 121st street in no time, and stops briefly, but settles on her final destination, a cluster of mulch mounds by the Canadian-flag-painted handball courts near the north end of the park. This appears to be turkey paradise. Esmeralda/Hedda Gobbler/the turkey finds ample bugs and seeds in the mulch mounds, and spends the next 15 minutes circling around them. I have to go to a meeting, so I end my journey and leave her in peace. &nbsp; &nbsp; Hell of a bird. 
If you're looking for something to do in the upcoming days before spring break or are simply wanting a break from midterm studies, check out these upcoming events sponsored by the Center for the Core Curriculum and CU Arts Initiative: Members of the Classic Stage Company are doing a reading of Hamlet in Miller Theater today and tomorrow. Pick up your tickets at the Miller Box Office before 5:30 (now!) for tonight's 6 PM showing or tomorrow after 6 PM for Saturday's 7:15 show. You get 2 tickets per CUID -- plus, if you're fretting over Shakespeare in Lit Hum, it might be a good idea to check it out. There's no Kenneth Branagh, but the New York Times claims it "pulls you into the drama by the lapels," so it must be good -- right? The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is offering all Columbia students and faculty members free tickets to the premiere presentation of Pullitzer Prize-winning composer Leon Kirchner's complete string quartets, performed by the Orion String Quartet on Wednesday, March 7, 7:30 PM in Alice Tully Hall. Kirchner will give a pre-concert discussion to ticket holders at 6:30 PM. There's an email you're supposed to print out&nbsp; and present with your CUID at Lincoln Center before 6:30 PM on the night of the concert -- perhaps they'll let that slide? Otherwise, find a friend in Music Hum to take care of it for you. A great opportunity to check out Carnegie Hall if you haven't had the chance yet. &nbsp;Meanwhile, take advantage of the nice weather outside (if you can stand the wetness) and do some reading on the steps -- it's abnormally pleasant given the forecast for this upcoming week. - MIP 
You may have seen the fat ad supplement in the Spec the other day about the John Jay Awards, which brought in $1.2 million for Columbia last night. Bwog freelancer Addison Anderson has the story from the ground level.&nbsp; Last night I went to Cipriani on 42nd Street to introduce Eric Foner at the John Jay Awards.&nbsp; “How did you get picked for this?” is what you may be asking, since everyone there who knew me asked the same.&nbsp; Well, jerk, I am a John Jay Scholar, one of “the most outstanding first-year students entering Columbia College.”&nbsp; I’m just as suspicious of it as you are. (at right: a picture I think defines the night. I love Columbia!) Anyway, I left Morningside with a terrible new haircut from Melvin and Pat’s and subbed it down to Grand Central.&nbsp; Cipriani is a giant Romanesque banquet hall across the street, with really high-ceilings, faux-decayed columns, four bars, arena-rock sound equipment suspended in mid-air, a phat dais, hecka booze, and a waiter for every two guests.&nbsp; It was bathed in blue light and crown icons. I immediately felt under-dressed.&nbsp; I was wearing a gold-tie, but it was a black tie affair, and some tuxed guys gave me that “you’re young and dumb” look.&nbsp; Thank Mammon I brought a dark silver tie in my pocket.&nbsp; I grabbed a vodka tonic (exceptionally good and large) and went to the bathroom to change.&nbsp; The bathroom had a fireplace.&nbsp; The bathroom attendant was reading “Waiting for Godot” in between wipe-offs of stray water drops beside the sinks.&nbsp; In the full length mirror I beheld the awfulness of my lop-chopped Melvin haircut.&nbsp; I decided to construe any weird looks as mere envy of my stalwart hairline. &nbsp; The crowd was typical, rich and smart and really gung ho with the school pride.&nbsp; I felt poor and lame and I’d never had cognac so I got some.&nbsp; I squeezed past Foner a few times unseen.&nbsp; A few other students were there, some with the John Jay Program, others with the Senior Fund.&nbsp; The Fundies mentioned they hadn’t gotten to me yet.&nbsp; We were all bewildered.&nbsp; The DJ said “Dinner!” We sat and ate these weird starter salads: some indecipherable white vegetable on top of lox.&nbsp; Speakers at the podium called for various groups to stand and be cheered at.&nbsp; Hillary Clinton has sent a nice letter.&nbsp; Mayor Dinkins was in the audience.&nbsp; The dinner raised $1.2 million for the Scholars Program, cheer cheer cheer.&nbsp; There was a trustee at my table, cheer cheer cheer.&nbsp; A Scholar talked about visiting Glasgow, cheer, faint, cheer. Time for lamb.&nbsp; My table got a spunky new waitress.&nbsp; Dean Quigley rattled off promising statistics, made fun of Princeton, and said “My origins are mysterious.”&nbsp; Guffaws, cheering.&nbsp; White wine was served.&nbsp; An ovation for Zvi. Dessert was served, a puff of sugar surrounded by berries.&nbsp; I went to the dais with the awardees and other scholars.&nbsp; I sat next to Foner and told him I knew some students of his and they all liked him.&nbsp; He’s a nice guy.&nbsp; Bollinger read a letter from Gov. Spitzer.&nbsp; Lisa Carnoy ‘89 from Merrill Lynch got the first award and talked about the eighties.&nbsp; Her classmates roared. I approached the podium, my hair-cut now on JumboTron.&nbsp; I said I was a senior and a Classics major; my plan was that if anyone laughed at the “Classics major” bit, I’d accuse Quigley of laughing at me and threaten to knock the accent out his mouth.&nbsp; People would laugh and cheer and raise me aloft and I’d wake up Associate Vice-President of Money at J.P. Merrill Schwab Bank.&nbsp; But no one laughed and I just read Foner’s bio, which was oddly put into the second person.&nbsp; Like, “Despite your prolific writing career, you have never neglected your teaching.”&nbsp; He should’ve said “Yeah, I know,” and then we would have had a witty exchange. Foner came up and I hovered at the edge of his photo with Bollinger and Quigley.&nbsp; Then he gave a very good talk about the importance of Columbia’s spirit of inquiry in a country that needs it.&nbsp; This was the only time of the night that I really liked Columbia.&nbsp; He also made a joke about CC.&nbsp; The place exploded. A neurosurgeon, Paul McCormick ’78, got the next award.&nbsp; He talked about our awesome neurosurgery department and said the kinds of things to his wife that make everyone want to get all married.&nbsp; I had left my cognac at the table and cursed myself. Then David Paterson ‘77, the lieutenant governor, came up and killed (ain't he handsome?).&nbsp; He talked about not getting hired to pack lunches.&nbsp; Pandemonium. Charles Santoro ’82 from Sterling Investment Partners was last and talked about rowing on the crew team and loving what Columbia had given him.&nbsp; He’s donating to the new rowing house.&nbsp; There was mention of Choate.&nbsp; Laughter, cheers. To end things, a friend of Santoro’s came up and thanked everyone and invited us to more drinks at the bar.&nbsp; When he congratulated the awardees one last time, he said, “Professor Fomer, did I get that right?” and I almost lost it and jugulated the guy. Carl Rosenthal ’07 sang the fight song, then a fantastic rendition of “Sans Souci,” during which many tuxes started trouncing to the bar. Someone thanked me for my time and I headed off to get a crazy pink champagne smoothie, some sort of Cipriani trademark drink.&nbsp; It was great.&nbsp; Some more old folks told me “great job” and meant it, which was nice.&nbsp; Then I asked for an Old Fashioned, and they gave me one.&nbsp; I’d never had one before, as no bar I’d visited knew how to make them.&nbsp; And it was terrible.&nbsp; It’s whiskey with tonic and mashed up maraschino cherries.&nbsp; Yuck, disappointing.&nbsp; Some guy started talking to me and described himself as a “dilettante” to my face about four times before asking me which way was Foner, so I left. In sum, it was crazy and Professor Eric Foner is the man and America is maybe worrisome and that waitress was sassy but really cool. John Jay Awards '07! 
Hey guys, guess what time of year it is? &nbsp;Time for HOUSING REGISTRATION. &nbsp; Let the drama begin. Bwog wishes the best of luck to those embarking on the journey into the land of lottery numbers. You've got until March 28th. (In the meantime, you can virtually tour/dream of that Watt single by browsing in here.) 
 News has it (or shows, rather) that Barnard radio station WBAR has unleashed a new website, featuring a new-and-improved albeit bizzarely colonial layout. Noteable changes also include a "Now Playing" sidebar that features a photo for the show currently on air, a more organized online schedule, and a "Show of the Week" feature if you're uncertain about what's playing. As far as our suggestions go for specific radio shows, we hear that Play With Your Radio is pretty badass -- although for a real explanation of what it's about, you should listen for yourself. Also a good bet (and with a two-year &nbsp;WBAR history) is Turtles All The Way Down with David S. Another favorite, Side A/Lado B, plays a mix of Latin and English rock on late Thursday afternoons. Also, Friday morning talk show Disgruntled Optimism promises an interview with Senator Joe Lieberman every week, "as well as taped segments with various members of Columbia's most outspoken housing staff." Only on freeform college radio. Outside of the typical airwaves: a team of Columbia students premiered their own new station, S.O.A.P. Box Radio Collective, from of a campus dorm room last Friday. Defined as an alternative media project, that is a "collective first and a radio station second," S.O.A.P. Box has been publicized around campus and within some grassroots activist circles, as well as IndyMedia. For something away from the vicinity of Morningside Heights, Bwog editor Jessica Cohen suggests Fordham Radio WFUV's CityScape and CD of the Week. The award-winning CityScape covers an array of New York City issues every Saturday morning while CD of the Week promises a newly released album on Thursday nights. College radio lives? - MIP 
 There's nothing like a t-shirt to make you feel more connected to an abstract political organizing tool. Like their Republican counterparts, the Dems now have their own shirt design, which proclaims, "The countdown has begun," on the front and, "Time to kick some " on the back. Cheeky! Bellicose! Sexy! 
A tipster snapped a picture of this defenestrated ROLM phone on the sidewalk under Hogan. Modern man's triumph over technology or further proof that we're all fucked? 
 We just heard about an exciting astronomical phenomenon occurring this evening-&nbsp;a total lunar eclipse! Bwog is going out right now to try our luck against the encroaching clouds, but it ends 6:57PM EST, so get moving! Update: Reports from the steps are saying that it's too cloudy to see... 
With their latest album Hissing Fauna, Are You The Destroyer? at the top of WBAR's charts and two shows on March 9th and 10th at Irving Plaza, Of Montreal's been keeping busy as&nbsp;they've made&nbsp;their way into the hearts of many a college hipster here in New York. Bwog contributor Ashley Nin caught up with keyboardist Dottie Alexander for a quick chat. Quick intro: on which albums do you appear? We all got together about nine years ago and recorded as a band for the first five albums, and then Kevin Barnes since then has kind of done his own thing on the most recent three, though we still work together on the live shows and the videos. And before you started playing with Of Montreal, you and Jamie actually played together in Lightning Bug vs. Firefly. Woah, that's a blast from the past. Yeah, Jamie and I just experimented with music on drums and keyboards together doing small gigs until Kevin Barnes kind of took us under his wing. Was the music you played then similar to the type of music you played with him? Yeah, Elephant 6 totally influenced us, so even twelve years ago, the stuff we were playing was along the same vein as what we play now with Kevin. Ok, so who's the best groupie you've ever had? Ryan always gets the best groupies. He had one that we'd call "the brute witch." She was this spooky lady who'd come up to you and just bless you with these spooky witchy words. And she smelled bad, so she'd dance around at our shows and there'd be like a 10ft radius around her in the middle of the crowd. Eventually, she stopped coming and we assumed that she had descended back to the underworld. What is your least favorite show? A few years ago, down in South by South-West, we'd play cramped up in these tiny venues, and this was back when we were transitioning to using backbeats at live shows and it just sounded bad and was awful. Ouch, and what have you never covered but wish you would? I would have to say, that Tears for Fears song, "Head Over Heels." You know, the one in Donnie Darko? I really like that song and think that we could really make something crazy out of that. And on what movie soundtrack would you most like to play? I'd say anything by Fellini. Just because surrealism is to film what we do for music. Or even something like Eternal Sunshine. I just love Michel Gondry and all of the stuff that&nbsp;he does. Great, thanks for your time. By the way, my friends wanted you to know that they love Du Og Meg. That's great, we've been playing that a lot and so I'll definitely pass that along. &nbsp; 
 Behold Surgam, the literary magazine of the Philolexian Society. It was scheduled to come out in February, we hear, but the mail room lost it, so here's a PDF. (All the links are the same.) A timely shoutout to decorum and sangria (pg. 1) Sapphic? (pg. 6-7) Rushdie's wife is pretty hot, isn't she (pg. 8-9) An excerpt from the Kilmer Awards (pg. 11) Part one of a serialized story. The excitement mounts!&nbsp;(pg. 12-13) 
 It's not as if this joke hasn't been made before, but Bwog thinks that CPR has pulled it off pretty well in its new T-shirt design. Although, admittedly, the bar has been set pretty low. Available here! &nbsp; 
Bwog occasionally likes to sit in on CCSC meetings, just for kicks. Things of note: - The meeting commenced with a furious marshmallow fight, during which Bwog nearly got beaned while tapping away in the audience. President Flaxman had to bang his shoe on the table to halt the crossfire. -&nbsp; George Krebs, on the battle of the class t-shirts: "Our sophomore class t-shirts are going to do dirty things ." - Flex off campus is moving along, and council members requested that Starbucks and Fairway be added to the list of stores where we'll eventually be able to swipe our parents' dollars away. One councilmember fumbled: "When the expansion happens--if it were to happen, I'm not taking any sides--that would be good." People in general seemed to be quite unwilling to talk about Manhattanville. "If Manhattanville were to happen." "If any expansion does occur, that it should occur under this standard." Does no one have an opinion on this? - Two resolutions paased unanimously. One, a climate neutrality resolution, encourages Ivy League universities to increase their energy efficiency and offset carbon usage. Another, more specific to Columbia, encourages the university to more effectively monitor its energy usage, construct all new buildings to LEED standards, and incorporate environmental education into NSOP programming. Yay green stuff! Yay broad sweeping statements! - By the way, the Dems just endorsed One Columbia, Michelle Diamond's ticket, with a few more in the works. Man up, Rebel CC and Voice. - LBD 
 City Council: Freshmen belong at Columbia Cottage, not 1020. Separate, but equal? OFFCAMPUSFLEX OFFCAMPUSFLEX OFFCAMPUSFLEX! Because you can't dress in drag for Yom Kippur... &nbsp; 
 Columbia College Dean Austin Quigley is hosting a senior class reception tonight at 5:30 in Lerner’s Satw Room. The event announcement mentions a “SUPER SECRET-HUGE-AMAZING announcement at 6:00pm sharp,” which, Bwog hears, is the identity of the 2007 Class Day speaker. We’re hoping for a speaker who’s a bit more Tony Kushner than John McCain - perhaps that gent to the right? Guesses as to the secret identity welcome, though we feel safe in saying that it won’t be Barack “Alma Mater Who?” Obama. 
 Blades on campus After raising the level of machete-related campus chatter to an all-time high last Friday, Spec cruelly crushed our Indiana Jones dreams with a correction today. "According to a statement issued Friday by Columbia's office of public affairs—the first since the incident—the door was opened by a handyman under police supervision with a crowbar and power drill." That's right, y'all. Crowbar, not machete. Our sympathy to the deceased. Hosiery heist? Overheard outside Duane Reade Middle-aged woman to another middle-aged woman: "Excuse me, if I give you money, would you go in there and buy me a pair of knee-high stockings?" Good Samaritanism Bwog’s dear friend Yelena Shuster writes in with a plea for help: "At three o’clock Sunday morning, I left many important materials in the Schapiro Sky Lounge, which included a purple binder packed with ALL of my class notes for ALL of my classes, midterm notes for CC, my finished homework for next week, and a black (personal) journal. I showed up at four in the afternoon, and there was nothing left. I spoke to facilities and there is nothing they can do. While digging through trash in Schapiro's basement (seriously desperate), I came across the guy who cleaned out the Sky Lounge and he said he didn't see any papers there when he came in around nine A.M., which leaves me to think that for some reason, someone took my stuff between the hours of three and nine A.M. on Sunday." Help her out, will you? There are some problems a machete can't solve. 
 The New York Times Magazine covers sex publications, marking the eighteenth time in as many years Bwog has read about H-Bomb; interestingly, the aforementioned Harvard publication was granted college funding, unlike, say, Columbia's Outlet. No mention of sex pieces in non-sexual college publications? Following in the footsteps of our favorite "explicitly, absolutely, without a doubt straight woman," today's Spec sex column, "Embracing Your Inner Slut," begins, "A few weeks ago I arrived home to find one of my roommates involved in an orgy." And that's all the news that's not fit for print.&nbsp; 
 It's Matthew Fox, of Lost fame. We hope this is a joke. (Though some of you commenters in the other thread seemed prescient...) A genuine teevee celebrity! Chris Szabla reports: "The general mood among seniors: either appalled, or wondering if Quigley&nbsp;and Chait were playing an extended&nbsp;joke. Even the video montage of headshots from the likes of Party of Five failed to quell rumors this was&nbsp;some kind of&nbsp;gag." UPDATE 7:00PM: Spec has a full story up and running, complete with delicious reactions. 
 One of our more distinguished alumni (excerpted): "I'm a liar and a cheat and a thief and the ultimate manipulator. ... I tell lies every day, man," the 40-year-old actor says in the February issue of Men's Journal magazine. "And when I say I'm phenomenally manipulative, I am." Fox, who is now starring opposite Matthew McConaughey in We Are Marshall, a Warner Bros. Pictures release, says he "can be unapologetically vicious" and is "absolutely an instigator." "I really enjoy social boozing, and what I enjoy about it is when people I know and care about say and do things they normally wouldn't say or do," he tells the magazine. "To make that happen I'll instigate anything." "As for the skinny-dipping, when I was a kid there wasn't a huge delineation in our family between having clothes on or not having clothes on," he says. "And the reason I have so much fun doing it now is people are so shocked by it, and, like, `Oh, my God, Fox just took his clothes off!' But, I mean, just how long ago was it that we were all wandering around in loincloths?" ...was everyone else remotely affiliated with Columbia busy on May 15th?&nbsp;Why is this man speaking at Class Day? Something must be done... The following is the opinion of Bwog's Monday editor, Dan D'Addario. We're not anti-entertainer snobs; there are plenty of talented alumni who could have been excellent speakers (as the Class Day speaker must have graduated from Columbia, excepting John McCain, somehow). Anna Paquin is an accomplished stage actress and Oscar-winner, Maggie Gyllenhaal is one of the most talented actresses of her generation, Brian Dennehy is the biggest bad-ass ever. No, seriously. Jim Jarmusch is a brilliant filmmaker, and Brian DePalma one of the most intriguing hit-or-miss filmmakers in the world. Dan Futterman an Oscar-nominated screenwriter. Any of these people might have had something interesting to say. And these are only alternative speakers from the entertainment world. Warren Buffett? George Stephanopoulous? Brent Scowcroft? Kiran Desai? Scooter Libby - okay, perhaps not. We're not going to pretend we wouldn't have bitched no matter who the Class Day speaker was, but seriously. Matthew Fox? Look at his IMDb profile and tell us whether you see any roles that you've heard of besides Party of Five - better remembered for introducing America to Jennifer Love Hewitt's and Neve Campbell's cleavage - and Lost, a cult show so engrossed with its cult nature that it's shedding viewers faster than Columbia sheds credibility. It seemed decent up until the polar bears in the forest, and Fox hardly lights the screen aflame with his acting talent. His SNL wasn't even good! The man was in We Are Marshall, you say? Okay, perhaps, but a) it flopped in a way that suggests it'll be as well-remembered ultimately as Fox's Behind the Mask, and b) it was the McConaughey show anyway. Our Class Day speaker got upstaged by the smelliest-looking man in show business. We're not trying to be mean. We're sure Fox is a great guy. Actually, as we think back to that interview, maybe he isn't. But we want a Class Day speaker that has accomplished more than being hot and lucking into a role on a show with a bunch of hot girls and then another that was a hit for a season and a half. Fox is hardly one of Columbia's most illustrious graduates, and, with due respect, should not be treated as such. In light of his comparative lack of credibility, Fox's invitation to speak should be rescinded. Bwog invites all Columbia students to protest just as we protested McCain last year. Fox may not have authorized an illegal war, but then, what exactly HAS he done? To quote last year's anti-McCain buttons, "Fox does not speak for me." -DPD 
 If you've been oblivious to the many attention-grabbing efforts on campus (the chalked stairs in Hamilton are a nice touch), you may not have heard about the SCEG/Postcrypt gallery show going on right now, "Expanding Perspectives: West Harlem," which opened Friday in the basement of St. Paul's and features art by both Columbia students and members of the greater community. Together with the lavish Robert Moses show in Wallach (more on that later), the exhibition forms one half of a complementary duo of timely campus happenings that expound on unique angles regarding Manhattanville expansion-- the human and the historical-- with extraordinary effects. Bwog stopped by the gallery during Friday night's opening, which was abuzz with organizers, friends, artists, and critics (we noticed an august gentleman perambulating with an electronic critique notebook). The event, of course, wasn't just about the pieces, many of which are stunning, but rather the things people were saying about them. On one work, entitled, "Semiotics, Smoked Fish, and Scotch Tape," gallery-goers were actually encouraged to write personal messages in black Sharpie, resulting in notes like, "A place of beauty, strive, and strength. I love Harlem, it's in my blood and veins," mingled with personal tags and other comments. After observing three female dancers performing a dirge-like routine with an orange electrical cord, we managed to get some photos before our camera battery blinkered out. Then, cool kids that we are, we chatted briefly with Sophie, who's been doing some of the wheatpaste art you see around campus, about her work. "It's just a character that I draw," she said, about her forlorn, blight-affected owls. "When I started, I didn't know what I was doing. I found a wheatpaste recipe online... It's just newsprint and Sharpie markers." And famous, mind you. -KER 
 Spec is only running Monday and Wednesday on this sunny,&nbsp;gloriously action-packed midterm week. So in the absence of our usual morning recap, we present this motley roundup of completely unrelated miscellany... Behold the latest email from the CC '09 class council, proving to seniors, perhaps, that they don't have it so bad. The missive begins by observing "Wollstonecraft is a hotty," and quickly goes downhill. A section&nbsp; titled&nbsp;"Free Food Just Doesn't Get Any Freer" describes the purchase and movement of the Broadway farmer's market a few meters inside, to Lerner. To wit, soon will be your "Last Chance to SEXIFY" the student center. Add an announcement for a campus group J. Sachs project called GROCC, at least three misspellings, four instances of triple exclamation points, and three announcements copied and pasted from other emails. Coda? "BEST OF LUCK ON THE&nbsp;MIDDIES". Beware, sophomores - it's never too early to start worrying about Class Day. You've probably only visited if you've taken the English department's seminar on children's literature, or if you're a GS student with a full house. The rest of us, apparently, are missing out: Bank Street Bookstore was recently named by New York magazine as the best indie book vendor (well, for kids) in town. Come to think of it, where else would you&nbsp;find a place&nbsp;featuring picture books in Urdu, Vietnamese, and Bengali - not to mention an edition of "Winnie the Pooh"...in Latin? Material on college sex finally running thin, the Daily News calls out Columbia students for throwing "narcissistic" parties. Which deadly sin will the tabloids tackle next week? Meanwhile, Dartmouth students discover&nbsp;a new way&nbsp;to be bored...as if they needed it? -CJS 
 Gary Shteyngart wrote his first successful novel, The&nbsp;Russian Debutante’s Handbook, during his senior year at Oberlin, and again embraced his Russian immigrant status with a second, Absurdistan. Only in his thirties, he’s now an adjunct professor in the MFA Writing Program.&nbsp;Dena Yago tracked him down to chat. So how has your class been this semester? Its great, I mean...I’ve never seen such a wonderful range of stories. One’s written from the perspective of a mental patient, another is tracing back the history of his family for several generations, there are stories about a woman obsessed with Indian religion...the kind of things you’ll find only at Columbia. These guys are very committed and already have very grand schemes for themselves. When I started writing I thought “man, &nbsp;23, what do I have to say”, my students seem to have a very good grasp of what they have to say despite being very young. Russian Debutante's Handbook came out when you were very young though, and you seemed to have something to say then… When I was in college, I was in Oberlin in Ohio, and I started writing in, I guess during my senior year, and I wrote a great deal then and thought “oh man this really is not good.” I started to realize there weren’t many novels written by Russian immigrants – Russian Jewish or Soviet Jewish immigrants. There were a lot of novels written by Korean, Chinese, Indian, Dominican, all down the line, but nobody from my generation had written anything by that point. And so when I was writing Russian Debutante’s Handbook, I wrote it in my early twenties and then I put it away for five years did some revisions. Chang-Rae Lee, a Korean American writer, friend and mentor, really saw the potential for this, told me that it could get published – and it did. Do you think now, with your second novel, Absurdistan, you have something to say? I hope so. I mean they are very different books I wrote them for different audiences. Russian Debutante’s Handbook was much more about the immigrant experience and Absurdistan is a much more political novel about oil politics and the way certain eastern elites deal with the United States – the way the United States is perceived, the way Russia is perceived, Israel, etc. The main character, Misha, is a big human being. There is defiantly satire in both of them. The first is more of a young man novel, a coming of age novel in a way, where the second one is not a coming of age novel, but rather about a large man sort of rolling his way through the world. You defiantly went from the sick white Jewish boy character to a three hundred pound monstrous man. I think a lot of it is – I mean, I am obviously much closer in appearances to the first character – I really wanted to explore the gigantic guy because I wanted to explore the idea of consumerism. I go back to Russia every year and that is something that I see a lot of. I see this incredible appetite for anything Western, and at the same time there is also a hatred for all things Western so there is kind of – and this goes back centuries to this Slavophile versus Westernizers dynamic that has existed in Russia for a very long time. But it also exists in other parts of the world Middle Eastern societies and Asian societies have this concept of America as both a savior and as the devil. There’s things about it that they love and things about it that they want to destroy. Where do you place yourself in that dynamic? Well I think that I am a Westernizer in Russia, I would like to see Russia become a European country. So you have fully embraced you pigeonholing as a Russian/Jewish/American writer? Yeah you are always asked “are you Russian,” or “are you Jewish?” Well, in Russia I am a Jew – sometimes said not so nicely – when I am in America I’m Russian, I lived in Italy for a while and there I was American. So it is that wherever you go people create an identity for you, but I am secure enough with you I am that you can decide whoever you want me to be, I’ll be fine with that. This new book I’m working on is set in New York in the future and its more about where we are headed as a country. Are there still elements of the Russian immigrant story within it? One of the characters is born here to Russian parents so for me this is almost a kind of stepping back because for I grew up in a very Russianized household and in many ways took me a long time to assimilate – wondering if I have succeeded at all. This guy has a much greater sense of distance because he was born in Elmhurst to be exact. So I was always wondering about, and always impressed with that experience. Are you the only one in your family that has truly assimilated? Well I am the only one in my family. I am the last Shteyngart. Russian families mostly have only one kid. My parents on the other hand came in their thirties, so defiantly not. That’s how is goes. 
It's like Columbia Day over on Manhattan's favorite gossip site. Now we're elitist for complaining? (oh, and Ivygate's got video). Tasti rival moves in! Bwog misses Soupman. We've been trying to avoid this one, but since so many of you seem to think it's newsworthy (seriously, stop e-mailing us about it), Matt Sanchez has been up to some other activities besides bashing Columbia on conservative talk shows. Yawn. 
 Remember Project Athena, the promised&nbsp;Columbia wiki&nbsp;that was supposed to revolutionize campus life? Right, "barely" was our response, too. That is, until a mysterious i-banker IMed Bwog with the tantalizing info: Project Athena was online, and hosted off campus. We were quickly directed to wikicu.com, the slightly less sonorous realization of the project.&nbsp;While most of the site appears to remain in development, much already&nbsp;seems handy, including endless important links, an events calendar to rival ours (well, in all but wit, of course), and...by Zeus! That's where all the lavish photos from the old housing website went! Other miscellany includes a swim test schedule and a guide to Spanish verbs. What to expect? Where is this going? This Spec column from back in September makes one notable suggestion:&nbsp;documenting the horrors that await unsuspecting future residents of Wien. Meanwhile,&nbsp;over on real-world Wikipedia... Someone's been messing with Jester's entry. This morning, it read: "The magazine is known on campus for its completely inept coverage of the scientific community and generally poor quality paper stock." As of this evening, it reads: "The magazine is known on campus for its lackluster understanding of particle physics, frequent misrepresentations of string theory, and fervent hatred toward America." One tipster blames the Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal. Let the wiki-war begin.&nbsp; -CJS 
 First-year Class Council candidate (and incumbent President) Mark Modesitt is going through some rough times. He has been accused of being&nbsp; a "rapist" in that most literally indelible of media - Sharpie marker on his dorm room door. Modesitt (as will be revealed in a Spec article Wednesday morning) has contacted Public Safety to launch an investigation, naming specific students as potential culprits, and his John Jay floor attended a mandatory meeting about "hate speech." As response, some of those whom Modesitt mentioned as suspects have created a Facebook group to protest what they call Modesitt's false accusation, quoting a letter that those students claim they were sent by Public Safety and a self-written disclaimer. To wit: "WE JUST DON'T LIKE TOOLS ABUSING PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIALS FOR THEIR OWN PSEUDO-POLITICAL AMBITIONS AND BLAMING US FOR ARBITRARY BULLSHIT." Not all of the members of the group are under investigation for the incident; indeed, as of this writing, 48 students had been invited to join the group, including several '10 Class Council candidates, as well as Modesitt himself. For the record, the three students who admitted to being under investigation either have been cleared of responsibility for the writing by Public Safety or expect to, claiming no involvement. Modesitt's door has also been sanded down. UPDATE, 3:20 AM: A Bwog reader points out the "Related Groups" of the Facebook group for the accused and their sympathizers. They include "Shit Is Sooo Real: An Ayn Rand Tribute"; "Critique of Pure Douchebaggery"; and the most politically correct of all, "If you ask a retarded question in philosophy class, I'll rape you afterward." None of those under investigation are members in the latter group. ALSO: Comments on this post have been preemptively disabled, at the direction of Bwog Management, because of the sensitive matter of the post. AND, 9:35 AM: Spec is calling the incident a death threat and talks to Modesitt and several of the accused. Check it out. &nbsp;-DPD 
 ESC upset that people who have to run campaigns claim credit for achievements For the sadly Macless among us&nbsp; They're coming, for reals&nbsp; DOWN WITH FOX (polite version)&nbsp; Columbia is 75% snobs, then? Chris gets Kerouac envy&nbsp; Bonus: From an e-mail sent to us last night... "Too bad you are such a bunch of immature, whiny ass snobs there. You obviously don't watch Lost. Maybe the Gyllenhaul woman will do it in&nbsp; the nude for you. Is that what you are looking for? Grow up. Most of you will never accomplish half of what Matthew Fox has accomplished. Is it jealousy? You've made a great name for yourself across the entertainment scene. Just look online at the comments. Fox isn't coming up the loser, that title is yours." We have a name across the entertainment scene? Baller... 
On the Lerner ramps right now: Greenpeace's student network brings you green-frosted cupcakes, green apples, green-tinted rice crispies, and lots of green love as part of its Green My Apple campaign--because good things can always get better.&nbsp;
Coffee correspondent Downing Bray brings you another spot to get your daily jolt in style.&nbsp; V-Bar&nbsp; 225 Sullivan Street (between W. 3rd and Bleecker) A coffee shop by day and a wine and beer bar by night, Vbar is as mysterious as its name - I cannot for the life of me figure out what the V stands for. Maybe the V refers to vino or vin since it certainly boasts quite an array of European offerings, and furthermore it has an impressive display of vintage bottles lining the shelves along the wall for decoration. Or maybe the V points to the dark blue velvet curtains that adorn the long windows overlooking Sullivan Street (across from Peanut Butter and Company). Velvety, in fact, would be a choice word to describe Vbar. It has an almost medieval, rustic feel, but it’s simultaneously contemporary; as soft, calming music (think Ravi Shankar or Lauryn Hill) plays softly amidst the occasional whirring of a coffee machine or clinking of a wine glass, people reading and tapping away on their laptops sit in near silence at a few small tables and at the larger dark wood communal table in the center of the café, all with bar-style seating. If you need quiet, it’s an ideal place to study, but make sure to go early in the day; around 5:30 the lights dim and the conversations pick up as it transforms to a wine bar—although some people still work away. In addition to wine, beer, tea, and coffee, it has paninis, baked goods and other snacks. For an indication of price range, a small coffee sells $1.25 a cup while a small tea is $1.75. It&nbsp;opens weekdays at 9:00 AM and weekends at 10:00 AM. Closes at 2:00 AM Sun-Wed, and 4:00 AM on Thursday. 
 With our recent posts on Matthew Fox's impending Class Day speech ballooning to nearly 500 comments, collectively, a protest Facebook group attracting 150 members so far, and even a failed attempt to hawk "Matthew Fox Does Not Speak for Me" buttons (they've been removed...we assume ABC's copyright lawyers struck quickly), this was a story the blogosphere couldn't ignore. Some highlights: Televisionista called Columbia seniors "whiny, pretentious and snobbish," capturing similar sentiments across the board. MollyGood weighed in with "How precious! Yet another protest! They've always been so successful and righteous in the past!" Seriously? OMG! WTF? writes "I mean Columbia is a good school, but please it is not the top Ivy League for a reason and don't get me started on their crappy football team"...proving that unintentional irony is the best kind. Just Jared, meanwhile, had little more to add, but wasted way too much time on Photoshop concocting the graphic we've displayed above-right. After the jump: what Glamour, US, Gothamist &amp; TV Guide had to say... UPDATE:&nbsp;Word has it l'affair Fox made E!'s "Daily Ten"&nbsp;this evening, with harsh words for Columbia students - who nonetheless, they asserted, "love the Daily 10!" The reaction on the mainstream gossip blogs has been more noteworthy for action in their comments, though Glamour's blog did manage to opine "we think the brainiacs should loosen up--and thank their SAT scores they didn't get Ryan Seacrest on the bill." The readers of US magazine quickly became distracted with some kind of unrelated speculation, though at least one commenter was on the ball, criticizing the site's ignorance of proper Latin plurals: "Where did you get your journalism degree, DeVry?" Meanwhile, an astute commenter on Gothamist asked "how do you go from McCain to Fox, and not even Michael J. Fox?" Among&nbsp;the 200+ comments on Oh No They Didn't: "what a bunch of douche nozzles"..."these are the people that still talk about their SATs scores in their twenties"..."it drives me into murderous rage"..."he's pretty. There goes my app for columbia"...and, um, what? "I love how Columbia students don't read 'the bwog' but everyone else on the internets does." The pièce de resistance, however, was undoubtedly TV Guide's blog, where a debate unfolded among commenters. "Exactly what I'd expect from Columbia College, one of the most notoriously whiny, snobbish schools in the country," wrote one, characteristically. What we think was a rebuttal: "I just linked onto&nbsp; ready to really whip their butts and tell them they WERE being mean, and snobbish, and ill informed, and then I read the article - at least the beginning and the end - flipped thru the middle - and saw the quotes from the interview with Fox that also had given me pause for thought when I first read it (instigator, fighter, the need to shock people, etc etc)and I thought of how disappointed in Fox I was after reading it and that from this as a prospective he certainly didn't look like someone for them to look up to...He didn't come across as a role model to me after reading what he'd said, but I forgot it intentionally because I love him, and the show, BUT can see why they would hanker for someone else. Not a do as I say, not as I do speaker. Too bad. At face value they were WRONG but think about it, maybe they weren't." Uh...thanks? -CJS 
CCSC Study Break in Lerner by the piano lounge. Get it while it's hot.
Out with the new, in with the old, as Bwog correspondent Armin Rosen reports on the good old-fashioned crazy Israel-Palestine debate. Between farcical stage-rushings, dictatorial&nbsp; speaking engagements, gay porn-star conservatives, bizarrely poor choices for class day speakers and Ann Coulter it’s been a truly historic year for unintentional black comedy at 116th and Broadway. Columbians, as if collectively unsatisfied with usual comedic fodder, have been turned serious debates on things like immigration and nuclear madmen into something out of a Coen brothers’ film. And luckily for the blogging set, it is a trend that is continuing unabated. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tonight’s tableau: a PhD candidate hurling an f-bomb at one of the world’s foremost experts on Zionism at Lionpac’s “Is Zionism Racism?” talk on the fourth floor of Kraft. On its own, it might seem lame —Saifdean Ammous’s use of the best fuckin’ word in the English language was incidental, passing, gratuitous and not particularly venomous as far as uses of the word go. That it happened amidst a very tense back-and-forth with pro-Zionist Tel Aviv University professor Anita Shapira might make it understandable, perhaps even excusable.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; What's funny is the complete breakdown of rational communication that this moment represented: Shapira, an older-looking Israeli of Polish extraction and somewhat weak English could not conceptualize her homeland as fundamentally, indelibly racist, while Ammous, a young and perhaps justifiably embittered Palestinian with remarkable command of our mother tongue could not conceive otherwise. “I don’t know what to say” was Shapira’s common refrain. I feel for her—why try justifying what your scholarship, personal experience and national identification tells you needs no justifying to a person who would never in a million years be able to rationally process your side of the argument? Ammous, in the meanwhile, used words like “racist and “apartheid,” and I feel for him too—to him, Shapira must have seemed woefully thickheaded and intellectually bankrupt; a spitting image of Zionist disingenuousness for all who would answer “yes” to the event’s titular question. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All this culminated in a uniquely Columbian, darkly comedic moment of expletive rage. Shapira described the displacement of Palestinians as a tragedy, and Ammous replied with something along the lines of “so we just say ‘fuck it, it’s a tragedy?’”—but by this point the sheer absurdity of their basically incongruous back and forth had adequately prepared the assembled crowd of 30 or so students for whatever escalation was in store. Thus a parody of a real debate deteriorated into a kind of intellectual “America’s Funniest Home Videos.” No, there wasn’t anybody hit in the balls with a rake. But if you think of an uncivil, not at all educational and emotionally-driven Ammous - Shapira style debate as the rake, and rational, constructive discourse on Israel as the hapless schlub who is about to step on the tines, then I suppose that maybe there was. 
Arcade Fire’s Neon Bible hit stores on Tuesday.&nbsp; Bwog Music Critic Bryan Mochizuki looks quizzically at the hype.&nbsp; NME, the UK’s equivalent to Rolling Stone, recently called Neon Bible, Arcade Fire’s new album: “A record that - as much as London Calling or What's Going On - holds a deep, dark, truthful Black Mirror up to our turbulent times.” Language like this is usually saved for press releases (ie: “Jet’s new album combines the best parts of Sgt. Peppers, Zeppelin IV, and Oops, I Did It Again!”).&nbsp; But Arcade Fire has the world’s media outlets actually talking like this.&nbsp; &nbsp; Besides having the closest thing possible to a consensus opinion among music writers, The ‘Fire and their Bible are being compared the greatest groups/albums of all time.&nbsp; See, for example, our own New York Times: the review nods to Springsteen and U2, and in the Times Magazine feature, Clash comparisons run rampant. Coming on the heels of The Strokes, The Killers, Franz Ferdinand, and The Arctic Monkeys, Arcade Fire looks like the most recent resting point in search for the next Great Rock Band.&nbsp; There’s no use going into the quality of the album, as hundreds already got there first.&nbsp; My question is this: can Arcade Fire really measure up to the hype?&nbsp; To liberally quote the non- neon Bible: “Eat bread, quirky Canadian band, till thou returneth unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for blog-fodder thou art, and unto blog-fodder shalt thou return.”&nbsp; In other words, while Arcade Fire may be a great rock band, they’ll never reach Great Rock Band status, because they rose on the shoulders of the music blog phenomenon.&nbsp; Their core fanbase – music bloggers, blog readers, and people who are always looking for new-new music – is inundated with dozens and dozens of new songs and bands each week.&nbsp; Being one of those people myself, I know what sort of musical ADHD they’re facing.&nbsp; Arcade Fire isn’t my favorite band by any stretch, but maybe they would have been back in the CD days of budget restrictions on how much music one could own.&nbsp; But with blogs?&nbsp; No dice.&nbsp; In grade school my friends and I played a game with a very un-PC name where the point was to tackle the dude carrying the football and then run around with it yourself until you got tackled.&nbsp; If only five people were playing, it was pretty much just one sixth grader stiff-arming all of us and no one ever tackled him.&nbsp; If thirty kids were playing, there was never a clear victor.&nbsp; &nbsp; Thirty kids = music bloggery.&nbsp; Listeners are so saturated and given so many options (especially ones that fit the same niche) that it’s impossible for one to remain dominant, especially if they’re only releasing a new album once every two years.&nbsp; And music blogs are just a microcosm of how things work in this post-Napster, post-iTunes world.&nbsp; No one commits!&nbsp; Everyone’s swinging!&nbsp; &nbsp; Magic Johnson once famously said, “There will never, ever be another Larry Bird.”&nbsp; I’m not going to go as far as to say there won’t never, ever be another Clash, but it seems foolish to jump the gun on canonizing Arcade Fire when dominance in our time is so near impossible. 
We couldn't quite believe it when we got an e-mail from Robert Maschio, CC '88, who plays Todd on Scrubs. But we e-mailed back, and he seems to really actually honest-to-god want to speak on Class Day. In his own words: "Hey Gang, This is Robert Maschio, the actor who plays High-Five Todd on the TV show SCRUBS. As I am also a graduate of Columbia University (88) and I just want to say, if it doesn't work out with Matthew Fox, I would be more than willing to fly in, show up and give a great commencement speech...well, it wouldn't be a speech so much as a series of hi-fives to all graduates and a series of sexual inappropriate comments (aimed mostly at the administration). Of course I'd be wearing my trademark "Banana Hammock" the whole time...for the ladies, so...just something to consider and enjoy...good luck and let me know, robert maschio class of 1988 roar lion roar" Hey, it's just a suggestion. 
Alright, alright, we got it. So we've already heard the news from all over the place, as have many of you guys: Marine Corps reservist and conservative military bias activist Matt Sanchez GS '07 is former gay porn star Rod Majors, according to Gawker,&nbsp; here, and here too. However, last night, Sanchez issued a personal defense on his blog and Salon.com. Sanchez posts: "Did I think I could become a 'public figure' without some scrutiny? Of course not! Am I so craven for attention that I’ll stop at anything to get it? I’m the first to admit that I want to be heard, read and taken seriously, but some issues really are simple and some are more complex. I always hear the complaint of information reduced to sound bytes and of the lack of depth in public discourse. Well, porn is porn; self-explanatory and of little depth. The pictures do pretty much all the talking, and in an age when pictures are so abundant, they don’t say much. I’m concerned many will feel inadequate, as a conservative, I like to insist on equal opportunity even if some start off with more than others. "I don’t like porn, it reduces the mind, flattens the soul. That’s not hypocrisy talking, that’s experience. If I started off with liberal leanings, being on a gay porn set should have been heaven. In porn, everything taboo is trivialized and everything trivial is projected. How does a conservative trace his roots to such distasteful beginnings? Like all followers of a cult, it’s tough to figure out when you stopped believing in the party-line, but I can tell you that by the time I finished my summer tour of the major studios, I was pretty disgusted with myself. It was an emotional low, and the people who surrounded me were like drug dealers only interested in being with the anesthetized in order not to shake off the stupor of being high. Why did I become a conservative? Just look at what I left, and look at who is attacking me to today? Let’s face it people, you’re all cynical enough to know that if I had espoused liberal causes, spoken out against the military, got a liberal award for courage and then outed with a porn-past, you’d be clamoring for my memoir, and nominating me for a diversity ticket with Barack Obama. Instead those who complain about wire-tapping reserve the right to eavesdrop on my private life for political brownie points..." More on the story after the jump. Sanchez recently acknowledged his pornographic work in an interview with gay blogger Joe.My.God., a week after receiving the Jean Kirkpatrick Academic Freedom Award for his activism at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (where Ann Coulter called John Edwards a "faggot" and, ironically, posed with Sanchez in the above photograph). Last night on MSNBC's Countdown, where the Sanchez story claimed the #1 spot, Huffington Post blogger Max Blumenthal (responsible for this blog post) stated that he "fully expect&nbsp; the people who supported him on the right to throw him under the bus now," and that "it doesn't matter inherently that he was a gay porn star -- what matters is that he's a hypocrite who's advancing on the ideological homophobia of the right and helping them exploit this homophobia for political gain." Former porn star he may be, but is Sanchez a hypocrite? Whether or not Blumenthal's label is appropriate, we leave to you, dear Bwog readers. - MIP &nbsp; 
Bwog lecture hopper Emma Jacobs took some time out of midterms this week to focus on the macroscopic. Her report follows. Saskia Sassen, U. Chicago professor, sociologist and general wonder-academic, spoke in Fayerweather on Wednesday on one of Columbia’s favorite topics: globalization. Sassen began by talking about her newest work, which posits that the major theories on this topic are too extreme (our own Stiglitz and Baghwati are a good example). On one end, people are saying the nation-state is doing fine, nothing has changed.&nbsp; On the other, theorists argue it’s collapsing.&nbsp;Sassen sees her own theory as a midpoint between the too, looking at where the functions of nations are being taken apart, and where new “assemblages” are being put back together from the pieces. The world is changing, but it’s not just flattening out, Tom Friedman-style.&nbsp;Sassen points out that what’s happening on a global scale is growing up within countries.&nbsp;For example, major construction firms have established a set of standards to deal with the governments they’re building within, rules they derive from existing laws of nation-states.&nbsp;Closer to home, an American civil suit was filed against nine multinationals about human rights abuses they were involved with overseas. Bringing all those pieces together creates something new.&nbsp; There’s something happening globally, but it expresses itself differently locally, something she says came out of her research on global cities (yeah, she came up with that too).&nbsp; Even as we conduct so much business virtually, we need financial capitals for sociological reasons, so the global market can penetrate local peculiarities.&nbsp;Overseas acquisitions aren’t just mergers, they’re a foot in the door of a national market. Local activists don’t really operate on this level. But with modern technology, they’re not alone, either. The expression of these local problems in a globally connected way is key to what Sassen&nbsp;considers new. Sassen does worry about national governments.&nbsp;She thinks a lot of their control is being hollowed out, and not just in favor of the private sector: more and more powers of the legislature are shiftng to the executive branch.&nbsp;And it’s not all Bush-Cheney; the process started with Reagan and continued with Clinton.&nbsp;Now, we have a new type of state developing locally because of what’s happening globally. Sassen’s focus on globalization makes sense, as she’s clearly one of those academics with the&nbsp;impulse to integrate everything she’s studied. And of course, she covered a lot more.&nbsp;There was the built environment of the city, and some talk about defining European law firms, but, as Sassen would say, “that’s something else altogether.”&nbsp; Really, I got the impression she could talk intelligently about just about anything, but they only gave her an hour and a half—plus the time she just kept talking. Grad student gossip (veracity questionable): She may be relocating soon to a University near you... 
Room Hopping has been on hiatus--until today. Emi Noguchi and Noam Prywes bring you another little residential corner of paradise. For 18-year old Chelsea Ward, C '09, "where are you from?" is an extremely complicated question. She hails from Savannah, Georgia;&nbsp; Hilton Head, South Carolina; Rochester, New York; and Buckinghamshire, England.&nbsp; Add to that the two months she spent in Japan last summer. &nbsp; Memorabilia from Chelsea’s world travels abound in her cozy Hartley single: photos of her various host families and friends in Japan to complement posters from her visit to the Prado, next to the picture of her name written in Arabic that she got on a two-week backpacking trip to Spain. The “quasi-Asian section” (She’s an EALAC major, already in her thesis seminar) is tranquil, replete with glowing paper lanterns and calligraphy samples a woman gave to her before she knew any Chinese.&nbsp; She also has a startling number of books. “When I came to college I had to edit all the books I had at home,” says Ward.&nbsp; “I had probably 300 books after the first narrowing down.” &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Then there's that glorious view of the quad from her two large windows.&nbsp; When asked about the binoculars on the sill, Chelsea explains, “Those come in handy when watching demonstrations.&nbsp; No one’s used them to peek in any windows...” She trails off.&nbsp; The room’s most striking item is framed by the windows, a painting (“Hang on, it’s skewed,”) by a high school friend based on Faulkner's Absalom, Absalom!.&nbsp; A Hartley passerby's favorite feature, however, would have to be the white board at the door.&nbsp; The regularly updated poll, situated in a much-trafficked hallway, offers questions ranging from the spiritual- “If you meet the Buddha, should you kill him?”- to the highly annotated Valentine’s special, “When did you lose your virginity?”&nbsp; Bwog discreetly left its two cents and bounced. &nbsp; 
Bwog dredged the cynicism and negativity from its collective soul a few weeks ago, and pissed a few of you off in the process. Well, that was winter. With spring comes renewal, and lists of things that are shiny and new and exciting! Meanwhile, Bwog is pooped, so you may not be hearing from us as frequently. Have fun on your exotic getaways (or mundane weeks on the living room couch). The fun starts again soon. Gayatri Spivak FreshDirect BorrowDirect kumquats UK spelling petty theft flyers condemning petty theft hopscotch Dixieland jazz pancakes Robert Maschio body stubble shaved heads multivitamins three ring binders hole punchers nepotism bagel lady who has replaced bagel man at Ferris raccoon hats (these are not coonskin caps) going to bed at 11:00 PM, waking up at 7:00 PM breakfast apparently, masturbating in front of the butler circulation desk at 3:30 AM during midterm week Ovid E-40 Riverside Drive ping pong cheerleading Leif Erickson old timey fisticuffs whiskey Michael Douglas Alec Baldwin horizontally stacked books the butt Columbia College Today kindness tea Austin, TX Cardigans Parisian suburbs identity politics and anti-imperialism in art museums the sublime London fashion masculinity adolescence Helen Mirren Heroes, season 2 Adorno deuniversalizing whiteness high school nostalgia hyphy tv&nbsp;on&nbsp;dvd gmail gchat google calendar google documents anything google touches beer evolution D'Ag points snobbery the metaphysical poets hats ballet flats Café Fresh nailbiting analog clock faces introspection cough drops Pandora earmuffs Broken Thought being earnest guided democracy Chacos and Timbuk2 bags faux fur with sunglasses Rod Majors The Jester global cooling way-too-long Bwog posts brown rice the future Chipotle first-year gossip CU Players 1020 Amsterdam Avenue West Side Market winter 197a plans perjury cutting and running over-use of Butler under-use of Lehman postering butter Nepal graduating early...or late. the SIPA cafe iPhones work study mixtapes small pets in dorms WBAR pronounced as "w-bar" train trips to outlying NYC regions Brooklyn Botanical Gardens multi-media all over the Spec website sock-hop-style rock n' roll street bouquets hand-written notes when you really mean it blood oranges chalk bartering STA travel Shake Shack (re-opens March 21!) Pinkberry Jeff Wall irony alarmism Conservapedia Lists: Grocery - Instant pudding - Salad fixings - tuna and cheddar - warm bread - polenta - 1% - Annies - OJ Hit - People who pace while on the phone - People who are not funny and don't realize it - People who fart and run - Pigeon killers - Line cutters, esp. if they pretend to be your friend Long (see above) 
DC on a Sunday is about as exciting as Butler on a Thursday. So with press pass in hand, Bwog contributor Armin Rosen attempted to stave off the ennui the only way Washingtonians know how: with a couple strong shots of special interest politics. My first thought upon arriving at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee conference’s first plenary session: should I feel inspired at being in a football-field sized room with more Jews than I’ve ever seen in one place in my entire life, or disgusted that we were watching a panel moderated by a former higher-up in the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq? Failing to reconcile the two, I condemn them to a queasy coexistence, made worse when the panel, which included former CIA director James Woolsey expounded upon the existential threats posed to the Jewish state by various Islamist entities. Six humungous jumbotrons behind him shuffle through images of a maniacal-looking Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and an impotent-looking Syrian president Bashir al-Assad. Israel advocacy is a high-stakes business, they beam at me. How sinister is this scaremongering? I’m willing to write off Woolsey’s claim that preventing Iran from getting nukes is a “job for American diplomacy and the American military” as a convenient (albeit wildly irresponsible) turn of phrase, since packaging trumps substance at any “policy” conference like this one. The AIPAC conference seeks to prove that the American-Israeli alliance is worth defending. Saber-rattling aside, beginning the conference on a bleak, pessimistic, existential note sells that idea brilliantly. Manipulative? Sure. Alarmist? Probably. On point? In this blogger’s opinion, you better believe it.&nbsp; After another hour of hardcore pessimism—espoused this time at a panel of policy wonks arguing that political instability in the Palestinian territories makes it impossible for Israel to reach a stable peace—I happen upon a nondescript gentleman from Illinois claiming to be a Republican candidate for president. After chatting with him for a few minutes I decide that there’s something profound about a plainspoken middle-American elevating himself to populist messiah status and endeavoring to redeem a corrupt and dishonest electoral system. But there’s something equally profound in the inevitable electoral defeat that will prove that system utterly irredeemable. Crazy or not, the candidate provided a raison d’etre for AIPAC that would have resonated were I there as a delegate rather than a journalist representing various campus rags: Israel advocacy among young Jews, he said, comes from powerful feelings of personal identity and association. For Jews, identity translates into obligation—so too, he reasoned, should American identity translate into a greater sense of civic consciousness for a feckless generation of teenagers hypnotized by MTV dating shows and bad rap music. This was an profound statement, especially coming from a nutjob, and especially, especially coming from a presidential “candidate.” The evening plenary revealed maybe the sharpest tension within AIPAC’s attempt to sell strong bilateral ties to Israel, as the nightcap was dedicated to de-Judaizing the Israel lobby—always problematic, since an overly non-Jewish Israel lobby reinforces the images of Israel as an American strategic outpost or the fulfillment of evangelical eschatology. Middle East expert Michael Oren spoke on the prevalence of a kind of Zionism in 18th and 19th century American thought, arguing that the perception of America as a promised land for persecuted Christians gave rise to “restorationism,” the idea that Christians given safety from exile by an American Israel had the responsibility to help Jews realize the biblical promise of the literal, Palestinian Israel. Oren convinced me that Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, Mark Twain, Herman Melville, Woodrow Wilson and Harry Truman were all restorationists—but Oren seemed to completely miss the way in which restorationism objectifies Jews as pawns in the fulfillment of nationalistic and theological objectives that couldn’t have less to do with Zionism or Israel in their modern manifestations. “Zionism” as an amalgam of Christian theology and the Puritanical conception of America as a literal holy land is as old as America itself. But apply such ideas to our current dialogue on Israel and the fact that Jews are given almost no agency in their own national upkeep—bearing in mind that the “restorers” in restorationism were invariably Christian—is one of the least of your problems. As if to accentuate the most rankling aspects of Oren’s speech, AIPAC tactlessly followed his talk with 20 minutes of evangelical bombast, during which evangelical pastor John Hagee rambled through reductive World War II comparisons (Ahmadinejad is Hitler, Gaza the Sudetenland, etc.), repeatedly used the Bible as proof of the eventual triumph of Israel and the Jewish people over Islamic extremism, claimed 2007 as a “year of destiny,” and called the alliance between 50 million evangelical Christians and 5 million Jews a “match made in heaven.” He received about a half dozen standing ovations. Slightly nauseous, I sought out LionPAC president Ari Gardner, C ’08, at a post-session student meet-and-greet and asked him what he thought of the pastor’s speech. “I think having someone stand on the podium and say that 50 million people of any race or religion support Israel is breathtaking,” Gardner answered. “I don’t think we’re in a position to turn down help freely offered.” Looking around the Washington convention center at pro-Israel black, white, Jewish and Christian students from every geographic region and placing them in my mind alongside 50 million fanatical Christian pro-Zionists brought back a glimmer of inspiration. But it might take a good night of sleep to make the disgust go away. 
Bwog correspondent Armin Rosen decided to spend part of his spring break hobnobbing with the stars at the America Israel Public Affairs Committee's conference in Washington DC. His second dispatch follows. After hearing Dick Cheney drone through a half-hour long exposition on the danger that a premature American pullout from Iraq poses to Israel, I realized that my disgust from the previous night was probably misdirected. A conference with 6,000 attendees and Harry Reid, Nancy Pelosi and Dick Cheney on its schedule obviously isn’t that concerned with pleasing everyone, so a bombastic John Hagee can be understood as a means to a greater end: if he can share the stage with the top Democrats in Congress then there’s no reason for anybody in Congress not to show up. And show up they did. After another day’s discussion on the immediacy of Israel’s existential threats and the two countries’ mutual values and interests, over half of the House and most of the Senate made their way to the Washington Convention Center, whereupon they endeavored to score easy points with thousands of more or less like-minded people. Completely anonymous lawmakers like the one in this picture probably didn’t, as they are part of the amorphous mass of the House of Representatives. But these guys sure did, because they’re running for president: &nbsp; If had to call the race based on their post-AIPAC gala buzz I’d say that a certain junior senator from Illinois is looking like a pretty comfortable bet in ’08 (OK, I’m like 8,000th on the bandwagon, but give me a break). Obama, mobbed as he was by scores of well-wishers impatient for handshakes, pictures and answers to the pressing political questions of the day, vacated his post-gala reception after about five minutes—but this electrifying in-and-out was brilliant in its brevity. On the Republican side, Kansas Senator Sam Brownback talked about the urgent situation in Darfur and defended the sanctity of marriage between a man and a woman—but not before guaranteeing victory in November ’08. As I wrote yesterday, the methods by which AIPAC brands and packages America’s alliance with Israel are at times highly troubling. But this shouldn’t detract from what was one of the conference’s many encouraging aspects: that Israel supporters are a powerful and diverse enough group that several major presidential candidates from both parties (whose stances on Israel are virtually identical) found it worthwhile to campaign specifically to them. So while Cheney’s speech was outrageous on too many levels to address, it is itself evidence of AIPAC’s success in uniting some of the most outspoken ideologues from every end of the political and cultural spectrum. And the fact that politicians as completely opposite of each other as Brownback and Obama thought they could win votes here is an indication of just how frighteningly well AIPAC is doing its job. &nbsp; 
BW staffer Kate Linthicum left us this semester for the wilds of Tibet and Bhutan, where's she's studying abroad and generally being cooler than those of us cloistered on College Walk. In one brief internet cafe session, she updated Bwog on her life. Dear New York, It’s been a month and a half since I last strolled your smooth, shining streets, and I long for them now as I tumble across the Bhutanese countryside in a rickety van known by locals as the “vomit comet.” This letter to you, just like the saccharine beats of The Blow pumping out of my ear buds, is a bit of deliberate escapism from these twisting, pockmarked roads. Six weeks of constant stimulation in the Himalayas, I think, warrants a bit of reflection. I spent my first month of the semester in Dharamasala, India, a colorful, bustling town of Tibetan refugees tucked at the foothills of the Himalayas. I stayed in a 10 X 12 ft. room with a family of five Tibetans who recently fled China. They were sweet and funny people, and I already miss them. Almost immediately upon my arrival, the kids found out one of my most embarrassing childhood secrets, which led them to refer to me forevermore as “Baby Model.” In the middle of the street or a crowded market they would call out to me in perfect British accents, “Baby model, would you like a piece of candy?” I later learned that self-deprecation is a key part of the Tibetan personality, and that any social blunder (and ensuing teasing) actually worked to my advantage. I learned this one evening after my host mother cooked me a plate of momos -- luscious little dumplings that are perhaps God’s greatest gift to the Tibetan people. Like most nights, after eating I hugged my belly and said, in terrible Tibetan, “This food will make me fat!” Finally she told me that instead of saying “gyiakpar,” the work for fat, I had all along been saying, “gyiakar,” the word for shit. Though it ensnarled me, the language barrier didn’t stop most Tibetan men I encountered from running their game. One highlight: a dishwasher at the restaurant I worked at sliced a potato into a heart and then presented it to me while singing, in a cracking falsetto, “I love you more than words can say.” Another man, incredibly intoxicated from too many bottles of Thunderbolt--India’s piss-like “super-strong” beer—offered me his shirt if I would go out with him. It was a black muscle tee with Avril Lavigne’s face emblazoned on the front. All of Dharamsala’s idiosyncrasies came out during Losar, the three-day period in February when the entire town ushers in the Tibetan new year with an excess of firecrackers, momos and chagn, traditional barley beer. In my Tibetan language class, the festivities started at 9 a.m. when our ancient teachers started pouring us cups of chagn. After about ten rounds, the class was rollicking and a few of us were teaching the merry old women how to moonwalk. That’s when they announced it was time to take our second big test. They laughed and laughed as we tried to make sense of the enigmatic Tibetan alphabet, which is difficult enough when you’re sober, and nearly impossible after chagn and Michael Jackson. The rest of the academic curriculum was less jovial, because the story of Tibet is grim. Each day we attended lectures by officials in the Tibetan exile government, visited refugee reception centers, or went to hear talks by protestors and artists. Because the exile community knows that the West’s portrayal of the Tibet question is crucial, the circle of intellectuals and officials who rule it gave us virtually unfettered access for interviews. Engaging with these erudite activists was fantastic, but our interactions with Tibet’s spiritual leaders were most fascinating. We went to see the Dalai Lama teach at his temple, and afterward he walked by us and looked, for the briefest moment, right into my eyes. A smile spread across my face and warmth seeped throughout my body, and it felt just like the time I met Bill Clinton. Only this time my feelings felt normal, not creepy and confusing. I was sad to leave Dharamsala, and even sadder to board a night train back to dirty Delhi. Compared to a few days in that grimy miasma of a city (where I contracted a mean case of Giardia), the trip to Bhutan was sweet relief. The flight from Katmandu to Paro was really just one long gasp of delight. The Himalayas are so high it looked like we were flying even with Everest. We’ve only been here a few days, but I’m already falling in love with this tiny kingdom. There are fewer than 700,000 people here and I haven’t seen a single tourist (visas cost $200 a day, but we don’t have to pay because we’re studying). Almost every person dresses traditionally—men wear the gho, a snappy little knee-length kimono that has led us to nickname them the Scots of Asia. So far we’ve had discussions with the Chief Justice and the editor of the biggest newspaper (circulation 16,000!), and drinks with the head of the national television channel (who’s also the country’s biggest movie star). We made quite a scene last night parading through the streets of Thimpu with the Bhutanese equivalent of Brad Pitt and Anderson Cooper. So although I miss you, dear city (especially your museums, lattes and live music), I’ve having the time of my life. I miss the glam of the city, but this make-up less, mirror-less existence is good for my soul. The program doesn’t end for several months, and after that I’m going to travel in Asia for a bit with some friends from the group. Until then, take care of yourself (and especially that lovely little university in Morningside Heights). Be merry! xokate &nbsp; 
In case you didn't pick one up before break, the Fed's out again. Here's what's worth reading.&nbsp; The profile that could actually kind of almost describe, like, half of Columbia&nbsp; Haha, Anna Nicole was fat. Barnard.&nbsp; The Fed ventures into national political satire Campus political satire that's distressingly close to the truth Possiby the most depressing board game ever 
A few items have come over the alias recently that we thought we'd share. To wit: University Senate candidate Eric Wang has scored again on the campaign publicity. Although his website seems to be inactive and posters alone don't quite measure up to last year's brilliance, somehow, it works.&nbsp; One tipster unaccountably roaming Hamilton this week sighted an odd poster, calling for virgins to audition to be on a show in which they'd live in a house with porn stars and compete to lose their virginity to a porn star (or to all the pornstars?).&nbsp; The company doing it is also responsible for some Paris Hilton video and something called "American Cannibal." While Bwog doesn't endorse such loose living, if you do elect to audition, please let us know how it goes. According to an e-mail sent to the same tipster this week, one of our innumerable illustrious alumni has started a teeth-whitening company, and we are among the select students who get a special discount! Click here and enter the gift code 16865 for 25% off your shiny new smile. Now aren't you glad you go to Columbia? Bwog recieved a strange departure notice in its inbox this evening: some bureaucrat is leaving for better pastures, and the Office of the President saw fit to commemorate the event with an ALL CAPS ANNOUNCEMENT. Stranger still, the press release seems to have been verbalized in large part by President Bollinger himself, who found time to rehash the retiree's credentials for some assiduous PR scribe. If for some reason you're not on PrezBo's mailing list, the e-mail is reprinted after the jump. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ PRESIDENT BOLLINGER AND TRUSTEE CHAIR CAMPBELL THANK EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT KEITH WALTON FOR HIS SERVICE TO THE UNIVERSITY “Keith Walton, Executive Vice President and Secretary of the University, has decided to step down after more than ten years, effective March 7, 2007,” said Columbia President Lee C. Bollinger today. &nbsp;“Keith has been a valuable member of Columbia's senior staff, and he has renewed and invigorated Trustee governance in accordance with the best practices throughout the country, successfully taken on special projects of strategic importance to the University, and effectively reached out to the local, national and international community on the University's behalf.” Bill Campbell, Chair of the Board of Trustees, said, “We are sad to see Keith go, but feel a debt of gratitude for the more than a decade of outstanding service he has given on behalf of the Trustees.” “Keith has matched his professional duties with a wide range of civic and charitable endeavors that make a difference in our community,” Bollinger continued. &nbsp;“A graduate of Yale and of Harvard Law School, he joined the University immediately after serving four years in leadership roles at the United States Department of the Treasury under Secretaries Lloyd Bentsen and Robert Rubin. &nbsp;We salute him for both his achievements and active citizenship.” “I want to thank the Trustees for allowing me to serve,” Walton said. “Columbia is a remarkable place and I am grateful for both the challenges my role offered and my relationships with those with whom I have worked.” “Keith will be available to the University for the rest of the academic year to advise the Trustees and the administration on trusteeship and governance matters,” Bollinger said. “Please join me in wishing Keith well.” 
We meant to get this to you before break, but as with many ambitious plans overlapping with midterms, this one failed. Until now! Behold, highlights from the March Issue: Global Thought: it might actually do something&nbsp; Life as you know it nearly came to an end. OK, just your web surfing, same difference. &nbsp; Behind the scenes of behind the scenes&nbsp; Art Spiegelman, curmudgeon. &nbsp; Lawmaker, Jetsetter&nbsp; And much more... 
Aside from the lethal shooting of an NYU student, the burial of the kids and adults who didn't make it out of that Bronx house fire, and about two days of above 65 degree weather, you didn't miss much in NYC. But at Columbia, on the other hand...just look at all of the exciting things that happened while you were gone: The novelty of the Christmas decorations wore off halfway through the Yule Log bash, but the lights twinkled on for several snow-less months anyway. Yesterday, the holiday cheer was spotted bagged up and waiting for storage in Columbia's musty attic until next year's festivities. Further down College Walk, a horde of&nbsp;baby journalists here for a Columbia Scholastic Press Association conference, wearing name tags and eager smiles,&nbsp;colonized Alma Mater. They've been crawling around campus all week. Go away! And speaking of nuisances, Low Library is undergoing a "bird control project." Luckily, the ugly scaffolding you may be able to see if you squint and look at the back of the photo at left, should be gone by tomorrow. -SEV 
 It's like news from a sinking ship: text messages, calls from borrowed cell phones, and internet cafe e-mails have been pouring in recently from those stranded in exotic spring break locales (including the ridiculous number congregating here). The nastiness outside in New York grounded over a thousand planes, foiling the homework plans and sinking the budgets of partiers scattered across the Carribean. Perhaps most troublingly, it seems that key members of the student government are missing. The CCSC VP Funding is stuck in the Bahamas, the VP Communications is stuck in Fort Lauderdale, and the senior class president is somewhere between here and Jamaica. Thankfully, the VP Policy is safe at Columbia, and we can only presume that the President and VP Campus life are in secure, undisclosed locations. The VP Communications sends these observations from Fort Lauderdale: Man on Phone: "It's so fucked up. It's so fucked up, Steph." Woman, probably wife, on other end: "..." Man: "What the fuck do you want me to do? Grow wings and fly? I don't feel good." Woman: "..." Man: "Why don't I try to rebook it? What the fuck do you think I've been doing for the last 30 minutes? Can't you just call them from home and pretend that you're me?" Wife: "..." Man: "OK! You're a woman! Not a good plan. I need to go. I need to eat. &nbsp;I'm getting dizzy." More after the jump... "I just went to the Greyhound station, which was fully stocked with hot GIRLS and BOYS looking very afraid of the CRACK addicts and people AFRAID to FLY. &nbsp;One group, hailing from Rutgers University, expressed amazement that it would take 28 hours to make it back to New Jersey. The people of Florida, however, are a kind people. &nbsp;I'm sitting in a Starbucks writing this missive, waiting for my new flight down in West Palm Beach (yes, I'll be visiting 8th &amp; Ocean before my flight), and one of the barista associate employees offered me the use of cellphone because mine has no JUICE. &nbsp;The chairs are luxurious here: fine green velvet chairs being enjoyed by middle-aged men between the ages of 35 and 50." 
Bwog coffeeshop reviewer Downing Bray took a break from caffeine this week in the Caribbean, and made it home to tell the tale. Her hazy memories follow. Jamaica, it seems, was the place to be this spring break. On this sunny island of white beaches and clear blue water, of abundant Red Stripe and weed, many a Columbian could be spotted sunning, perhaps with a beer or joint in hand, showing off their bathing attire and nascent tans . . . or more likely their lack thereof&nbsp; (got neither? No problem mon!). In&nbsp; Negril, on the very western tip of the island, pale New Yorkers mingled with hordes of other college spring breakers (and high schoolers—they only tell you their age after the hook-up). Days disappeared while we sprawled on the beach, sloshing in the ocean while sloshed, or tripping over the sand munching on a special cake. Nights were basically the same, minus the sun and plus much more sloshing and tripping. Adorned with multiple fluorescent wristbands, Columbians jumped from bar to open bar while and experiencing the joys of easily accessible weed (check out the back pocket of the guy in the yellow shirt). Along with pot, throngs of locals sold fruit and souvenirs, lobsters and patties, parasail adventures and booze cruises—other than tourism, all the Jamaican economy has going for it is something called bauxite, so we’re walking meal tickets. Hot spots included Rick’s Bar, the site of cliff-jumping and endless drunken pick-up lines; Margaritaville, the pivotal gathering point of trashy spring breakers, equipped with a water trampoline, cheesy decoration and a live stage featuring horrible music; and The Jungle, the nightclub where Grammy-nominee Beenie-Man reggaed the night away. Suffice it to say, midterm stress faded away, whether through enjoying the jerk chicken or taking advantage of . . . other things. Coming from the land where every little thing is gonna be alright to the snow-covered sidewalks of Columbia has been rough—blurry Negril memories, plus sand still stuck in my suitcase, will have to see me through till summer. 
South by Southwest (SXSW), the annual film and music festival in Austin, Texas, ends today—and BW culture editor Paul Barndt got himself a press pass (see, bwogging has its benefits). The music part is higher profile, but it’s a pain--unless running around Austin to catch half-hour sets at crowded bars is your idea of a relaxing break--so Paul stuck to the movies, which don’t have as many belligerent drunks. His personal highlights follow.&nbsp; Elvis &amp; Anabelle, shot in and around Austin and set in rural Texas, stars our very own Max Minghella, C’09. He sports a convincing twang as Elvis, a young mortician who has taken over the family business from his ailing father. Anabelle (Blake Lively) is a beauty queen who dies of eating disorder-related heart failure. She ends up on Elvis’ table, and when he kisses her, she springs back to life. (It’s not creepy, it’s magical!) Sheepish full disclosure: Ms. Lively, by the time the movie was half-done, had forced her way into my pantheon of celebrity crushes, which had, until that fateful Saturday night, been the same for several years. She is disarmingly cute and distractingly beautiful, so much so that I feel uncertain of giving an accurate assessment of the scenes in which she was on-screen. &nbsp; I can say that Elvis &amp; Anabelle is an amiable and operatic movie, one that grabs you by the collar and yells, “Believe in miracles!” Sometimes it works, sometimes it’s laughable—and by laughable, I mean one heartstring-tugging scene is almost identical to the funniest sequence in Caddyshack. Still, I’d take this warm-hearted charmer over Minghella’s last movie, the nihilistic and thoroughly unpleasant Art School Confidential.&nbsp; When can I see it? I don’t think it has theatrical distribution, and, given that it was pretty good but not great, I wouldn’t expect to see it in anything beyond an arthouse theater or two in New York and LA.&nbsp; Manufacturing Dissent is an enlightening, razor-sharp documentary about documentary filmmaker Michael Moore (and, depending on your perspective, what a douchebag he is). It was originally meant to be a straight bio for a television station in Canada, where Moore is pretty darn popular, but the filmmakers (Moore fans) just couldn’t seem to get in touch with Mike, try as they might over weeks and months. To be fair, Moore was busy promoting his Bush-bashing Fahrenheit 9/11, but does this sound familiar? Moore became a household name with Roger &amp; Me, his documentary about his quest to get an interview with General Motors CEO Roger Smith and ask him about the downfall of Moore’s hometown, Flint, Michigan, once a booming auto town. Roger eludes Moore time and time again, and the film ends without any word from Roger. Only Moore did interview Roger Smith. Twice. &nbsp; This is one of the many details Moore’s fudged over the years, which, taken together reveal an insecure megalomaniac, if not an altogether horrible person. It’s fun to watch Moore be dismantled with its own bag of tricks, but the big message Manufacturing Dissent gets across is to take all documentaries with a pile of salt.&nbsp; When can I see it? Presumably, the Canucks are still getting it on TV, and I’d be surprised if it didn’t show up stateside in theaters or DVD before the end of the year.&nbsp; Knocked Up is the spiritual successor to The 40 Year-Old Virgin. Judd Apatow wrote and directed them both, the cast is largely the same, and the title pretty much says it all. Stoner layabout Ben impregnates hot working girl Alison in a drunken one-night-stand, and the two have to decide just what they heck they’re going to do. Apatow, also behind the poignant TV show Freaks and Geeks, has developed a signature kind of humane, relatable comedy that has both specific and broad appeal. The premise isn’t as clever as Virgin’s, so I’m giving to the edge to that movie, but the execution is just as good. Also, for those of you not ready to barf at the mention of Class Day (I stand behind Matthew Fox), there was this little exchange (paraphrased):&nbsp; Alison: I’m so excited! I have my first on-air interview today! Ben: Oh. With who? Alison: Matthew Fox. Ben: Oh. You know what’s interesting stuff he’s done, right? Alison: What? Ben: Absolutely nothing.&nbsp; When can I see it? June 1, at a theater near you.&nbsp; Some stoner comedies only imply that their characters smoke the ganj. Many have obligatory psychedelic “we’re high!” montages, and then, instantly, the characters are fully functional human beings, exchanging witty banter and performing feats of athleticism.&nbsp;Smiley Face is the first movie I’ve seen in which the protagonist is genuinely stoned the entire time. Jane F. (Anna Faris, of the Scary Movie franchise) smokes up, gets the munchies, inadvertently eats a plate of pot cupcakes, and is then stoned out of her gourd for the next 90 minutes. And Faris is good. If you don’t trust me, this gem from Glenn Kenny of Premiere is what inspired me to see the movie in the first place: “As the very-much-too-high Jane, Anna Faris gives the most virtuoso performance of impairment since Daniel Day Lewis in My Left Foot. No, I'm not kidding.”&nbsp; Director Gregg Araki and screenwriter Dylan Haggerty clearly put a lot of love into this production, but Faris’ performance is really the only standout element. It anchors a host of one-dimensional characters, and a story that hints at deep things, but is more sketchy than profound.&nbsp; When can I see it? Was originally supposed to be April 20. IMDb has May 17, but Gregg Araki said July.&nbsp; Check back tomorrow for a report on filmmaker panels (including Robert Rodriguez talking about Grindhouse, his grisly double feature done with Quentin Tarantino), and other sundry Austin happenings.&nbsp;
 Dear SEAS: Here are the candidates for the ESC e-board, who will fight it out tonight at 9PM in the Satow Room. You won't get to vote on them, but at least you know who might become your quasi-elected leaders. President: Eash Cumarasamy and Liz Strauss Secretary: Erin Svokos and Krissie Zambrano Vice President Intergroup: Gunnar Aasen, Samantha John, and Daniel Wong VP Policy: Chandni Saxena, Prish Dunstan, and Michael Fu VP Student Life: Kim Manis UPDATE, 8:57: Mistakes posted originally have been corrected. Bwog pleads mornings. 
 But where will we get our Vietnamese? Well thank goodness we won't have to risk our health further by walking in the cold. Fencers: salvaging CU Athletics pride since as long as we can remember PrezBo has listserv problems&nbsp; "I'm not denying that scrota exist" Plus: Have you gotten mugged recently? No? Why not? 
And he actually acknowledges he went to Columbia (look under education).&nbsp; Maybe he loves us after all. &nbsp; - Thanks to Eric Ruben for the tip&nbsp; 
Lost actress Elizabeth Mitchell dished on the Daily 10 recently about, well, Lost--and why those crazy Columbia kids would have a problem with her buddy Matt speaking at Class Day. Ha ha ha. Interviewer: They were unhappy that he was picked to speak on class day. Do you think perhaps that it was his advocacy of skinny dipping that might have pushed them over the edge? Mitchell: Ha! For college students, to not skinny dip? I think it was probably alright there. I think that he was probably fine there. I can’t imagine why they wouldn’t want him, intelligent, well spoken, sexy. Interviewer: Very nice guy. I think he’s a good-looking guy myself. Mitchell: There you go, he crosses. - Thanks to David Zhou for the tip. UPDATE, 8:40 PM: Looks like Princeton got another C-list actor for their Class Day--but it's BRADLEY WHITFORD (a.k.a. the best character on The West Wing maybe ever). Bwog might have to be in New Jersey on June 4.&nbsp; 
 Enough about the t-shirt hype... here's the real deal. (PDF only.) Cartoons: marching stampeding into the canon. (Page 8) Damn, someone read a lot of Wikipedia entries for this one. (Page 12-13) It's all about how they rock the modest lipstick and pearls. (Page 17-18) How about... this way? No? Ok. (Page 20) Don't they have some kula ring shit going on instead? (Page 21) 
&nbsp; UPDATE, 12:01 AM: It's Liz Strauss! BWOG POPULAR VOTE, 12:01 AM: Eash 55%, Liz 45%.&nbsp; You may not be able to actually vote, SEAS kids, but now at least you can let the people who can vote know who you want for your dear leader next year: Eash or Liz? They don't have to campaign, so we don't know what their platforms are, but perhaps you can do a little research and make an informed choice. And no, we can't tell if you're actually in SEAS, so if CC kids want to weigh in too, go ahead--one vote per computer. {{poll "2"}} &nbsp; 
 More letters added to Columbia's delicious alphabet soup UAlbany students told their teetotalist public service announcement patronizing, lame. We know some substances that could fire their creativity... Plus, without drinking, how could we learn that "blackout activity range from sex to urination to fluent sentences in Hebrew" or forget "social standards, repercussions, your future, and other extraneous details"? Morningside residents commemorate war anniversairy, bemoan lack of youngins Meanwhile, one of the aforementioned youngins mocks "poorly-attended rallies," concocts bold new plan to stop the war: "Let your life be a counter-friction" 
Wipe that crust from your eyes, Columbians. It's the second day back from Spring Break, and jetlag is no longer an excuse (unless you're just returning from some three-day hell of flight cancellations and missed connections, in which case...good luck!) While you suck it up and drown yourselves in coffee, here's some more stuff we've picked up recently: History of Human Rights professor Samuel Moyn isn't sharing in seniors' ill-will toward Class Day speaker Matthew Fox. In a rare use of his faculty Facebook account, he's joined up with the group "Matthew Fox Speaks for Me" and voiced his incomprehension of the ongoing brouhaha: "As someone who attended class day last year and found John McCain less than enthralling, and as an obsessive fan of both 'Party of Five' and 'Lost,' I have only one question for those angry about the invitation of Matthew Fox this year: what is the deal?" We know, we know. The word got out long ago that the erstwhile Jonathan Taylor Thomas (of pre-adolescent heartthrob "JTT" fame, now answering to "Jonathan Taylor Weiss") has been stalking our halls as a student at GS, taking history classes and being spotted on the Barnard campus. We've tried for an interview, but, alas, the Home Improvement star has remained mum. Yesterday, however, IvyGate upped the ante by looking up Weiss' email on the directory, from which he oddly never had himself removed, and inviting the fanmail to pour in. Head over there for details - and a photomontage that will take you back to fourth grade. Finally, you Columbia homepage watchers might remember that Center for the Study of Alcohol and Substance Abuse (CASA) study that had been lingering near the top of the newswire for some time now - the one that pointed out that "half of college students binge drink, abuse prescription and illegal drugs". Yesterday, suddenly, and for some unknown reason, the announcement disappeared. One possible theory: being masters of the obvious wasn't enough to secure those grant applications... UPDATE: The CASA study is still there, it's just scrolled off the page. It's still not much of a revelation, though. In any case, we're resisting the temptation to edit out that line about jetlag being no excuse... -CJS 
 Anyone remember four years ago today? No? Well, something happened--the US invaded Iraq, and since then (or so say all the tally marks posted around Low Steps this sunny afternoon), 658,441 people have died. The Dems are collecting your change to send to UNICEF earmarked for Iraqi children on the Plaza until 3:00 PM, and you won't get away without signing a postcard to send to your congressional representatives. They'll also ask you to put in a call to the Senate asking them to endorse the Feingold plan for withdrawal.&nbsp; Kind of a different approach from the Lucha folks, who took a busload down to DC on Saturday to march on the Pentagon. The Dems didn't even cosponsor that busride, like they did a few months ago, because this one was mixed up with a few other messages. &nbsp; - LBD 
As if merely residing there wasn't bad enough, Wien inmates may be subjected to room searches this coming Friday...if stolen furniture isn't returned to the dorm's lounge. Offenders will be subject to the Dean's Discipline process - yes, the very same punishment&nbsp;handed&nbsp;to those determined to be the worst violators of university rules during the Minuteman stage-rush incident. The euphemistic but ultimately threatening notice (complete with warm and fuzzy language about violented "sense of community") is reproduced below the jump. In other news, two guys in&nbsp;the figure skating costumes worn by Will Ferrell and Jon Heder&nbsp;in the upcoming film Blades of Glory were spotted taking promotional photos with students on Low Plaza this afternoon. "They do not love their jobs," reported our tipster. -CJS The Office of Residential Programs is committed to providing a residential experience that encourages respect, mutual understanding, and a sense of community.&nbsp; When individuals in our community remove furniture from our common lounge for private usage, the community is impacted.&nbsp; Wien RAs previously sent an e-mail encouraging the prompt return of all lounge furniture, which did result in some furniture reappearing. &nbsp; The primary goal is to have the furniture returned to the lounge immediately&nbsp;so that our entire community can benefit from the use of the lounge.&nbsp; Our last resort will be to conduct room searches; however, if all of the furniture is not returned by 9 am on March 23, 2007, Residential Programs, Housing, and Facilities staff will&nbsp;enter residential rooms between 10am and 5pm on that date.&nbsp; Any piece of furniture found will immediately be removed from the room and returned to the lounge.&nbsp; Each resident who has furniture in their room will be subject to the Dean's Discipline process.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;We hope that we will not have to take this step so would appreciate everyone's cooperation in resolving this matter. I appreciate your consideration of the Wien community. 
 As part of its never-ending quest to figure out why people either a.) don't read the paper or b.) bitch about the paper, Spectator held a Town Hall tonight within the welcoming, safe space of Earl Hall's auditorium. Approximately half of the approximately 80 people at the event were from Spec--Bwog knows this because one savvy participant had all the non-Speccies raise their hands--but enough external students showed up with beef to keep up a lively discussion.&nbsp; Having done this sort of thing with the Harvard Crimson and the Philadelphia Inquirer, moderator and Journalism School associate dean Arlene Morgan ranged through the audience commenting on the comments (so Spec editors didn't have to, unless asked).&nbsp; Student council kids sat in, cultural organization kids represented, and activists complained about being misquoted and decontextualized. Sometimes staffers even tentatively spoke up. The dialogue wasn't overwhelmingly negative, but there are more than enough disgruntled sources out there to keep Spec busy for a while: among them, SGA President Eman Bataineh complained that Barnard was lumped with GS, David Judd of the ISO let us know that a correction had been made a year after the fact, and Ad Hoc Editor-in-Chief Alex Jung pointed out that he's the only person of color to have a column. Said one Barnard woman: “I don’t think the Spectator understands what my life is like at all, in any way, shape or form.” This bwogger, along with several participants near the end, gives Spec credit for caring. &nbsp; - LBD 
 Last night, a sizable and enthusiastic crowd gathered in JJ’s Place to see the three parties running for 2010 Class Council debate (and eat free chicken fingers). While Mark Modesitt’s reconstituted Alma Matters Party has the advantage of incumbency, the other two parties, AJ Pascua’s Go Party and Maximo Cubilette’s TOGA Party, seemed to possess far more energy – and focused that energy on ways to improve upon Modesitt’s policies. There’s not a lot of original stuff you can say as a serious student council candidate – everyone hit on increasing aid to study abroad programs – but debates are the time to make as many promises as possible, and they did not disappoint. Modesitt’s ticket (dressed, inexplicably, in somber black) focused on “class cohesiveness” and proposed a class email highlighting the achievements of class members, while Cubilette’s party suggested further off-campus programming and dinners with constituents at local restaurants, and Pascua’s promised to move back the CC Add/Drop deadline and throw another Winter Wonderland-esque party (Go VP candidate Sue Yang claimed responsibility for the success of the first-year formal). For probably the first time ever, each party had a green plank in their platform. Modesitt promised to focus on environmental concerns in a second term, going so far as to question other parties as to their plans to reduce Columbia’s “anthropogenic effects” on the environment. The sitting president recommended awareness – “turning off lights when you leave the room” – in his opening statement, which TOGA largely echoed, while the Go Party (dressed in green!) suggested campus-wide dorm room inspections over winter break to ensure windows were closed and appliances unplugged. Having covered saving the planet, candidates moved on to social justice. An audience question about Manhattanville prompted Modesitt and Cubilette to side with Team Columbia. “The area needs a lot of development; there aren’t a lot of residents who actually live there, only about 400 residents,” said Cubilette, a New York resident. Go Party Representative candidate Claytoya Tugwell struck a tone of compromise: “We are totally against gentrification or bullying, but we do believe in Columbia expanding experience for Columbia students.” Issues aside, Go and TOGA couldn’t resist swarming the ailing incumbent. Go Party charged Modesitt (the only member of Alma Matters currently on Class Council) – with failing to make good on his pledge to cooperate with 2010’s grandfather class to open up internships (he claimed he had followed the terms of his promise, which was to provide networking opportunities for 2010 class members). The TOGA Party asked Modesitt why he has not “implemented the changes that would fix the inefficiencies noted.” Modesitt claimed success on all ideas in his previous campaign’s platform. Unlike the notably vocal Go party, Alma Matters didn’t celebrate after any of their speaking opportunities. Still, there was no clear victor in the debate – two elections insiders were overheard whispering, “The parties are pretty evenly matched in terms of support.” Go Party and TOGA both seemed to come out ahead, but Modesitt has had experience pulling out surprise victories. 
 Army Urged Out of Iraq, Moves Into Harlem&nbsp; Spectator Misses Great Chance For Meta-Joke, Publishes This Article But how can you be sure with their sunglasses? &nbsp;"Shit, piss, fuck, cunt, cocksucker, motherfucker, tits." Bwog notes that it had this story first, a few times over, references its own note, references that, references that... 
Timbaland drops a new album on April 3rd but it’s already everywhere on the interwebs.&nbsp; Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki takes a look at the producer’s approach and offers up an early pick for single of the year.&nbsp; Last November, Timbaland told an interviewer, “I changed the sound of radio at least four times.”&nbsp; This statement is correct, but it’s also highly problematic.&nbsp; When Timbaland changed the sound of radio the first four times he did so because he wanted to make cool sounding shit (see: Aaliyah’s “Are You That Somebody”).&nbsp; But now the inverse seems true – he makes cool shit for the purpose of changing the sound of radio. Read any Timbaland interview in the last year and you’ll find him saying things like “My mission is to take over top-40 radio,” or “Somebody's gotta break the box, bust it open.” &nbsp; This isn’t necessarily a bad thing.&nbsp; If Timbaland wants to raise the bar on music across the board, that’s all well and good.&nbsp; He’s done a flawless job so far – the ingenuity of “My Love” and “Promiscuous” needs no justification. But his quest to try to do something to pop music - as opposed to merely making something great within it – looks to ramp up a few levels with his forthcoming album, Shock Value (video sampler here / audio sampler here).&nbsp; This is where things get sticky.&nbsp; The first dozen or so tracks are exactly what one might expect, if not some more idealized version of it – collaborations with JT, 50 Cent, Nelly Furtado, Missy Elliot, and Timbo’s own stable of artists.&nbsp; The last five, however, form the collective curveball, as Timbo gets cozy with The Hives, Fall Out Boy, rock-y groups She Wants Revenge and One Republic, and Sir Elton “Your Song” John. The Elton track hasn’t leaked and won’t, but the rest have and here’s a quick run-down: - One Republic: “Cry Me A River,” just not as dynamic. - The Hives: destined for a Jetta commercial.&nbsp; - Fall Out Boy: more or less them (with weird noises).&nbsp; - She Wants Revenge: post-Interpol version of Jigga &amp; Linkin Park.&nbsp; In short, nothing particularly “new”, except perhaps the last one mentioned.&nbsp; But this track also brings up the big problem with Timbo’s entire mission to herd rock sounds into his pen: it’s already been done…a lot. Ever since Grandmaster Flash and other early dudes were cutting up Rush and the like.&nbsp; And whatever watershed moment you choose – “Walk This Way,” “Nookie,” the advent of the Gorillaz, etc. – there’s no way around the fact that while Timbaland’s approach may be novel, the turf’s not.&nbsp; He would probably argue that this new shit isn’t rap-rock or rock-rap or GirlTalk or whatever, but actually some futuristic, space-age amalgam funk.&nbsp; It’s not.&nbsp; You know what is though?&nbsp; Pretty much everything else he’s doing on this album, a.k.a the stuff that he’s comfortable with.&nbsp; Timbaland sees his neighbor’s patchy lawn and wants to re-sod, while his own backyard’s freaking Pebble Beach.&nbsp; If he changes radio a 5th time, it sure as hell won’t be with the Hives.&nbsp; &nbsp; “Miscommunication” ft. Keri Hilson and Sebastian&nbsp; Back to the first dozen songs, where we find 24 year-old Keri Hilson, a singer-songwriter who signed last year with Timbo’s label. Her vibe is somewhere in between Furtado’s spunk, Amerie’s pipes, and the sultry smolder of PCD’s Nicole Scherzinger.&nbsp; This, listeners, is a great thing.&nbsp; Furtado’s already an ideal seat-filler for Timbaland’s sonic spaceships, but I’d venture to say that Hilson’s even more apropos because of her versatility and her pure R&amp;B instincts. While this beat is muscular enough to drown a great artist on a good day, she paints the town awesome all over it.&nbsp; Listen from 0:54 when she takes over the song to 2:49 when she lets it go.&nbsp; She was born to run on Timbaland beats.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; If Tim wants new spaces to inhabit, “Miscommunication” sounds like a fine starting place, coupled with predecessors like Furtado’s “Maneater” and Timberlake’s “Summer Love.”&nbsp; Forget producing Fall Out Boy: put the spine of a ‘Stones song into an R&amp;B jam and find singers who are crazy/weird/uninhibited enough to get down with it.&nbsp; You want next level, Luigi?&nbsp; That’s what it sounds like. 
 Gems from "Columbia's only humor magazine." (page numbers in Jester's numeration, add two for the pdf page number) &nbsp;"CUM THAT IS MORE THAN AN HOUR OLD" (Page 4) "If you won a Dodge Viper, then fuck this science shit." (Page 6) "Employee Ben Morton passed away from cardiac arrest due to stress-related complications...defeating a JP Morgan steam banker in a race to make the company $5,000,000." (Page 9) &nbsp;"After being acquitted, he promptly ghostrode his whip through a red light." (Page 13) "Give us peace and safety, O Standpipe, through all of our lives." (Page 16) "We have a dog and his name is Booger." (Page 25) 
While Columbia didn't even earn the chance to lose to a group of highly skilled farmers in March Madness, students at John Jay Dining Hall did have exclusive rights to vote in Starch Madness.&nbsp; The terribly corny pun did not contain any corn (nor did that one), as the Final Four on the bracket seen in John Jay dining hall featured only a group of potato products.&nbsp; Yes, that's really a poster asking students to vote for their favorite starch products.&nbsp; The latest creation of Chef Ray (not to be confused with Chef Rae) failed to follow form with the original March Madness; the brackets are empty (besides the final four) for a reason: there were no other contestants.&nbsp; According to reporting by Bwog Daily Editor Daniel D'Addario, the finalists (Double stuffed baked potatoes, mini potato pancakes, pierogi with caramelized onion, and roasted red potatoes with sausage) were simply set up next to the desserts, to compete against each other without semifinals.&nbsp; The double stuffed baked potatoes (dubstufbeepee as the cool kids call 'em) were in the lead as of 6:45, with roasted red and perogi running last. Thanks to Stephen Thomas for the tip. 
 Spec's Housing Guide, replete with secrets: Gay couples live together without breaking any rules; Freshmen make friends with other freshmen on their floors and relative bombshells:&nbsp; McBain receiving a second elevator, Wien's bathrooms to be single-sex. Plus: A lesson in the art of being cliquey and A nod to Barnard&nbsp; PS: Looks like someone got the shit-end of the roommate assigning process and... Gayatri Spivak gives her word that ya'll will get jobs some day Another reason to actually vote in CCSC elections Staff on the integration of CPS and Health Services @ JJ 
 "Hoyt believes that he got into Columbia because of baseball and he’s probably right." A student on Spiegelman's Comics Marching into the Canon seminar, and this web-only interview Café East, it's "East" of...the Hudson River&nbsp; (Locke + Hume + Rousseau + Burke) x Matthew Fox) = we've been waiting 
Not everyone spent Spring Break in Jamaica. Below, Bwog editor Chris Szabla reports on his visit to cold - and contradictory - Istanbul. The train from the airport emerges into open air, weaves through tired concrete apartment blocks painted&nbsp;in worn&nbsp;pastels, occasionally grants glimpses between them of an endless, rolling cityscape of similarly dilapidated structures, all suffused in a dull green-blue haze. It halts at a transfer point shrouded in fog and you exit, your face sprinkled with forty-degree rain. That's when you remember: despite the minarets puncturing the distant horizon, the hijabs, the buzz-buzz-buzz of calls to prayer mediated by electric megaphone, Istanbul is far closer to Bulgaria than Bahrain. Sure, "East and West": both are present in this city, which legendarily spans continents and cultures, shores and civilizations. That the two meet here is the cliché&nbsp;that has saddled Istanbul at least since the foundation of the Turkish Republic in the 1920s, when one Orientalist trope after another was swept away by Atatürk's steady - some would say overzealous - Westernizing hand. Some dissenters, naturally, have chosen to paint the city one way or another, instead. "This Istanbul is European thing is bullshit," one grad student told me before my departure. "Most of it is just like Damascus." In Orhan Pamuk's Snow, on the other hand, distant Istanbul comes off no less foreign, no less "Western" to ur-Turkish Anatolia as Paris or London. In his memoir Istanbul: Memories and the City, the Nobel-winning author strikes closer to the truth about this beguiling metropolis. East and West - if, for convenience's sake, we can collect a variety of stereotypes under these contested categories - do both exist, indeed coexist, in Istanbul. Whether they, in fact,&nbsp;meet&nbsp;- this is another question entirely. For Pamuk, the neighborhoods on the other side of the Golden Horn from his home in upscale, Westernized Nisantasi are "like another country" - crammed with narrow streets containing every variety of merchandise, teeming with headborne baskets full of bread, sprawling bazaars, and old Turkish baths. In this Istanbul, men far outnumber women on the streets, and those women who are out on the streets appear more often with a group of others than a boyfriend or even husband. None of this is to say that Old Istanbul - for this is where the majority of the city's historic sites is to be found - is an unwelcoming place for Turks or foreigners clad in the latest European fashions. The province of personal choice is respected in this part of the city, and verbal harassment is suffered by naive tourists alone. But there is a distinct atmospheric contrast between these districts&nbsp;and the northerly quarters Pamuk frequented as a young man. In Beyoglu, where the architecture is dressed in the art nouveau finery of a fin de siècle Spanish or Italian port, groups of kids sporting the latest Eurotrash haircuts mingle with conspicuously cuddling young couples along Istiklal Caddesi, a street which translates as "Independence Avenue" but, in truth, testifies to one of the many directions in which the wider world pulls Turkey, as it passes European consulate after Levi's store after chic cafe. Journalists and travel guides would have you believe this is the place where "headscarves meet hipsters," but here there are far, far more of the latter. Zoom out, and quite a bit of Istanbul resembles Istiklal Caddesi, in its social character if not its built environment. The Asian side of the city sprawls in ceaseless chains of high-rise suburbs, and there are miles of neighborhoods in which a muzzein's call is never even heard. For all this, though,&nbsp;most of&nbsp;the extraordinary growth the city is experiencing - the newspaper Hürriyet reported that its population may have reached 23 million, though the census bureau has stopped being sure for quite some time - is the direct result of migrants who continue to pour in from the much more conservative Anatoian countryside - and, indeed, parts of the Middle East and Central Asia. In 1955, a pogrom drove out many of the city's former Greek and Armenian residents, communities that had been living in the region for thousands of years. Now, Istanbul is becoming a new sort of cosmopolis - one which, if it cannot succeed in blending them, at least reflects the different worlds Turkey manages to embrace at the same time. You can see more of Chris' photos from Istanbul on his site. 
Three years ago, Marty and Jake said they didn't plan on making juggling a career (then doing film and pre-med respectively, they're now listed as majoring in economics and anthropology). From their website, it appears that the twins have gone professional already. Be warned: you may not want to open this site in front of your grandmother. But they're not just performers, they're Columbia students, which means they have to talk about being performers. An excerpt from the extensive "Our Work, Our World" section: "Most fundamentally, it's the desire to understand people, the desire to connect, in widest capacity, with the range of perspective and passion that animates the continuum of human experience, that encourages us to practice every day, that motivates us to move. it is through the universal language of physical movement, through the expressive potential of the bodily form, that we hope one day to be able to create that dynamic vision that penetrates, through its truth and beauty, the barriers we internally construct against feeling, understanding, and life. It's the destabilizing of these barriers--these internalized constructions of artificial hierarchies, of discursive rankings and gradings, of random systems of inclusion and exclusion--that, we believe, has the most productive potential to affirm the humanness that underlies, and that continually surges to threaten, the forces operating against harmonic existence..." Stick to what you do best, guys.
66 degrees. Yeah, baby. &nbsp; 
 We like to keep track of the buzz on our bwogroll, and Six Silberman over at fiveplusone just gave us some good morning brain fodder: a Theory of the Bollinger in Manhattanville, attempting to explain the singularity of purpose with which he's pursued building up north. In a nutshell, Six says that the plan for expansion was formulated with incomplete information, and Bollinger is now a hostage to both the out-of-touch Trustees and the apparatus he's built to make the plan happen. And like many conjectures concocted by applied math majors in their spare time, this could either be completely whack or somewhat on point, in need of Bwog peer review.&nbsp; - LBD 
 Students download music, get passively nasty letters (we would have gotten away with it if it weren't for that meddling RIAA!) Young SEAS professors get money to change the world, could give MIT "a run for its money!" Spec explores its inner snob, writes a wine review Also, Op-Ed goes all out on the core, including: Why Lit Hum is going stale (written by professor Karl Kroeber), why Major Cultures just doesn't do the trick, and ...wait, you mean they actually care what we think about Frontiers of Science!? 
 While we're still anticipating who will be speaking at Columbia's commencement this year, Bwog tipster Julia Kite notifies us that the crimsonites in Cambridge have invited none other than Harvard drop-out/Microsoft mogul Bill Gates to speak on June 7th. On top of that, Billy's finally getting his diploma too -- Harvard is presenting Gates with an honorary degree at the commencement, 32 years after leaving the school. The Harvard Crimson states that it still awaits the College Class Day speaker announcement, meanwhile. Perhaps another primetime television actor? At other institutions, UPenn's got former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, Wellesley has invited alumna Madeleine Albright (also speaking at UNC-Chapel Hill). Yale undergrads do not have a commencement speaker, but Newsweek International editor and Yale alum Fareed Zakaria will be speaking for Yale College's class day. Meanwhile, Barack Obama turned us down for class day, but he'll be speaking for&nbsp; commencement at Southern New Hampshire University. As for Columbia, we expect to hear the news sometime within the next month (and in case you were wondering, SEAS dean Galil has complete control over who speaks for engineers, and usually announces his choice his choice in mid-April.) - MIP 
&nbsp; Bwog presents the first in a three-part series of interviews with CCSC Presidential candidates, Rebel CC's Tracy Chung '08. How have you been doing? I’m tired but good – I’ve been up late revamping our website, www.voterebel.com. How has campaigning been going? It’s going well. We dorm-stormed John Jay and Carman; freshmen are so open to new ideas. I love meeting new people. We also did the CPU endorsement meeting, which went well. We have been having some trouble with student endorsements – SEEJ endorsed One Columbia without hearing from Rebel. And many groups do not endorse at all, which is really indicative of how CCSC is viewed by the student body. It’s a difficult thing when something that can be a vehicle for change and is not met with a positive reaction. What made you decide, as a CCSC outsider, to run? I was going to run for CCSC, actually, as a freshman, but I wanted to take advantage of internships. I’ve done those every semester, but I also sat back and observed how Student Council works, and I noticed problems. The website hasn’t been updated in a year – there are certainly ways that CCSC could be more responsive. People call us “outsiders,” but if you’re accepted to Columbia College, you have shown leadership, you are intellectually capable, you are probably socially capable. Seth Flaxman had been a CCSC outsider before being elected. How do you think he has done? He has done an amazing job. It’s funny – students involved with CCSC, when they’re talking to you, give you policy and rhetoric, but they don’t give you specifics. Last semester, I wanted to Pass-Fail a class, but thought I could still keep the grade, so I did. At the end of the semester, I had an A, and tried to keep the grade, but I found out that the policy had only been approved by CCSC, not enacted by the administration. So you think you can do an effective job? I know I have the passion and the dedication for it. I think my platform speaks for itself. Having “experience” is always an easy card to play. I understand, from observing, the shortcomings of Student Council. I’m not a complainer who just complains. I’m a complainer who gets things done. What made you decide to run, and how did you assemble your ticket? Katrina and Paul are two of my running mates – I was in Los Angeles with them this summer. And you have to understand, this is something I’ve been talking about for years. My time here has gone by fast, and my friends at other schools have had a lot of events – like Spring Fling at Penn. They come to visit, and I take them downtown. I like exploring the city, but I didn’t want to leave here without trying to change it for the better. Paul encouraged me to run, I got encouragement from friends – one of my friends is on the E-Board right now, and she and the other E-Board members gave me a crash course. -DPD 
 If you’ve read selections from David Denby’s journey back to his college days in Lit Hum or U Writing, you’d have some idea of what he was going to talk about at his keynote address this evening in the faculty room of Low, speaking underneath the peaceful gaze of a Buddha head mounted on a tall plinth. The talk spanned the ages: he applied books written almost 3,000 years ago to wars that may happen in the future, in front of an audience that probably averaged 50 years in age. But first—he is a film critic—Denby talked about 300, a “porno-military fantasia,” an Orientalist text, even, that’s been used to illustrate a misunderstanding of history having to do with heroism and barbarism. Denby, a rotund little man with New Yorker-esque glasses and neatly trimmed beard, used it as a jumping off point to talk about the relevance of the Core in our warlike era. The way he told it, we’re in pretty bad shape: both politicians and the public blithely ignore reality, we see culture as a national competition, and the Bush administration writ large has turned morality into moralization. “The notion of civil society feels a little wan; one regards it with a sigh,” Denby lamented. The Core Curriculum, then, exists to help the younger generation deal with their consciousness and interrogate their culture, which may avert such blunders in the future.&nbsp; And as much as he inveighed against the current conservative regime, Denby is very much a conservative when it comes to the Core. While writing Great Books, he tired of the “extravagant critiques of the left,” regarding such terms as “dead white men” and “hegemonic discourse” as polemical and stale. He opposes the inclusion of, for example, religious texts from Babylonia and India, arguing for the preservation of&nbsp; the cohesive conversation between authors responding to each other in a linear progression. This places him (politely) in opposition to Core Chairman Philip Kitcher, who asked in the Q&amp;A session about designing the coursework thematically, rather than chronologically, which would allow for a broadening of the syllabus to include works outside the Western canon. Denby, however, maintained that texts should be taught in order to fill the gaps in our perforated brains—unlike Europeans, he explained, American students don’t know how to place events in their historical context. Denby doesn’t seem to think much of Columbia undergrads (the preceptor’s job is to “batter down their narcissism and parochialism and complacency”), and he wasn’t really speaking to students at all. He addressed instead the teachers and designers of the Core, telling them how best to mold us into responsible, understanding New Yorker-reading citizens. At least, though, he understands that we do take this stuff seriously. “I live in this neighborhood. I’ve heard.” - Lydia DePillis 
As Columbia undergrads, we tend to think the University centers around us. But beyond even the mélange of colleges, graduate schools, professional schools, medical schools, and two theological seminaries that congeal in the average student’s imagination as the greater Columbia University lies a sprawling network of 212 (I counted) research institutes and centers, about 160 (I approximated) academic programs and divisions, and countless (I didn’t bother) departmental research sites that the university runs, supports, or is affiliated with. Columbia is as splayed out and expansive as the city itself (in fact, many of these institutions reside in the suburbs beyond the city). Here are a few that I found poking around the Columbia website’s A-Z index. &nbsp; In a post-9/11 effort to keep pace with newly developed federal emergency programs, Columbia joined six other institutions throughout the city in creating The Center for Resilient Networks: “a center for research on and prototyping of regional networking that serves the needs of emergency workers, public officials, and ordinary citizens during natural and man-made emergencies.” In what was apparently a further attempt to match federal standards, the Center seems to have done nothing since the spring of 2003. (Even the Center for Medieval Japanese Studies made a more sustained bid for relevancy, lasting until the fall of 2003.)&nbsp; The New York Center for Human Sexuality diagnoses and treats all types of sexual dysfunctions, which, its homepage reassures, “are very prevalent in both males and females.” Awesome. Citing the landmark First International Consultation on Erectile Dysfunction, it also advocates a “right to sexual health” that protects not only everyone’s god-given ability to have (and enjoy) wild, uninhibited sex, but also, their right to not feel guilty about it the next morning. Double awesome. Additionally, the center runs a series of clinical trials and research studies, and even though their “active research” page has been blank for over two weeks, they offer an open invitation to anyone who considers him- or herself a “qualified” patient to participate in these studies. If you’re interested, their clinical-research number is 212.305.0157. &nbsp; Switching gears (probably), Columbia’s Medical Center also runs both a Fecal Incontinence Program and a Colorectal Care Program, and my heart goes out to the fifteen physicians who collectively staff them. With their upfront references to weak anal muscles, I was wary of venturing past the front page. &nbsp; According to The Richard and Hilda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, though, clowns might have helped. There, a Clown Care Unit researched the effects of introducing clowns into “medical settings where painful, invasive procedures are performed” and examining their ability to decrease anxiety, increase cooperation, and function as a possible alternative to sedation. Instead of restraint or sedation, “young patients are paraded into the room escorted by clowns with the appropriate musical accompaniment.” The appropriate musical accompaniment is probably key. Among the findings of the study: “clown therapy proved to be non-toxic, did not cause respiratory depression, sedation or gastric upset.” Thank goodness. &nbsp; Columbia also houses the Harlem Health Promotion Center, whose website is titled “black online sky degree school at blackskyonline.org.” Umm, exactly. The homepage allows its viewers to click on links to “Black Online,” “Sky Online,” “Black Sky,” or, for the less discerning, simply “Online”—none of which exist. But at least they’re covering all their bases, right? At the bottom of the page, there’s also a link to “Homework and Essays,” which sent me to an index of websites that advertise: “Buy an Non Plagiarized Custom Essay”; “Downloadable Essays”; “Professionally Written Term Papers”; and, my personal favorite, “Enjoy Schoolwork Hypnosis.” (The hypnosis website is actually very extensive, and, via CD, claims to be able to make you do many things beyond enjoying school work, like: enlarging your breasts, reducing your breasts, stopping aging, enjoying giving oral sex, manifesting money, and hypnosex. I love hypnosex.) &nbsp; And that’s just the tip of the iceberg. Columbia’s multitude of research institutes also consists of centers on syncope, nonlinear earth systems, the Hudson River, decision sciences, Gertrude H. Sergievsky, aging, Korean legal studies, risks, novel surfactants, legislative drafting, holistic urology, and breasts. I don’t know what more you could ask from your university.&nbsp; - Rahul D’Sa 
Dave Denby kicked off the core conference yesterday evening, but today there have been- and will be- a series of panels and talks to cover issues ranging from student opinions to the Core's place&nbsp;in the world. Here's the first report, from Rachel Lindsay: At 9 a.m. this morning, before last night’s mixers had been cleared off public windowsills to make way for babies and hired caregivers, Roone Arledge was already abuzz with the spirit of the Core. The crowd rumbled with academic&nbsp;excitement as the mics and podium light dimmed. "Oh technology!" the old academics chortled, wiping powdered sugar from the corners of their mouths. It was the opening of today's "Core Curricula in the 21st Century: Challenges and Prospects," and people were unexpectedly&nbsp;cheerful. This first panel, entitled "The History and Evolution of Core Curricula," featured Eva Brann, a former dean of St. John's College (Annapolis); Robert Bird, of University of Chicago's Slavic Language Department; Douglas Chalmers, a CC teacher from our PoliSci department; Ellen Woods, Assistant Director of the Intro to the Humanities Program at Stanford, and J. Scott Lee, Executive Director of ACTC Liberal Arts Institute at the University of Dallas. The group&nbsp;exhibited a degree of thoughtfulness about upholding the methodology of the Core, and a sensitivity towards the difficulty of being a student in the modern world--while, of course, still speaking highly of cohesive academic communities that "exude optimism." But considering how much my friend at Stanford gets stoned, and how many people here hate their CC teachers--or go to class drunk occasionally--I personally hope that this “optimism” becomes practice before inane theory destroys any intellectual vitality that students retain. Nevertheless, Columbia and Stanford's representatives did discuss the current state of dissatisfaction with these programs, which they attributed mostly to the disconnect between institutions and their students. But as the University of Dallas’ J. Scott Lee claimed, trends, interviews, and investigation of core texts (which sounded like “cortex”) “prove” the relationship between curriculum, pedagogy, and application to be "determining and authoritative,“ as compared to the “Liberal Arts Education” that has become largely entrenched in tradition. The conclusion of the panel seemed to share a similar anxiety: that elitism has become canonized, rather than the presentation of truth, integrity, and world vision. We've yet to see the day has when something as common and profound as The Simpsons is discussed in our CC class, and I continue to stick to that dynamic and spontaneous wisdom. But perhaps the time of levity represented by The Simpsons is over-- and hopefully this conference will provide new answers to how we should cope. 
 Page Six is reporting that Elton John will be celebrating his 60th birthday party this evening with cocktails, dinner, and dancing just down the street at the cathedral of St. John the Divine. The guest list of 300 will probably include more star power than Columbia's seen since the Dalai Lama.&nbsp; Awesome. But does anyone else find this a little...arrogant? I mean, who has their birthday in a house of worship? Especially someone who wants to "ban religion completely"? Jesus. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Have you gotten your letter yet?&nbsp; Spec reported on Friday that 20 Columbia students have recieved missives (PDF here) from the Recording Industry Association of America, which recently sent out over 400 to college students across the nation (Boston University received the most, with 50). They're not notices, exactly, but rather warnings: settle now, or we'll sue you later (in twenty days, to be exact). They've even set up a helpful site where you can pay your fine in advance. &nbsp; Columbia isn't exactly in league with the RIAA, but they're definitely not taking a principled stand, either. The RIAA only knows you're downloading through your IP address, and depends on the University to forward you a letter threatening legal action (at $750 per song). So far, the University of Wisconsin-Madison is the only school telling them to take their letters and shove off. Columbia sends students a list of attorneys they can hire, and sets up Ruckus, which half of us can't use (Macs 4Eva!!!). What's a student got to do to get her groove on?&nbsp; 
 Bwog presents the second of our three interviews with CCSC candidates – tonight, One Columbia’s Michelle Diamond (pictured, third from left, with running mates). How have you been doing? I’m doing very well. It’s a crazy, crazy crunch time – but the part of the campaign I really like. I get to present to different clubs, and see what people like. What clubs in particular? We’ve gotten endorsements from the Blue Key Society, College Democrats, Korean Students Association, Political Science Students Association, SEEJ, and the Econ Society. Tonight, we’re presenting to the CPU, CQA, and IGC. What ideas have the clubs responded to most strongly? The idea of building a stronger community really struck a chord with these clubs. The fact that there’s not enough intergroup communication is even a bigger issue than I had originally realized. How can CCSC become a greater resource for students? It can do this by promoting more interpersonal events – for example, bringing together the College Dems and the College Republicans. I’d work for a Community Forum – one representative from each group would move in two days early to discuss where we want to move as a university. I think we should move towards schoolwide programming, like study breaks for the entire school, not just one class. I’d love to bring back King’s Crown Ball, which stopped my first year – it’s a semi-formal open to the entire school, and it was always a huge success. So you’d like to create more events for the school? I would love especially to do more events like Glass House Rocks, where CCSC acts as a skeleton, and clubs add their own unique flavor to it. How are you feeling about your ticket? I could not be happier with them. I feel like a beaming parent of sorts. They were all my top choices, and they are all so enthusiastic about what their position entails and what they want to do with their position. Individuals on the Student Council E-Board should have more responsibilities, and they have been so upbeat. What would your top priority be if your party was elected? My top priority, regardless of whether I am elected or not, would be advising reform. Community building is also very important to me. The great thing is that there’s so much time after elections at the end of this year and the beginning of next year. If we’re elected, we can really hit the ground sprinting and start working towards next semester. You were involved with CCSC this year as 2008’s Class Vice-President. How do you think CCSC did this year? I think we had a bit of a learning curve at the beginning of this year. We’ve definitely done some important things. That the administration devoted so much of the capital campaign to financial aid reform was absolutely huge. Do you think that being the only candidate with CCSC experience will give you an advantage in governing if elected? I definitely things so. I was a Class Representative my first year here, and it’s amazing to me how much of a transition Class Rep to V.P. was; making the jump to CCSC is a huge jump no matter where you start from. Do you feel optimistic about your chances about being elected? It’s so hard to say! I never know how to call a three-way race. We’re going as strong as possible, and doing everything we can do. -DPD 
 After finding out about Elton John's shindig at the little old cathedral down the way, Bwog donned our best wannabe-paparazzi gear (i.e., a dinky digital camera)&nbsp;and headed over at eight o'clock for a glance at the spectacle. A quick peek turned into nearly an hour of celebrity-sighting bliss as we joined the groundlings swarming to ogle icons of culture meandering up the church steps, accompanied by starshowers of camera flashes. We saw lots of skin, lots of 7-inch heels (what a trend!), and lots of pissed-off security guards. Celebs included Richard Gere and Calista, Liv Tyler, Kid Rock, Robin Williams, the Scissor Sisters, the Osbourne parents, Elizabeth Hurley, Yoko Ono, and... Fran Drescher's boob. We couldn't really see much of the action, but the celebs aren't the point--it's the spectacle that follows them. Morningside Heighters don't get much excitement in their lives, and Elton injected it with a healthy dose of starpower last night. "This is a once in a lifetime opportunity!" gasped one man to his female companion, grabbing her by the waist. The groundlings cried out, "You're beautiful!" and cheered for the cooks and servers when they hurried through the door. Across the street, Bwog helpfully informed passersby of what the hell was going on at their church, and mentally noted their responses. "I like, thought he was long dead!" "I feel like a tool." "Oh, isn't that wonderful." "Elton? Not a fan." "Wait, I thought it was a tribute to Princess Di?" Just down the street, Bwog ran into a party of a different nature--people giving out food to the homeless out of the back of a van. A guy offered to drive it right up in front of the church with the black Escalades and stretch limos. Bwog declined and kept walking, our toes numb and hair bedraggled. A papparazzo's life is not for us. - KER and LBD 
 The Times is a bit behind the times, but hey, at least it proves we're not the only disappointed ones.&nbsp; That's ok though, because PrezBo just became a board member of the Times' main rival, joining such blue-chip luminaries as Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett (this coming after being appointed to the board of the New York Federal Reserve). Although we shouldn't count on the Post going to bat for Mathew Fox either. Got plans for Passover? No? Now you do. I mean, how are you going to turn down a seder with people who make rockabilly trailers for the high holidays? Spot the rabbi! And finally, a cry of help, sent by one Joseph Kaptur at 1:50 AM this morning: 12th Floor Schapiro. Urinal water everywhere. Short circuit fire alarm. 11th Floor Schapiro. IT'S ON MY BED. Tears of God rain down. 13th Floor Schapiro All Clear. 
 Bwog presents the third of three CCSC Presidential candidate interviews, with Voice’s Natali Segovia. How is campaigning going? Campaigning is going well. An interesting aspect of it is hearing perspectives of other students. It’s inspiring seeing people mobilized about Student Council that haven’t normally been. What do you mean by that? Certain groups on campus are more likely to be involved politically – students don’t usually go out to vote unless someone hounds them. I’ve approached Tracy to write a Spec editorial to get people to vote. We don’t have an electoral college – these are about as close as you can get to direct elections. Have you received any endorsements? Yes – the Chicano Caucus, Hispanic Scholars Fund, Model United Nations, Native American Council, and Phi Iota Alpha Fraternity. What do you think your party’s strengths are? All three parties are strong in different areas. Our party has representatives from every year – ’08, ’09, and “0-10.” A main selling point for all the tickets has been the diversity of their ticket, and our ticket is certainly diverse. We’ve all come up against red tape in the past as leaders and former CCSC members. What have you done as a campus leader? I am currently on the executive board of Community Impact as the Internal Affairs Officer. This puts me in a position, as a potential CCSC President, to navigate the bureaucracy; I have good relationships with all the administrators. As someone with leadership experience, how would you run Student Council? Something we’ve definitely talked about has been student groups – the Student Council meetings are open, but can definitely be intimidating. We would hold bi-weekly meetings – full Council meetings at which groups could make presentations. People have seen CCSC as a managerial position, not one with active accountability to students. Sometimes, it’s not about funding, but rather seeing what events are being put on by students. What issues would you work on as President? Advising reform is on everyone’s mind. Even at Columbia, you don’t know what direction to follow all the time. We’re all dynamic, we all have diverse interests. We would work on staggered reform; we would not seek to reform FYSAAC and JSSAC. We would add a advisory position that would be a liaison to the departments. This position would be geared towards freshmen, sophomore, and even juniors who didn’t know what they wanted to major in, and would take the brunt of the initial advising weight off the academic departments. They could provide syllabi for different departments, links to CCE for information on post-graduate opportunities. We’re also, I think, the only party to have dealt with health issues on campus. Our institution is very healthy but we have time and stress management issues. I was absolutely shocked that twenty-five percent of college students fit the criteria for drug or alcohol addiction. We need a holistic approach to life and health issues that is not stigmatized (as Alice often can be) and is very healthy. On a different note, how did you go about making your ticket? What’s the significance of “Voice”? I specifically wanted people involved on campus in different levels – people recognized by their organizations and known by students, and recognize student voices. We actually considered the name “One Columbia,” but we realized that it’s not just one perspective Columbia has, but many perspectives united under one voice. -DPD 
Bwog was impressed with this weekend's Core conference, which got a lot of important professors to put their convictions and opinions on the line. No panel was more emotionally invested than the last, however, where sly references could be ego-bruising digs. For instance,&nbsp;Philip Kitcher called a panelist a "Platonic form" after&nbsp;the panelist had railed against&nbsp;his perceived stodginess. SNAP!&nbsp;Correspondent John Shekitka breaks it down: This last session of the day-long symposium reexamining the Core Curriculum was moderated by Comparative Literature professor Andreas Huyssen, who set the tone for much of the discussion when he asked: "why can’t there be courses bringing together material from Major Cultures and Lit Hum?" In some ways, the debate is binary (traditionalists vs. globalists), and Huyssen falls into the latter camp. In his opinion, there's no need to pit Europe against the world, and cultural combinations would expand, not diminish, our imagination. A panoply of opinions followed from a range of well-known and influential professors, who delivered their speeches with unusually heightened emotion. First History Professor Janaki Bakhle, with characteristic frankness, asked what we're trying to accomplish with the Core. "Teaching the fundamentals of your culture"? "General Education"? "Finding oneself, if you are black or brown or gay"? No, she argued; the Core-- and liberal education in general-- is about pushing students to think in non-insular ways. Bakhle lamented that she'll never teach Lit Hum, because the entire first semester is Greek texts—no Scandinavian epics, no Gilgamesh, no selections from the Vedas. CC has done a better job in this regard, she said, as it represents a relatively diverse array of sources. Finally, she noted that evaluating the history of how and why one set of texts become canonical and others don't should be an important part of the conversation. Former CC chair and Classics professor James Zetzel began by giving a concise definition of the courses in the Core: "Art Hum teaches one to see, Music Hum to hear, Lit Hum to read and CC to think." Those missions don't require a specific set of texts: internal coherence is the important part of the exercise, not the content. This seemed odd, considering how strongly he argued for the traditional syllabus. Professor Zetzel argued against a comparative approach, suggesting that comparing Socrates with Confucius was a patronizing exercise, and rejecting recent inclusions of Rawls, MacKinnon and Foucault, whom he deemed "unreadable." We need to teach Western Civilization, but we must do more than to just celebrate it, he said. Howard Professor Eleanor Traylor, the only non-Columbian on the panel, standing out in her sparkly sunglasses and fur-trimmed shawl, quoted DuBois in suggesting that the point of a Core Curriculum was to create men of intelligence, broad sympathy, and knowledge of the world and his relation to it. Unfortunately, she spoke only briefly of Howard’s Core, a two-semester course that includes a diverse set of texts, including selections from the Republic, the Tale of Genji, and the writings of Frederick Douglass, all placed together in one volume (as was done for many years with CC). "My colleagues and I teach the soul of black folks, while my fellow panelists teach the soul of white folks," she said to some chuckles. Is there a difference in what should be taught, I wonder? Judging by her quick discussion of the Howard syllabus, as well as the suggestions of the panelists, there seems to be more common ground than difference. Then for Professor Mahmood Mamdani, who noted that when he came to Columbia in 1990, he realized that this was a very different kind of university: while many schools are regional institutions, Columbia is like ancient Rome, in that it envisions itself as a global entity and that is stands in the center of the modern American imperium. He raised two particular problems with CC. The first was in its name. CC should be recognized for what it is – A History of the West, not capital C Civilization. Second, he cast a vote on the side of broadening the syllabus beyond the Western canon, proclaiming, stoutly, that the world was coming to "the end of 500 years of Western domination," and that changes in education would have to accompany this shift. In the limited Q&amp;A session, Professor Wm. Theodore de Bary reminded us that this conversation is hardly new, and it’s based on perennial themes. When he took Contemporary Civilization in 1937, his professor Dean Carman (yes, that Carman) remarked that CC only represented one part of the globe, and that there were many other parts to study. In part as a response to this point, the program in Asian Humanities was designed to run as a parallel to the courses in Lit Hum and CC. CC Chair Philip Kitcher gave the concluding remarks for the session, explaining that one way we can justify the Core—advocated by David Denby in Friday’s Keynote—is as a way to teach students about 'Our Culture.' This is problematic, not only because students are far more diverse than the authors in the Core, but also because no one can claim this history as their own. The Core Curriculum is about themes and problems, not about paying homage to spiritual and intellectual ancestors. Perhaps it isn’t such a bad idea of putting Confucius alongside Plato, he ended. And where Kitcher goes, so may the Core. 
 Having garnered seven big-name endorsements, including that of the Columbia Political Union, Michelle Diamond ’08 is widely considered the frontrunner in the upcoming CCSC elections. However, it is just those endorsements that have placed her and her party, One Columbia, under fire for accusations of wrongdoing. Rebel CC Presidential candidate Tracy Chung ’08 filed three rules violations against Diamond at midnight on Monday. The primary violation, which was provided to Bwog, alleges that SGB treasurer Jonathan Siegel (also the CC 2008 class treasurer) and SGB representative Jessie Leiken had approached Diamond with an “endorsement deal” early in the campaign. In a previously unpublished Bwog interview that took place in February, Siegel discussed past funding difficulties: “In the past, the relations between the SGB and the Council haven’t been very good.” The Student Council cut the SGB budget at the end of 2002-2003 school year and had continued to cut $20,000 each subsequent year, forcing the SGB into debt. Last May, the SGB told Seth Flaxman’s administration that $140,000 was the smallest number they could survive on. According to Siegel, the group was given $139,000. Sunday night, he said, “SGB groups are independent and wouldn’t take their marching orders from us.” But, he added, “SGB groups do care about how SGB is funded.” Chung’s rules violation alleges that Siegel sought to find a way around the CCSC elections provision that “candidates may not be endorsed by the… Student Governing Board.” A member of CCSC showed Chung a series of four emails from Siegel and Leiken. These emails include a request by Leiken “to talk about what the SGB does, its role in the upcoming CCSC elections, and your campaign aspirations.” Siegel sent a list of SGB’s budget allocations over the past four school years. In the final email, dated February 1, Leiken wrote, “Michelle just promised us that she and everyone running with her would sign a pledge to finance the SGB.” The rules violation alleges that Diamond signed a pledge to provide $180,000 to SGB as CCSC President. Siegel says the deal was offered to all prospective Presidential candidates at the time – late January – and was intended to be a public move to bolster CCSC’s funding. “The reason we wanted a signed thing was because candidates have often promised things and not done it,” Siegel said Sunday night. Diamond confirmed his story. “What I said to was that I think that SGB funding should be increased, and I’d be interested.” But, she added, “as soon as both SGB and I found out that this would be in violation of the rules, I decided I was not going to sign it.” Her platform is committed to increasing SGB funding but was told by current Executive Board members that the pledge both could violate election rules and was unrealistic. The CCSC President does not have sole discretionary power over funding. and Diamond passed on the opportunity to sign the document. Subash Iyer ’07, head of the elections board, made clear in a letter to the CCSC that any pledge that bore the implication of an endorsement was dead, and Siegel said he has spoken to Diamond in an official capacity only once since then – to tell her the deal was off. Chung, who recently noted her difficulty receiving endorsements throughout the campaign, filed two additional rules violations: one alleging that Diamond’s presentation to the Inter-Greek Council violated rules against IGC endorsements (though no endorsement was made) and one noting the an increased amount of Class of 2008 emails written by Diamond (the class Vice President), allegedly violating direct email campaigning by candidates. In her rules violation paperwork, Chung calls the SGB/Diamond link “shocking and unacceptable.” &nbsp; -DPD 
 A Diamond Under Pressure Diamond is a Campus Paper's Best Friend&nbsp; Diamonds in the rough not worth breaking the rules&nbsp; It is hard to make any more "Diamond" puns, but read about this chess grandmaster. "Columbia got some wood at the 2007 NCAA Championships." &nbsp; 
 Earlier this week, Bwog daily editor Jessica Cohen spoke with Douglas Brinkley, Professor of History at Tulane and official historian for CBS News. The New York Times recently named his book recounting the short-term aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, The Great Deluge, one of the 100 Notable Books of the Year.&nbsp; Over spring break, Cohen and 38 other Columbia students worked for the Common Ground Collective, gutting homes and weeding abandoned land plots in the Lower Ninth Ward. Bwog: How effective do you think the volunteers for Common Ground have been in their efforts thus far? Brinkley: I can't praise Common Ground enough. When the government abandoned the Lower Ninth Ward, Common Ground stood up and became a great organizing enterprise, a real galvanizing vortex of the rebuilding effort.&nbsp; It's the best of what faith-based groups and college students and caring citizens can do in the sense of physically picking up debris, gutting houses, trying to help residents reestablish a life in their neighborhood. So out of all the organizations I've seen operating in New Orleans I think that Common Ground deserves the most pats on the back. B: I think that many of us felt that a lot of the physical work we were doing wouldn't be fruitful in the long run. We felt that the government may still bulldoze houses that we gutted or repossess lands that we cleared. DB: It could be a lost cause, individuals and groups like Common Ground can only do so much. The Lower Ninth is below sea level, it has faulty levees built around it and there's been no commitment to properly rebuild the neighborhood with electricity, water --&nbsp; basic amenities for survival in America. You may have very well been on a fool's errand if the neighborhood can't get back, but by you coming there and saying "we care," the message to people is that we're going to reclaim this neighborhood, house by house, block by block. And that's all you can do, we're not miracle-makers. The main thing to do is keep some attention focused on it – to remind people there's something worth saving. B: Are you familiar with new ordinances placed on houses saying that if residents' lands aren't cleared in 30 days they will be repossessed? DB: Yes. There's a lot of disingenuous politics going on. On the one hand, the mayor of New Orleans, Ray Nagin, tells people to come back, and on the other they don't provide any services. But there will be a renewed consciousness; there are a lot of people starting to gear up now who will embarrass government officials for their policies. B: Do you think there's any hope of a Marshall Plan-like package for the region at this point? DB: Well, not yet. The Bush administration has been terribly delinquent in abandoning poor neighborhoods. The only hope is that this gets to be front and center in the presidential campaign and there are efforts to have a major presidential debate in New Orleans. And every little bit that we can do is a ripple. We've just got to keep reminding people because the media has a short attention span. They'll gear up again for the second anniversary and come down here.&nbsp; This time, we've got to have the stories ready to show them what's really going on and trigger new interest. People have gotten Katrina-ed out.&nbsp; Everybody must re-energize their batteries and push forwards. B: When we were down there, a native of New Orleans told us that we may think we're cleaning up after the Hurricane, but this is really Katrina, right now. We're living through the storm. DB: That's exactly right. We're in the middle of it.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Hey CC kids, who're you voting for this week? (No, our voting technology can't tell if you're running around to different computers to vote multiple times, but we hope you have better things to do). Polls after the jump. {{poll "3" "start"}} {{poll "4" "none"}} {{poll "5" "none"}} {{poll "6" "none"}} {{poll "7" "none"}} {{poll "8" "end"}} 
 Columbia's own CNN - or perhaps MSNBC - presents its latest episode, and we dissect it for you.&nbsp; Core schmore, what about the part when he made fun of "300"?! CTV presents: Beating a Dead Horse 101. What is a Mimzy? If it doesn't have any connection to the Core or Modesitt, we don't care. Yogurt that doesn't taste like dirty snow? Watch yo' back, Tasti! 
Bwog editor Chris Szabla writes in: "Did security invade anyone else's EC room in the early morning hours to inspect something down on Morningside Drive?..." Chris first heard the security officers discussing what sounded like the source of some projectiles ("10-4, it's the fourth window up, seventh one over") before hearing a knock on his door ("Sir, we need to use your window to ascertain something.") Other Bwog affiliates noticed an unusually large number of cans and broken bottles on Morningside Saturday night. Speaking of projectiles, students recently commited another act of defenestration. LLC chief Scott Helfrich writes: "This past weekend, students in either Wallach or John Jay Halls threw glass bottles out of their windows. These glass bottles landed onto the lower roofs outside of Wallach and John Jay. Pieces of the broken glass came into open windows in Wallach. Fortunately, no one was hurt. If you have any information, or in the future see anyone throwing things out of his or her windows, please make note of the room's window location and call Public Safety – 212-854-5555." Remember, y'all - heads up.
One Columbia Presidential candidate Michelle Diamond has informed Bwog that she was cleared of all three rules violations filed against her. Spec has the story here. Bwog will update shortly with a recap of the debate. 
 Elections are everywhere this time of year (ESC, such as they are, from April 1st - 3rd, and the Dems on the 11th), and a few hours ago representatives from SGB's 60+ groups met to choose new leaders, welcome new groups, kick out a few others, and overhaul their constitution. Highlights from the Spring Town Hall after the jump. In: Camp Kesem, which runs a camp for kids whose parents are suffering from (often terminal) cancer. Columbia Coalition Against the War, which organized that big protest a few weeks ago. Columbia Students for International Service, which sends people overseas to serve other people. Double Discovery Students Organization, which works with disadvantaged students from the neighborhood. FeelGood CU, which sells grilled cheese sandwiches here to end hunger in the third world. Lucha, which doesn't like the military. The International Socialist Organization, which doesn't like capitalism, and is switching over from ABC to SGB. Groups Out (well, just moving to ABC): Hong Kong Students and Scholars Society and Columbia Iranian Students Association Constitutional Changes, Bullet Pointed: Excises all mention of Earl Hall&nbsp; Adds "humanitarian" and "identity-concious" to "religious, spiritual, political, ideological, and activist" Adds 2 more representatives--now 7, before 5 Mandates bi-annual constitutional review Spells out duties for all board members Aaaaaaaand: The New Board Chair: Jonathan Siegel CC '08 College Democrats Vice Chair: Jessie Leiken CC '08 SEEJ Treasurer: Arjun Kapoor CC '09 Amnesty International Secretary: Faisal Khan CC '09 Muslim Students Association Representatives: Ari Gardner CC '08 LionPAC Alastair Shearman SEAS '08 CPU Danielle Slutsky CC '08 LionPAC Jacob Taber GS/JTS '09 Democrats/CPU/LionPAC Muzna Ansari BC '10 Muslim Students Association James Downie CC '10 Democrats Hei-Yue Pang BC '10 Intervarsity Christian Fellowship/Remnant Christian Fellowship 
 The debate among e-board candidates Tracy Chung, Michelle Diamond, and Natali Segovia took place Monday night in Carman lounge, redolent with the scent of JJ's chicken fingers. All parties presented initially campaigns centered around a rhetorical motif of sorts. Chung's Rebel CC campaign spoke first, with the theme of "rebelling against the status quo and bureaucratization of a body that should be a true representation of student activities." Segovia's Voice spoke to themes of "diversity," consistently hitting upon the diversity of experience and backgrounds of the ticket members. The party even tied advising reform into diversity: "We all have diverse interests that can be better served by the advising system." One Columbia, the most polished of the three parties, wanted a stronger and more connected Columbia, with each member introducing themselves by saying, "My name is ____, and I want to build a stronger community by..." The ideas were not earth-shatteringly different (though neither of the other two parties introduced environmental issues) but the tableau was hard to ignore. After the jump, the major promises made by each ticket: REBEL CC: an online database of group information and events "on par with Spec or Bwog" "Rehaul" pre-professional advising with centralized information and an alumni database developing a long-term financing plan for governing board funds Lerner 6 as "last frontier" in terms of expanding space for student groups making CCSC less intimidating to outsiders informal town hall meetings VOICE: doubling number of advisors "running our own campaign"and staying out of campaign drama making sure CCSC becomes an open and transparent organization satellite office of Health Service to provide holistic health care greater focus on clarifying funding process to individual groups better relations with student groups and constant communication with those groups ONE COLUMBIA reducing student-advisor ratio by half online community calendar posting events on flat screens in Lerner, along with playing CTV and WKCR in Lerner combine FYSAC and JSAAC environmentally responsible planning bimonthly column in Spec and meetings to discuss ideas casually -DPD 
Iced tea, nacho fixin's, and several tureens of churros by the piano lounge. Grab a bite while listening to the musical stylings of an awesome-haired guy with an acoustic guitar and a microphone.
 Let the spin-doctoring begin: "It's a victory for free speech and anti-racism." Kind farewell to Lisa Anderson: "Being in SIPA next to the law school is like living in Mexico on the border of the U.S." JTS decides to admit gays and lesbians. In other news, sky does not fall. SGB&nbsp;"combats social injustice" by...recognizing groups that will do it for them Inside the university's rules procedure: where's Kafka when you need him? 
 As if the fountains on Low Plaza didn't provide enough innuendo for passersby, a fifty foot "rocket" suddenly materialized between them this morning. Who, you may ask, felt starved for such salacious symbolism? Why, the College Dems, Repubicans, and LionPAC, who teamed up to inflate what's supposed to be, according to their press release, a "long nuclear bomb", placed in order to raise awareness about the dangers of a nuclear Iran, and to advertise a Thursday evening panel on the subject. According to Bwog's ever-vigilant&nbsp;staff, some of the organizers attempted to place the word "IRAN" on the missle itself, but&nbsp;had (for what reason, we're not sure) to take it down. Those interested in the panel should note it will take place at 7:30 PM Thursday in Hamilton 602. Columbia professor Paul Richards, Paul Bracken of Yale, and one Herbert London of the Hudson Institute will be present, along with perennial Bwog favorite Richard Bulliet. The massive missile will remain afront the steps until 2 this afternoon. -CJS, Photo by Sara Vogel&nbsp; 
 The first issue of Eclectica Esoterica - the magazine that features your weirdest, wildest, and generally most interesting papers - is out. Bwog inaugurates the new publication with a customary quicking (since the magazine is&nbsp;in PDF format, all links point to the same source). MF Doom, meet linguistics (p. 4) Zen and the art of the...spiritually enlightening orgasm? (p. 8) In nomine profit margin: saving souls, one bushel at a time (p. 21) How I learned to stop protesting and&nbsp;love the crack of a whip - on my own back (p. 29) 
"Columbians" miscredited, discredited, and, well, just plain credited, worldwide: Spike Lee has certainly stalked our campus before. First, it was to use Hamilton Hall in a scene of Malcom X (to serve as Harvard, of all places). Later, Bwog discovered he was ducking into the same building for evening Lit Hum sessions. Now, a Chicago TV station claims the director is teaching here. A gross exaggeration - or will some classes at Alma Mater soon carry the tagline "a Spike Lee Joint"? Danisa Baloyi, Columbia alum and 2003 South African Businesswoman of the Year,&nbsp;has some explaining to do. She was fired from one major bank and resigned from the boards of several others after allegations she was linked to theft and fraud. Disgracing the Columbia degree? Well, not entirely. In the course of an&nbsp;investigating her activities, news services discovered she had definitely lied about one thing: although she had indeed earned two other degrees here, the university had no record of her completing an Ed. D.&nbsp;(doctorate), as "Doctor" Danisa had long claimed. There is news to celebrate among real alums, however. Both of the senior trade represenatives involved in negotiations between the US and South Korea are Columbia graduates. Hey, that factoid is headline news over there. -CJS 
 It won't be completed during the studies of any current Columbia undergrad, but the lucky prefrosh admitted to the Class of 2011 will, at least,&nbsp;be able to feast their eyes on this sight by their senior year. Behold, the José Rafael Moneo-designed Northwest Science Building, to be constructed over the erstwhile tennis courts between Havemeyer and Pupin: the rendering at&nbsp;right, among others,&nbsp;was recently placed on the University's construction updates site, allowing for an early sneak peak. Bwog isn't a stickler for traditionalist architecture, but we wonder what happened to Moneo's "extreme sensitivity to context," a factor PrezBo highlighted when the designer was selected to help fill this key gap in McKim, Mead, &amp; White's historic plan. And even if a little architectural pizazz is what this part of campus needs, one wonders at the scale of a structure that overwhelms even prodigious Pupin.&nbsp;Of course, the architect faced significant challenges while designing the structure - building over the gym, insulating labs from the&nbsp;subway, and dealing with the drop-off between the campus and the street. And at least we know now that construction of the building won't, in fact,&nbsp;close Dodge. Still, we're sure at least some&nbsp;are bound&nbsp;to think that&nbsp;Barnard's Nexus will have some Columbia competition for "ugliest building on Broadway" when the next decade dawns. More renderings, after the jump... -CJS From Broadway: Current view: From the Barnard gates outside Millbank: &nbsp; 
Diamond Can Take Pressure Rush to Stage, No Rush to Punishment Someone Besides Columbia Trashed at CB9 Meeting: CU's Business Partner This Article Does Not Tell You How To Get Better Housing "Recylcemania" called a "delightful term" Please Care About Us 
 This just in: Bob Saget (not to be confused with Sagat) has been sighted taking a college tour with his daughter.&nbsp; Bwog is a fan, but not this much of a fan. 
(Spoiler warning: It is almost certain the comments will be full of spoilers) &nbsp;An "100% anonymous" tipster reported what is likely the first of several puzzles which may will appear over the next few weeks.&nbsp; People who enjoyed Myst back in the day might be reminded of the game and realize this is nowhere near as tight as Myst, but it is still a mystery, in a sense.&nbsp; Secret sources (what other kind?) report that last year, successfully solving them yielded an invite to what was essentially "the college equivalent of an AD&amp;D party". (For clarification, AD&amp;D is "Advanced Dungeons and Dragons," distinguishable from the normal "D&amp;D" because I get it confused with Attention Deficit Order rather than with Dance Dance Revolution.)&nbsp; The puzzle itself is a "death note," a notebook supposedly with the power to kill people, and, and the puzzle includes a quote from the owner of the notebook, the rules by which it operates, and a list of people it has killed or tried to kill. At the bottom is the mysterious all-caps sentence THE ONLY MAN NEVER TO BE REDEEMED IS THE MAN WITHOUT PASSION. (The full puzzle and more detail after the jump) To join the secret nerd society, students must submit clues by the end of April Fool's Day to a website called "Them Earth Meteors", which has a picture of two meteors that look like earth.&nbsp; Between them earth meteors is that letter "M", which you can click on to enter text, and possibly gain entry to a land of wonder. Here's the first clue in full: 
David Iscoe reports on secular advantages to Kosher-for-Passover food. In many ways, for food lovers, religious dietary restrictions are horrible.&nbsp; It's not that I can't imagine a life in which I couldn't eat a cheesesteak, it's just that I imagine that life would suck. The laws cut both ways, however. Sometimes, religious laws act as a de facto protest against the race to the bottom in terms of food quality.&nbsp; For example, halal and kosher meats are often considered to be higher quality, the difference due to restrictions on how the animals can be raised and slaughtered.&nbsp; In the case of Passover, which begins Monday night, laws proscribing processed grain include a ban on products containing high fructose corn syrup, which is cheaper than sugar in part due to us having far more corn than we know what to do with (the latest idea is to make fuel out of it, which has caused rising corn demand and crippling tortilla inflation). Companies that value the kosher market more than the cost differential release a seasonal&nbsp; Kosher-for-passover variety.&nbsp; While Jewish purists need to buy these products for the duration of pesach, food and beverage purists choose to stock up on them for the rest of the year.&nbsp; One of the most common instances of this is Coca-Cola with sucrose (generally beet sugar) instead of high fructose corn syrup - identifiable by its yellow-capped two liter bottles, with the words "kosher l'pesach" written in Hebrew along with the kosher for passover symbol - check out this NPR interview with a Coke-head for an expert analysis of the difference in taste.&nbsp; Cane sugar Dr. Pepper has a similar fandom, although acquiring it is a regional rather than seasonable matter - Texas Jewboys and soda lovers alike can get the good stuff from the Dublin, Texas plant which produces Dr. Pepper the old way all year round. The Quest for the Perfect Egg Cream After the Jump More particular to New York is the Kosher-for-passover Fox's U-Bet syrup.&nbsp; Best known as the essential ingredient in a real New York egg cream (a fountain drink made not of eggs and cream but of chocolate syrup, milk, and seltzer), Fox's U-Bet also makes a mean chocolate milk and forever ruins Hershey's syrup.&nbsp; The egg cream, which most sources say originated with a Jewish candy store owner in Brooklyn (and is rumored to have gotten the "egg" in its name from the yiddish "echt," meaning good"genuine") is linked closely enough to the kosher market that Fox's still uses refined cane sugar during the passover season.&nbsp; Devout egg cream fans believe the kosher formulation, which not only tastes better but mixes better with milk, is the only way to go.&nbsp; As someone who idealizes cheap but good food items, I spent an inordinate amount of time acquiring my own. &nbsp;My first stop, Fairway, stocked U-Bet but had none of the kosher-for-passover variety on their shelves; possibly, due to their massive backstock of everything non-perishable, it has not made its way to the sales floor yet.&nbsp; I picked up some kosher Coke and bison meat, but I didn't get what I was looking for. I left Fairway a piece of my mind in their suggestion box. "You should have kosher Fox's U-Bet" - ha, that'll teach 'em!&nbsp; After some internet research, Gristedes market, down on 103rd and Broadway, was my next stop. Hidden on the back of its bottle cap, their syrup had the kosher lettering indicating its sugary goodness. I bought as many as I could (six) and returned victorious. I stopped into D'Agostino (with their damn ripoff "spend a shitload to save a little" point plan) for some milk and seltzer and discovered that they too had Fox's U-Bet, and that I had walked several extra blocks for nothing.&nbsp; Nothing but the extra dollar or so I saved of D'Ag's crazy prices, that is. It was a nice day. It was worth it. To learn what really makes time spent acquiring Fox's U-Bet worth it, pay attention: the recipe for an egg cream follows. Pour 1/4 inch - to1/2 inch of U-Bet into the&nbsp; glass. Pour in about 3/4 inch of whole milk. (Yes, fitness freak, it does have to be whole milk - don't worry, it's only "3/4&nbsp; inch" of it. Yes, it is acceptable to measure milk in terms of&nbsp; height) Pour in seltzer, and stir. There should be a thick head if you mixed it right. If not, drink it and try again.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; If you hate New Yorkers but still want to enjoy a sugar soft drink specialty, try Hot Dr. Pepper. A suprisingly good beverage, Hot Dr. Pepper is Dr. Pepper heated in a pan, and poured over a lemon. Dublin Dr. Pepper is said to respond better under heat than the version with high fructose corn syrup.&nbsp; Luck o' the Irish. 
 We didn't get pictures like last year, but word is that acceptance letters went out today, meaning that there are going to be a lot of angsty posts over here and excited youngsters the world over refreshing their e-mail obsessively. CC and SEAS combined got over 21,000 applications--that's a lot to reject! Welcome, class of 2011. Bwog is waiting for you. &nbsp; 
See it! Woyzeck, a production of Columbia Stages, runs from March 28 to April 1 at the Riverside Theater, 91 Claremont Avenue at 120th Street. Free with a Columbia ID! Woyzeck is a tragic masterpiece penned by the brilliant German intellectual Georg Buchner, who before his death from typhus in 1837—only 23 years old—founded a revolutionary society, was convicted of high treason, staged a daring international escape, completed a doctoral dissertation, published three plays and two translations of plays by Victor Hugo, wrote several philosophical essays and an unfinished novel, earned a position as an Anatomy Lecturer at the medical school in Zurich, romanced his fiancee, endured a strained relationship with his father (including a period when he was kept under virtual house arrest) and, for good measure, wrote a series of unordered dramatic fragments in an almost unintelligible hand that became this excellent play. The story is a cautionary tale (based on a true story) about a soldier, Woyzeck, who goes insane after participating in a scientific experiment, for which he eats nothing but peas for three months. He starts to hear voices and seeks help. The doctor who supervises the study tells him to keep eating. His captain tells him to stick to his station. His girlfriend, who works as a prostitute and looks after their baby, has enough on her mind. Woyzeck resolves the situation by slicing her to pieces in a dramatic and bloody finale. &nbsp; The glory of this play is its surreal pacing, wonderfully accentuated by the creative and dramatic direction of Marike Splint. It seems as though it could have been written in 1937, or perhaps 2037: scenes comes and go without any real explanation, time seems to slow down and speed up, characters offer prophecies to no one in particular, the infant is a constant brooding presence. Sex and violence and words unsaid hang heavy in almost every scene. In particular, a nook in one side of the stage, little more than a staircase, is transformed into the worn home of a fretful single mother and her baby with the addition of a crib and a small wooden box. It lurks like an omen at one side of the stage. The acting is uniformly strong. Teddy Bergman offers a pathetic, moving Woyzeck; Blythe Foster a voluptuous Marie, the prostitute girlfriend full of life to give, to receive, and to lose; Gwynne Flanagan a domineering monomaniacal researcher loaded with sex and ambition; and Cobey Mandarino a thrusting Captain, with a Rumsfeldian certainty born of ego and ignorance. Drew Hirshfield and Kraig Kehrer are leering, crippled barkers in the best tradition of untrustworthy showmen. Elizabeth Dahmen, Kate LoConti, Stephanie Shipp, Peter Allen Stone, and Scott Sweatt are The Idiot, Margaret, The Child, The Drum Major, and Andres respectively -- all well done. Finally, the lighting, music and technical production must be mentioned. The first is stark and frightening, the second disorienting and grinding, just as one wants; and the last precise, dramatic and, so far as I could tell, flawless. Now, avant-garde theater from 1836 may not be to everyone's taste. The plot, like the prostitute's room discussed above, requires a lot of imagination. The characters, as one might expect in a work pieced together from posthumous fragments, are less than fully formed. There were a flew slips on opening night: in particular, one character appeared briefly to forgot some lines. Apotheosis is asking too much of Woyzeck, but considering the price of admission for Columbia students this is an aesthetic bargain. <!-- D( ); //--> &nbsp;- Bob Neer &nbsp; 
 Bragging rights for the talented seventh Fixing a (near meteoric) hole where the rain got in "Sometimes I'll try to swipe and miss and catch it right at groin." Edit:&nbsp; Online voting A LINK IN HONOR OF THE FACT THAT THE BANQUET IN HONOR OF THE KING OF SPAIN WAS LISTED INCORRECTLY IN THE PRINT EDITION OF THIS ARTICLE (10:30 TONIGHT IS THE REAL TIME) 
The grass is back! &nbsp; 
Bwog voted (after fighting its way through the halo of handshaking candidates outside Lerner). Have you? &nbsp; 
 Finally, it's over: CCSC election results are in, and the victory parties underway (continuing 2009 President George Krebs planned a big one, the Sophomore Semi-Formal in Low, at which he was spotted breaking it down with a crown on). Bwog's poll of earlier this week proved a mostly accurate indicator, and there were few surprises: One Columbia cruised to victory, and in the only other contested class council race, AJ Pascua's Go party pulled out a narrower win against Toga, with the incumbent trailing almost 15 points behind. Perhaps more notably: only 34.3% of you voted in the collective 20 hours the polls were open. That's over 15% fewer than last year. Sure, Diamond v. Chung/Segovia lacked the suspense of Dixit v. Flaxman. But we thought the Core was supposed to make us into better citizens than the average American? Not to moralize or anything. Full results after the jump. &nbsp;Executive Board Percent &nbsp; ONE COLUMBIA PARTY 805 &nbsp; 59.8% WIN Michelle Diamond, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Alidad Damooei, Vice President for Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Jennifer Choi, Vice President for Funding &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Lindsey Lazopoulos, Vice President for Campus Life &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Glenn Thompson, Vice President for Communications &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; REBELCC PARTY 349 &nbsp; 25.9% &nbsp; Tracy Chung, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Katrina Ciraldo, Vice President for Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Tim Paulin, Vice President for Funding &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Josie Duffy, Vice President for Campus Life &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Paul Soto, Vice President for Communications &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; VOICE PARTY 192 &nbsp; 14.3% &nbsp; Natali Segovia, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Mallory Carr, Vice President for Policy &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Dave Coates, Vice President for Funding &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Marbre Stahly-Butts, Vice President for Campus Life &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Nirvikar Jassal, Vice President for Communications &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;University Senator &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Michael Topol 190 &nbsp; 17.2% &nbsp; Allan Lau 356 &nbsp; 32.2% &nbsp; Phil Hadley 104 &nbsp; 09.4% &nbsp; Daniel Free 377 &nbsp; 34.1% &nbsp; Eric Wang 642 &nbsp; 58.2% WIN Felipe Tarud 539 &nbsp; 48.8% WIN &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Student Services &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Brian Leung 859 &nbsp; N/A WIN Molly Conley 939 &nbsp; N/A WIN &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Academic Affairs &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Kenneth Liu 432 &nbsp; 35.7% &nbsp; Donna Desilius 458 &nbsp; 37.9% WIN Scott Zaloom 319 &nbsp; 26.4% &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Pre-Professional/Scholarships and Fellowships &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Priyanka Gumaste 689 &nbsp; 54.9% WIN Derek Hou 565 &nbsp; 45.1% &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Class of 2008 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Party 269 &nbsp; 100% WIN Neda Navab, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Calvin Sun, Vice President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;2008 Representatives &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Rahul Jain, Represenative- Party 200 &nbsp; N/A WIN Scott Hughes, Represenative- Party 214 &nbsp; N/A WIN Stephanie Quan, Represenative- Party 195 &nbsp; N/A WIN &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Class of 2009 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Fusion Party 306 &nbsp; 100% WIN George Krebs, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Mark Johnson, Vice President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;2009 Representatives &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Ian Solsky, Representative-Fusion Party 249 &nbsp; N/A WIN Zahrah Taufique, Represenative-Fusion Party 248 &nbsp; N/A WIN Heather Oh, Represenative-Fusion Party 226 &nbsp; N/A WIN &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Class of 2010 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Toga Party 183 &nbsp; 35.3% &nbsp; Maximo Cubilette II, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Allie Lalonde, Vice President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Go Party 205 &nbsp; 39.6% WIN AJ Pascua, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Sue Yang, Vice President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Alma Matters Party 130 &nbsp; 25.1% &nbsp; Mark Modesitt, President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Jessica Becker-Venegas, Vice President &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;2010 Representatives &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Charlotte Freinberg, Represenative-Toga Party 232 &nbsp; 17.6% WIN Valerie Sapozhnikova, Represenative-Toga Party 187 &nbsp; 14.2% &nbsp; Matt Harold, Represenative-Go Party 199 &nbsp; 15.1% &nbsp; Joey Goldberg, Represenative-Go Party 222 &nbsp; 16.9% WIN Claytoya Tugwell, Represenative-Go Party 217 &nbsp; 16.5% WIN Gabriel Castillo, Represenative-Alma Matters Party 155 &nbsp; 11.8% &nbsp; Lena Fan, Represenative-Alma Matters Party 105 &nbsp; 08.0% &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Total Turnout 1410 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 34.3% &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 As if you haven't heard enough: Election news! Election news! Election news! (Happy people with alcohol!) Ollie's gets sued for being a crappy employer; unfortunately, noodles remain disgustingly greasy &nbsp;M'ville: Mo' money, less problems? More about why the RIAA sucks The antithesis of a Columbia student, with reason 
 Just in, from an anonymous tipster: "I'm at work in my humble cubicle in the Journalism School right now.For some reason Danny Glover is sitting next to me on his cell phone discussing some movie that he wants to be 2 and a half hours long and financed by $18 million." &nbsp;As long as you promise you're done with&nbsp; your Lethal Weapon days, whatever floats your boat, Danny boy.&nbsp; Edit: Apparently he was moderating a panel for Journalism School students this morning -- in case you wanted to know what in the world he's doing on campus in the first place. 
 Weep, cheer, or do both at the same time. According to the Housing website, lottery numbers are posted! &nbsp;Update! Xavier Estevez provides us with this link showing the lottery listings sorted by priority, which hadn't been linked from the Housing website. He also gives us the following fun facts: &nbsp;"Only 35 groups, as opposed to 85(!!) last year are doing ECX in the lottery this year. It looks like everyone who got fucked over last year decided not to test their luck again this time. In this years lottery numbers: There are 11 30-point ECX groups. There are 16 26.66-point ECX groups. There are 7 23.33-point ECX groups. There is only 1 20-point ECX group. "Unless there were like 20 suites held out for same suite rights, it looks like anyone who wanted EC this year will get it. That seems unlikely to me, because there were 29 30-point groups last year. Those groups don't qualify for same suite rights, and I doubt anyone with a lower number than that would want to hold on to a crappy lower suite." &nbsp; 
 So, it took awhile, but unless you've been pent up inside during the last week and a half, spring is finally here! Finally, a time to break out of the boots and slide on those flip-flops, and hopefully some motivation to do your problem set outside in the sun, as opposed to drooling in your textbook in your dorm room. To celebrate, Bwog is taking the opportunity to post more photos of the outdoor goodness and goings-on around campus, casually taken throughout the week with our handy digital camera (it ain't no high-end gizmo, but it works). So, enjoy the pictures, take a walk this weekend -- or at the very worst, take your Don Quixote to the steps. If you don't mind the pigeons, that is. - MIP Photos after the jump. &nbsp; Return of the ice cream truck, for all your neighborhood playground/Orange Dreamsicle nostalgia.&nbsp; A few kids spotted on the steps last weekend, walking their pet hamster (inconspicuous in this photo) around Alma Mater. Much to this Bwogger's amusement, the kids attracted a small crowd a few minutes later. Another one from the steps, this time with the infamous nuke hanging out in the background.&nbsp; The flowers are here! A truck unloader takes a break in the background. A Philo member promotes the Society's "Beat Night" event by reading poetry out on Low Plaza in front of the mass of students on the steps. Meanwhile, students practice their martial arts skills -- capoeira perhaps? -- behind him.&nbsp; &nbsp; In front of Lerner stands University Senate candidate (and recent winner) Eric Wang , one of several encouraging CC students to vote in front of Lerner, during the election period.&nbsp; &nbsp; Here's a good one for the university viewbook. Happy Friday to all! 
Looks like the scales of justice just got a little more balanced at the Law School, where a sharp eyed tipster noticed that the older, traditional, decidedly Christian logo: &nbsp; has been replaced by something more sleekly innocuous: As we noted before, Columbia did decide to stick with the royalist crosses, but apparently takes a federalist attitude towards its satellite institutions. Besides, spades are so in these days. &nbsp; 
Unless you've been closeted in the stacks all day, you probably heard the shindig out on the Plaza, which will raise lots and lots of money ($64,445 and counting) to benefit the American Cancer Society. It's also rather entertaining for passersby, with various field-day type activities filling every corner of the quad. More pictures after the jump. &nbsp; Dodgeball for Life. Marksmanship in Robinhood Hats for Life. &nbsp; DDR for Life. &nbsp; Cookies and Juice for Life. And your hosts, Colin Drummond and Addison Anderson (4Lyfe)! &nbsp; 
 Sort of.&nbsp; ESC online voting started at midnight, and SEAS kids have until 6:00 PM on Tuesday to register their choices for Academic Affairs, Alumni Affairs/Professional Development, and Student Services Representative--all the other offices are uncontested. But one-party races do make for fun campaign speeches, and courtesy of ESC's web wizardry, you can watch them as many times as you want! Here are the cliffnotes: Class of 2008: Narrowly defeated E-Board candidate and current 2008 President Eash Cumarasamy, looking confident: "We're going to be a great class council, if we're elected, as we hope to be. Come to our meetings. Uh, that's all. See you next year." Class of 2009: The Fu Fighters gave a perky performance, self-consciously switching off the mic while listing their accomplishments. Do they tag-team e-mails, too? Class of 2010: Double points for stating their platform in verse! Long, awkward, not especially metric verse, but hey . - LBD 
 Saturday was Dean's Day on campus, in which parents were encouraged to fork over&nbsp;some extra dough to attend lectures on drugs, Mexican popular culture, globalization, and&nbsp;other stuff. Rachel Lindsay attended&nbsp;Prof. Carl Hart's lecture on demon drugs, and&nbsp;gives us this report:&nbsp; Meth, like crack, is whack. We know this. But Psychology professor Carl Hart also knows that the media tends to seize on legitimate societal ills and turn them into mass epidemics--“America's Most Dangerous Drug,” according to an August 2005 Newsweek article. Exaggerating the effects of a psychologically damaging substance that expert scientists still don't understand doesn't help society change policies or attitudes towards users and their environment, it just leads to needless panic. According to Hart, disintegrating mainstream media is at the forefront of the stigmas and scare tactics that spread false information about the drug, infiltrating even the pages Seventeen magazine. "Crack babies" have now become "meth babies" in the eyes of upright citizens, and as Hart notes, the media representation recalls the mid-eighties (the height of the "crack/cocaine epidemic") when the media regularly invoked biblical imagery and religious guidance with a Puritanical sneer. For instance, meth adiction has been described as a “plague”-- albeit an incredibly useful plague for America's economy. As Hart mentioned, meth has been available through prescription (in place of heroin) since the 1940s, marketed as a cure for female depression, a drug to help soldiers stay awake, a prophylactic against obesity, and most recently, a drug to quell ADHD. All this comes in spite of the fact that high doses have also resulted in schizophrenia, insomnia, and “stereotypy,” repeated or “nervous” movements. Moreover, Adderall differs only slightly on a molecular level from meth, and while its affects have been downplayed, there are striking similarities to meth’s psychological affects. I asked Hart what he thought of Adderall usage on campus. He said did not know the scope and did not comment. However, he did say that Adderall abuse may cause toxic effects in the brain similar to those that have resulted in the disorders. So what is the real scope of mehtamphetamine use in America? In 2004, a survey revealed that 12.3 million Americans had used methamphetamine in their lifetimes. A current survey that asked individuals which drugs they had used in the past 30 days also revealed that about 15 million people used marijuana, 2.4 million cocaine, and 1.1 million hallucinogens. In contrast, about 500,000 had used meth and 166,000 heroin. As Hart argued, there seems to be a misrepresentation of how common meth really is, and its image as the demon drug du jour has more to do with media and profiling than actual popularity. 
 Every spring at about this time, freshmen walk by Low Steps wondering why a bunch of seniors are sitting there with bottles in paper bags, or why Alma Mat er smells like vomit. Last year, a few of the hipper low-level administrators joined the loiterers in their celebration of public drunkenness, dodging security officers' halfhearted attempts to shoo them away. But like all organic traditions, this one too must die--seniors recieved an e-mail yesterday from their class presidents with the news that anyone caught cracking open a 40 on the steps in the weeks before and after the 40-days-to-graduation marker would face disciplinary hearings. To make up for the loss of that fuzzy senior moment, admin is throwing 2007 a massive party on the lawns this Thursday, complete with t-shirts, picnic food, and all the beer the revelers can stomach ("They'll be getting at least 48 ounces," CC '07 president David Chait promised. "We should have had the event last week.") Here's how it happened: about a week and a half ago, Dean Chris Colombo called a meeting with the senior class presidents to inform of the change, citing past incidents (word is that PrezBo got a friendly ass-slap last year from one 40-drinker). After conferring with their class councils, Chait, SEAS '07 president Jarod Were, and BC '07 president Puja Kapadia met again with Colombo, this time with a counterproposal: the event now happening on Thursday. According to Were and Chait, administrators were then very accomodating, ponying up the cash for a not inexpensive event on very short notice. No Baker Blast-style theatrics this time. They're pitching it as a more inclusive event, a 2,000-person party rather than a low-key thing where a "select group of students" sits on the steps--but trading the thrill of rebellion for the bounty of Columbia catering? A few hours of free beer later, Bwog has a feeling that seniors won't mind a bit. Update, 10:20 PM: The 40s "tradition" is about five years old. Yes, there will be kosher food and booze. And no, this is not an April Fools joke. Bwog doesn't believe in April Fools. - LBD 
 Can't you just drink beforehand, THEN sit on Low Steps? It's the same basic result. Anticipating getting "shafted" by McBain... ...Yet despair not! A SIPA Conference on Africa - can't think of a joke to put here And, from the annals of history, the Michigan Daily presents: Chill Bollinger. "I sat on Lee Bollinger's bed and was watching football on TV," Lehrer said. "I called from his phone to my answering machine and left a message. He gave me a hug and on the way out he said he loved us all." Added by popular request&nbsp; 
 Frontiers of Science lecturer Professor Darcy Kelley, on raising abandoned baby bats: "So I asked my friend how she carried her bats around, and she said she hung them from her bra: it's warm, it's wet..." Download the Frontiers podcast if you don't believe us. Who says this class doesn't teach first-years useful information? 
 Columbia University has been named the worst school for movie piracy by the MPAA,&nbsp; and word has it that the advocacy group is considering legal action against college students (per the Curb Illegal Downloading on College Campuses Act of 2007). You might be advised to delete your pirated file of You, Me, and Dupree before it costs you more than two hours of your life. Also, Free Culture at Columbia strikes back at the RIAA with a satirical video, depicting the Columbia administration and the RIAA teaming up to lay a vicious beat-down on a student. It's funny because it's true?&nbsp; 
Bwog correspondent Josh Mathew hopped a lecture on Friday about where you can go to get some learning in the Middle East.&nbsp; In her introductory remarks, Lisa Anderson, Dean of the School of International and Public Affairs, introduced the panelists by noting the common misperception of American education in the Middle East: It doesn’t exist. The presidents of American University of Cairo, Lebanese American University, and American University of Beirut, as well as the chancellor of American University of Sharjah (That’s in the UAE, folks) gathered to prove that stereotype wrong.&nbsp; But departing from the usual crowd of angry grad students with prepared diatribes for the question and answer session, the audience of well-dressed elders didn’t seem to need much convincing. Things started off slow as AUC president David Arnold and AUS chancellor Winfred Thompson recited statistics regarding their schools’ diverse student bodies and faculties; however, the scope of discussion expanded as the panel turned towards the two American universities in Lebanon, presumably the focus of the audience’s interest considering last summer’s war. &nbsp; LAU President Joseph Jabbra put it plainly: Lebanon “is where the action is.”&nbsp; Initially highlighting the university’s extensive financial aid, Jabbra emphasized the power of American education, as he believes that LAU serves to unify Lebanese students regardless not only of economic status but also of religion and ethnicity. Speaking last, charismatic AUB President and Middle East scholar John Waterbury shifted the orientation of the lecture by directly addressing the dynamic relationship between the university and its often-turbulent surroundings.&nbsp; Echoing Jabbra’s understatement, Waterbury noted “Last summer was rough,” but reminded the audience that, having survived since its founding in 1866, the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, two world wars, and several sectarian conflicts, AUB won’t be closing its doors anytime soon. Despite the U.S.’s response to the Israeli-Lebanese conflict, Waterbury assured the audience that the Lebanese did not conflate American foreign policy with the university’s American faculty as staff and professors have not faced harassment from the locals.&nbsp; Similarly, he noted that the influx of southern Lebanese refugees into Beirut, even in their dire condition, never attempted to commandeer the campus’s facilities. Pointing to AUB’s dedication to democracy and non-sectarianism, Waterbury noted that while several universities have suspended student elections in light of recent regional conflicts, AUB students cast their ballots this year in what was considered a “free and fair” election.&nbsp; That’s not to say there weren’t bumps along the way.&nbsp; Waterbury remarked that for each faction in Lebanon’s diverse and divided political arena, there was a student party equivalent competing in the elections.&nbsp; With 350 Lebanese soldiers guarding the campus against the alleged crowd of 2000-3000 of Beirut’s inhabitants, Waterbury postponed the counting of the ballots until the next morning in order to ensure a safe outcome (would that CCSC had a quarter of that excitement—you know, without the machine guns). The One Columbia-SGB kerfuffle and a paltry 34% voter-turnout seem to pale in comparison to student elections in the Paris of the Middle East.&nbsp; I wondered whether these student were parties replicating their off-campus equivalents' virulent sectarianism, or if it were simply a nerdier, more typical instance of student political enthusiasm like that of Model U.N. So what connects these universities besides their emphasis on a vaguely American (presumably liberal arts?) education?&nbsp; Not much.&nbsp; While the four administrators expressed misgivings toward collaboration with the absurdly large and poorly funded public universities in the region (Damascus, Aleppo, Cairo, etc.), it also became apparent that the American universities’ greatest similarity was literally nominal as they operate within starkly different sociopolitical contexts.&nbsp; Waterbury joked that while 90% of his duties are identical to those of any university president in the States, the remaining 10% often has a “Lebanese…and sometimes Syrian flavor.” (Audience laughter). Meanwhile, Thompson mused that the politics of Sharjah are a bit different—the AUS was borne out of and is sustained by the “best government…a benevolent despotism.” (More audience laughter.) Finally, Arnold piped in that AUC’s political environment is somewhere between those of the UAE and Lebanon and that the university is still “experimenting with different forms of despotism.”&nbsp; (I heart political humor.) While their paltry size relative to national universities limits the impact of these institutions and their liberal arts education, most of the speakers expressed interest in educational reform and competition in the region.&nbsp; Jabbra repeated his desire to bring public Lebanese universities “up to snuffs,” while Waterbury noted that AUB engages in considerable consulting with up-and-coming Arab universities hoping to attain the same caliber of education. The development of higher education in the Middle East not a question of resources, he reasoned, but rather of know-how. 
 Bwog salutes Israelites and Yankees today as opening days for tribe and team alike kick off.&nbsp; For the Jews, it's the first night of Passover, the celebration of the Israelites' escape from Pharaonic tyranny.&nbsp; For the Yankees and their fans, it was opening day, with a 9-5 victory over Tampa Bay; a good first step on the Yankees' road to redemption after years of high hopes and higher salaries have yielded nothing but towering&nbsp;pyramids of championship disappointment. Bernie Williams, sadly, has looked upon the promised land but cannot enter; he rejected a non-roster invitation back to the Yankees when his contract expired last year.&nbsp; But batting mainstays Jorge Posada and Jason Giambi each contributed with the first home run of the season and three runs batted in respectively, while shlimazel-of-late Alex Rodriguez - recently in the media for his alleged tsuris with Derek Jeter - managed a home run as well.&nbsp; With the Devil Rays ahead by two runs in the sixth, Jeter hit a bases-loaded single to tie the game; Bobby Abreu weighed in with an RBI single in the eighth, and Rodriguez's long-awaited homer brought in two more runs to put the Yankees well in the lead. For tonight's services, Rabbi Yonah Blum will be leading off with the Columbia's best-advertised seder in Low Library at 7:45 p.m.&nbsp; Other hot prospects for your week of breadlessness include the regular Hillel Seder, held in James Room, Barnard Hall, 8:30 p.m. (registration closed: to see if they'll let your people go, e-mail rabbi@hillel.columbia.edu); Ohel Ayalah, founded by JTS's very own Rabbi Judith Hauptman, will be holding seders for the young and disconnected tonight and tomorrow. In case you're wondering what Columbia, Jews, and Yankees all have to do with each other, consider this tidbit from the CU250 website: if your parents demand you go to medical school or "what, you want we shouldn't be proud of our son?," remember that "Hilltop Stadium, on the site of the present Columbia University Medical Center (165th Street and Broadway), housed the New York Highlanders from 1903 to 1913. (The team's current name: the Yankees.)"&nbsp; L'Chaim! -Nick Frisch 
 Jesus week starts today, kicking off five days of praise and prostration. This afternoon, Low Steps played host to easels on which passersby could at once declare and apologize for their direst sins. What do Columbia students feel sorry for? "for thinking I'm better than non-Ivy students" "for coveting my friends' money and looks" "God led Bush to war" "being a pretentious bastard" "being a bitch sometimes" "for hating you =)" "ignoring the homeless guy" "for treating women like objects rather than friends" "for not being sorry" "for judging homosexuals" "lusting after women" Bwog is sorry for a lot of things. We just cry in our rooms about them instead. 
In the last installment of the Friendly Fire series--which earlier brought in the Village Voice’s Nat Hentoff, the New York Post’s Bob McManus, and Columbia’s own Karina Garcia--moderator David Eisenbach talked Monday evening with pundit and failed gubernatorial candidate Arianna Huffington about speech, the press, and that mysterious attack ad. There are few things more charming than Arianna Huffington, at first. The coiffed but swingy hairdo. The round tones of her accent (Greek). Her pronouncement that she and her 17-year old daughter “absolutely loved” their campus tour. “The stories, you have so many stories,” she rhapsodized. “The Eisenhower story, the dollar bill story…I'm sure some of them are apocryphal." But if there’s anything more well known about Huffington than her graceful wit, it’s her biting brand of liberalism, on display in her popular blog, the Huffington Post. Eisenbach had his hands full this evening with the former Cambridge debate captain, who took on Hillary, Ann, and the mainstream media during her hourlong stint in the Faculty House’s elegant auditorium. The conversation began with the premise of the speech series: who was right on Ahmedinejad and the Minutemen? Huffington came down in the center, saying she would neither have invited said speakers nor attended the events, but also would not have protested their invitation. As better form of protest, she cited the New School student speaker who revised her remarks to preempt John McCain’s cookie-cutter commencement speech (she didn’t have to say it: the art kids kicked our butts on that one). Eisenbach then posited two reasons he saw as why the Minutemen event got as big as it did: TV talk shows, and YouTube (Bwog trusts that it was number three). Huffington didn’t bother hiding her disdain for O’Reilly and Co., but saved her most deadly barbs for a fellow blonde. &nbsp; "Ann Coulter is one of the most toxic human beings in America,” she said, expressing impatience with Larry King and the Today Show for giving her a platform. "I am 56 years old. There is a long list of things I don't need to do anymore. Life is too short to debate Ann Coulter." As much as she dislikes her fellow pundits on the right, Huffington LOVES YouTube, along with everything ephemeral and webby. If the mainstream media has been ADD in covering things like the Iraq War, she said, bloggers have been obsessive compulsive, taking disparate facts and knitting them together into a cohesive story—like Talking Points Memo did by uncovering the US Attorneys scandal. HuffPost did its own bit of citizen journalism in tracking down the creator of this YouTube sensation, an attack on Hillary modeled off an old Apple ad. Blogs, she said, pick up what should be on the front pages and put them on our homepages, democratizing information so even the guy in his garage has a say. And even in her newsy, grassroots blog, Huffington is having her say. All it takes is a quick tour around Huffington’s site for a clear idea of who she’s backing in 2008, and--evidenced by her hot pursuit of the anonymous YouTuber--it’s not Hillary. “The times and Hillary do not match. The times demand authenticity, and standing up for what you believe in,” Huffington pronounced. “You can smell the calculation out of every pore.” The take-home lesson? Huffington doesn’t believe in straight-up journalism anymore. The press should have a point, she believes, not dither around with “some people say…” interviews and “he said, she said” debates. Although some people say her book’s supposed to be pretty good. - Lydia DePillis 
 Classes at elementary school about to get a LOT harder Low Dome of the Rock&nbsp; Anything vs. Tasti D. = WINNER&nbsp; Spectator gives Columbia advice on web design?&nbsp; We're not smarter, we just have better taste&nbsp; Plus: You really don't like us, do you, NYP? 
In which Bwog freelancer Armin Rosen stumbles upon the heart of Harlem. &nbsp; Unlike its vegetative namesake, the Baobab Tree has an inconspicuous presence. The African art workshop, housed in a garage just north of 125th Street on Amsterdam, has been a local fixture since the early 70s, conducting art classes and events for the surrounding neighborhoods—but it doesn’t exactly seem to exist within those neighborhoods, or even within New York City. “Sometimes,” said Baobab founder and owner Phil Vilmar, “people miss appointments finding themselves in here and not wanting to leave. They sit in here looking. They‘re at peace.” The Baobab's dimly-lit, wall-to-wall collection of paintings, sculptures, drums and masks from all over Africa--so radically out of sync with the restaurants, traffic and apartment buildings that surround it—makes me feel like I stumbled upon something I wasn’t supposed to see. Yet I sense that it couldn’t exist anywhere other than between a nail salon and a clothing store on an otherwise-nondescript, uptown city block. Like the Tree, Phil is focused on places and ideas that are happily incongruous with his hectic, modern surroundings. In a neighborhood that’s home to some of the greatest minds on earth, he’s an artist and a storyteller, exuding something that‘s strangely hard to find in a University setting: wisdom. Phil says he began wearing nothing but hand-woven African clothes in the late 70s, after reflecting on the cooperation, energy and care that the production of a single garment required. In traditional African cultures, he explained to me, an outfit would take over four months to make. Today, a shirt takes him a matter of hours. He says that in these cultures, the beats of a drum circle (which he leads at the Baobab on Wednesday nights during parts of the year) are believed to be spiritually energizing and rejuvenating. “The drum circle is actually a way of life,” he says. “It’s like a vaccination, running through your veins.” And he says that the Baobab tree is itself a symbol of life and renewal. In an African village, the judges and elders would live closest to the great tree, which yielded medicine, shelter and food. “Inside are all of the treasures life has to offer,” says Phil. “Happiness, contentment, learning, creating.” At right is Phil’s last painting, which he stopped working on after Reagan was elected president (he now mostly does carvings and clothing when he isn’t overseeing the Tree’s three artists in residence). In the center is a sign from a barber shop in Ghana. The Baobab’s goal, Phil says, is to enable people to “live their tradition,” and to create a place where the “origin” and “real essence” of existence is not forgotten or taken for granted. “We’re moving away from a tangible situation to the virtual,” he observes, and it is its remarkable success in giving tangibility to traditional and spiritual ideas--ideas that are very distant from the anxieties of modern life--that make the Baobab such an extraordinary place. It is nowhere near New York or Amsterdam Avenue or South Harlem. But it’s a world that is just unreal enough to keep people grounded in the real one. For Phil, that’s not a paradox. “People will be looking for a place on Lennox and find themselves here,” he says. “It’s very common. That’s one of the reasons we exist.” 
Want extraneous ephemera? We've got extraneous ephemera! Bwog missed it while QuickSpecking, since&nbsp;the classic headline&nbsp;"Penn to Teach at Penn" ran under today's College Briefs&nbsp;in the print edition only. "Sean Penn?" one student was overheard wondering. Not quite, and if seniors here are upset about Matthew Fox speaking on Class Day, we wonder what they'd think if Columbia signed the star of Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle and Van Wilder: Rise of Taj as an adjunct professor (okay, okay, he was in The Namesake too...and we're still waiting for Fox to take on a similarly respectable role...) We're not going to go beyond providing the link: Radar's...saucy interview with Matt Sanchez Dean Quigley, overheard leaving Low around 6PM yesterday: "One of my favourite* things in&nbsp;life is that time in between jobs." Following in Zvi's footsteps? Say it ain't so, Austin... Are the SDS, progenitors of the 1968 protests, on the rise again? We guess we won't know for sure until attending tomorrow night's meeting. Until then, we offer a synopsis of their logo from Bwog's very own semiotician, reporting from the Hamilton stairs: "They appear to be lacking a sense of irony. The flyers have George Bush doing a clenched fist and 'Is this what democracy looks like?' -- but then two inches away, the SDS fist logo, in almost exactly the same position." *We like to imagine he both&nbsp;thinks and speaks aloud in the spelling of the Queen's English. -CJS 
 The results of ESC's virtual election are in, and the winner is...online voting. In contrast to&nbsp;last week's&nbsp;abysmal turnout at the CCSC polls, over half of SEAS undergrads participated in this year's contest (well, barely...exactly 50.9% voted). And that's without the ability to directly choose SEAS' highest leaders! Of course, the above figure is an average: participation dropped steadily as students got older, from 77.5% of freshmen to 31.6% of seniors. SEAS grad students, though, took the cake - only 1.3% of them bothered to log on to help choose the school's University Senator. Full results for the ESC's democratically-chosen positions below... Academic Affairs Representative Michael Fu 278 Samantha Wilner 343 No Response 87 Total 708 Alumni Affairs and Professional Development Representative Shanita Nicholas 125 Joanne Rispoli 211 James Tsai 264 No Response 108 Total 708 &nbsp; Student Services Representative Patti Lin 284 Peter Valeiras 333 No Response 91 Total 708 &nbsp; CCSC Liaison Daniel Gundrum 231 Ken Yearwood 379 No Response 98 Total 708 &nbsp; GSSC Liaison Whitney Green 574 No Response 134 Total Respondents 708 &nbsp; SGA Liaison Rajat Roy 567 No Response 141 Total 708 &nbsp; University Senator Amit Bedi 315 Esther Zuckerman 295 No Reponse 112 Total* 722 &nbsp; Class of 2008 - President Eash Cumarasamy 145 No Response 24 Total 169 &nbsp; Class of 2008 - Vice President Shreyans Khemka 147 No Response 22 Total 169 &nbsp; Class of 2008 - Class Representatives Jessica Aspis 124 Amy Lin 133 &nbsp; Class of 2009 - President Warren Reed 151 No Response 24 Total 175 &nbsp; Class of 2009 - Vice President Erin Svokos 147 No Response 28 Total 175 &nbsp; Class of 2009 - Class Representatives Samantha John 140 Lauren Minches 126 &nbsp; Class of 2010 - President Heather Lee 214 No Response 31 Total 245 &nbsp; Class of 2010 -Vice President Lili Gu 205 No Response 40 Total 245 &nbsp; Class of 2010 - Class Representatives Gunnar Aasen 198 Kelly Chen 186 *Includes Grad Students 
The new bus stop next to the law school LIGHTS UP, revealing a GLOWING PEPSI CAN BOTTLE. 
 Actress to speak at Barnard commencement, nobody goes apeshit Barnard accepts 28% of applicants, nobody goes apeshit&nbsp; "you don't need a contested class council election to get a good turnout" &nbsp;Athletes react to being told they shouldn't be here (their reaction is that they disagree) Religion: not for show || Jesus eating matzah Staff Editorial: JTS should do what it is by all indications doing PLUS: Nice, we're in the New York Post AGAIN 
 We spend an inordinate amount of time cruising Facebook albums. We know that there are a few talented photographers out there. And we sure as hell know how much you procrastinate (Bwog wouldn't exist otherwise). Those realizations have combined to produce BWOG'S FIRST PHOTO CONTEST. Maybe it'll become a weekly thing.&nbsp; So, here's the deal: being appallingly in debt makes it difficult to offer anything in the way of material incentives, but if your photo wins, we can hook you up with eternal fame and glory. The deadline is SUNDAY, APRIL 8th, at midnight. And this week's theme is NIGHT. We'll post the winner on Monday. Go! 
 While Columbia has not gotten the best press in the New York Post lately, The Chronicle of Higher Education has nothing but good things to say about our school, or at least its pranks.&nbsp; The Chronicle's article on "The College Prank as Viral Video" includes not one but two pranks by Prangstgrüp, the latter of which it calls "arguably the best college prank on YouTube." Disappointingly, nobody around Columbia came up with anything big for April Fool's Day (did they?),&nbsp; although on Thursday KCST some kids from Jester, Fed, and other groups did trick 30-some people into watching people eat dinner before putting on legitimate shows the next two days and trick KCST into promoting it. 
 For those of you bastards who aren't trying to find off campus housing for two years because Wien blows, here's your goddamn suite selection times.&nbsp; Have a wonderful time next year with your kitchens, bathrooms, and common area, assholes, you "earned" it. &nbsp; Some blowhard calling himself (or herself) the God of Housing has posted a partial list of cutoff predictions on the housing bulletin board.&nbsp; What thousands of students probably want from the Housing God is a new lease on life, or at least an explanation for why He works in such infuriating ways. But no, only stats and predictions. For those who actually care about these things, Bwog asked Mr. Housing God to explain his methodology, which is reprinted after the jump. &nbsp;- DHI "First, I did what I call quantity analysis. I listed all the available suites, grouping them according to their sizes (6-person, 5-person, etc). I listed the *original* number of each type of suite. I then calculated the number of suites *held out* of the lottery for various reasons. This allowed me to get the *true* number of suites. I aggregated these into the number of 6-person suites, 5-person suites, etc. Second, I did the thing I call group analysis. I calculated the number of groups that entered into the lottery, specifying how many for each suite size (eg, 27 eight person groups). Then all I had to do was count down to the Xth group. For example, there were only 13 eight person suites available, so I counted down to the 13th group in the list of 27 eight person groups. If you work through any particular example, you'll get the same result as me. The only special tool you need is WordMetry. I calculated these results purely because I was interested in whether I'd get my desired housing. The answer is yes. But of course, why not just spend a little longer (2hrs instead of 1) and do something useful for a whole lot of other students? GOH" 
 Protesting sure has taken an interesting turn at American colleges recently. Let's start here at Columbia. As of 6 pm, there were five protestors outside the main gates, protesting about the Minuteman protest which occured six months ago today.&nbsp; What about it?&nbsp; Three prim women, from New Yorkers for Immigration Control and Enforcement, are upset that the students haven't been punished more severely.&nbsp; Interestingly, their flyer claims "only three of nine students investigated&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; have been charged with simple violations."&nbsp; In reality, three were charged with simple violations and three more were censured, a harsher punishment.&nbsp; Also, their sign reading "Bollinger Stop Columbia Cover-Up," is puzzling, as covered-up stories generally don't have an inordinate amount of news coverage on major networks.&nbsp; Factual inaccuracies aside, NYICE are an interesting bunch.&nbsp; They told Bwog Editor Lydia DePillis that they estimate their numbers around 100, and that some of them were present at Ground Zero over the weekend protesting the illegal presence of some of the hijackers in the U.S..&nbsp; They also had a few colorful quotes, protesting both the mortality of socialist thinkers ("that's Marxist talk...Marx died!") and the nationality of those near them ("You're French, oh my God, I'm dealing with French people").&nbsp; They did, however, draw more press than people--ISO President David Judd, who tipped Bwog off to the story, remarked "I wish my 5-person 'rallies' could get coverage like this" and says to watch tomorrow's Spec for statements from the Columbia protestors on their punishment. Protests elsewhere in the country after the jump!&nbsp; &nbsp; Yesterday in Washington, D.C., students from American University staged a more ballsy protest, blocking the exit of Bush Deputy Chief of Staff and political puppetmastermind Karl Rove and throwing "unknown objects" at his car.&nbsp; Unlikely the comparatively whiny Minutemen, the tough Rove staff took it in stride.&nbsp; While USSS agents did move students away from the car, Washington Post reports Rove's spokeswoman shrugged it off, saying ol' Karl was never in any danger and "is pleased to accept invitations to speak to groups" (eh, Kulawik?).&nbsp; The Bush PR machine wasn't the only party who played it well: the students attempted their "citizen's arrest" after Rove spoke to AU College Republicans avoided any free speech controversy. News segment from NBC4 here. Student video here on YouTube. As if this wasn't enough, up in New Haven, Connecticut, three Yale students might be going down for burning a flag.&nbsp; The Yalies, foreign born and two of them non-citizens, probably won't be protected by the first amendment, since they set fire to a flag on the front of somebody else's house.&nbsp; They're being charged with several offenses, including reckless endangerment and arson. - DHI &nbsp;&nbsp; 
 In a nutshell: Associate Dean of Financial Affairs David Charlow, who deals with financial aid, is in the doghouse for having invested heavily in Student Loan XPress, which Columbia recommends to students for their loans. Here's MSNBC coverage, and more from 1010 Wins. On campus, CTV got the story first, and Spec was hot on its heels (leaving Bwog pathetically in the dust). 
Akon has two new singles out and three still on the charts. &nbsp;Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki asks what, exactly, he's giving us. I wrote a much longer piece for this week on Akon, Einstein, populism, and “Smack That.”&nbsp; But it topped out at like 1,754 words, which I think is around 1,752 more than anyone else cares about the topic. Here’s the gist: if you’re passing up on Akon because you can’t stand “Smack That” or “I Wanna Fuck You,” understand that’s not really Akon.&nbsp; It’s an imbecilic, over-sexed distillation that’s entirely contrary to his true nature.&nbsp; The only similarity is that both Akon and Bizarro are catchy as fuck—fine for filling MTV troughs, but there’s not much to them besides the catchiness.&nbsp; &nbsp; Take a pretty archetypal radio jam – Beyonce’s “Irreplacable.”&nbsp; Hate it or love it, you know (or you think you know) a hell of a lot about Beyonce after just three-and-a-half minutes.&nbsp; “Smack That”? Not really happening. I can’t know for sure, but I’m 99% positive that Akon did this on purpose, especially considering the agency that comes with owning his label and being his own go-to songwriter and producer.&nbsp; He knew collaborations with Snoop and Eminem would guarantee him mad sales. And he knew if he made these songs clownish, atypical, and bereft enough, not only would they not reflect badly on the rest of the album, they’d make his typical swagger look extraordinary…&nbsp; &nbsp; “Don’t Matter” - Akon&nbsp; So now his third single is “Don’t Matter,” a goofily saccharine “us against the world” ditty that tingles with old-school vibe.&nbsp; On the heels of “I Wanna Fuck You,” it sounds like the most sincere shit ever written.&nbsp; The juxtaposition takes it from an “aww” track to “that’s fucking ADORABLE and I don’t even use that word!”&nbsp; And consequently, the super chintzy video doesn’t seem chintzy whatsoever.&nbsp; Akon?&nbsp; More like A-MERLIN son!&nbsp; I’m making bad jokes and it seems entirely ok because I’m listening to “Don’t Matter.”&nbsp; This song is not that good.&nbsp; But it is.&nbsp; “Mama Africa” – Akon&nbsp; This track from his latest album will likely never be a single in the U.S.&nbsp; Thus -&nbsp; following the above logic that Akon’s not compelling when it really counts and is compelling when it doesn’t – “Mama Africa” is ten times more interesting than even “Don’t Matter.”&nbsp; He’s working much more on his turf here, synthesizing all the different parts of his persona into a song that I can’t see anyone but Akon doing.&nbsp; A good two-thirds of his work is autobiographical.&nbsp; Most songs, however, focus either on his life as a drug dealer/car thief or his time in prison, rarely touching on his childhood in both Senegal and the States.&nbsp; The tracks that do– “Mama Africa” and “Journey” – are arguably his richest.&nbsp; It’s not that the content of these songs is terribly revelatory, but rather that, for once, he writes, sings, and produces without any pretense or artifice.&nbsp; “Mama Africa” is not Akon trying to fit a radio mold or doing what is expected of him or getting half-a-mil from Gwen Stefani.&nbsp; He’s doing it because he wants to, and because he can.&nbsp; &nbsp; “We Takin’ Over” – DJ Khaled ft. Akon, T.I., Lil’ Wayne, and Fat Joe&nbsp; This song has been huge in Miami for the last three months and working its way north.&nbsp; On paper, it’s run-of-the-mill – four of the biggest rappers having a pissing contest with an Akon chorus in the middle.&nbsp; Akon’s actually the best thing here.&nbsp; His entrance into the song is breathtaking – on the 19th listen, “If you want to, we can supply you” is perhaps the only thing still interesting about the vocals.&nbsp; &nbsp; But what makes you keep listening to the 19th time - and the reason it’s getting obnoxious amounts of Cadillac play - is the beat, produced by Timbaland protégé Danjahandz. For one, it’s 111 beats per minute – by comparison, most rap songs these days are somewhere between 75 and 90. On top of that, it’s unrelentingly meaty and not-a-little psychotic. Throw that under Akon’s subliminally druggy grandstanding and you’ve got the Shawne Merriman of rap singles.&nbsp; You’ve heard Danjahandz before - besides co-producing last year’s blockbuster projects from J.T. and Nelly Furtado (including the primary production on “My Love”), his most ubiquitous sound might be the simple but endlessly effective drums on Fergie’s “London Bridge.”&nbsp; I could point to 10 or 15 of his other stunning rookie productions, but he’s already done it here.&nbsp; Finally, I bring up this song because of the video for “We Taking Over” that some kids did for a church lipsync project.&nbsp; Yeah, I know, YouTube videos of kids singing pop songs are about as played-out as hot-tub boozing on the Real World (or everything on the Real World).&nbsp; But this one just resurrects the whole game—it’s a full-length, thoroughly edited rap video, with equal parts intentional and accidental comedy.&nbsp; Take, for example, the rotating Donovan McNabb jersey, or “T.I.” rapping on top of a shed. “DJ Khaled” is so good that he gets to come back and play “Rick Ross” (in front of his parents’ Benz, no less).&nbsp; Fat Joe has a bowl cut.&nbsp; Jeff Tweedy raps Birdman’s part. &nbsp; The song’s real video came out yesterday and it’s almost as fun as the kid’s version.&nbsp; Each rapper helps DJ Khaled escape, um, whoever.&nbsp; First, some masked men kidnap him in an ice-cream truck and then – Gene Parmesan! – it’s really T.I.&nbsp; Then Rick Ross shows him how to parallel park and Fat Joe takes him sailing.&nbsp; So where does he rendezvous with Birdman and Lil’ Wayne?&nbsp; A church, just like in the video by the Donovan McNabbs (the shots are pretty similar also).&nbsp; It’s too ridiculous to think that, two weeks ago, Khaled decided to change the entire final act after seeing his young doppelgangers’ rendition.&nbsp; But then again, crazier shit has happened.&nbsp;
 Charlow's loathsome acts, subsequent "eyebrow raising" Numbers for your ego Teetotalers at Columbia are people too Read this: Minutemen protesters rebuff charges against them Staff beats around the big ol' bush More on Charlowheist: The New York Times' coverage What's going on at UT, And at USC And the clincher: "Lenders also paid for trips for financial aid officers and their spouses to resorts including Pebble Beach in California, Cuomo said." 
CORRECTION, 9:30 PM: International students with Bachelor's degrees have, in fact, twelve months (but only 12 months!) after graduation under the F-1 visa's Optional Practical Training (OPT) . For more information, see here. Bwog staff would also like to note that one of our sources, i.e. The Daily Princetonian, made no note of this either. So there. For a bunch of international seniors who want to work in the U.S. after graduation, it's "better luck next year." The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) released an announcement Tuesday stating that it has reached enough H-1B petitions to meet the congressionally-mandated cap for the 2008 fiscal year. The H-1B visa specifically allows non-immigrants to work for U.S. companies or attend U.S. universities for three years at a time (with a max of 6 years). The catch: you need the equivalent to an American Bachelor's Degree to apply.&nbsp; Given that most international seniors this year won't have their diplomas until May, they'll have to wait until next year to obtain their visas. The cap for H-1B visa petitions -- 65,000 -- was reached on the same day that USCIS began accepting them, two months sooner than the time it took to reach the cap last year.&nbsp; The year 2007 also marks the fourth year in a row that the cap has been met in fewer than 12 months.&nbsp; Getting a H-1B is survival of the swiftest, although this year's competition has been considerably stiffer. Check out reports by The Daily Princetonian and The Daily Texan.&nbsp; Bill Gates has also spoken against the H-1B cap, even having suggested that it be eliminated altogether (you can actually see him speak about it at a Senate hearing here), and Microsoft has reportedly been trying to work things out with Congress itself on the matter. Congress is expected to hold hearings to raise the cap this year. In the meantime, the best we can do is give '08 internationals a suggestion: if you really want to stick around and work in this nutso nation, get your act together. This is one assignment you won't get an extension on. - MIP 
 A tipster squeals: "Food Expo at John Jay Dining Hall! Chicken Nuggets! Cookie Accosters! Free Naked Juice! Hurry!" That's all we got. And accoster's not in the widget dictionary. 
 It may feel like the beginning of second semester outside, but the 40 Days event is happening now out on Low Plaza.&nbsp; To the delight of many, they've got more sandwiches than one can shake a stick at.&nbsp; But it turns out a large bunch of seniors are in the middle of another countdown, that of Passover (5 days to go, buds) and thus can't eat the food that's currently out there.&nbsp; A few disgruntled tipsters have reported that all of the Kosher food was gone by 12:45.&nbsp; One senior writes that there were only "10 bottles of kosher wine and 10 kosher meals" while "close to 30% of the 2000 seniors planning on attending are Jewish." Demanding an apology, the same student feels that the event "is clear case of cultural insensitivity and...should not stand, especially at a Columbia where Anti-Semitic claims are not a new thing."&nbsp; He would like a kiss-and make-up event after the holiday, but that would be, well, 35 days until they walk. Thanks to Lenora Babb for the picture. - JDC&nbsp; 
 Professor Thomas Bernstein (Life Cycles of Communist Regimes) is wise in his old years.&nbsp; Earlier today, he explained a fashion phenomenon with a silver tongue: "I don't understand why it is that people wear baggy pants. Soviet leaders used to wear them in the 1950s, but then they wised up, got Italian suits and looked pretty spiffy. Today, young men wear baggy pants all the time. I think that they must have a disease, perhaps testicular elephantiasis." Thanks to Rachael McMillan for the e-mail. 
 Student Loan Xpress gets knocked out of the Circle of Trust, not allowed at our parties anymore Now we've got insurance coverage overseas, for anything from "personal catastrophe" to "political unrest."&nbsp; Perfect. ...And speaking of overseas, you'd better leave those hedonistic texts at home before going to Egypt. Down with the Senate! Reform! REVOLUCIÒN Heaven knows we need better CPS services, given what this school can do to you BONUS: A comic! 
 Bwogger Kate Redburn brings us good tidings of the latest goodie to add to your iTunes. &nbsp; I have a date with destiny, and it's May 30, 2007. That's when one of my all-time favorite musicians, Manu Chao, is playing my hometown. I've never been more excited about a concert, but only partially because of who I'm seeing--half the pleasure comes from having found out about the concert at all. To call Manu Chao international is an understatement: as his Wikipedia page boasts, the guy sings in French, Spanish, Wolof, Portuguese, English, Arabic, and Galician. Needless to say, his multi-lingual website is a bit hard to navigate, and I always seem to miss his infrequent visits to the United States. Enter my savior, and the reason for this post: iConcertCal. Download iConcertCal, do it now. This simple iTunes add on, good for both PC and Mac, creates an automatic calendar of upcoming shows in your area by artists in your iTunes Library. The website doesn't explain exactly which lists they cull for concert dates, but the personalized calendar includes dates, times, venue names, and links to buy tickets. You can also change the location, to see who's playing back home. For the truly savvy, there's a radius feature, allowing you to change the radius around your location (this can prove very helpful since our zip code often yields results in New Jersey). If you're lucky enough to use a Mac, iConcertCal can also sync with iCal, creating a separate calendar with all the same information in a much prettier format. I'm sure there's a bigger point in here somewhere about the freedom of information on the internet, but my music's up too loud for me to find it. 
 Julia Kite emails us with the following tip: "The Journalism School's graduation speaker will be Ben Bradlee...yes, THE Ben Bradlee who was editor of the Washington Post during the Watergate Scandal and one of three people who knew the identity of Deep Throat, à la All the President's Men." According to a recent Gawker post, J-School Dean of Students Sree Sreenivasan e-mailed students with the news yesterday (in which he, interestingly enough, sourced Wikipedia for Bradlee's bio -- hey, even professional journalists refer to it every now and then). For those still upset about their own Class Day speakers, know that there may still be hope for graduate school. - MIP&nbsp; 
Course registration starts next week! Watch out, kids--catchy class title can be deceptive...but they do make planning your schedule a lot more entertaining. Bwog staffer Alec Turnbull combed through the Bulletin for the best of Fall 2007. Back to the Future HISTORY/THEORY OF AVANT-GARDE - Art History BC3658 HISTORY OF THE FUTURE- History W4914 MULTIPLE MODERNITIES - Art History G6650 Manhattan BUREAUCRATIC POLITICS - Fall 2007 Political Science W3921 section 005 HEALTH CONS OF FORCED MIGRATN - Population and Family Health P8687 ISSUES THAT DIVIDE AMERICA- Fall 2007 Political Science W3921 section 002 Grindhouse PULP BIOLOGY - Dentistry:&nbsp; Endodontics (DOS) D9216 AESTHETICS OF THE GROTESQUE - Comparative Literature and Society V3190 For the First-Years INTRODUCTION TO PERSONALITY - Psychology W2610 LOGIC OF COLLECTIVE CHOICE - Political Science W3220 DRUGS AND DISEASE - Biology W4300 For the Barnard First-Years THE BEAUTIFUL SEA - First-Year Seminar BC1457 THE ORDINARY ESTRANGED - First-Year Seminar BC1180 THE ART OF BEING ONESELF - First-Year Seminar BC1166 SPIRITUAL JOURNEYS IN FICTION - First-Year Seminar BC1185 Wordplay COLUMBIA/NYU-KANT-ONTEMP ISSU - Philosophy G9259 ARCHEOLOGIES OF LANGUAGE - English W3890 Indecisive? ELEM SERBIAN/CROATIAN/BOSNIAN - Serbian-Croatian-Bosnian W1101 THINKING AND DECISION MAKING - Psychology W2235 PERSONS - Philosophy G9645 The Hook Up, Step by Step PERCEPTION - Psychology BC1108 PROBABILITY - Statistics W4105 POETICS - English BC3199 ORAL BIOLOGY - Dental Science D9925 PHYSICAL HYDROLOGY - Earth and Environmental Engineering E6240 ANTHROPOLOGY OF ESTRANGEMENT - Fall 2007 Anthropology V2300 Roommate Woes NARRATIVES FOR LIVING - Comparative Literature: English W3792 TRAGICOMIC TRANSFORMATIONS - English W3973 POOR LIZA, POOR OLGA, POOR ME - Russian V3333 Bestiality 101 DOMESTIC ANIMALS &amp; HUMAN HIST - History W3912 ANIMALS IN TEXT &amp; SOCIETY - First-Year Seminar BC1572 ANIMAL RIGHTS: THEORY/PRACTICE - Political Science W3140 ANIMAL COGNITION SEMINAR - Psychology G4420 University of Havana North Left-Wing Jihad COLL: POL VIOLENCE &amp; TERRORISM - Political Science BC3055 URBAN GUERILLAS - Anthropology V3917 SOC/PLCY IMPLICTNS-BIOTERRORSM - Sociomedical Sciences P8793 WAR, PEACE, AND STRATEGY - Political Science W4895 JEWS AND ARABS - Comparative Literature: Middle East W3921 With A Taste of Poison Paradise ECOTOXICOLOGY - Earth and Environmental Sciences BC3200 TOXICOKINETICS - Environmental Health Sciences P8313 Bullshit Grab-bag POP MUSICS-AMER'S: COUNTRY MUS - Music V2014 GAME THEORY - Economics W4415 WASTEWATER - Civil Engineering and Earth and Environmental Engineering E4163 We’re Paying $40,000 a Year For You to Take WHAT?! SEM: MONSTRS MACHINE CYBORG - English BC3997 THE LOLITA PHENOMENON - Comparative Literature: Russian G6290 
 When Bwog noticed that there was a "Found Explosive" on the Gothamist newsmap for 2950 Broadway--the address of the Journalism School--we were confused. Our confusion deepened after a call to the NYPD, who said that it was an "inert device." Another call to Columbia Public Safety yielded another dimension to the puzzle: the bomb was a "replica." "Why would someone put a replica of a bomb in the Journalism School?" we asked the officer. "I don't know," he replied, exasperatedly. Mysteries abound. &nbsp; 
 Jester is not happy. All of Jester's remaining new issues--at least 700 of them--have disappeared from the Student Government Office, where they were waiting patiently for distribution on Monday. If anyone has seen Jester's issues, please let them know, and if you yourself are the culprit, well then shame on you.&nbsp; What are you going to do with them anyway?&nbsp; 
Downing Bray suggests another venue for wanton caffeine consumption. Get it before it's too late! ALT Coffee Ave. A and 9th St. A Lower East Side coffee shop legend is dead . . . almost. After a decade of service, ALT Coffee, boasting "consistently good coffee, occasionally cranky computers, and possibly the scariest bathroom currently on Avenue," is closing next week. (ed. note: Like another LES staple.) I checked out the joint for a late night coffee chat and, after experiencing its quirky charm first hand, I think it's clear that in New York, a city filled with so many Starbuckses and Barnes and Nobles, ALT is a far cry from a yuppie Village locale or fancy pants Upper East Side cafe. It's a travesty it has to close. The combination of yellow-painted walls and dim lighting emanating from odd chandeliers and colored lamps, along with a random smattering of tables, dingy chairs and grungy yet comfy multi-colored sofas that look like they were purchased at a yard sale-- plus a handful of computers with free wireless-- is enough to attract many a wandering soul to ALT. The clientele is a mix between computer nerds, emoish hipsters, and the dreadlocked and piercing-sporting set. It’s totally unassuming, laid back, and off-beat – a true find for any coffee shop fiend. So if you find yourself in Alphabet City in need of a taste of the (old?) neighborhood or just a good cup of coffee within the next week, give ALT a visit. Also, on Saturday April 7th, they’ll be having an "ALT-is-almost-dead memorial service, complete with Open Mic, Memorial Wall, and General Merriment. It starts at 3PM and goes on until . . . it ends." &nbsp; 
 It's always good to be an expert on something, even if that something is, well, nothing. Back in the day, during the Chad Crisis of the 2000 elections, Philosophy Professor Achille Varzi was apparently the go-to guy for insight into holes and what they're all about.&nbsp;Brendan Ballou found&nbsp;a CNN transcript in which he gives his opinion about chads. Excerpt: VARZI: These are the parts that have been removed from the doughnut before it became a doughnut. Now, of course, this is not the hole. The hole is what's not there anymore. MOOS: But doughnuts pale compare to ballots. And that's the least of it. 
 A couple of tipsters write in: "A set of fireworks went off between John Jay and Butler at around 2:30-3:00 , with loud popping noises and red lights.&nbsp;Prepare for the requisite columbo/h&amp;d e-mail asking for any information, blah, blah..." And... "FIREWORKS JUST EXPLODED OUTSIDE MY WINDOW - 114TH Street bw. JJ and Butler, I'm freaking the fuck out." Bwog isn't sure what's going on, though we'll surely ask around. As for now, though, we're leaving it up to one of you anonymous commenters. 
 Creativity abounds at the Tablet Arts Fair, taking place at Low Plaza until 4:00 PM! At the "Live Art" table, members of Tablet, Columbia's multicultural literary and art magazine, are producing their works on the spot for an auction that will be held towards the end of the event. If your suite is lonely, you can also buy art at fixed prices, usually ranging from about $5 to $15--beautiful, hand-made journals and boxes in as well as paintings (pictures after the jump). Plus a bake sale and international hip-hop music to keep you entertained while you browse. All proceeds from the fair will go to the printing of Tablet’s next issue. - Jeannette Spaulding &nbsp; 
 A friend of a Bwog staffer recently attempted to check out a professor on www.culpa.org.&nbsp; The professor--Robert Thurman--was not on the site. &nbsp; 
To send in your photo contest entries to bwog@columbia.edu. Just letting you know. &nbsp; 
 In retrospect, how did no one figure out this was going on? EC "excluded" from many seniors' plans. Repeating a meaningless phrase fourteen times in one article doesn't make it funny.* From Rajasthan with love.&nbsp; *Unless that phrase is "purple monkey dishwasher." &nbsp; 
 So the College Dems elections are on Wednesday, and by decree of a constitutional amendment, everyone who wants to vote must be registered by TODAY at 5PM (that's a change from last year, when large numbers of people left Satow after their friends were elected). But only if you think you've been "involved." Here's a bit from an e-mail sent by Dems President Mike Nadler to declared candidates: "You are all encouraged to scour your memory (and the facebook) for active Dems members, and to campaign for their votes by encouraging them to register and show-up on election day. The deadline for them to sign up is 5 pm on Monday, April 9th. That said, you should NOT pack the vote with your friends, unless they are friends who have been really involved with the Dems. To be eligible to vote you must either have been involved (i.e. more than the signing of an Activist Council postcard) or to have a very good reason for why you did not get involved this year ( i.e. if you were CCSC President). We ask that you pledge to follow both the letter and the spirit of these rules." Also, from the application, which asks aspiring voters to describe in detail their activities with the club: "If you have not attended a Columbia Democrats event this year and are interested in voting, please write a well-constructed paragraph outlining why you did not participate this year and telling us how we can improve our organization next year." One more thing before we stop: the Dems also abandoned drop-down voting this year, which means that you can't run for lower positions if you lose in higher ones. And people have to sit around tables moderated by senior members of the current e-board. And they have to stay till the end for their votes to count. And they have to get their fingers dyed purple when they're done. OK, just kidding about the last one. Good luck beating CCSC turnout, kids! - LBD 
 The Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal has fired another salvo in their ongoing feud against Jester, claiming responsibility for the recent disappearance of 700 issues of the most recent Jester issue. They've placed the once-missing issues all over campus, and&nbsp;attached a message: "Jester Promotes Scientific Fallacies." The full-page manifesto contains many of the CUSJ grievances, a sampling of which can be found on the (truly crazy, and we're not sure if it's in a good or bad way) website the CUSJ missive directs readers to. First among them: "The 'Liquid Issue' is clearly not made of LIQUID at all but rather PAPER, which is SOLID. Jester should be ashamed for misleading readers regarding states of matter." Too far, or not far enough?&nbsp;Catelyn Liu reproduced CUSJ's damning allegations in full, featured&nbsp;after the jump. 
From now until 7:00 PM, you can make a t-shirt about your feelings around sexual assault on the Lerner Ramps, as well as pick up some cool buttons and lolly pops, courtesy of the Clothesline Project. Take Back the Night is putting on the paint-fest to raise awareness for their march, going off next Thursday, April 19, at 8:00 PM.&nbsp;
 In our inaugural photo contest, Bwog got many good submissions (this editor's Gmail quota is now three percent more depleted), which the great hive-mind of Bwog editors narrowed down to five nocturnal masterworks. First "prize" for best submission goes to Janna Herman, B'10, for "CBGB Closing Night." Be sure to get your original photos in by next Sunday at midnight for round two - the theme is COMSUMPTION. After the jump, we round out the top five. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Runners up:&nbsp; #2: "Stay Alert for Foul Balls" (Janna Herman, B'10) &nbsp; &nbsp; #3: "Untitled" (Neal Amin, C'08) . &nbsp; #4: "Untitled" (Suselina Acosta, C'07).&nbsp; &nbsp; #5: "Untitled," Patrick Wolenter (Babson '09) &nbsp; &nbsp; Honorable Mention : "Night Basketball" (David Iscoe C'09) &nbsp; 
 A commenter let us know about Spectator's housing coverage blog this morning, and we've been anxiously checking since. They're sending up live updates from John Jay lounge on what's gone, what's still available, and some funny shit people have said in&nbsp; their panics. So, rather than sitting there on our butts all day ourselves, we'll let Spec's superior manpower bring you dispatches from housing hell. Although we'll miss the Famous Amos. Ooh look, Woodbridge's doubles are all still up for grabs... - LBD 
 Looks like there may be more kids lighting up outside Butler soon--if ESC gets its way, smoking will be prohibited in all suites, the last step in a process that began two years ago with the banning of smoking in corridor-syle housing. ESC passed a resolution tonight (14 in favor, 0 against, and 5 abstaining) saying as such, which outgoing president Dan Okin says originated from "student concerns." He's also been in touch with the relevant adminisitrators--Herman Matte of Dining Services and Kevin Shollenberger of Student Affairs, to name a few--who he says "will move forward if the students call for it." But are they calling for it? CCSC discussed the proposal at their meeting Sunday night, and decided to recommend no change until the councils get a better read on student opinion (in 2005, 51% of students polled wanted smoking banned in all residences).&nbsp; VP Policy Izumi Devalier noted that, unlike the previous change, banning smoking in suites would leave smokers with no alternative but to feed their habit in the cold. She added that the vast majority of the CCSC e-board doesn't smoke. Bwog's bet: anything that happens will be because admin wanted it anyway. Sad, but true. - LBD 
 PREZSHAP TO RESIGN OMG!!! (now, what font size do they use for assassinations or declarations of war?) Broadway Simba to get V-Show award: what does JTT think? "Who would have thought that inside the Zen essence of bamboo lay the potential to help a poverty-stricken continent create bicycles?" A $250 meal ="Brad Pitt," "the new Kate Spade bag," and "the best sex a foodie's ever had" "The proverbial million monkeys are fully operational...We haven't got a civilization of the Mind: we've got porn-topia." PLUS: NYT's got the Shapiro story, too 
Yes, we're ripping off a Slate feature. Get over it. We learned last week that Financial Aid Director David Charlow had been making some strategic investments with his money—specifically, $100,000 worth of stock in StudentLoanXPress, which was on Columbia's list of lenders that it recommended to students financing their education. Since then, the company has been removed from the list, and Charlow has dropped off the face of the earth (Bwog received an e-mail from Dean Eleanor Daugherty of Student Affairs warning us not to try to contact her former colleague). Although apparently kickbacks from lenders to college administrators is not exactly new. We did find the PDF comparing all the loan programs before StudentLoanXPress disappeared, and if you haven't had to wade through the financial aid system, it's pretty befuddling. A glance at the lower right hand corner, however, seems like a clue to the problem... &nbsp; 
 On a lunchtime walk, Bwog found... Westside Market is almost back, opening soon on 110th! Will D'Agostino survive? &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; And this spiffy spot, Thai Market on Amsterdam at around 107th. Thai goodness in the post-Saigon Grill era. Plus, some exciting news for sophomores juniors after the jump... &nbsp; Found in an EC elevator. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Put a pen in your shirt pocket, strap on a laptop case, and head over to the B-School lobby where the new E-board is doling out the B&amp;J -- there's something like 8 flavors to choose from! This agonized Bwog editor broke Passover for the Oatmeal Cookie Crunch. Also, free hot dogs on Low Steps, courtesy of CCSC--it's a College Days thing, so they're also selling nifty blue shirts featuring PrezBo's benevolent visage, accented by a pink tie. Hurry!&nbsp; 
Herewith, Bwog forces our humble co-editor and Monday daily editor under the hot spotlight of personal advertising. Like what you see? Email us at bwgossip@columbia.edu and, if they like you back, we'll spring five dollars for coffees at Hungarian or half of one espresso at Le Monde. Girl for Guy Guy for Guy &nbsp; &nbsp; Name: Katie&nbsp; Year: Sophomore School:&nbsp;CC Hometown: Buffalo, the Queen City What you're looking for: A jam! Best Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp;I can't say for sure.&nbsp;To the Lighthouse?&nbsp; Worst Book You've Read for Class:&nbsp;The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate: Gone to sleep at 6pm and woken up at 2pm. Drink of choice: That orange strawberry juice they sell in JJ's and other places. What are your most played songs on iTunes? "The Gifted Children," Neutral Milk Hotel "I Think We're Alone Now," Tommy James &amp; the Shondells" "Intervention" (old), Arcade Fire What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? I have no witty alternatives. Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Gelatinous fruit slices from HamDel The title of your memoir: Recuerdo. Dream date, 5 words or fewer:&nbsp;like me, but not really. Stewart or Colbert? Stewart, I guess. Name: Dan Year: 2010 School: Columbia College Intended major: History, film studies Hometown: Farmington, CT What you're looking for: Good times, Jerri Blank-style, or someone who will watch "The Mole" on YouTube with me. Either or. Best Book You've Read for Class: "The Remains of the Day," Kazuo Ishiguro Worst Book You've Read for Class: The time I pretended to have read "Don Quixote" was trying at best. Most shameful thing you've ever done to procrastinate:&nbsp; I watch a lot of E!, so one should assume that I have little shame. That said, the time I walked to 76th Street instead of writing a paper was kind of excessive. Drink of choice: San Pellegrino Limonata; or, if I'm out, I'm a fiend for mojitos (per "Miami Vice"). What are your most played songs on iTunes? "Landed," Ben Folds "Missing (Remix By Hugo Nicolson)," Beck "La Femme d'Argent," Air What do you wish were your most played songs on iTunes? "Trapped in the Closet: Chapter 12," R. Kelly Any of the crazy instrumentals from "Notes on a Scandal" "Edge of Seventeen," Lindsay Lohan Favorite Morningside Heights Meal: Deluxe burger with cheddar The title of your memoir: "A Dan for All Seasons" Dream date, 5 words or fewer: You swipe me on MetroCard. Stewart or Colbert? "The Simpsons" 
 We'd heard that there was going to be a super big announcement tomorrow in Low Rotunda. We figured that it had to do with money. We didn't know it was going to be this much money: according to the Wall Street Journal, media mogul John Kluge (the minority scholarship guy, Forbes' #25) is forking over between $400 and $600 million, which pretty much takes care of that whole financial aid drive. By Bwog's rough calculations, that leaves Columbia a little over halfway to its goal of $4 billion for the capital campaign and dwarfs Jerome Greene's $200 million "largest private gift ever" of last March. Full WSJ article after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; Kluge Plans to Donate At Least $400 Million To Columbia University By SALLY BEATTY April 10, 2007 7:47 p.m. Columbia University is expected to announce Wednesday a gift of at least $400 million, possibly as much as $600 million, from media entrepreneur John W. Kluge, according to two people familiar with the donation. It is among the largest single gifts to higher education. The amount will depend on the eventual value of Mr. Kluge's estate at the time of his death. Mr. Kluge, 92 years old, has earmarked the gift for undergraduate and graduate financial aid, according to these people. That is consistent with his past record of giving to the Manhattan-based university. In 1993, he pledged $60 million to provide financial aid through the Kluge Scholars program to minority students at Columbia, and in 2000 he gave $25 million to subsidize junior-faculty salaries. Over the years, his giving to Columbia has totaled more than $110 million. A Columbia spokeswoman declined to comment. It is believed to be the largest single gift in the history of Columbia, which recently announced a $4 billion fund-raising campaign emphasizing financial aid and endowed faculty across its campuses. A year ago, the university received a gift of over $200 million from Dawn Greene and the Jerome L. Greene Foundation to create the Jerome L. Greene Science Center for Mind, Brain and Behavior. A German immigrant, Mr. Kluge attended Columbia on an academic scholarship, graduating in 1937. One person who knows him says he has always felt grateful to Columbia for that aid, and believes that helping students today is an extension of the support received by earlier generations of European immigrants. Mr. Kluge began building his entertainment empire in 1947 with the acquisition of a radio station in Silver Spring, Md. It later grew to include television stations, outdoor advertising, cellular telephone properties and even the Ice Capades and Harlem Globetrotters. Mr. Kluge was one of the first media entrepreneurs to demonstrate that a group of independent TV stations could make millions of dollars, according to the Museum of Broadcast Communications in Chicago. His Metromedia Inc. pioneered independent-station operations through the 1960s and 1970s. In 1986, Mr. Kluge agreed to sell seven Metromedia TV stations for nearly $2 billion to Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Write to Sally Beatty at sally.beatty@wsj.com 
 $400 million University Cold on Hot Jazz (ADP's statement after the jump) Stoffel Leads SGA Poll, Spec Happy Not about Porn: "Molly Shannon, Doggy Style"; "Swashbuckling Can't Save Pirates" Pitching A Softball Strength, Hardball Weakness "Friendly Fire" Not Bad on the Home Front A Tragedy Averted!&nbsp; ADP released a strongly worded letter to Spec regarding the cancellation of Hot Jazz.&nbsp; It's too long to reprint in full, but here's the main idea: "Hot Jazz is an ADP and Columbia tradition that has been held for 20 years without incident." "The University, now that it has decided to observe building code, needs to take efforts to upgrade the brownstones so they meet the requirements necessary to be considered an assembly space, allowing them to hold events with larger capacities. Unless this happens, the University is essentially encouraging illegal parties (and by extension, underage drinking), as groups with on campus houses would be unable to properly register events with the University." &nbsp;"For starters, this would spell the end of Greek life, but it has farther-reaching implications for other student groups. Greek organizations with houses would no longer be able to safely and legally run events in their homes, negating the value of the house itself." "Limiting gatherings in such a manner would promote an insular Greek community in which everyone only socializes at their own house and limits their involvement in the greater Columbia community, calling to question the benefits of having a Greek system on campus at all." &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "We are not blaming the University for observing the laws that are in place to protect the welfare of its students. Rather, we are holding them accountable for their lack of oversight, the lack of communication between departments and for the slow pace with which they correct problems." 
 Low press briefings, Bwog is aware, are typically not very interesting. This one didn't disappoint--PrezBo took a few softball questions from a few journalists in his low, almost subsonic tones--but we did get to meet Mr. Kluge himself, a charming old man whose death will bring the University more money than we can really comprehend.&nbsp; Sounding like PrezBo on loop, Kluge talked about the importance of making Columbia a global university, and a bit about his experience as a scholarship student, which accounts for his focus on financial aid programs. “I’m not interesting in buildings. I’m interested in minds,” Kluge said, noting that other alums should belly up to the bar: “An institution like Columbia is really dependent on its alumni. And I would like to have this gift a token of what alumni can do and should do. That’s the only way an institution that’s private can exist in the future.” Following the briefing, the entire administrative apparatus of Columbia (Robert Kasdin, Zvi Galil, Nick Dirks, Austin Quigley, and Nick Lemann all sighted), plus enough Kluge scholars and others to create a standing-room-only event, schmoozed in the Rotunda to the beats of a three-piece lounge band. Bwog had to skip out for the actual announcement, which ran a half hour late, but Mayor Bloomberg, Congressman Rangel, and Truman winner Ron Towns were all on the agenda. Check Spec and every other New York media outlet a bit later for the congratulatory pablum. - LBD 
Students for a Democratic Society—that group that shut down Columbia and other&nbsp;Universities across the country in 1968—generated some buzz last week, when about 20 students met in a Kent classroom to hash out plans for their return (sitting in, Bwog found the Young Spartacists particularly entertaining). “The New SDS” even landed the cover of The Nation, which talks about the nationwide phenomenon. Craving commentary (and something quite different from this commentary), Bwog sought out Mark Rudd, the leader of Columbia’s chapter in the 60s, who consented to an interview via e-mail.&nbsp; &nbsp; Have you been back on the Columbia campus much since your time here as a student?&nbsp; I was there in 1988 for the twentieth reunion.&nbsp; I've been off and on to show friends from New Mexico around.&nbsp; I spoke at a 25th reunion of the class of 1969, which I should have graduated with, on a panel on 68.&nbsp; They didn't even invite me to lunch.&nbsp; In the 1968 protests, how much of the student body seemed like it felt the way you did about the war and other issues you were protesting? Was it a small core of radical leaders, or more of a mass movement? It grew to be a huge mass movement, probably the large majority of campus.&nbsp; Over 6000 people were organized into the strike coordinating committee through delegates. That was after the bust.&nbsp; The campus was highly politicized.&nbsp; How did the administration react--do you think those tactics had any lasting success? &nbsp; Our primary goal was building the anti-war movement.&nbsp; That we did.&nbsp; Columbia served as a model for many other campuses, not just in this country but internationally.&nbsp; The administration intransigence built our movement.&nbsp; Never underestimate the stupidity of college administrators.&nbsp; You've said that we need to help foster anti-war sentiment within the ranks of the military itself. How can students do that? How should they treat other students in ROTC programs, for example, or those who have returned from military service? &nbsp; All future and past soldiers should be treated with the utmost respect as human beings.&nbsp; Anti-war people should enter into dialogue with them about the true nature of this war.&nbsp; The goal is to get service people to understand their experience as occupiers of a foreign country and to use that experience to oppose the war.&nbsp; Soldiers are the victims of the government as well as the people they are forced to torture or murder.&nbsp; At a small meeting of students interested in restarting the SDS at Columbia, New School student Adam Cline said that the organization did not yet have a national infrastructure, with a president or anything. Do you think this is a necessary element? Can small groups of students make change without national organization? &nbsp; Probably the new SDS will continue to evolve as a network of local chapters, linked regionally and ultimately nationally.&nbsp; Just as with the old SDS, each chapter is autonomous.&nbsp; That's a strength, not a weakness.&nbsp; The national organization already exists, but in very weak form. There's a strong anarchist and ultra-democratic ethos in the new SDS.&nbsp; They don't want any formal or identifiable leaders.&nbsp; I think that's also positive.&nbsp; The media will have to deal with the movement as a whole, not individuals.&nbsp; What feelings do you think the SDS conjures up in the mind of the average American, 40 years after their primary period of activity? &nbsp; The average American, whatever that is, has never heard of SDS, or if so, just barely.&nbsp; Probably this mythical person has no thoughts whatsoever on SDS.&nbsp; You've been paying attention to the rise in anti-war sentiment over the last six years. How is it different from anti-Vietnam feelings in the 1960s?&nbsp; How is it similar? &nbsp; Anti-war sentiment, in the form of public opinion, is as strong now as it was in 1968.&nbsp; Polls are identical.&nbsp; Unfortunately the anti-war movement is not as well organized or active, for many reasons.&nbsp; The lack of a draft is one.&nbsp; Also, the lack of models for organizing.&nbsp; We were blessed with the civil rights movement and the labor movement contiguous in time with the anti-war movement.&nbsp; We learned from them how to organize, the slow, steady, patient work of engaging with people and changing minds. Now, unfortunately, too many people think of organizing as spectacle.&nbsp; It doesn't work.&nbsp; Columbia April 1968 worked because of years of patient, slow, educational work and "spadework" on campus.&nbsp; We called it base-building.&nbsp; One of the difficulties in addressing the war is gridlock in Washington that's prevented Democrats from drawing down troops quickly. Will public protest really make this happen? Should anti-war groups also try to work within the political process to pressurize those who can actually vote in Congress? &nbsp; Since public opinion is already against the war, some sort of pressure has to be brought on the politicians to respond.&nbsp; So far the Democrats have proven themselves remarkably spineless.&nbsp; However more pressure could cause them to evolve a spinal cord before the next twenty-five million years passes. - Lydia DePillis 
In the spirit of keeping Facebook reportage to a minimum, we're not going to tell you about the changes that went down today on the site. We are, however, going to complain vocally about this little flub. Bitch here. &nbsp; 
 We LiveBwogging this shit*&nbsp; 6:00 PM - it has not yet started. 6:07 PM - this is still the case. I will say when it is not. 6:10 PM - First words: "is this working? yeah."&nbsp; One history professor is taking over for another in introducing the event.&nbsp; He says it was an easy decision. 6:13 PM - He is talking about how to tell the story of the West. Could this perhaps be a lecture about Contemporary Civilization? From what I've heard, that's not the deal with these coursewide lectures. 6:20 PM - Lecture is shaping up pretty well, in every sense except attendance. The right side ("North wing") is mostly empty, and the left and center are about 2/3 full. 6:25 PM - Professor Michael Stanislawski (who introduced Mehta) has perhaps the most serious face of anyone I've ever seen. A few minutes ago, he had his left hand on his chin and periodically touched his nose. Now he had forgone the support of his hands entirely, but his face remains the same. 6:41 PM - Mehta makes a strong point: violence and killing are not proscribed in their own right by these systems of thought which sanction the formation of government: they merely represent disorder and inconvenience when used wantonly. (he spent the last 15 minutes illustrating this in the British empire. Meanwhile Stanislawski has maintained his face and position) Summarized view of West: straight terrorism bad, state terrorism OK. 6:49 PM - First question is not by a student.&nbsp; "What about Condorcet?" Stanislawski watch - after standing up briefly to ask questions, he has resumed his remarkable seriousness and focus, albeit now from a standing position.&nbsp; Props to Mehta for not being freaked out by him.&nbsp; 6:56 PM -&nbsp; Question (paraphrased) - "would a single world government perhaps solve our problems?" Answer: no. 7:00 - It is now 7pm (it's a lucky number, and a Mersenne prime apparently) 7:05 - The dude is "perfectly happy to be a liberal" (despite his speech about its violence). It's a "pretty damn good thing to be" 7:09 - Now it is done (I don't really "get" liveblogging). Dude answered some pretty douchey questions after a tight speech; he called out a girl on a really long prepared question that wasn't too relevant. *shit as in the generic term for anything, not to say that it is a shit lecture&nbsp; 
 Someone who must truly adore the sculpture Tight Rope Walker&nbsp;(on the bridge over Amsterdam)&nbsp;has placed a mattress spraypainted&nbsp;with the words "Just in Case" beneath (thanks to Noam Harary for the photo). Bwog guesses that, after thirty years without a spotter, the spindly statuettes can finally relax. Unless they fall in, um, any other direction... &nbsp; 
 The College Dems had their elections tonight. Given that the top two spots were uncontested, Bwog didn't feel like sitting through them, but here are the winners: President: Josh Lipsky Vice President: Chris Daniels Treasurer: Stephen Cox Secretary: Isabel Broer Members-at-Large: Jon Backer, Anna Brower, Kevin Mckenna, Nate Morgante, and Kate Redburn 
 First, find a partner and align the soles of your feet together in Bokononist ritual: Kurt Vonnegut dies at age 84. "Blessed are the merciful" in a courtroom? "Blessed are the peacemakers" in the Pentagon? Give me a break!"- Cold Turkey "Before you kill somebody, make absolutely sure he isn't well connected." - Slaughterhouse V "I will say too, that lovemaking, if sincere, is one of the best ideas Satan put in the apple she gave to the serpent to give to Eve. The best idea in that apple, though, is making jazz." - Timequake "There is a tragic flaw in our precious Constitution, and I don't know what can be done to fix it. This is it: Only nut cases want to be president." - Cold Turkey "We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be." - Mother Night &nbsp; 
 The Bacchanal Concert on the Steps is coming up next Saturday, April 21st...which means it's time for someone to spoil the surprise so everyone can get down to bitching.&nbsp; Following the likes of Kanye, De La Soul, and Common: this year's performers are Blackalicious and Del Tha Funkee Homosapien.&nbsp; &nbsp; Who? OK, both are established, relatively successful hip-hop acts from California. Blackalicious has 60 Columbia fans on Facebook, and their last album peaked at #79 on the R+B/Hip-Hop charts. Del was all over "Clint Eastwood" by the Gorillaz, and is Ice Cube's cousin. Our question to readers: {{poll "9"}} 
 Sometimes, when you feel like everything in life is passing its judgment on you, it helps to do a little judging yourself. The following is Bwog correspondent CML’s pilgrimage to the Bookstore in search of superficial literary gratification. Putting an iPod through the wash and receiving one of those “What are you doing with your life?” e-mails from my grandmother—as I did, one steely gray day in March—puts one in the mood to have absolute control over something. What I needed was books, and what I was going to do was judge them by their covers. Fired by the spirit of my grandmother and my own discontent, I walked the 100 feet from Carman to Lerner and strolled through the door, down the escalator and into the depths of the Columbia University Barnes and Noble. As I stepped off the landing, I felt myself drawn towards the flashy colors of the New Arrivals section. One volume in particular caught my eye: Women &amp; Money (by Suze Orman, $24.95). The cover’s defining feature is Suze herself: amidst a bold white background, there she was, wearing a hideous pinstripe jacket, Winfreyesque quantities of makeup, and a lagomorphic smile that would put Brer Rabbit’s dentist to shame. I was repulsed. Searching for one redeeming quality this book might have, I turned it over and instead unearthed this gem: “Why is it that women, who are so competent in all other areas of their lives, cannot find the same competence when it comes to money?” Clearly the answer, Suze, is because they don’t buy your ugly, overpriced, blue-and-vomit-yellow book. After tossing the wench’s potboiler on the ground, I made my way towards the hallowed mythology section, where I was confronted by a volume proclaiming itself to be The Aeneid of Virgil (by Allen Mandelbaum, $19.95). Its entire cover just exuded Spartan: the subject matter (kind of), the aesthetic (drab and blocky bichromatic), and the coloration (green and white, reminisicent of Michigan State’s athletic teams). The cover’s center depicted, in black and white, a man lying prone with his arms stretched out, perhaps for an NCAA tournament bid, or a vestige of dignity after losing to George Mason last year. I was sitting on the fence about this one, but the prose on the back was stuffy and pretentious, and I realized we’d read the exact same translation in Lit Hum a few weeks ago. So I reshelved it. Looking for something a little lighter, I walked out of the mythology section and straight into a kiosk that promised “Fun Things to Make and Do.” One title in particular leapt out at me: Spot’s First Easter (by Eric Hill, $7.99). While the back cover’s coloration was boldly purple, its prose was certainly not: “The easter bunny has hidden some eggs for spot to find. Spot’s friend Helen joins in, and the search becomes a counting game.” What a brilliant pedagogical gimmick. Perhaps he should come teach math at Columbia – but, judging from his apparent proficiency in English – I don’t think they’d take him. Writing $8 children’s books probably pays better, though. Stay tuned for part two! 
Figure out who's posting the jaws around campus? This pair was spotted above the scaffolding from EC to Revson Plaza, and it's starting to get unnerving. Friday afternoon edit: We noticed a&nbsp;plastic container&nbsp;in Lerner lobby bearing a poster covered in similarly&nbsp;orthodontic motifs. It also has a sign that asks passersby to donate "literature for prisoners." Teeth molds&nbsp;= non sequitur advertising for charitable effort? 
Belle Jar has been busy for the last, oh, two months. But she's back, this time tackling that most challenging of the bedroom arts: cunnilingus. As always, send comments, questions, and propositions to bwogsex@gmail.com. To any straight man reading this: count yourself lucky, because it won't happen again.&nbsp; It's no small thing for a lesbian to reveal the keys to cunnilingus.&nbsp; This is the pussy card—the major advantage any lesbian has over any straight man, the one we deal to pick up the bicurious and girls in sexual crisis. Once she’s had a chick, she’ll never want a dick.&nbsp; I'm telling you trade secrets here; I am giving you our Ace. First, a caveat: I do not presume to speak for all women.&nbsp; There are enough vaginas in the world for the variations in style and taste to overwhelm even the most thorough of instructors.&nbsp; This is more of a small-scale survey piece, a dialogue—half notes, half creative license—of how-to-steps culled from the sharpest female minds (with the aid of a little wine).&nbsp; Thank you kindly, ladies.&nbsp; The Warm Up Curly*: Here’s instruction number one: you’re probably going to suck.&nbsp; A woman will inevitably be better than you. Mo*: Agreed. Men, inevitably, will be slow on the uptake.&nbsp; They’re dealing with equipment they don’t own. Curly:&nbsp; Ok, so, from the beginning. Mo: A very good place to start. Curly: Let’s begin with positions. The girl, ideally, is up against the headboard—at least for me, that’s what works. Mo: Or on her back. Legs over your shoulders. Curly: Or sitting in a chair.&nbsp; Or on her hands and knees and being licked from behind. Or kneeling over your face.&nbsp; Mo: I love to watch the person, it’s like “oh my god, that person is licking my vagina.”&nbsp; Complete turn-on. Curly:&nbsp; The key throughout all of this is communication, at every turn.&nbsp; You’re in there, and you have to be vocal. The best thing is if the person you’re going down on is being vocal and saying, yes, that’s good, but assuming they’re not, you’ve got to ask.&nbsp; If you don’t, it can get awkward. *not their real names, obviously&nbsp; Mo:&nbsp; I’ve faked to avoid awkward issues of communication. Curly:&nbsp; That’s such a waste. Mo: Anyway, let’s keep going with this. Curly: So there’s the question of what to do with your hands. Mo:&nbsp; You’ve gotta grab the hips and the thighs.&nbsp; The key is the juxtaposition of really soft tongue and rougher caresses with your hands. Curly: Right.&nbsp; This is why it’s so much better if someone is fucking and licking you at the same time.&nbsp; You get the hard and the soft. Mo: Whoa, slow down, we’ll get there.&nbsp; First though, and this is key, guys need to learn how to get girls warmed up.&nbsp; Curly: I like the person to use their fingers to just touch first.&nbsp; The guys are divers.&nbsp; You want to lick thighs, inner thighs, general pelvis area.&nbsp; Breathe on the girl’s vagina.&nbsp; If you’re a woman, put your breast on the person’s clit. Mo: Ah! That’s the best!&nbsp; …I don’t mind how you start, as long as you don’t go straight for the clit. I like someone to go from the rear to the top, in a long lick. You want to build it up, don’t jump the gun. Licking in between the inner and outer labia is really good. Curly: Humming or moaning against the clit, also a good plan.&nbsp; Introducing the Tongue Curly: One thing guys do is try and spear the clit. Or they stick their whole face in it and go like this ~shakes head violently~ The whole thing is thinking of your tongue as a pancake, flatten it out. A: Also, often you get a woman and one side of her clit is more sensitive than the other, so if you’re sleeping with her for the first time, you’ve got to explore. Mo: Don’t focus your tongue on the ball of the clit, on the ball really hurts.&nbsp; And, going along with my spear motif, putting your tongue far into a girl’s vagina doesn’t do much for her.&nbsp; Fingers are way more powerful. The other thing that’s very bad is that guys don’t wait until the girl is wet before they start using their fingers, and that’s hell. Curly: Circular tongue technique is absolutely key.&nbsp; Don’t lap, you’re not actually a dog.&nbsp; A lady is not a water bowl. Mo: Oh!&nbsp; And sucking on the clit is also great!&nbsp; That’s one of those moves that seems to work across the board with women. Curly:&nbsp; Also, to go back a bit, it’s fundamental to embrace the pussy juice.&nbsp; Cause if you don’t, you’re fucked.&nbsp; Granted, if the girl hasn’t showered recently, especially after a trip to the gym, it’s going to be unpleasant and you’re allowed some leeway. Mo: Hip-hop music is really good for giving head.&nbsp; It helps you keep the flow—speed it up, slow it down.&nbsp; Jazzy Bell by Outcast, that’s my giving head track.&nbsp; Fingering Finale Mo:&nbsp; Ok, so let’s say that at this point, things are getting elevated.&nbsp; You can tell from the way she’s breathing and moving her hips. Curly: When it gets elevated the person needs to use fingers.&nbsp; You need to use fingers and tongue at the same time.&nbsp; And people have different size holes, so you’ve gotta ask the person if she wants more or less.&nbsp; Mo: So when you put the finger in, the rhythm comes in.&nbsp; You’ve got your tongue and your hand working together.&nbsp; Curly: If you’re varying the pressure of your tongue, your hand should compliment it.&nbsp; Dance, essentially.&nbsp; Hit the clit with your tongue, and then use your hand, then it builds more. Mo: This is an absolutely crucial stage when timing and paying attention really matter.&nbsp; If you feel yourself just getting really excited, slow down, you’re probably going too fast. Curly: Feel for the ridges with your fingers.&nbsp; The vagina is an upward spiraling tunnel, so once your fingers are in there, make a “come hither” motion. Mo: So at this point, you really need to take your cues from the girl.&nbsp; Some like you to keep your hand in there when they orgasm, and some don’t like having anything in them. Curly: You can go a couple of routes.&nbsp; You can leave your hand in there—just applying pressure, not fucking, but still licking.&nbsp; Or you can stop-start: fucking and licking, but intermittently cooling off, though some people can’t sustain this. Mo:&nbsp; The clit is where the orgasm cannot be helped, so if your fingers aren’t doing anything for her, focus there. Curly:&nbsp; This might be a bit controversial, but you can play a little with the asshole. Mo:&nbsp; For first timers, don’t do anything invasive on the asshole, just touch it.&nbsp; You don’t give rim jobs to inexperienced strangers. Curly:&nbsp; So basically, if what you’re doing is working, don’t switch techniques, that’s really frustrating. Mo:&nbsp; And if you followed all of this, she should have cum. Curly: Women can have an orgasm, then wait 30 seconds, then go for another one.&nbsp; Some people need a good 10 minutes to chill out; this is not a multiple orgasm.&nbsp; Mo: Also, don’t believe what you see in porn, that’s a good lesson for the kids.&nbsp; In summation, let me answer the question I began with: cunnilingus is an art, not a science.&nbsp; I say this not because English majors are better at it than Physics majors; I’m sure both have their failings (humanities kids have weak wrists, science kids over-salivate) but because you can't follow the same steps all the time and expect the same result.&nbsp; This piece isn't written like a Men’s Health guide to picking up sorority girls (e.g. Complete Phase One, Move On To Phase Two) because going down on a girl is a fluid process (pun intended).&nbsp; Each step—first the warming up, then the tongue, then the fingers—must be introduced slowly such that it doesn’t feel like you’re shifting gears.&nbsp; (Normally I don't compare women to cars, but if e.e. cummings can do it…)&nbsp; Cunnilingus does not have a sense of humor about itself.&nbsp; It demands subtlety, passion, and rhythm--it's an art, for fuck's sake. Don't mess around. 
Bwog likes reprinting emails from admin. Especially wholly noxious ones.&nbsp; We are watching you. Date: Thu, 12 Apr 2007 18:03:53 -0500 &nbsp; &nbsp;From: Michael Mallick &lt;mgm3@columbia.edu&gt; &nbsp;Subject: failures to deliver senior essays to sponsors &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;To: seniorenglishessaywriters@columbia.edu It seem quite a number of you -- this year's senior essayists -- did not follow the instructions clearly set out with regard to the distribution of your final essay. &nbsp;One copy of the essay is to go to your sponsor (you either deliver it to your sponsor in person or leave it in your sponsor's mailbox); you also deposit 4 copies of your essay in the English Department (these copies go to the 4 members of the undergraduate committee -- CUE). &nbsp;In the past couple of days, as many as half of the essay sponsors arrived in 602 telling us they never received a copy of their sponsee's essay. &nbsp; Were you under the mistaken impression that one of those 4 copies would be delivered to your sponsor? If so, this result reflects poorly on your ability to read closely and comprehend rather simply directives (no insult intended here, naturally); the senior essay web page clearly asks that you give your sponsor one copy of the essay to your sponsor and four to the CUE. If you did not give your sponsor a copy of your essay, you should do so immediately: if I were one of you who were in this way remiss, I'd email my sponsor posthaste, ask how best to get a copy in his or her hands (personal delivery, email attachment, messenger service, whatever). Your sponsor is supposed to have read and graded your essay by Monday morning, at which time your grade and a recommendation re honors (that you either receive honors or not -- though the CUE makes the final decision). &nbsp;Without sufficient time to read your essay -- especially if your sponsor plans to be out of town this weekend -- it is possible that your failure to follow directions will result in your failure to receive honors, perhaps a failure to receive a writing prize, perhaps even a failure in the course. &nbsp;I urge you to act immediately. &nbsp;I further urge you not to email me -- I am merely relaying a message on behalf of a number of perplexed faculty. &nbsp; I do not have the time to respond to individual protestations, rationalizations, fantastic explanations, and the like. &nbsp;If you feel you must vent some misguided feeling of having been somehow led astray, then please direct your arguments to Prof. Rosenthal. &nbsp;I am too busy at the moment preparing materials for the fall semester to deal with this mess, which is not, in any case, my responsibility. &nbsp;I am acting solely now as a messenger, not a judge, nor am I an arbitrator. &nbsp;If you've taken offense at my straightforward tone, apologies -- I'm as befuddled as your sponsors at your failure to comply with uncomplicated directives; unlike your sponsors, I have no interest in any explanations -- it is to your sponsors and, if you wish, Prof. Rosenthal that you should speak. &nbsp;But I'd save the breath and act fast instead. MM 
 'Round the fire with PrezBo (again) In Slavic Department, Russian does not own you...(I mean, at least now you have more of a choice) Something about this just seems out of place under "News"... All aboard, get on the Art Train Aw, a pre-frosh op-ed! Office hours for athletic trainers -- apparently they once existed &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Observations from an Ethnic Studies teach in Wednesday evening, courtesy of Bwog correspondent Karen Leung. No introductory lectures, no Asian American studies classes, and only four courses in total to support Comparative Ethnic Studies, Asian American Studies, and Latino Studies: These were this term's course offerings from the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race. It’s about the same at Barnard, which has four classes to support Africana Studies. That sorry tally, among other issues, prompted Students Promoting Empowerment and Knowledge's teach-in Wednesday night, headlined by people with roots in the 1996 student protests that brought Latino Studies and Asian American Studies to Columbia. Spec’s write-up misrepresented a few opinions voiced at the event, and an op-ed by student activists in today’s paper sets out their vision of the issue. Here’s my take. Activists thrive on successful precedent, and the teach-in served that purpose in part by drawing connections between now and actions a decade ago. Ethnic studies, said panelist Marcel Agueros (once a protester, now an Astronomy postdoc), will be perennially valuable for how it pierces the double vision of diversity at Columbia: "the numerical diversity of which the university is very proud, and the intellectual diversity" (which doesn’t look as great on a recruitment brochure). In another parallel, panelist Sung E. Bai M.A. '91, Ph.M. '94, talked of how the activists depend on each other for support. Each group took risks and made concessions for the community—even though the Institute for Research in African American Studies (IRAAS) had been established in 1993, African American students endangered their academic careers for Latino and Asian American studies. Coalition efforts continue today through USCC and Making the Connection: Building a United Community of Color (charmingly abbreviated to MCBUCC). Bai and Agueros also put a slightly different spin on their account of the '96 protests. Now the stuff of activist legend, the story usually highlights the hunger strikes as the emergency which forced the University to create CSER. But Agueros said that the protesters only gained serious traction after Columbia received national media attention for arresting 22 of its own students. He smiled, saying, "Columbia's biggest enemy most of the time is Columbia." What is Ethnic Studies, exactly? It’s challenging to define, which is perhaps why the Spec piece didn't really try. Here’s what I learned: According to the even program, "Ethnic Studies unpacks the making of race and historicizes this making." In a 2004 op-ed, Ethnic Studies professor and then-CSER director Gary Y. Okihiro wrote that it is "a multidisciplinary and systematic study of racializations… in essence, focuses upon the locations and articulations of power as expressed in social formations." Nicholas De Genova, professor of Anthropology and Latino Studies, insisted that the discipline is not just "an amalgamation of particularities and particularisms" from the traditional methodologies of other social studies and sciences, but rather critiques those methodologies with an interdisciplinary approach to provide "a genuinely counter-American studies." &nbsp; Sociology and Latino Studies Professor Nicole Marwell described it this way: "Ethnic Studies is a set of different answers to a particular question: can we use the master's tools to dismantle the master's house?" CSER is an unstable home for Columbia's inquiry into those questions, having recently hired a new director, developed curricular changes in undergraduate majors, and reached out to faculty in other departments to participate more actively. Spec quotes CSER director Claudio Lomnitz as writing, "Creating an Ethnic Studies department is not desirable." But, as has been expressed by student leaders before, and as was reargued by the two faculty yesterday, the abysmal state of ES at Columbia is deeply connected to its status as a center rather than a department. The Center is, to a certain extent, a perpetual outsourcer: it is beholden to and must hire through other departments. Of all of CSER's core faculty, Lomnitz is the only member with tenure—one thing among many that makes the Center pretty unattractive to prospective faculty. De Genova also articulated another problem with ES advocacy: the need for an intellectual justification, assuring that ES exists as a distinct branch of knowledge and inquiry. A university which supports ES, he says, can "begin to reflect the simple proposition that the experience of people of color in the US actually matter," and "has something to teach the entire university." The students, however, organized the event, and may be the most passionate. Ryan Fukumori, C'09 described his first encounter with Asian American Studies in a high school literature class. That course, a chance meeting with activist Yuri Kochiyama (who held Malcolm X in her arms as he died in 1965) and learning about the 1960s civil rights movement turned to an interest in Ethnic Studies after he abandoned biochemistry as a freshman. Christien Tompkins, C'08 began his talk by declaring, "In certain ways, I've been an Ethnic Studies major for as long as I can remember."&nbsp; He recalled his parents giving him a picture book about the civil rights movement as a kid, and asking questions in CC about race that his classmates complained distracted from the universal content of the course. Now, Ethnic Studies is a mission. "Everything that's important to me at this university was created through struggle," Tompkins said: African American studies, his residence (the Intercultural Resource Center), the Office of Multicultural Affairs. ES advocates must constantly refute caricatures of their goal: it’s an exercise in political correctness, a celebration of minority cultures, or a concession to a few disaffected students of color. But really, it’s for everyone. During a question session, De Genova put it this way: "If we hope for anything that happens at this university to contribute to the dismantling of white supremacy, then if anything, Ethnic Studies is for the white students." 
 Just a quick announcement: registration times for Fall 2007 are now online. If you choose your classes based on name (hey, that's how some people choose their colleges), here again is our review of the most interesting course titles from the Fall 2007 bulletin. Also, until we get an official evaluation system, there's still some use for Culpa. 
 Free Dinosaur BBQ right now on Low Plaza! Go go go! &nbsp;Update: It is all gone. &nbsp;Justice Update: There is no justice. &nbsp; 
 You may notice, in the next few days, a few more buttondowned, blue-tied future politicos than usual hanging around campus--it's the College Democrats of New York's annual conference, which this guy made a point of bringing to Columbia. They'll be schmoozing, attending strategy sessions with titles like "Framing the Issues on Your Campus and Beating Campus Conservatives at Their Own Game," and campaigning for elections, which go down Sunday morning. Today, CDNY opened its conference by having a little sit-down with Congressman Charlie Rangel, whose staff called two days ago informing organizers that he would be having a little sit-down with them to open the conference. Students scrambled to find a venue, and firmed up Earl Hall last night--fortunately, enough conference attendees were coming in early from NYU and Fordham to make a healthy little audience. The Ways and Means committee chairman, in his barely-audible gravelly voice, touched on the familiar themes of education, health care, the Youth of America, and symbolic efforts to stop the war in Iraq. - LBD &nbsp; 
 It's official! SEAS Dean Galil brings good tidings of the engineering school's class day speaker in the latest Zvi-mail, as follows: Hi All, It is with great enthusiasm that I share with you the following news. This year's Class Day speaker will be the world famous architect/civil-engineer/artist&nbsp; Santiago Calatrava. He has designed the Transportation Hub that is being built in lower Manahattan, the Athens Olympic Stadium and dozens of marvelous bridges and buildings all over the world. Last year the Met had an exhibition of his works of art (paintings/sculptures/pottery/design). If you want to learn more, Google him. Dean Galil&nbsp; Dean Galil has picked quite the man for his final class day speaker at Columbia. Bwog has done the Googling for you, and it looks like Calatrava is big enough to have an official website and unofficial website, so take your pick. Seems like he's bound to be a hit with SEAS students -- perhaps he can do the rest of the university community a favor and fix Lerner while he's at it. 
 Bwog editor emerita Sara Vogel bumped into Jon Scieszka, one of her childhood heroes, on 112th street and Broadway a few weeks ago. When she found out that the author of The Stinky Cheese Man and other Fairly Stupid Tales, Math Curse, and the Time Warp Trio series got his Master’s at Columbia in the late 70's, she took down his number, and followed up. He’s planning a new series about trucks and books about a cowboy and an octopus, and he’s on the board of 826NYC – for all of you non-McSweeneyites, the tutoring center disguised as the Brooklyn Superhero Supply Co. Here Scieszka muses about kindergarteners, coming up with Borat way before Sasha Cohen, and why he’s second best to Roald Dahl. So sorry I accosted you on the street the other day. No, I thought that was kind of funny. Does that happen to you a lot, where you get people recognizing you and stopping you on the street? Not so much. But I was out in Arizona on a book tour and one little guy asked me if I had security. Like he was wondering if I had a body guard or something. I said, “No, most people don’t even know what I look like.” Except there’s this whole little crew of kindergarteners that I was working with last year that will wave to me on the street and go, “Hi Jon Scieszka.” And their parents will go, “Who was that guy? Who are you talking to?” Why were you working with kindergarteners? I’m actually working on this pre-school project where I’ve thought up this whole world called ‘Trucktown’ where all the characters are trucks. I definitely needed to get into the classroom to see what four-year-olds are like. What’d you learn? Mostly that kindergarteners are like little guys with Alzheimer’s on acid. They are nuts, man. It’s like the world is completely reinvented for them every fifteen minutes. Any kind of parody or satire, which is what I really enjoy writing, just is way beyond them. Since the world is so brand new every fifteen minutes, you can’t really make fun of it. They don’t even know what the rules are for the regular world. We were in there for Saint Patrick’s Day and the teacher was telling them, “Oh, well if you don’t wear green, the Leprechaun is going to come around and pinch you” and immediately half the kids looked really worried. They thought “oh no, I don’t have green on, I’m going to get pinched!” Would you ever write for adults? Weirdly that’s where I started because I came out here to New York to go to the Master’s Program. I spent a year at Brooklyn College because I liked a lot of the writers who were out there, and then I finished up my MFA at Columbia. I was all about writing for adults then. Carlos Fuentes was up there, and Chip McGrath…these were spectacular guys to be working with. I think I always saw myself as some brooding, Eastern European Kafka kind of writer. What was Columbia like for you? It was an interesting time to have an audience. That’s the one great thing that an MFA program does. It forces you to write stuff and have it on a deadline and then have to listen to what people say. In fact, I was sort of running into the deadline, I think we needed something like 150 pages of fiction at the end of the year and so I was about 50 pages short. So I thought of this idea, “Why don’t I write a history of the US, as written by a Latvian immigrant?” So I had the guy completely organize it according to chapters, he wrote a forward; I wrote an editor’s foreword to the foreword. It was goofing around with the form of storytelling, which I really liked. It was “Mythical American Histories, Ivan Kupala,” who was like my early version of Borat, who just completely misunderstands American myths of how the country started, like Pilgrims landing on Plymouth rock. He doesn’t believe that that many pilgrims could actually stand on the rock, so he does these mathematical equations on yet another page. That’s like four pages there already! Soon I realized there’s one, two places in the world that would actually pay for that. I discovered my audience in second grade when I started teaching. But I’m thinking about working on a novel for like, eighth graders, so maybe eventually adults. But I get such a kick out of the kids because they’re so committed to a book. It kind of spoils you for any other kind of audience. Adults aren’t like that. Half of them aren’t even paying attention, or they’re reading the book backwards, reading through it or skipping pages. Why do you think your books work with kids, especially the ones that take a twist on favorite stories? I think kids feel good about themselves for getting the joke. I did see that with the kindergarteners when they started getting the knock-knock joke, or, sort of getting the knock-knock joke. They would like explain to their friends why it was so funny. “See, he says, ‘Lettuce in!’” I think that’s what being a reader is all about. You see what the form is, and then you see, “Oh, it got twisted.” A few authors that have that kind of humor. Do you ever get comparisons to Roald Dahl? Definitely from my teaching days he was one of my favorites. His stuff was so funny and so readable. But I know teachers that wouldn’t read it. One teacher in particular disagreed with the way he described the grandma’s mouth as all puckered "like a dog’s bottom,” which was like my favorite line in the whole book . One of my favorite letters I ever got was from a kid who said he had to write to his favorite author but Roald Dahl was dead, so he was going to write to me. I thought, “That’s kind of nice, I at least get to be second best to Roald Dahl." 
 We know, we usually leave events for the events bar, but we just wanted to point out the shit ton of things going on this week. This weekend is CCO, Days on Campus (welcome prefrosh!), the Broadway street fair (right now--get enough grease and cheap underwear for the next year), and the Dems convention. This week is Earth Week, a week of action on Darfur, a week of action on Katrina (watch out for Tyvek suits!), and Bacchanal, plus the MSA is putting on a ton of events. On Tuesday, Lucha and Filasteen will be constructing a giant wall across College Walk to protest barriers on the Mexican and Israeli borders respectively (the best part: we've heard that LionPAC reserved the Sundial for the same time). On Wednesday, Amnesty International is organizing a Darfur refugee camp on the Plaza, while SCEG throws a "Manhattanville Information Session" on the Sundial.&nbsp; Just so you know. &nbsp; UPDATE, Sunday, 8:45 AM: Facebook has informed us that it's also Greek Week and Barnard Spirit Week. Too much, we tell you, too much. 
Well, Barnard and GS students voted yesterday for their new student councils, both comfortably missing the Spec news cycle, although they've now got the SGA results online (all hail President Stoffel!). We're all going to have to wait till Monday to learn who emerged victorious from the Niko vs. Gabby dogfight--which had some fun shenanigans--while the Dean of Students, in a routine procedure, reviews the results. In the meantime, you can re-watch the debates on their spiffy website.&nbsp;
 In the spirit of educating us all into better human beings, American Studies Department Head Andrew Delbanco--who's been writing up a storm recently-- convened a conference yesterday entitled "The future of Undergraduate Education: A conference on college: who goes? Who pays? And what should students learn?" Bwog correpondent Armin Rosen reports. Columbia College dean Austin Quigley introduced the conference’s keynote speakers by remarking that American Studies department head and conference organizer Andrew Delbanco could start an argument in an empty room. While this may be an indispensable skill for a scholar, after sitting through about four hours of speeches and panels (as an assignment for Delbanco’s class, incidentally) I’m not sure I would want to see such tendencies in higher-level college administrators. Of course, anyone in power should consider both pros and cons of a decision. But keynote speakers Mary Cantor and Alexander Marx, the presidents of Syracuse University and Amherst College, respectively, unintentionally demonstrated the tensions within higher education that they had been invited to discuss, morphing into case studies of the moral and practical dilemmas stalking American higher ed. Cantor argued that universities are meant to fulfill the Deweyan creed of democracy as a “mode of associative living.” She explained that racial and social cleavages--as well as our failure to address them with a program of “restorative justice”--make it imperative that higher education “prepare people for participation in Democracy.” Cultivating citizenship is the highest purpose that colleges and universities can have According to Cantor, most universities are bad at doing this, but not Syracuse. Let the orgy of self-congratulation and sanctimonious self-reflection begin!. A “culture of individualism” and the profit motive (she bemoaned the fact that families now look at colleges “in terms of a return on investment”) are eroding the institutional responsibility to connect students to humanity. And after taking a few obligatory cracks at popular targets like journalists and Samuel Huntington, she explained the many admirable steps her institution has taken towards engendering the “empathy of mind” in its students. There’s rich irony in using yourself as an example of how best to negate the self-interested instincts that are poisoning society at its core. Cantor quoted a Syracuse senior who had done grassroots-level development work in South America as saying that her experience helped her realize that she was “connected to the rest of the world on the basis of humanity.” Fantastic. Such epiphanies are no doubt wonderful things to have. But should we analyze her experience--and Syracuse’s institutional motives--in terms of our culture of individuality, or in terms of the exceptional and exemplary culture of empathy that the ‘Cuse has apparently created upstate? In a culture that Cantor rightly explained as being woefully short on moral capital, should we really be assuming moral purity on the part of our universities? One questioner, who identified himself as an employee of Princeton, pointed out that universities have a penchant for redeveloping entire neighborhoods, overpaying faculty and profiting handsomely off of faculty work. This question was mostly targeted at Marx, whose key-note address added little to Cantor’s, and whose only notable contribution to the discussion was a brief look at the hypocritical tendencies of American academia--which was, of course, prefaced by plenty of self-aggrandizing statements about Amherst’s diversity, selectivity and attempts at community outreach. The Princetonian wasn't impressed. Applying his logic to Columbia: a “global university” shouldn’t congratulate itself so long as it is still subjecting its students to an allegedly Kafkaesque disciplinary process. The two aren’t unrelated. And if American higher education is really so interested in applying pressure to itself, those are the kinds of discrepancies it should be resolving first. The potentially crippling effect of institutional sanctimony was not lost on Delbanco, who would close things a few hours later by asking rhetorically whether or not his conference had been “feel-good self therapy.” He also brought up the constant conflict between institutional self interest and the interests of others, raising the possibility that, realistically, higher education can’t help but create certain negative social externalities. For a scholar like Delbanco, this doesn’t exonerate anyone. And if Quigley’s characterization is accurate, then Delbanco, whose event did more towards exposing higher education’s deep insecurities than arriving at any definite solution to them, can count this a success. 
 Neologisms-R-Us In addition to all the other crazy stuff going on this week, it looks like you can add another controversial event to the list, because Thursday is going to be Islamo Fascism Awareness Day. Great. Bwog recalls the good ol' days when we were called "islamofascist" by a pundit or two, and we wonder if some Safire-ean scribe wants to offer an etymology of the term. Speaking of Which Another bit of media chit-chat: the editorial Karina Garcia and others put up on&nbsp;CounterPunch calling&nbsp;out Columbia for its apparently discriminatory rulings regarding the stage incident, titled "A Case of Racism." "By bowing to right-wing pressure, Columbia University brought shame to itself," it declares. "But their politically motivated and ultimately racist punishments should not obscure an obvious truth: we won." Well snap. And Just Sayin... Did anyone else notice that CCO, which went down on Saturday, was sponsored partially by Student Loan Xpress? AWKWARD. 
 You may be holed up in your rooms, cozily finishing up homework and recovering from the weekend, but hundreds of high school seniors have work to do: deciding whether they want to join us. Bwog stopped by the activities fair in Roone Arledge, filled with terrified-looking prefrosh and bright-eyed, bushytailed club leaders noshing on brownies and cookies. Hurry! Net them now, before they settle into their activities, never to be recruited again!&nbsp; Will Columbia's yield on its record-breakingly low admit rate be spoiled because of the rain? Not if Columbia student groups can help it. &nbsp; 
 This morning Bwog groggily pulled open the shades, groaned, and fell back into bed, just like you. Now which one of you incurred God's wrath? Well whatever sin you&nbsp;committed&nbsp;to bring on the storm, we forgive you, and here are eight things you can do to pass this Sunday so you don't go nuts. 8. Take a kayak across Lerner Lake to Barnard Bayou for free barbeque, indie rock, and love at the now-inside WBAR bash! 7. Take the pre-frosh to the tunnels or just tell them bogus legends. Take bets to see how much they believe. 6. Taxes? Do any of you actually have finances to consider? You could also spend this time determining how fucked you are because of corrupt loan lenders. 5. Read the crazy entries on Go Ask Alice. 4. Recite the mantra "April showers bring May flowers." Or just acknowledge it in passing. 3. Use up your extra meals and/or dining dollars having a feast in John Jay. We suggest making&nbsp;one&nbsp;big plate of waffles for the table, adding ice cream and granola, and digging in. 2. Try to determine whether or not you're actually in a relationship with your significant other, as the relationship status section on Facebook has been on the fritz lately. Zuckerberg, don't funk with our hearts. 1. Make your hall lounge into a communal hang-out spot for once. 
 Check newsstands tomorrow, and you'll see something familiar: a shiny New York Magazine cover story digesting the last 40 years of crazy activism at Columbia, featuring glamour shots of David Judd, Chris Kulawik, Karina Garcia and a smattering of other rabblerousers. Take a seat, because it's a doozy, reaching back to the SDS protests of the 60s, racing through Minutemen, and parsing every protest and meeting since then for a larger point about College and the Left (it is New York Mag, after all). Here are the takeaway points, in case you're too mired in papers to read the whole thing: Radical kids today don't have the energy of Mark Rudd &amp; Co. Career-oriented Democrats don't have the energy of the radicals. Kulawik doesn't need energy, because he's got skillz. Columbia has historically been riven by identity politics--mostly around Israel-Palestine--but now the lines are starting to blur. Well, now everyone else knows. - LBD 
 49.6% = Record numbers Frontiers' New Frontier&nbsp; We're fans of Garamond ourselves &nbsp; Ivies decide that they should...hire coaches who win...? Barnard Matriarch loved by all "My reason for wanting to take some courses solely with women isn't that I think men have cooties or should be castrated." 
 Early this morning, a gunman at Virginia Tech went on the deadliest gun rampage in U.S. history.&nbsp;The Washington Post is reporting 33 killings and more than 30 additional injuries as of 6pm.&nbsp;The Post's extensive coverage can be read here. Jamal Albarghouti, a student, caught the gunman on his cell phone's videocamera and the recording is here. &nbsp; Initial eye reports are saying that the shooter was probably familiar with the dormitory and other building in which he shot, as he moved very quickly throughout.&nbsp;President Bush will speak about the incident at 4:15pm. A Columbia Journalism School student was raped and tortured at her apartment in Hamilton Heights on Friday night. Police are still looking for the assailant.&nbsp;President Bollinger has sent out an e-mail to the entire Columbia community in regards to the crime, and it can be read after the jump.&nbsp;The Daily News coverage (more graphic) can be found here.&nbsp; - JDC Dear members of the Columbia community, I am very sorry to report that over the weekend a graduate student in the Graduate School of Journalism was assaulted in her off-campus apartment in Hamilton Heights. She is in a hospital, and her family is with her. The police are searching for the assailant. At this time, both out of respect for the privacy of the student and her family and out of the need to assist the police investigation actively underway, we cannot say more. I have, on behalf of the entire University community, expressed to the family our deepest concern and our wish to assist them in any way we can. I know this horrible crime will be upsetting and troubling to all members of the University but especially to our students and their families. If anyone--students, staff, or faculty--feels the need for assistance of any kind, we have a range of resources available, including counseling and psychological services. Personnel are available by appointment at (212) 854-2878 or walk-in on the 8th Floor of Lerner Hall. They can be reached for emergencies by calling (212) 415-0120. I will continue to express our unconditional support to the student and her family. Lee C. Bollinger&nbsp;
General Selection times have been posted! &nbsp; 
 Bwog just got shut out of the Journalism School auditorium where they're formally handing out the medals, but the Pulitzer Prize committee has just announced its winners, each recieving a cool $10 grand. 
 You think you're suffering? Well quit your emo whining, already Triple threat: borough, borough, borough! Why being an Iranian in America can give you a political headache&nbsp; Promised Land unpromised to Ethiopian Jews?&nbsp; Book review: the journey from the far left to the Religious Right &nbsp; 
Our second weekly photo contest, on the theme of consumption, also attracted manifold worthy entrants, forcing some difficult choices. However, by the highly objective standards of the Bwog editorial staff, Janna Herman, B'10, came out on top again! Her winning photo, below, is entitled "Couples Dine Out." See the rest of our picks after the jump, and submit photos for next week's contest, with the theme of conviction HOW-TO. #2: "Food," by Suselina Acosta, C '07 &nbsp; #3: "Belly Buttons," by Suselina Acosta, C '07 &nbsp; #4: "This is my good friend Kevin Gosford Francolini," by Josh Mathew, C '09 &nbsp; #5: "Untitled," by Katrina Ciraldo, C '08 Honorable Mention: "Untitled," by Steven Thomas, SEAS '09 &nbsp; 

 The Chicano Caucus has just issued a statement regarding the verdicts on the seven stage rushers (will this story never end?), endorsed by four other cultural groups plus SPEaK, declaring that the group "must conclude that bias affected the decisions." It's considerably more diplomatic than Karina &amp; Co.'s hit piece, but makes no bones about what it means to censure two Chicano students and let the white kids off easy. Also in cultural group news: United Students of Color Council elections are tonight (Tuesday). So are CPU elections.&nbsp; And Student Organization of Latinos, and Barnard Organization of Soul Sisters. Guess you're not supposed to hold positions in any of those at the same time... UPDATE, Tuesday, 1:45 PM - Elections have been shifted around to not conflict. BOSS elections will take place tonight at 9:00 PM, SOL on Friday at 6:00, and USCC next Monday at 7:00. CPU elections took place last night. Statement Regarding the Minutemen Protesters&nbsp; &nbsp; It has come to the attention of Chicano Caucus that the long-awaited decision of the disciplinary proceedings against the Minutemen Protesters has recently been issued by the University. In response to the Minutemen event, the Chicano Caucus organized the protest along Broadway, outside of the auditorium. As we organized this greater protest, and we carried the voice of those most adversely affected by the Minutemen's cruelty, we are indisputably implicated by the University’s proceedings. Therefore, it is our obligation as an organization to pay close attention to the outcome of this controversial event. We are deeply concerned with the most recent developments. &nbsp; Of the seven implicated students, three students received censures and the remaining four were given disciplinary warnings. Two of these students are invaluable members of our organization. Both received censures. With the addition of the third censured student, many of us in the Columbia community have noted a pattern: the Latino students were punished, and the rest were warned. As a result of the lack of transparency in the administration’s adjudicating process, this is the conclusion we have been forced to make.&nbsp; &nbsp; Although the University’s primary complaint against the protesters was their presence on the stage, Chicano Caucus member Martín López never set foot on said stage. Additionally, though he perpetrated no aggression against the presenters, he was kicked in the head once by a Minutemen supporter, and a second time by a prominent member of the College Republicans. In spite of the fact that this violence was filmed and nationally broadcasted by Univision, it has gone unaddressed publicly by the University. &nbsp; In light of this violence and the lack of transparency in the disciplinary process, we have no choice but to call for an explanation from the Administration. Until the University has provided us an adequate account of the reasoning behind their actions, the Chicano Caucus and its allies must conclude that bias affected the decisions.&nbsp; The Chicano Caucus&nbsp; &nbsp; Endorsed by:&nbsp; Asian American Alliance Muslim Student Association SPEaK Student Organization of Latinos LUCHA 
 As students react to the Virginia Tech shootings, police hunt J-School student's torturer Not just youth apathy? GSSC election turnout plummets Admin asks: How short would you make your showers for $25 in Flex? Meanwhile, profs fight climate change with "global thermostat," clubs with $100 Whole Foods shopping spree Morality may not exist...but it's best to pretend it does anyway 
 Nikki Goldstein&nbsp;writes in to say&nbsp;$3.95 will get you assorted fruits to dip into the chocolate fountain at Ferris Booth -- break out the Flex! 
 In case you haven't checked your email within the last hour - or tend to disregard student council announcements altogether - Columbia's student councils have joined forces to schedule a candlelight vigil for victims of the Virginia Tech massacre. The ceremony will take place tomorrow (Wednesday) night at 9PM by the Sundial. CCSC President Seth Flaxman has told Bwog that, although the councils will be providing candles, they are unsure they will have enough for all, and students are encouraged to bring their own. UPDATE: Ana Ortiz writes: "Because of univesity policy, all lit candles have to be in glass containers... Bring your own if you have a glass container, otherwise we'll do our best to provide enough for everyone." UPDATE: There are also plans to hold a moment of silence for the Virginia Tech&nbsp;shootings on the Steps tonight at 8PM. Seth also encourages everyone to participate in Take Back the Night this year, which holds special resonance for the Columbia community in the wake of Saturday's brutal events in Hamilton Heights. &nbsp; 
 A few who knew that LionPAC had reserved the Sundial for the same time that Lucha and Filasteen were planning a human wall across Low Plaza anticipated a showdown - but would have been disappointed, as the event went down without incident. About 50 people (very roughly speaking), including many of the New York Magazine pantheon, members of BSO,&nbsp;SPeAK, MSA, ISO, Chicano Caucus, and other components of Columbia's brimming alphabet soup of activism spanned the plaza in an event meant to draw a connection between the Israeli security fence and the Mexican border wall, which organizers view as racist and oppressive. James Brown, Arabic pop music, and short-lived chants of "Free Palestine!" filled the awkward hush between speeches by professor Noha Radwan, students, and a representative of&nbsp;ANSWER, and some of those who stopped by couldn't help but dance to the largely&nbsp;upbeat music. It wasn't supposed to be a red-rover style line. Originally, Filasteen had planned an actual wall, festooned with information and student art. According to an e-mail obtained by Bwog, they ended up $400 short of the the $700 that would cost, and appealed to MEALAC professors for donations to fill the gap. No dice. UPDATE: Sources say that Filasteen actually did get the money together, but they're saving it for another event. Of the speeches&nbsp;we managed to catch,&nbsp;one took the philosophical/anthropological stance, linking the walls on the Mexican border and the West Bank to the tendency of dominant powers to seek to block out the "other," in these cases with physical walls of separation. Filasteen speaker Veli Yasin pointed out that "this is not about undermining Zionism or the Holocaust, this is about... people who are oppressing other people," and added "thanks...Shalom". Johanna Ocana of Lucha led Spanish chants for amnesty while the wall disintegrated, and longtime Puero Rican activist Carlito Rovira proclaimed that "these walls will be tumbled down by the will of the people! Walls have been created by racist police in our communities." Meanwhile, LionPAC manned the sundial, handing out cards that said "Israel =/= Apartheid". President Ari Gardner commented:&nbsp; "We're here not to protest, but to present facts... The motivation is not so much an anti-apartheid event, but an anti-wall event... They don't believe that states should delineate borders." - KER &amp; LBD, Photos by Sara Vogel&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 What? You're not already sick of the amateur parodies of SNL's "Special Christmas Box" that have been pollinating YouTube for months? You want to see law students pretend they have an iota of creativity by&nbsp;donning fake beards and Orthodox Jewish outfits to present you with boxes full of...Bagels with Lox? That's the theme of the featured hit for this year's Law Revue (get it?), "A Special Finals Care Package" (keep them coming...) For those who haven't caught on, the Revue is&nbsp;a sort of V-Show equivalent bred among the huddled masses yearning to breathe free in Jerome Greene's claustrophobic library (Bwog enjoys waving to them enroute to EC, hoping to get some response).&nbsp;This year's title&nbsp;(referencing said library, and indicating writers who just can't seem to pun enough): "Arthur Diamonds are Forever". &nbsp; -CJS 
 Following the Virginia Tech shootings, Public Safety has announced that all Student Aides, who help man dorm security desks, are to be replaced with regular security guards for the rest of the semester. In an email sent today by Student Aide Coordinator Andrew Ness (provided after the jump), students who work at the desks were told to pick up their paychecks and not to report for duty again. Some who wrote to Bwog questioned the move, especially because students were invited to apply again for the same positions when Fall semester came around. "They did not provide a correlation between the shootings and exactly why we should lose our jobs," said one of the students affected. "It's only bad if we're randomly killed now, but not in September?" Bwog posed this question to Mr. Ness, who wrote that he was not at liberty to discuss Public Safety's plans in further detail. He simply confirmed that, following "the events at Virginia Tech the University is reexamining its security policies to ensure the continued safety of the University community and to maintain our position as the safest Ivy League School." UPDATE, Wednesday, 11:12 AM: Assistant VP for Strategic Communications and Planning Rosemary Keane assures us that no students will lose their jobs--all will be reassigned to jobs in Housing and Dining. - CJS Dear Student Aides, I have some unfortunate news to pass along to all of you. In the wake of the Virginia Tech shootings, University Officials have decided that effective immediately, student aides will *NOT* be working in the dormitories for the remainder of the year, including reading week and finals period. I repeat, your work commitment to Public Safety for this semester ends today (4/17). From this point on the dormitories will be filled with Public Safety Security Officers. My apologies for the late notice and I regret any trouble this may cause you. You have a paycheck available this Friday April 20, and hours from yesterday and today will be reflected on the paycheck available Friday May 4. Thank you all for your diligence and hard work this semester. You're work greatly benefits the University. I would encourage all of you to reapply this upcoming fall. Thanks again, and if you have any questions, don't hesitate to email me. Sincerely, Andrew Ness Student Aide Coordinator Public Safety, Columbia University 
 While Public Safety clamps down on Columbia's physical security, some students were alerted today to a breach in the university's virtual defenses. According to an email they received, Housing and Dining accidentally exposed information from students' housing files online for a period on April 2nd. "Exposure was limited," the email goes on to say,&nbsp;"because there were no links to the files on any Columbia website and because the files could only be viewed with a Columbia University UNI and password and a specific type of software." Still, many students' Social Security Numbers were among the bits of information placed online. In the wake of the incident, Housing and Dining has, it claims,&nbsp;attempted to limit further exposure of student SSNs. The files were, of course, removed from the website, and students affected were offered a year of free credit monitoring, or the ability to file fraud reports or run credit checks with various agencies free of charge, if they so choose. The administration is clearly doing&nbsp;much to ensure no further damage to students results from this incident. Though it has been attempting to move away from the use of SSNs, however, their&nbsp;presence on student datasets is still prevalent, and the security precautions needed to secure them clearly have some way to go. The full email from Lisa Hogarty to affected students appears below the jump. -CJS April 17, 2007 Dear : On April 2, Columbia University's Housing and Dining department was informed that three archival database files containing the housing information of some current and former students were inadvertently placed on a Columbia web server. Exposure was limited because there were no links to the files on any Columbia website and because the files could only be viewed with a Columbia University UNI and password and a specific type of software. I am sorry to inform you that your name and Social Security number were included in one of the files. Please be assured that Columbia Public Safety investigators have concluded that this security breach was unintentional. No financial data was included in the files in question, and we have no evidence of wrongdoing or identity theft. Still, I wanted to advise you of this occurrence and the actions we are taking to reduce the chance of a future breach. Information security is a serious issue for us, as we know it is for you. The above-mentioned files were immediately removed from the web server. Moreover, in the wake of this incident, Columbia Housing and Dining has taken steps to eliminate the use of Social Security numbers from its systems, both in room selection for current students and in its archival files. As an additional precaution, Columbia has arranged for you to receive a free one-year subscription to a credit monitoring system. This service will provide you with a copy of your credit report, monitor your credit files at all three major credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian and Trans Union) and notify you of certain suspicious activities that could indicate identity theft. You will be mailed additional information about enrolling in this service in the next week. If you do not wish to enroll in this service, you may still choose to activate a fraud alert with the major credit bureaus, or periodically run a credit report to look for potential irregularities and ensure that no new accounts have been activated in your name. Each agency has an automated fraud alert process. If you activate a fraud alert, the agency you contact will notify the other two agencies so that those agencies also can place fraud alerts on your accounts. In addition, each agency will provide you a copy of your credit report at no cost. The contact information for the credit agencies is as follows: Equifax – (800) 525-6285 – www.equifax.com Experian – (888) 397-3742 – www.experian.com Trans Union – (800) 680-7289 – www.transunion.com If you should have any questions or comments, please contact a member of my staff who will be able to address your concerns, Peter Cole, by calling (212) 851-2496 or by emailing studentservices-assist@columbia.edu. Sincerely, Lisa Hogarty Executive Vice President Student and Administrative Services 
 According to an email circulated among the science types, the CC'07 Valedictorian is Claire Lackner, a published Physics major and Rabi Scholar, and daughter of Lamont-Doherty climate change maven Klaus Lackner.&nbsp;Don't hate her because she's smarter than you, or because she's not on facebook--that's pretty much par for the course. Memo after the&nbsp;jump.&nbsp; "Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:29 PM Subject: Physics major Claire Lackner selected as 2007 Valedictorian! To: undisclosed-recipients Dear Colleagues: It is my great pleasure to announce that Ms Claire Lackner, a senior physics major, has been selected as Valedictorian for the Columbia College Class of 2007. Please join with me in congratulating Claire on her outstanding achievements and wishing her well for her future. Andrew Millis Professor and Chair Department of Physics" 
 Chiquita Banana Told to Split&nbsp; (What happened to the good ol' days?) The only experiment in Frontiers of Science is the class itself "Being Muslim in America involves 'heavy baggage.' No, not bombs!" His Potential '08 Summer Job Beats Yours&nbsp; Staff Editorial on the VT Shooting Response Here 
When a typo is more than just a typo. 
 Four groups competed for student attention on Low Plaza today, a confluence of causes&nbsp;amidst an already eventful "Earth Week" and following yesterday's demonstrations by LionPAC, Filasteen, Lucha &amp; Co.&nbsp;Today's events featured Darfur, Manhattanville, drugs, and cardboard boxes. Amnesty International was out promoting Darfur Awareness Week with a mock refugee camp, apparently the hottest thing in student activism these days. They'll be holding a vigil tonight at 8:00 PM, which organizers have promised will wrap up at least a half hour before the vigil for Virginia Tech students at 9:00. At the same time, SCEG and the Coalition to Preserve Community pushed an issue closer to home, and brought it even closer to Bollinger's home, where they'd tied balloons with slogans like "LEE! Don't destroy West Harlem!" to protest the Manhattanville expansion. Earlier, they'd set up information tables on the Sundial to counter the "Manhattanville Open Houses" hosted in Roone Arledge once in a while. CPC leader Tom DeMott led the little band in familar chants of "Manhattanville, NOT FOR SALE!" Listen to an&nbsp; interview with DeMott and student Bryan Mercer on WBAI this morning in the 7:00 hour. Meanwhile, Students for Sensible Drug Policy focused on the pressing issues of the time--or at least the pressing issues of this Friday, April 20--and CollegeBoxes was at the forefront of the cause of putting your possessions in cardboard boxes and paying them money to store them. Oh, there was also a blood donation truck. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - LBD &amp; DHI&nbsp; 
 Peter Gordon probably isn't travelling to West Virginia any time soon. While being interviewed about his research on the Piraha, a tribe in the Amazon, for The New Yorker, the Teachers College Speech and Pathology prof made an unfortunate reference to one of America's most persistent regional stereotypes. "If there is some kind of Appalachian inbreeding or retardation going on," he said, defending the tribe from such charges,&nbsp;"you'd see it in hairlines, facial features, motor ability. It bleeds all over. They don't show any of that." Now, Gordon&nbsp;is under fire, and Columbia has been targeted as well. "The quote splattered against academic computer screens in Appalachia this week like a large cud of chewing tobacco," wrote the Lexington Herald-Leader (we're not quite&nbsp;sure if they were trying to be ironic or not). A professor at Daemen College had this to say to Gordon: "Shame on you and on the institution you represent for perpetuating such ugly and untrue stereotypes". Ohio University prof Jack Wright compared the gaffe to "cultural strip-mining". For his part, Gordon has apologized, and called the experience "humbling". After receiving complaints, Provost Brinkley said that he disagreed with Gordon's sentiments, but that the prof would not be censored. -CJS&nbsp; 
Spec is reporting that an employee at Appletree supermarket tipped off police to a man he believes to be the suspect in the recent Journalism School student&nbsp;rape.&nbsp;We don't know at this point if it was in fact the suspect himself , but police responded to the tip and searched the area this morning.&nbsp;&nbsp; UPDATE: Barnard students received the following e-mail at 5:45 PM: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "This is a further updated advisory concerning the sexual assault of the Columbia graduate student in her West 141st Street apartment. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; We have just been notified by the Manhattan Special Victims Squad (MSVS) that their analysis of the Apple Tree surveillance tape confirms that the person spotted in the store early this morning who resembled the police sketch of the suspect IS NOT in fact the person being sought in connection with this crime. We will continue to keep you apprised of important developments as they occur. William Plackenmeyer Director of Safety and Security" Add quelling your worries about wandering rapists to the possible benefits of Barnard over Columbia.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 More on false sighting of J-school student's attacker.&nbsp; (Look for a scar on his stomach? Come again?) On being a "So-and-So Professor of Such-and-Such" They may cure their own corn beef, but their chicken noodle soup probably won't cure this A Central Park Jogger debate-esque opinion piece...except it's unclear who said this girl was "asking" to be raped in the first place Sexhibit A: "What does consent look like? What does it sound like? What does it wear on the weekend?"&nbsp; &nbsp;EDIT: Money for birth control does not grow on trees lining college walk 
 The NYPD has released information about the man accused of raping and torturing a Journalism School student in Hamilton Heights last week.&nbsp; The man, William Roberts, has a criminal record and apparently frequents homeless shelters in the area.&nbsp; Read WABC's coverage here. UPDATE: Public Safety has put up a notice here, and is looking for tips. 
 Looks like our favorite ex-U of M president has taken a Midwestern rivalry to a new level--PrezBo is set to join the Washington Post Company’s Board of Directors on May 10, where he will govern the company with 11 others.&nbsp; Word has it that Bollinger was nominated because of the help he could give Post Co.’s Kaplan (although Bwog maintains the naïve hope that it was really for his First Amendment fetish). Either way, he's still being paid $70,000 per year for the job. Bollinger is already on three other boards, working with the Kresge Foundation, the Royal Shakespeare Company, and most recently, the New York Federal Reserve. &nbsp; Bollinger has only been nominated, but his election to the board seems certain, and he has confirmed he’ll take the position.&nbsp; However, his nomination has come under fire for its potential to entangle and stifle him with the dealings of big media. He'll also want to stand up against some of the Post Co.’s shadier stances, such as its opposition to net neutrality, a topic that strikes especially close to home. But if he can pull it off, the directorship will provide him with a perfect opportunity to prove his commitment to free speech, which might exonerate Columbia from the endless fallout of a certain incident last October.&nbsp; It will also be good a chance to use that PrezBo charm on some potential donors - his fellow board members will include Warren Buffet, Barry Diller, and Melinda Gates. &nbsp; - Alec Turnbull 
 1)&nbsp; Finding the Columbia search engine less efficient than manually locating wanted pages? Google through all of the columbia.edu pages here.&nbsp; It works like a dream. 2) Cents and insensitivity:&nbsp; Moneycontrol India asks whether Indian students may be deterred from studying in the U.S. following the massacre at Virginia Tech.&nbsp; Columbia's cited. 3)&nbsp; The beacon of hope and UN Millenium Villages frontman, Jeff Sachs, may be drinking from a quarter-full glass.&nbsp; In this BBC lecture, the future looks bleak. 4)&nbsp; CUAssassins...is over!&nbsp; The Commissioners write, "The game lasted a whopping 55 days, but congratulations are in order for team C-Unit for coming in first place, team OB GYN Kenobi for coming in second place, and Agent MCPants of the team C-Unit for assassinating 17 of the rest of you."&nbsp; 
 If you heard the happy shouts of children outside Philosophy this afternoon, here's why. We're not perverts, we promise--just innocence-deprived.&nbsp; &nbsp;- LBD &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 You may have seen him on college walk, or maybe you somehow haven't.&nbsp;Either way Jeffrey Hunter Northrop III will soon be coming out to display his sexiness in the warm weather. For now, you can track him through his consistently ballin'&nbsp;facebook updates: Jeffrey is in the gym at Trump Tower. 4:33pm Jeffrey is at Trump Tower. 12:29am Jeffrey is beverly hills bungalows in your underclothes. 6:49pm Jeffrey is smoking some hookah. 1:25pm Jeffrey is admiring the view from the 42nd floor. 5:18pm Jeffrey is at Trump Tower. 6:57pm Jeffrey is thinking someone should get him a t mobile sidekick or the blackberry pearl for his birthday. That would be the sweetest gift. 12:45am Jeffrey is laughing all the way to the bank. 1:00pm Jeffrey is starting to think about his birthday because its only like 15 days away. 6:53pm Jeffrey is island hopping off the Amalfi coast. 7:45pm Jeffrey is in the gym doing biceps and triceps and abs, bitch. 11:14am 
Because Bacchanal is giving them out on the steps right now--enjoy the boxes of greasy goodness while watching everyone's favorite stoner movie, Harold and Kumar go to White Castle!
 Hundreds stood, their fists raised, ringed by police, silent. And then, the cries went up. "Together we unite to take back the night!"&nbsp; "Hey hey, ho ho, Sexual Violence has got to go!" The crowd, about 90% women and the most popular men on campus, lurched forward, flooding across Broadway and down 116th street to Riverside. Shouts went up in disunison, adding to the cacophony of rape whistles in a joyous celebration of girl power--especially urgent in light of last Saturday's rape. They wound their way back up 114th street, past frat row, where brothers (and sisters) hung signs out their windows in support of the march. Passersby looked bemused, some slightly stunned, all quietly watching. Bwog left feeling slightly less snarky than usual. - LBD, bottom photo by Karen Kwan from the Quad 
The Daily News reported at 4:00 AM and Spec picked up later that the prime suspect in last Saturday's brutal rape was apprehended in Queens at about 5:45 PM yesterday. Barnard students were notified by e-mail at 9:00 AM. According to the article, "Robert Williams, 30, is a violent ex-con who attempted to kill his neighbor, beat a stranger on the subway and threw feces at prison guards."&nbsp; Read all coverage here. 
 If you haven't read the post below, he's been nabbed Diversity -- it's not just a campus issue Ah, College Confidential: wrecking the nerves of pre-frosh everywhere since you were in high school Interview with a Gilmore Girl, Barnard alum, and (apparently) former Furnald resident? Lucky. What we can learn from Virginia Tech Perez Hilton to save the world from hipster domination? &nbsp; 
Bells will toll 32 times today at noon for the victims of the Virginia Tech students. There's no official rally, but you should probably be quiet.&nbsp;
From Jacob Weaver:&nbsp; The Journal of Politics &amp; Society conference going on RIGHT NOW has some extra Columbia Catering. &nbsp;707 IAB. ALSO: You've got until 2:00 to claim a portion of food from the South East Asian League's Water Festival, going on by Hamilton Lawn. Hurry! 
 If you haven't had the chance to swing by their table for the cookies, stickers and flyers of information out on College Walk today, Free Culture @ Columbia is currently launching CU-LATOR, its new (and cleverly titled) software through its website. Basically, CU-LATOR is a program designed to encrypt web activity on your computer so that it stays out of the sight of Columbia administration. Although the FCC software is being launched in response to the RIAA attacks, Free Culture founder (and B&amp;W editor) Brendan Ballou tells us via e-mail that it's not about file sharing. "I don't download music -- in fact, a suprisingly small percentage of our club actually does," Brendan claims. "We're really just paranoids, who don't like the idea that Columbia can see what websites you go to, and that that information can be so easily shared with outside organizations like the RIAA, or the government. It's our belief that whether or not you've got something to hide, we all have the right to privacy." Another interesting bit of information is that CU-LATOR is actually built off software used by Chinese dissidents and is the first of its kind to be used on a college campus, giving possible leeway to a national model of the program. Unfortunately, the software is not available for non-Apple users although one of the club's summer projects include designing a version for PC. In the meantime, Apple kids should check it out -- you just might thank yourself for it later. - MIP&nbsp; 
 According to the latest breaking news from the Spec, President Bollinger announced today that Thomas Alva Edison Professor of Applied Physics Gerald Navratil will serve as interim dean of SEAS for the 2007-2008 school year. Navratil has served on Columbia's faculty since 1977 and specializes in plasma physics. He is currently being funded by the U.S. Department of Energy for fusion energy research and is also a recipient of the 2006 Fusion Power Associate Leadership Award. Just in case you were wondering. On a slight side note, Bwog discovered some photos of new Interim Dean Navratil in the depths of Columbia's website -- judging from that demeanor inhis smile, we think he'll do just fine. (As long as he can write a good e-mail, of course.) 
 Two months after hundreds of kids set out for their one crack at stealth warfare, one team has emerged alive: C-Unit, composed of MCPants (Max Czapanskiy, SEAS ’09, also with the most kills), Der Meister aus Deutchland (Luis Quinteros, SEAS ‘09), Doublestuf (Oriana Isaacson, C ’09), and PollockandLoad (Alex Rudnicki, SEAS ’10, who, for the record was supposed to be PolackandLoad). The two fencers, Czapanskiy and Rudnicki, had a legacy to live up to. Flush with victory, they and Quinteros sat down to relive the war. Bwog: What have the last 55 days been like, and how do you feel with it having ended? AR: Stress. It was just stressful. MC: He just moved into our suite after a certain period of time. LQ: He’s just been living there and sleeping in Max’s bed. Showering there, everything. AR: I did lead a normal life. I went out every weekend, pretty much, but it was just heightened paranoia. MC: The worst thing was someone was out running, and you could hear them behind you. You would just freak out and slam your back up against a wall. So you got killed earlier, right? LQ: I was the second one dead. MC: Luis really came through for us. That one weekend. Everyone on disavowed, right? LQ: My whole team was gone, for two days, it was just me. MC: Because we had a fencing tournament then. Ivies, right? LQ: The night they got back, I happened to run into Rob Trump on my way home, through the falling snow. I immediately recognized him, I knew he was on the disavowed list, so I just walked up behind him coolly and shot him. You are a snow killer, aren’t you? MC: Yeah, he got you ten minutes later…that morning, he got two more kills, four kills in 14 hours, and that kept us off the disavowed list. Was there a gradual ramp up in tension as the numbers dropped? AR: Yeah, I think so. When it got down to the top third, it felt like the game was ending. Everybody was after you. When the game got down to the top ten, even though there were less people, it felt like someone was going to be around the next corner. MC: Well the good thing was, for almost the entire game up till spring break, we knew the team that was after us, and we were off disavowed. So there were only three people in the entire game who could kill us, so we felt fine. When it came down o the final five, Rudnicki was the only one to get a kill. The other three were killed by cops. So there was no really triumphal kill? AR: No, unfortunately. However, that night was going to stake out his room the next day, I was just going to end it, the entire day, I was gonna wait with a bucket of water. What are some of the craziest things you’ve done for this game? AR: I died my hair a lot darker. It’s usually blond. How much did you mine other people for information to strategize? ALL: A lot. AR: We made a list with pictures, names, dorm rooms. We tried what classes they had, we tried to find who their friends were. We pretty much went all out. How much time has this taken up? MC: My grades have gone down. AR: I had cops in my math and physics classes, so I didn’t really go to them. What are the keys to your success? Why did you succeed, when so many others had failed? AR: No mistakes. MC: I made a mistake when I died. That was embarrassing. How did you guys die? MC: His was total BS. He shot a girl, she claimed to be someone else, and then later on shot him. LQ: I have to admit, it was partially my own fault. I was walking to class, I was kind of tired, so I wasn’t paying much attention, so I heard her running behind me, and I just turned around casually, I wasn’t too paranoid, and she got me. MC: He was physically ill for two days. He could not get out of bed, like we had to bring him food. He was a fucking mess, I think he had a fever. LQ: That’s post-traumatic stress, that’s what that is. MC: I died ‘cause I got greedy. I had a really bad sinus infection, so I wasn’t paying attention. When we were down to about 12 or so, early in the morning, I found out where one of our targets’ CC class is, so we got him coming out of his CC class. Later on in the day, one of my teammates on the fencing team, he was actually on the phone with Morgan trying to figure out where I was trying to kill me. And I followed him out of class and shot him. And I was going for my third kill of the same day, and the guy saw me, so I was like, I should back off, but I didn’t, and I went after him anyway, and he managed to get behind me and shot me. I got greedy, and he just played smart. But he’s not invited to the party. AR: Because I shot him on the same day that he killed him, and he tried to wheedle his way out of it, he was like come on, you don’t have to do this. Oh man, don’t degrade yourself like that. AR: I didn’t, I told him, this is a business. …more talking about kills… AR: When it got down to me vs. the other guy, everyone started looking like the other guy. MC: We were walking around yelling “Dennis!” to see if anyone would turn around. AR: That was when I got stressed out. MC: The best kill, was that last day before spring break, when we were walking around, and we thought we recognized someone from the disavowed list. We let him get about 20 feet ahead of us, this is right outside Journalism, we yelled out “Steve Quan!” So we chased him to Pupin and shot him in the stairwell. We were coming out of Pupin, and earlier in the day he’d killed Andrew Jackson who was our target, and Andrew Jackson was coming back with George Bush, our other target… Wait, you had two presidential targets? MC: yeah, it was Andrew Jackson, George Bush, but the other two were already dead, there were Sam Adams and another president. Oh oh, not their real names. MC: Yeah. So we were coming out of Pupin, and we split up, and they didn’t know who I was yet, they only knew who Rudnicki was. So Rudnicki goes on one side of them, and Andrew Jackson was like, that’s the guy who killed me, while they’re both looking at Rudnicki, I walked this far away from them and shot them in the back. So there were set-ups, but not elaborate ploys and ruses. MC: Not really. We had set-ups, but they never came to fruition. They had always already died. Basically that’s how we got so many kills, we were just outside all the time, and we had the printout of the disavowed list, so if we saw anyone from the disavowed list, we knew. &nbsp; AR: And we always walked around together. Where did the name C-Unit come from? MC: It’s from a fencing team cheer. We have a team cheer called Breakdown. At the very end of it, we go, “C-C-C-C-Unit.”&nbsp; And we couldn’t think of anything else. That’s cute. Anything else? AR: I’m not playing next year. It’s just way too stressful. - Lydia DePillis &nbsp; 
While Bwog enjoyed the sunny weather on such a splendid day, several things also caught our attention: Bacchanal festivities coincided with today's, er, other special celebrations, including Battle of the Bands, a much-too-limited barbecue, a moonwalk, and a sorority-sponsored "munchies" sale. Columbia's beloved mascot was also spotted roaming about (pictured to the right), giving hugs and shaking hands with the chilled-out student crowd around College Walk.&nbsp; In the meantime, pre-frosh were abundant for SEAS Days on Campus. Talk about hyperbolic advertising. Bwog reader Alex Port brings us news that the Joseph Urban stage models on the third floor of Butler (which have been there for ages) have been removed. What will the Butler treasure chest reveal to us next? Perhaps Robert Moses models instead? As if the to-be-built Northwest Science Building weren't enough, the J-School plans on doing some construction of its own. The Stabile Student Center is scheduled to open in Fall 2007, complete with café space, outdoor seating, and a glass enclosure. Glass is all the rage in these parts, it seems... Since we're on the theme of architecture: SEAS Class Day speaker Santiago Calatrava has designed a 2,000-foot tall Chicago tower that could trump every other building in America. Daaamn. Spectator's most recent multimedia project happens to be on the arrest of&nbsp; Robert Williams, although it seems a bit New York Post-ish for the Spec's image. Really, "Perp Walk," guys? &nbsp;- MIP 
Today was the HSO's big Holi bash, and for those who missed the fun, here are some photos from the spring holiday, which featured more than 700 lbs. of paint, lots of water, and general mayhem. &nbsp; &nbsp;Thanks to Ramya Pratiwadi and Sumaiya Ahmed&nbsp;for the photos! 
 Dear Readers,&nbsp; Bwog staffers are currently racing to finish the abnormally large and rather exciting April/May issue of the print issue, so we'll be taking a short hiatus this weekend. Please keep sending in tips, and we'll be back on Monday! Love, Bwog&nbsp; Edit- 10:15pm - We have been alerted there is some sort of "blood wrestling" event in front of EC right now. Enjoy? 
Calling all wannabe Bhangra members: it's Hangama, the Organization of Pakistani Students' annual Mock Wedding, in which a "groom" from NYU takes away his Columbian "bride"--which means more colorful outfits and South Asian dancing than you'll see this side of the subcontinent (we exaggerate, but really). Even if it weren't the perfect day, OPS knew how to get the crowds out: transplanting the legendary 53rd and 6th Chicken and Rice stand to Columbia. Bwog had to take a break.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
In its addled state, Bwog forgot that today was Earth Day, until Google reminded us (if you missed it, the logo is a half-submerged iceberg). Fortunately, lots of other people were out celebrating, taking advantage of opportunities that we wish we had brought to your attention. Feeling bad, we'd like to at least symbolically recognize the occasion, by pointing you towards a few things that Columbia--even though it's a little behind--is actually doing to save Mom: Coming up with carbon capture and sequestration technology, which is creating quite a buzz in business and government Trying to change y'alls behavior, student by student, so we don't waste so much around here Installing fancy new technology to save energy even if you do insist on running your dishwasher all day Helping our cars run on veggie oil Working with the City to make sure people build smart SEEJ, after bringing you recycled paper, wants to get Columbia using wind power, with NYU leading the way Cleaning up what you eat and how you eat it Making skyscrapers into farms Go Columbia! Roar Lions Roar! Yay Earth Day! We love trees! - LBD 
 "...we will use the sea of flags dyed by blood, to beat the cult's high spirit, to defend the reputation and dignity of the motherland!" &nbsp;No Bail. Losing Zvi a "traumatic experience," counseling services to be provided. There's an official Blue and White Game? We're flattered! News Flash: Columbia Students Lack School Spirit 
 According to multiple sources, next year's freshmen will get a break--the Panhellenic council has voted to phase out first-year fall rush, since the new girls don't have time to get used to school and see what greek life is about before signing into sisterhood. In 2007, only sophomores will be allowed to rush in the fall, and the year after all recruitment will occur in spring, giving potential pledges a full semester to talk themselves out of joining.&nbsp; Meanwhile, on the other end of our college careers, today marks the beginning of "E-commerce} for senior week , complete with a website that seems to actually include a grey silhouette of a naked woman and a bolder silhouette in the foreground of a guy smoking.&nbsp; Almost as bizarrely, the 14-person senior week committee includes six Barnard girls, five SEAS kids, and three CC students. Anyhow, hooray for 2007. Six Flags awaits you! 
Former Spectator managing editor and Blacksburg native Nick Klagge is the deans' choice to say something profound at graduation this year. Bwog stopped by for a sneak peek at the speech, and some MarioKart. What’s the process like for becoming a salutatorian? I haven’t been told a lot about it. After they told me I was one, I looked it up on the computer to see, and I guess they take some top percentage of the class by GPA, and there’s like two committees that make the decision. &nbsp; Have you thought about what you want to talk about? Yeah, I’ve been thinking about it. I have to give them a draft pretty soon. I’m not sure what my topic will be, but the hardest part of figuring it out is realizing how few of the entire senior class I actually know, and thinking that I have to come up with something that’s going to be meaningful for even people that I don’t know, who’ve probably had an entirely different experience from me. Are there any themes that strike you as particularly important? We’re going from this very precise and out-of-the-ordinary environment at Columbia, which is almost unique in the world, and to go wherever other people are going, I guess what are the adjustments we need to make to our mentalities, I’ve been trying to figure that out. What have been some of the most fulfilling things that you’ve done at Columbia? The main thing would be working for the newspaper. I put a lot of time into that. When you enter there, it seems like there’s a very well-defined path where you should go if you want to advance, I didn’t end up taking exactly what I expected at the beginning. You start out as a reporter, become a low-level news editor, become the news editor, editor in chief. I didn’t go like that, I ended up switching from the news to the opinion section, doing stuff that I didn’t envision at the beginning, but everything there was interesting and kept me on my toes. I guess that’s the resume one, but probably the biggest thing I’m taking away from Columbia is the people that I’ve met here, particularly my closest group of friends. You can get a great academic experience lots of places, and I’ve loved my academic experience at Columbia, but the thing I couldn’t have gotten anywhere else is the support group I have here, we call ourselves ‘the family,’ and I think that’s not far from the truth. You’re an econ math major, right? How did that gel with your thing at Spectator? I always made a point of making sure that classes and my student experience came first, and I had said, if I got into a position at Spectator where I was having to forgo classes and forsake my work, I had to change something, because obviously I’m paying tons of money to be here, and classes are the most important part. I was lucky in that I came in as managing editor in the fall semester, when everyone else on the board had already been working for a semester and things were running pretty smoothly, so I was able to do a reasonable amount of work. The paper could have run perfectly well without me, so anything I could do was just icing on the cake. What are you doing next year? I’m working at the Federal Reserve Board in DC. I’m going to be a research assistant in the financial markets division, so basically the Fed has tons of different research divisions on every aspect of the economy that you can imagine, so I’ll be one of several RAs in the group, and I’ll just help the economists with whatever they’re working on. It seems like a lot of successful people from Columbia end up going into finance and consulting. Why do you think that is? I think a lot of it has to do with the supply of interest from an employer’s point of view. I did finance internships for two summers, and I thought they were interesting jobs and I liked the work, but I have to say a lot of the reason is that they recruit so heavily on campus, and with these banks and consulting firms knocking down CCE’s door all the time…I don’t have a perfect solution for that and I do wish things were a bit different. I’m actually working with another graduating senior who’s working in a similar position to me but at the New York Fed board to do a workshop for econ students next year who might like to talk about research assistant positions and to get peoples’ contact information. When I started to look for these jobs, there’s not a formal framework for that at Columbia right now. A few of my friends have had you as an econ TA. What was it like being an undergrad teaching undergrads? It was amazing. I probably should have put that in my list of fulfilling experiences. It’s certainly daunting. When I started, a lot of the students were older than me, and I knew some of the students, and it’s probably the best academic experience I’ve had at Columbia because to stand there in front of 30 people and teach them a concept really tests how well you know something. You can get A’s in classes just by making sure you know everything the night before the test, but being a TA’s a totally different experience, where you not only have to know everything inside and out, every student learns differently, and to be able to put yourself in their shoes and see what explanation’s going to make sense…I had a lot of fun with it. For both of my classes, I brought in a song that I played at the beginning of each class. I was actually inspired to do this by my dad, who’s a philosophy professor, so he did this in his introductory philosophy class. I got yelled at by other teachers in IAB for playing my music too loud. I think the kids liked it, and I got a kick out of it. What’s your thesis on? It was the design of a matching algorithm to match firefighters to their positions in fire departments. Dan was my advisor for that mainly because he has been economic advisor to the city of Newark before, so he was able to get me in touch with some of the guys at the fire department there. They’re actually kind of looking for something to do because their system kind of got screwed up. I don’t hold out great hopes for them actually implementing what I wrote about, but it’s possible I guess. That sounds like a lot of work. What do you do for fun? I’m dog sitting now, as we speak. I do play a fair amount of MarioKart with my friends, probably an unfair amount actually. I like to cook. I do that to relax sometimes—especially last semester, when I was doing Spec, it was pretty much the only time I was relaxing. OK, the question that's really on everyone's mind: what’s your GPA? It’s more than 4.0, which I think is a pre-req to be considered for this. Well, I’m pretty much out of questions. What should I ask him, guys? Seth: What lessons from MarioKart will you bring to life after college? Practice makes perfect. Three hours of practice a day. Jimmy: What’s the closest you’ve come to being arrested? Um, no comment. Jimmy: What’s your favorite bar in the neighborhood? Probably Sip, actually. Deborah: What was your favorite class here? I would probably say it was actually a philosophy class, called Rational Choice, with John Collins. And why I really like that was that we played a game in class and I won. On Monday he would distribute rules to some game and we would have 48 hours to go over them and on Wednesday we would play the game. And whoever had the highest score of all the games at the end of the semester would get awarded the golden shark award and get an interview at Google because a friend of his was a VP at Google. I ended up barely edging out the Golden Shark award, and then not getting a job at Google. Jimmy: What do you like to cook most, when you cook? Probably bread pudding. - Lydia DePillis 
Well, we didn't get quite as many answers for the tougher theme of "how-to," but the ones we got are worth posting anyway. Consistent contributor Suselina Acosta, C '07, pulled it out with the photo below, entitled "how to pour a 4-in-1 bottle of wine (two hands)." Our theme for this week: COLUMBIA SPRING FASHION EXTRAVAGANZA. Go crazy. And see runners up after the jump.&nbsp; #2: Ryan Harte, C '08, "Winged victory of Samothrace" and "Venus star" (must be viewed in combination to fit the theme) &nbsp; #3: Suselina Acosta, C '07, "Origami" #4: Anonymous, C '09, "Dance Lessons" 
You missed... - Awards! The Kings Crown awards went out, landing in the inboxes (and on the resumes) of meritorious students. But perhaps more importantly, the undergraduate Academic Awards Committee made their picks: the Lionel Trilling Award, for the best book published by a member of the Columbia faculty in the calendar year; and the Mark Van Doren Teaching Award, for excellence in teaching. This year, the Trilling went to Sheldon Pollock's The Language of the Gods in the World of Men, a history of Sanskrit, and Samuel Moyn landed the Van Doren. Props to both. - The V-Show trailer! Low-tech, high anticipation. Don't forget to buy tickets--they're going fast. - Nostalgia! Bob Feldman et al reminisce about the good old days at Columbia, when "protest" meant "take over buildings and get dragged out by the police."&nbsp; - Random overheards! Girl on cell phone in Lerner: "Well, tell him he should take the stick out of his ass and stick it up his nose!" Also, coming up... - Tomorrow, according to several breathless listserv announcements, President Bush will be in Harlem at the Village Academy, 242 W. 144th st. (between 7th and 8th). A bunch of activisty types are heading up there; Bwog hopes they won't be disappointed. - Wednesday is Administrative Professional Appreciation Day. Low-level bureaucrats will be awaiting their chocolates and bouquets. 
 First, CUIDs actually becoming prepped for off-campus use, now somewhat sensical advising reform? The student council legends were true! Which of course means the councils get to pat&nbsp;themselves on the back Changes are coming to Harlem too: a W hotel might be opening Meanwhile, Saigon Grill employees still treated like shit SENIOR COLUMN: After four years, Spec's better, but College Walk still eats Prada pumps 
 Those of you who were around last year may remember Kate Berthold C'06. The three-time V-Show star, Tea Party improv cast member, writer and performer of the one-woman "Samantha Show" as her senior thesis, B&amp;W Campus Character and part of the legendary Prangstgrüp lecture musical has moved on to her next role in life: starring in Logo's big new gay-themed sketch comedy show, titled, uh, "Big Gay Sketch Show". A Bwog staffer caught up with Kate to ask about her thoughts on the premiere. "I really hope that a lot of people watch it.&nbsp;&nbsp;If it goes well enough, maybe I can quit my telemarketing job one day," she said, adding that "the funny thing is that when this show premiers, I'll be out to every human being in America except my Grandfather.&nbsp;AWKward…" If there's one thing she can count on her fellow Columbians supporting, it's awkwardness. Tune in to the aforementioned cable channel tonight at 10 to catch the first show, and check out this article on Kate from Columbia College Today and this one from the NYT on the show for more. -CJS 
 Thirty-nine years ago this month, Columbia erupted into the now-legendary '68 student riots. Last night, Fortune magazine's international editor, Robert Friedman, spoke to Spec staffers about being the paper's Editor-in-Chief during the crisis. Frequent Bwog contributor Armin Rosen was there to soak up his memories. I guess it’s a sign of progress that we can stroll through campus without images of college students getting the shit beaten out of them by riot police ever once crossing our minds. But it wasn’t always this way, and, come to find out, quite a few college students did got the shit beaten out of them by riot police in the middle of our very campus. And then-Spec Editor-in-Chief Robert Friedman, C'69 was there. And by there I mean here—in April of 1968. It was a pretty heady time, he explained to a small crowd gathered in the Spectator office. Buildings were occupied. Members of the administration were ousted from Low Library and imprisoned in the basement of Hamilton Hall. Buses of trigger-happy, club-wielding riot police were parked on Amsterdam Avenue. And it was also a simpler time, in some respects. Why, back in his day, you could pie the head of the Selective Service administration and not have to get badgered on national TV by the likes of Bill O’Reilly. The now-forgotten pie-throwing incident, which occurred at Columbia a few weeks before the student strike, was a turning point, in Friedman’s opinion. It was&nbsp;an act "of ultimate incivility that cut through a lot of bullshit" which couldn’t help but galvanize the campus’s sizable and very vocal radical wing. And galvanize it did: Friedman explained that '68 was an almost perfect confluence of circumstances, as an unpopular war, a problematic expansion for the University, various social and political discontents and the rise of an “action-oriented, confrontational” radical leader named Mark Rudd combined for one of the most bizarre and shocking events in the history of higher education. Friedman looked back on it all with a haughty sense of nostalgia. He smiled wryly as he recalled his managing editor getting bloodied and arrested during the infamous police crackdown, and mentioned that he would have been at the Chicago riots if he hadn't been writing a book about the Columbia standoff. And "apocalyptic" though the bust may have been, it resulted from a certain can-do spirit that Friedman didn't seem to detect in present-day Columbians: When conversation turned to the recent New York magazine piece, he mentioned the "curious" lack of college activism on the Iraq war, and rejected out of hand the prospect of there being any major dissimilarities between 1968 and today. For him, the ultimate lesson of '68 was that "a group of 19 and 20 year olds could do something meaningful in the world." This was, of course, coded smugness: in a similar situation, he seemed to say, my generation threw pies, occupied buildings, got clubbed by police and got shit done. Yours rushed one stage and got written up in New York. Congratulations. Mark your calendars, lecture junkies: Friedman says he is attempting to organize an event to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the student strike, and that PrezBo seems open to the idea. Friedman says that he wants to reunite the strike's major players and have what he described as a "dialogue" on what went down—and I, for one, am drooling at the prospect of seeing Mark Rudd and co. sit on the Miller Theatre stage opposite of the "majority coalition"-types and establishment figures they tried to bring down.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 This year has so far seen the launch of several Columbia student blogs, and the death of almost as many: Spectator's opinion blog The Steps and its sports blog Pressbox are both defunct, and the Dems' Lion and the Donkey hasn't published since April 5. Fortunately, the Columns is still going strong, and WikiCU adds new stuff every day. Optimism check: Columbia's web presence may expand and contract, but Bwog feels confident that the teleology is positive. Let us know if we're missing any! 
 In case you hadn't heard, PrezBush made a surprise visit to a charter school in Harlem today, and Bwog biked up to 144th and Adam Clayton to see what kind of welcome residents and activists had in store for him. Despite the massive security, which included snipers on every building, streets completely blocked off within a three-block radius, cadres of NYPD on every corner, dozens of motorcycles, secret service hiding in dump trucks, and metal fences lining every street, a sizable number of dissidents managed to show up and locals congregated to express their opinions and see why their neighborhood was shut down for the day. The most striking part about the event was the effectiveness of the metal fences, copious police presence, and constantly changing rules for where one could walk. Any chance of picketing for more than a couple of minutes&nbsp;was&nbsp;precluded by the sheer overwhelming power of the NYPD and their vehicles. Nevertheless, residents shouted "GO HOME! WE DON'T WANT YOU HERE!" to Bush's motorcade, while a&nbsp;band of about 30 picketers, largely Columbia students, led chants of "Bush out of Harlem, US out of Iraq!" and other anti-war slogans, as they were followed by a few dozen police on the sidewalk and a rolling van of&nbsp;at least eleven&nbsp;officers. Said one Columbia protester, "This is a traveling 'free speech zone,'" mocking the fact that they couldn't remain stationary. Others were more confrontational, yelling at the NYPD, "These are our rights being violated!" The NYPD circled the group but they stayed silent. - KER 
Bwog would just like to submit that it finds this very unnerving. - Photo by Sumaiya Ahmed 
 UTS President to Retire, Gets Normal Sized Headline Showdown Over Kung Fu Club's Funding Fails to Result in Kung Fu Showdown Manhattanville, Shmanhatanville, No Ugly Buildings Here Five Titles, But We Got To Start in the "Elite Eight" An Actual Book About Coffee Table Books! (Idea Stolen From Kramer)&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 For all you prefrosh across America (don't worry, you won't actually be called a "frosh" when you get there), the time is coming to decide for college - in fact, you have less than a week left. To help you decide in a very unhelpful way (you'll never&nbsp; know for sure anyway), Bwog has compiled two lists: You SHOULD come to Columbia if: 1. Lions are your favorite animal 2. You like big cities and small spaces 3.You can deal with both bureaucratic horseshit and your roommate growing mushrooms in horseshit. 4.(If Jewish) You got a cool yarmulke you want to show off. 5. You’re not enough of a tool to feel at home at Harvard, Yale, or Princeton. 6. You want to spend your money on a fake ID so you can spend more money on your alcohol. 7. You want to get your intellectual name-dropping down, so you can win arguments by saying things like “grip tha canon like Fanon" 8. You don’t mind pretentious kids who use words like "problematize," "farcical,"&nbsp;and "diametrically" in every class comment. You SHOULDN'T come here if: 1. You were traumatized by a Lion at a circus when you were eight, and never got over it. 2. You like small cities and big spaces 3. You never learned to deal with bureaucracy because you went to private school, and never dealt with farming because you grew up in a city or suburb. 4. (If Jewish) You’re not ready to be recruited by like, five fucking Hillels or something. &nbsp;&nbsp; 5. You’re not enough of an asshole to feel at home here. 6. You want to spend money on furniture (because you think you’ll have a place to put it) 7. You want to get your sports name-dropping down, so you can win arguments by saying things like “yeah, well we still kicked your ass in the Rose Bowl” 8. Your reaction to pretentious bullshit is so diametrically opposed to any non-farcical positive response that you can’t even begin to problematize it. "You do not understand my words, but you must choose." - DHI 
 1.&nbsp; Free Culture Columbia, the rabble rousing group that brought you online privacy, is now saving you freshmen a lot of money: a little piece of plastic loaded with $300 worth of CC texts in the public domain (that's pretty much everyone but Foucault, who's still under the thumb of publishing companies). On Thursday at 3:00 PM in the Wallach 10 lounge, FCC (haha!) will give away flash drives to the first 100 lucky first-years who show up. If you've taken CC, stop by anyway for free cookies and a speech on technology and the lawin education by Head Librarian James Neal. 2. The helpful and tech-savvy folks over at ESC have come up with a way for you to get your entire entourage (that is, more than four people) into graduation, as long as there are enough kids who feel nice enough to give theirs away. May Pareto optimality result.&nbsp; 3. Spectator's photo/lit magazine, 116, is looking for poetry, creative writing, and photography! E-mail submissions to 116magazine@gmail.com, or drop off prints or negatives for scanning at the Spec office (2875 Broadway, 3rd floor). 
Someone calling herself Reni Laine (the suspicious name was not found on Facebook nor the Columbia Directory, her name's there Bwog just can't spell) sent Bwog a music video, about, of all things, Frontiers of Science. "Sexy ladies, get out your calculators...we're gonna do a little thing called a...back of the envelope calculation."&nbsp; Though it was most obviously filmed against the cinder blocks of a Carman double, Bwog commends the sophisticated lighting techniques -- flashlights and Christmas decorations.The sexy fadeout of Frontiers lecturer Darcy Kelley's sensuous voice may just keep you awake in class on Monday. UPDATE: Reni has a myspace, apparently she tours and just released a CD. Also, Bwog consulted a first-year--apparently the video is the product of an extra credit assignment, in which the tykes had the option to express themselves "artistically" about everyone's favorite science requirement. 
 In March, the news broke that Saigon Grill had locked out its delivery workers after they demanded fair wages, and they've been picketing the restaurant's three locations since. Today, Bwog took a trip down to 90th and Amsterdam to check out the scene, where about ten Columbia students joined as many workers in handing out flyers, gathering signatures for a petition, and booing passersby who continued, stonyfaced, into the restaurant. "We are not slaves! Give us back our dignity!" read one sign. Protesters boomed in the rain, "Two dollars, no way! What do we want? Fair Pay!" According to Asian American Alliance member Ryan Fukumori, the Saigon Grill management had instituted an "ethnic hierarchy" by which Latino cooks and busboys were paid minimum wage while the delivery workers, mostly immigrants from China's Fujian province (none of the men at the protest spoke English), received only $1.60 per hour (Spec has details of other abuses). The workers, organized by the Chinese Staff and Workers Union's Justice Will Be Served! campaign, are now calling for a boycott--which must have unsettled patrons inside the packed eatery. Ownership has declined to comment, but after a month with no delivery business (according to a flyer, the three locations bring in $2 million per month collectively), Bwog would guess that they'd be hurting. Meanwhile, the Grill may lose another kind of business--they're currently on Columbia SDA's list of preferred vendors, getting first crack at catering free food events. The list is up for revision in September, and SDA administrator Robert Taylor said in an e-mail today that the business could be taken off with enough evidence of abusive practices. Although Bwog doesn't think Columbians will be ordering Saigon Grill anytime soon anyway. - LBD 
 If you haven't noticed the giant yellow banner in Lerner yet, or the giant yellow posters all over campus, it's V-show time--and tickets for "Insufficient Funds" are going fast (get yours here). Meanwhile, Bwog music critic Bryan Mochizuki has been chronicling rehearsals over the past few weeks, and created this pictorial window into the world of V113. 
 We Can't Play Beirut in the Back of West End No Mo'... At Least Let Us Duke it Out in the Frats? Current has Cute, Little Carbon Footprint Screw the Unpaid Internships That Got Me Where I am Today Anti-Oppression Training, courtesy E. Jung&nbsp; 
 What's with the 20 masking taped garbage bags on the Plaza? Columbia's chapter of the Student Global AIDS campaign are raising awareness about Abbott Labs' refusal to make a key anti-retroviral drug, Kaletra, available at low prices unless the government of Thailand rescinds an order to import generic versions of the life-saving medicine (read more here). Each bag represents 10,000 people in Thailand who need it. Make a phone call? Meanwhile, Columbia School moms are holding a doozy of a bakesale on the Sundial--a little something to sweeten up your day after thinking about wasting diseases. 
 People have been having problems with this year's Senior Week, and they go well beyond the slightly questionable placement of the cigarette in its Bondian logo. Beyond the fluctuating functionality of its website, many have complained that they're finding it difficult to get in to events, many of which sold out early. A tipster attempted to explain: certain amounts of tickets were being allocated for each school's senior class, in order to prevent "unfair advantage" going to any single one. When each allocation sells out, another group of tickets will be released en masse, for purchase by any senior, university-wide. Whether this system eventually placates them or not, some seniors have complained for other reasons: seemingly steep ticket prices for many events. Bwog attempted to contact members of the Senior Week committee with these concerns several times, to no avail. -CJS 
 Ethnic Studies needs its freedom, dammit! The Greek life has its grey skies too (thanks to Columbia administration) The becoming of a senior Spec sports writer More senior wisdom 101: remember that changing the name in your byline only goes so far &nbsp;Take Back the Night: it ain't no little thing 
Uniformed attendant standing next to giant chocolate fountain in John Jay Lounge. Why? H&amp;D has people waiting in line to sign housing contracts? Whatever. Go now before the strawberries, cookies, marshmallows and pretzels get snatched up or the fountain runs dry!
It seems like everyone is on the lookout for something this week, including....&nbsp; Philo's flag.&nbsp; As of the Philolexian Society's last gathering, the group's beloved banner has been&nbsp; MIA (pictured below). Philo president Michelle Pentecost gives us the details: “The flag was last seen at our April 12 meeting in the Satow Room on the 5th floor of Lerner. &nbsp;We have checked with the lost and founds in both Lerner and Low and spoken to Lerner facilities, and now we turn to you. &nbsp;The flag is a large Columbia blue cloth with the Philo seal (containng the word Surgam and the date 1802 on it)... If anyone has seen the flag or has any information regarding this, PLEASE contact the Philo Board at philo@columbia.edu.” They're promising it's not any Jester-esque prank, either -- so c'mon now CUSJ, for real this time. Cough it up. A CCSC Director of Technology. You too can be part of the CCSC magic, instilled with the power of technology. Outgoing chief Seth Flaxman gives us the following announcement: “Want to get involved in CCSC?&nbsp; Enjoy making websites?&nbsp; The council has created a new position: the Director of Technology.&nbsp; The DOT will be an appointed CCSC member for the academic year 2007 - 2008.&nbsp; The DOT will be expected to attend the weekly CCSC meeting (every Sunday @ 8pm) and be responsible for all technology related CCSC work, including creating and updating the CCSC website. If you are interested in applying for the position, we ask that you e-mail the link to a website you have created to Michelle Diamond @ mnd2102@columbia.edu.&nbsp; Please send the e-mail blurb to Michelle by Monday, May 7th.&nbsp; The board as a whole will vote on the website we like best and contact everyone by May 18th.” (Because in reality, CCSC's got nothing on ESC without a DOT. Besides, someone's really got to get that thing out of 1999.) Random papers. It's Eclectica Esoterica submission time again! Send your off-the-wall or otherwise fascinating academic epistles (any subject, any length) to eclecticaesoterica@gmail.com. They're looking for doodles too. 
 Course evaluations, once the ideal time-killer for those last awkward 15 minutes of lecture, have been going digital for a while now, and it looks like they'll be on courseworks from here on out. A couple of luddite professors seemed peeved by the change, weighing in with comments like: - “Reading between the lines of the online ones, they're not sure if it's going to work.” - “I asked the administrators and they said, ‘I don't know,' and I said, 'Oh, why would you know?’” -“I would just lie low until the hectoring reminder e-mails....It would be nice if you could separate out your irritation with the process from your reflections on the courses." Do you like the online version? Bwog has heard of some pretty amusing anonymous TA and Prof evaluation comments, and we're sure you have as well. 
 Due to the less-than-pleasant weather, Columbia Japan Society has moved its Matsuri Festival to the Lerner Party Space. There's also quite a load of free food down there, which they are encouraging students to come down and eat -- not to mention $2 bento boxes, girls in kimonos, Wiis, quirky carnival-esque games and Hello Kitty raffle prizes (we kid you not). They party's going until 8 PM. Go! 
Chris Hernandez sends us the following haiku-esque missive from Furnald lawn, regarding the KCST Shakespeare extravaganza: "Their audience is massive I'm scared And their applause is ruining my studying." This following up V-Show's opening night, which by all accounts--and the drunken cast and creative team members stumbling around--didn't disappoint. &nbsp; 
 Bwog is regretting having left its camera at home, because there's quite a spectacle in front of Lehman Library: DJ Tanner, in all his glory, rapping for a small audience of Barnardites and friends as they nosh on a picnic banquet. We think their set's finished, but more music is lined up, and you shouldn't miss the food! Kosher options, as always, are provided. Update, 12:45: OK, the new band is not so good. But we think they'll be done soon. &nbsp; Update, 1:15: OMG the next band is covering Rent songs. Kill me now. 
As Columbia student groups discover technology, we give you the best of their efforts. It's a whole new world for the Dems, reenergized after their elections last month. According to new president Josh Lipsky, next year the group will be putting on three to five events per week, as well as creating dozens of new "umbrella groups" on&nbsp; issues from gay marriage to civil liberties. As part of its hip new image, the new administration has put together a promotional video for its arm wrestling contest next Thursday, featuring the other President Flaxman rocking a tight superhero shirt. "If we, as activists, have to act ridiculous to get people to care about Iraq, then that's what we'll do," declares Elvis-costumed Public Affairs director Jonathan Backer. Um, good luck kids.&nbsp; &nbsp; On a more serious note, Asian American Alliance's incoming president Calvin Sun (who's going to be busy next year--he's also Michelle Diamond's replacement as CC '08's Vice President) alerted us to two short videos he directed on eating disorders among Asian Americans. With quickly cut together interviews of AAA members, they're an interesting window on body image problems specific to that group, although the abstract photomontage at the end was a bit much. Part one here, part two here. 
 Morningside Heights has a shining new addition in the coffee shop/bakery/café department! We've been eagerly anticipating the opening of Artopolis, a popular Greek bakery based in Astoria, on Amsterdam between 113th and 114th. It’s not officially in business yet, but if you happen to be walking by, their doors are open and you can take a peek. They’ve started putting out some of their delectable treats for display in the cases, and everything looks amazing: Greek cookies and baklava, plus decadent cakes, tarts and gelato imported from Italy. The menus are already up on the walls; they’ll be serving gourmet coffee, cappuccino, espresso and Mighty Leaf tea, plus sweet and savory crepes. Once it’s open there will be table service, but you can also get food to go. It might be a little pricy, but this is high-end stuff. They should be open for a couple of hours tomorrow, starting around eleven--the friendly Greek guys that work there say it's been hard to get started, and they're not sure when it will be officially open. For now, free samples! - Downing Bray 
 Your last dose of QuickFed for the year: Satirical? Or just good reporting? A similar case of overbearing verisimilitude Ew “People look at a Columbia graduate and they know. They know that person has not only a comprehensive understanding of linguistics and number theory, but they know that person could kick ass in a fight and then swim 75 yards away to yell trash talk at their victims, citing Hegel all the while.” 
Whatever you may think of Columbia Student Councils, at least they're reasonably clean. In comparison to NYU, almost anything would be--the College of Arts and Sciences is currently in the midst of a special election after the news broke that outgoing president Meredith Dolgin (whom Gawker called a "pompous ass"), having installed herself as head of a three-member election committee, fixed the race in favor of one candidate. Dolgin has also been accused of embezzling funds, including $2,200 for her grandmother to speak at the school. The Washington Square News gleefully reports on the scandal.&nbsp;
In the spirit of Frontiers jams and the Varsity Show, a tipster sent us the following image. We leave the rest to your imagination. 
We told you a few weeks ago about Claire Lackner, the quiet physics major who came out on top in this year's GPA parade. This weekend, Bwog sat her down for a study break to chat about Mexican food, facebook, and looking at Mars. The salutatorian gives a speech, but what does the valedictorian do?&nbsp; As far as I know the Valedictorian does nothing except sit up on stage with everybody on class day, which is nice because it means that if it rains there’s a tent, and I won’t get wet. Other than that, I don’t think there’s anything.&nbsp; How did you find out that you were valedictorian?&nbsp; They sent me an email. I knew I was being considered - Professor Blaer told me in December that he would be nominating me, but I got an email two weeks ago right before everyone found out when somebody posted it on the Bwog.&nbsp; Did you do anything to celebrate?&nbsp; I think it must have been a Thursday night, which means I was probably working on a quantum problem set, so no. Plenty of time to celebrate after everything’s done.&nbsp; Do people treat you differently now that you’re valedictorian?&nbsp; I don’t know how many people know – I guess a lot of people read the Bwog and know through that, but because I don’t have my Facebook profile up there’s no face-name association.&nbsp; Yeah, a lot of people with the best GPAs don’t seem to have Facebook - something like 40% of the people initiated into Phi Beta Kappa… &nbsp; I actually do have a Facebook profile. It’s just set to hidden, and I don’t check it very often. So there is no real secret to not having a Facebook – I don’t use it; maybe that’s the real secret.&nbsp; You know the rumor about the owl and Alma Mater, right? Have you looked for it?&nbsp; I’ve seen it, actually. My Dad is a professor, so I’d been here and seen it before being a student.&nbsp; So you may actually have been one of the first people to find it in your class?&nbsp; Yeah, possibly.&nbsp; Your dad’s an engineering professor - any reason you picked CC instead of SEAS?&nbsp; I had no desire to be an engineer, and I also really liked the Core before I came and even now as I’m finishing, dragging my feet and writing my last paper, I still like the Core. I got a lot out of it - I got to meet a lot of people that I wouldn’t have met and do a lot of different things, so it’s been really good. &nbsp; I did a little Googling and found out that you’ve been doing a ton of different research projects. Could you tell me a bit about them?&nbsp; Before I started school here, I worked at the Lamont Earth Observatory on cosmogenic nuclides. The amount of these nuclides can tell you how long the rock has been exposed to the surface, so we were using those to look at when glaciers last came through. The next summer, I worked at JPL in California on Mars geology, looking at gullies. And then for the past two summers, I’ve been working in the robotics lab here in the engineering school under Professor Peter Allen doing simulations of robotic grasping. &nbsp; There was something about going to France…&nbsp; Part of the robotics lab is that they have a big laser that can go around and do 360 degree models. The Art History department is interested in looking at these Romanesque churches in the Bourbonnais in France, and they want these three dimensional models of the church because it’s really easy for them to do architectural sections and all sorts of interesting things with them. They needed somebody to go, and they needed somebody who spoke a little French. I speak a tiny bit of French, and I wanted to go. That was a lot of fun and an interesting experience, but it wasn’t really directly related to my research at all. It was just like “Hey, you’re here. Let’s go.”&nbsp; Are you going to be studying physics at Princeton?&nbsp; I’m a physics major, but I will be doing astrophysics next year. I’ve wanted to do that since I was a little kid. I took a cosmology class last semester and I really liked that, so continuing probably on that strain - I’m interested in doing large-scale structure and dark matter stuff. &nbsp; What’s been your favorite class? Least favorite?&nbsp; I don’t even know – there have been a couple of physics courses that I did not like at all. On the flip side, I really liked my freshman physics class - 2800.&nbsp; What do you do outside of academics?&nbsp; I do the Rabi stuff, and I do a lot of stuff with that in terms of recruitment and everything. What else? I guess not that much. I’ve done SPS and UMS. I go home a lot because I live close by, so I do stuff there. I play a lot of piano to keep me grounded. I like Beethoven a lot, and Bach. Very classic and cliché, but what can I say? I don’t know – I like going out. My friend’s a complete foodie, so we go out to nice restaurants a lot.&nbsp; Do you have a favorite Morningside restaurant?&nbsp; This is disgusting, but I really like Tacqueria. &nbsp; What are your general plans for the future?&nbsp; Completely academic track. It could change, but that’s the big plan right now. There’s part of me that – well, I’m planning on astrophysics, but I really like the robotics stuff a lot. I wouldn’t be completely surprised if I ended up going back and doing that from an industry perspective, but certainly right now it’s the post-doc, professorship, tenure-track kind of idea.&nbsp; Any words of wisdom?&nbsp; No, I don’t know. Work hard, have fun.&nbsp; - Alec Turnbull &nbsp; 
We're about to start our Senior Wisdom series, and Spec is looking for some cool '07ers too. To wit:&nbsp; Know someone who's made the most of the last four years? Spectator is looking for the best, the brightest, the quirkiest students in the class of 2007 (all four undergraduate colleges) to write about in its annual Commencement supplement. If you would like to nominate someone to be profiled, please send an e-mail with your name and phone number to specnews@columbia.edu telling us in 200 words or less why we should profile your candidate. All submissions must be received by May 5. Also, some video of the premature Cinco de Mayo party that went down on the Plaza today. Find still pictures here. 
 The love affair comes to an end... This is actually a big deal Money! In Soviet Russia, Russia's Future dissects YOU! 
 In a shockingly short span of time, the class of 2007 will shuffle off this undergraduate coil. What's left for them to look forward to? Finals, Matthew Fox (of Speed Racer fame!), and Bwog's Senior Wisdom series, which will introduce you to eleven seniors whom you may or may not have been lucky enough to meet. Today, meet Bwog's curmudgeonly commenting MVP, Tao Tan. Name: Tao Tan Claims to fame: Transfer from SEAS, weird interest in Columbia history, wrote mildly psychotic and generally awful column in the Spec for a while, sucked into the capitalist corporatocracy early, responds to e-mails within five minutes, and present spammer and CPA of East Campus. Preferred swim test stroke? Kawasaki 800 SX-R. &nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. The secret to good grades is treating every paper and assignment as an interdisciplinary study. If you have to write an economics paper, write a history paper disguised as an economics paper ("Central Banking at the House of Morgan: J.P. Morgan &amp; Company from 1895-1907"). If you have to write a history paper, write an economics paper disguised as a history paper ("Financing an Empire: Banks, Bourses, and Capital Markets of the Roman Republic"). Who's going to argue with you? On another note, you're waiting until I turn in my last papers before publishing this, right? 2. The secret to getting irregular arrangements approved is persistence and submitting very, very, very long petitions and requests. If you wanted a, say, half-hour course overlap approved so badly that you would write three pages of dense prose justifying it, who's going to say no? Or even read it? 3. I can't stress enough the importance of getting to know and building relationships with the faculty. It sometimes seems that the University would like nothing more than each generation of CC and SEAS students to come through, fulfill the cookie-cutter requirements, and be shown the door with a pat on the back and an alumni donation envelope in hand. But getting to know and work with faculty one-on-one is one of the best ways to pursue your own interests, to have someone watch out for you, and to have an advocate in trying to do non-cookie-cutter things on the assembly line of a Columbia education. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Some people try to stick it to The Man. I am The Man. Or more precisely, we are The Man. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? What bothers me about many controversies are the administration's attempts to express the right platitudes to 1) please everyone, and 2) keep the media off their back -- while refusing to take a firm and principled, if politically incorrect, stance on anything. A good friend of mine is working on his Ed.D. dissertation, a chapter of which is on the "dumbening" of University Presidents and Deans. In past decades, they used to be on the forefront of national issues and were regularly consulted on the positions they took. Now they are far more interested in keeping quiet and raising money. I think what happened in spring 2004 in response to the Fed cartoon and the affirmative action bake sale bothered me the most. Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? Umm... I would imagine that Lucy J. Hayner was pretty hot in her day. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Who knows. 20%? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I hate cheese. Now if it was between oral sex and Vitamin Water on the other hand... Days on Campus memory? Ha! None, actually. I actually was admitted to SEAS off the waitlist about a month after Days on Campus. That Friday, I skipped school to visit CU and accepted on the spot. Regrets? Yes. I should have shorted the Shanghai Composite ETF on 26 February 2007, used the proceeds to take a leveraged long put position on the underlying index itself, exercised it the next day, and used the proceeds to cover my original short. Would have made a #*@&amp;$)* killing. But I didn't. Darn it. No, seriously, I would have to admit that I sometimes regret pretty much checking out two years ago. I'm satisfied with the decisions I made, and Columbia's not the typical college either, but who knows what "only-possible-in-college experiences" I missed. If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu&nbsp;(scroll), David Chait&nbsp;(scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan. 
 The latest issue of Jester drops Thursday - that is, if the nefarious CUSJ doesn't interfere once more. The theme is one near and dear to Bwog's heart: technology. (all links take you to the same PDF) AIM and the Manhattan Project - Two Great Tastes that Taste Great Together (p. 11) The Greatest Living American (p. 12-13) Ha Ha Ha Ha... Zune (p. 17)&nbsp; Name-Checking Shatner and Remnick (p. 21) 
 The GW Hatchet, George Washington University's student newspaper, is reporting that GW President (and '59 Columbia grad, pictured) Stephen Joel Trachtenberg will receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree at Commencement. The list of recipients also includes Aharon Barak, former Israeli Supreme Court President, and CNN correspondent Suzanne Malveaux. UPDATE: According to the official list, SEAS Class Day speaker Santiago Calatrava will be sticking around for an honorary degree at comencement as well. Matthew Fox...not so much. 
 It's that time of year - when the members of Philo quit jabbering and actually write something down. Surgam, the result of their efforts, gets the (very)&nbsp;quick treatment, below (all links head to the same PDF). Best of the Bad Poetry Contest (pp. 4 - 12) Half of a&nbsp;Story Called "Hooke's Law": The&nbsp;Only New Thing in the Magazine (p. 12) UPDATE: You can find the first half of the aforementioned story in an earlier issue of Philo's magazine. 
Bwog correspondent Ashley Nin reports: "Macintosh has free food and paint so that anyone are leave their mark&nbsp;before the building's torn down." What more could you want? Enjoy a student center friendlier than Lerner - or the Lerner-like (or lite?)&nbsp;Nexus, set to rise on the spot, while you still can. 
Bwog received an encouraging number of colorful entries for our Columbia Spring Fashion Extravaganza contest. This week's winner was Max Talbot-Minkin C '07, whose successful submission is displayed below. We hope you eager photobwoggers will keep them coming for our next theme, just in time for finals: LIBRARY CARREL DECOR. Finally, your chance to expose Butler's most bombastic little bivouacs. Don't forget to title your submissions. 1. Max Talbot-Minkin C '07, "Old Woman With Flower Hat and Puckered Face" The rest of the best are after the jump... 2. Max Talbot-Minkin C '07, "Waterfight Girls" 3. Emily Wilson C '10, "Much Ado About Nothing" &nbsp; 4. Max Talbot-Minkin C '07, "Black and White Hat" &nbsp; 5. Suselina Acosta C '07, "White Shoes" &nbsp; 6. Sumaiya Ahmed C '09, "Models on the Steps" &nbsp; 7. Suselina Acosta C '07, "Skirt" &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Name: James Leighman Williams Claims to fame: 2 time Men's captain of fencing team, 2006 Member of Men's National Team, All American, 1st Team All Ivy, 2 time All Ivy Academic, blah de blah blah blah. Most importantly... 2005 CU Assassins champion Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp;&nbsp; I think it's called the dog paddle. What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;They can tell when you don't do the reading.&nbsp; 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;It doesn't help too much to put a towel under the door.&nbsp;&nbsp;3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Most points, least meals. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I think existence is right but I think I could learn to cook.&nbsp;&nbsp;So you should keep me around. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Something about money or God.&nbsp;&nbsp;Maybe the banana thing. Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? I have no idea. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 10% Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I abstain, but only from answering the question. Days on campus memory? Meeting Avi Zenilman and being continually shocked. Regrets? I wish I had worked harder and I wish I had partied a lot more. 
We heard earlier today that the College Republicans had brought a bunch of black balloons out to the Sundial to "commemorate" May Day (traditionally a celebration of pagan ritual, the workers movement, and loyalty) while a band of merry activists subwayed it down to a march for equal rights in Chinatown. This is how adorable small children dealt with the symbolic protest. This is how graffitists dealt with it. &nbsp; Pictures by Alex Weinberg. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Want to get more involved with The Blue and White or Bwog? We're hiring!&nbsp; See application details for Graphics Editor and Summer Bwog Editors after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; Graphics Editor (1) The job: Attend editors meetings (one hour once a week), coordinate assignments between editors and artists, scan all art, be available during lay-out weekend once a month to draw last-minute things, and finally, be willing to manage people, contribute consistently, and care about the future of The Blue and White. The application: E-mail us to let you know you're applying, fill out the application below (compiled by our current graphics editor, Rachel Lindsay), and submit some samples of your artwork. Taylor will be in the SGO (5th floor of Lerner) on Monday, May 7 from 2:00 pm-5:00, at which point you can bring your application form and portfolio and talk about the job with her. If this time doesn't work for you, let us know and we can come up with an alternative time to talk.&nbsp; Summer Bwog Editors (multiple) The job: Troll around for Columbia-related things and provide one post per week over the summer. Must have excellent writing skills and a prodigious wit. We especially need people who'll be on campus or elsewhere in the city!&nbsp; The application: Send us no more than 500 words on what Bwog has done well, where we've fucked up, and 10 post ideas for the summer by midnight on Monday, May 7. Looking forward to hearing from you! W&nbsp;&nbsp; A&nbsp;&nbsp; N&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; T&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; E&nbsp;&nbsp; D Blue &amp; White Graphics Editor Because I (Rachel) am going abroad for the fall.&nbsp; &nbsp; Applicant Name: ____________________________________________ Year: ____&nbsp; Mental Health: Good ___ Bad ____ Average ____ Columbia Style ____&nbsp; Publications (campus/out in the world) you have illustrated for: ____________________________________________________________ Issues of The Blue and White you have illustrated for (if you recall; if you have images/article names please provide)/ or other relevant involvement in the organization: ______________________________ How would you describe your ability to critically illustrate abstract concepts? 
 Rezoning Plan Presented, Walkout Executed, Nose Game Played Funding Groups Compete for Funding Columbia Tennis Upset Over Chance for Massive Upset (v. OSU)&nbsp; Hey, this one's about the Bwog! Story About A Crazy Cat Lady&nbsp;&nbsp; "I want justice! I want justice!" &nbsp; 
The last day of class has come and gone, and with it a year of Columbia sports marked by unusual success: some of our vaunted athletic squads have indeed emerged atop the Ivy League pissing match.&nbsp; For those of you watching at home or not watching at all, don’t feel bad—all the winning teams compete in sports that most people see only in the Olympics, if ever. In case you're ever forced to answer the question, "How did the Lions do this year?", Bwog generalist CML presents a lightning recap of 2006-2007 Columbia sports. &nbsp;Football: The football team garnered widespread attention and critical acclaim by sucking far less than it normally does, clawing its way to a 3-0 non-conference record against hardcore competition from Fordham, Georgetown, and Iona, and even mauling two out of seven of our fellow Ivy collegian-cracksquads for a final record of 5-5.&nbsp; Columbia’s small community of sports fans is still wondering how they pulled that off, given the offense’s utter inability to score and propensity to fuck up at critical junctures, but then again, most people at Columbia are unable to score because they fuck up at critical junctures.&nbsp; Look for Coach Norries “John Coffee” Wilson to magically whip quarterbacks Craig “Tom Hanks” Hormann and Millicent “No Green Mile Analogy” Olawale into shape for our viewing pleasure. Men’s Basketball: The basketball team ascended to unprecedented heights of mediocrity, finishing with a 16-12 record (7-7 in Ivy play).&nbsp; Most discouraging were the two drubbings that the Lions received at the troglodytic hands of Penn; most encouraging is the fact that Penn loses its best players – including the awesome Ibrahim Jaaber – and Columbia loses nobody whatsoever, leading Bwog to believe that, with the Lions’ ethnic and skillwise diversity (Baumann, Nwachukwu, Matsui, et al.), they can come together to form one Light-Blue Rainbow Coalition that will send the rest of the Ivies to anti-oppression training and finally reach the first round of the NCAA tournament, where they will once again lose by 43 to Duke. OTHER SPORTS AFTER THE JUMP Archery: Finished first in some esoteric category in the only event where they have a “team score”; national championships May 17-20. Baseball: Concluded the season a couple days ago with a 16-28 record—and an aggregate ERA that would put Heathcliff Slocumb to shame. Undoubtedly their most impressive accomplishment was managing to get a tie in a sport that does not have ties, which hasn’t happened outside tee-ball since ... the 2002 MLB All-Star Game. &nbsp;Women’s Basketball: Finished 8-20, the first season in quite a while that they have been worse than both the men and the football team.&nbsp; On the bright side, they avoided being fingered as “nappy-headed hos”; and junior Brittney Carfora shot a ridiculous 51 percent from behind the arc, making her NCAA Division I’s leading trifecta-launcher. &nbsp;Cross Country: Men’s and women’s teams placed second and second in the Ivy League Heptagonal Championships and fifth and fourth in the NCAA regionals; actually worse than how they did last year.&nbsp; At least they had something interesting to say afterwards: “Honestly, I just tried to finish,” junior Carmen Ballard said.&nbsp; “I stayed back in the second pack most of the race, then finished strong.&nbsp; I passed one runner at the end.”&nbsp; Cicero would be proud. Cycling: Finished third in the country, which is an impressive feat if you consider that all of the Lions have two testicles and none of them took any steroids and lied about it for seven years while maintaining an aura of cancer-survivor heroism. Wheaties-box appearances may still be in the cards. &nbsp; Fencing: Always a bright spot in a field of gloom, both men’s and women’s fencing teams performed admirably, foiling, sabering, and epéeing their way to two third-place finishes and a shitload of Spectator coverage.&nbsp; Sophomore Daria Schneider won the national saber championship, entitling her to bragging rights and a warm, fuzzy sense of accomplishment, while freshman Alex Rudnicki won Assassins, entitling him to $500 and an infinitely greater measure of campus recognition. &nbsp; Field Hockey: A 7-10 overall record belies the less respectable 1-6 Ivy finish in this gentlewomanly sport played in Northeastern prep schools the world over.&nbsp; Hopefully the Lions can find more recruits from New Canaan and Greenwich to bolster their chances next year. Golf: Another bastion of Lions awesomeness.&nbsp; The men took third at the Ivy championships, while the women won it all, vanquishing Harvard, Yale, and even polo-shirted Princeton. Junior Chris Condello and Sophomore Sara Ovadia each won individual titles, making them both the number one WASPs of the most WASPish sport in the most WASPish athletic conference. &nbsp;Hockey: Ignited a campus-wide controversy by&nbsp;&nbsp; almost being barred from playing due to a recruitment poster that said “Don’t be a pussy,” drawing the wrath of the capricious AD M. Dianne Murphy and generating more publicity than all the Other Sports combined. &nbsp;Lacrosse: The NCAA-sanctioned women’s lacrosse team went an impressive 0-7 in Ivy League play and 5-10 overall.&nbsp; Men’s lacrosse, which Title IX has condemned to club sportdom, won the National College Lacrosse League championship by conquering such powerhouses as SUNY Cortlandt and our papist neighbors to the north, Fordham. &nbsp;Crew: Men’s heavyweight and women’s have up to this point had rather undistinguished seasons, which is significantly better than men’s lightweight. One race remains before the national championship regatta in Camden, N.J., which will juxtapose the cigar-smoking, scotch-drinking spectators with the deprived residents of the most dangerous city in America. &nbsp;Softball: Finished 8-12 in Ivy play.&nbsp; Collected 22 wins overall (and 26 losses), which is probably more than the number of male spectators to have ever watched a softball game at Baker Field. Swimming and Diving: The men’s team went 3-4 in league play, if you can call competing in a “sport” at the Division I level that consists of chlorine-laden, Hellenically-streamlined, shaven bodies flinging themselves through turgid waters “playing.”&nbsp; The women’s team also went 3-4 in what outside observers generally agree requires too much raw athleticism for a Columbia team to be excellent at it. Tennis: The men sent the Penn cave-dwellers back to the Stone Age a couple of days ago, earning themselves a berth in the NCAA tournament through Roger Federer-like force of will.&nbsp; Unlike Federer, they will probably lose there in the first round. Track and Field: Savannah lions can outrun meerkats, gazelles, and the occasional wildebeest; Columbia Lions cannot outrun anyone.&nbsp; Meat, er, meet finishes generally ranged from bad to awful, though perhaps poachers can be blamed for the Lions’ being predated upon.&nbsp; Volleyball: The volleyball team remains, like the lacrosse team, a Title IX technicality.&nbsp; Unlike the lacrosse team, they actually won a conference match, though they had twice as many tries and a thousand more yards of Spandex in which to do it. Wrestling: The wrestling team was by and large pretty OK.&nbsp; Senior Matt Palmer concluded his career by finishing eighth in the NCAA finals, after which he will either fade into anonymity or become the protagonist of an Updike novel.&nbsp; IN CONCLUSION Bwog exhorts you to come back next year to build moral fiber by rooting for Columbia University athletics.&nbsp; Or, if you’re a graduating senior or an alumnus, don’t come back at all, because it’s creepy and you’d be better off watching your kid’s micro-soccer game, for both the energy of the crowds and the overall quality of play. “Whenever I feel like exercising, I lie down until that feeling goes away.” – Robert Maynard Hutchins, University of Chicago President, 1929-1945 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; - CML &nbsp; 
&nbsp; This year, Bwog's Senior Wisdom series brings you a cadre of awesome '07ers whom we haven't had a chance to profile yet--for others whom we have, look after the jump.&nbsp; Name: May Lin Claims to fame: AAA, APAAM, USCC, part of the group that wrote the report on the state of Ethnic Studies at Columbia Preferred swim test stroke? Anything that allows you to wear those yellow floatie things. I kind of&nbsp; want to use a kickboard too. What are three things you learned at Columbia? <!-- D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); //--> 1. Columbians are not as liberal or progressive as they think they are. 2. The administration likes to make students do their jobs. It takes collective student struggle to establish things that are really important to many students here (Ethnic Studies, OMA, etc.) 3. Many people shower rather infrequently. It's shocking. 4. I don't know how to count. And Asian Americans can throw a damn good party. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Token yellow person. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Hmm.. how about every time campus publications fucked up with their reporting on people of color? Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? This is a tough one 'cause I've discovered that a lot of professors have really bad breath. I think most Ethnic Studies professors would be pretty tender, though. They care about their students. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 33.3, with a line over the 3 <!-- D( ); D( ); D( ); //--> Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I dunno. They can both be smelly. Days on Campus memory? I awkwardly got really high with someone else on Days on Campus in the lounge of a Hartley suite. While at least 4 other people were hooking up in the same room. But I think the encounters over the past four years with the "friends" everyone makes at Days on Campus have been just as awkward and memorable. Regrets? Giving in to Facebook. Not putting the word "fornicasian" in my thesis. Never taking a class with Robin Kelley. Not getting involved with student activism until the end of sophomore year. Never having a real winter coat until the middle of winter last year. If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu (scroll), David Chait (scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan.&nbsp; 
In case you don't regularly frequent the world of tech-geekery, pay a visit: there's some crazy shit going down in freedom-of-informationland. Bwog freelancer Kate Redburn summarizes. It seems Columbia students aren’t the only ones having trouble with copyright law. Yesterday, there was an internet revolution on Digg.com, the popular website-rating site, over the “digging” of an HD-DVD decryption key (see BBC coverage here). The 32-character key--now the subject of its own facebook group--allows unauthorized access to DVD content, and Digg complied with a request to take down the popular post. They also deleted several accounts which had posted the key. However, the users overrode the site’s administrators, continuing to angrily post the key. The site finally capitulated. In a post to the Digg blog, co-founder Kevin Rose wrote: “But now, after seeing hundreds of stories and reading thousands of comments, you’ve made it clear. You’d rather see Digg go down fighting than bow down to a bigger company. We hear you, and effective immediately we won’t delete stories or comments containing the code and will deal with whatever the consequences might be. If we lose, then what the hell, at least we died trying." So far, the Digg community has won. The main page is covered with key pages, and articles related to the incident. Will May 1st be known for something else from now on? 
Too busy to make it to the Met? Butler displays are a poor substitute, but will do for a few minutes' distraction. Bwog rookie Rob Stenson critiques the latest.&nbsp; It’s exhibition installation season at Columbia, with first year MFAs in Schermerhorn (from high-art pornography to cable TV), and a senior thesis show in Dodge (exhibition highlight: an electrical cable in a bucket of water). But of all the new destinations for art-connoisseuring on campus, none is as accessible or relentlessly contemporary as what has replaced the Joseph Urban stage model exhibit in the third-floor display cases at Butler. Accessible, because the installation is timed right for reading week cellphone breaks. Relentless, because the new show, titled "Preserving the Libraries' Collections," embraces an object-fetishist aesthetic equal parts Hard Rock Cafe, natural history museum exhibition, and contemporary art-is-just-stuff-ism of trash on display. The exhibition, a richly-illustrated, richly-accompanied, six case primer on how information disappears and how we can save it, does not disappoint. Janet Gertz, Director of Preservation at Butler and sole curator of the third floor display, has pulled off something artistically unique: a show that subtly critiques not the institution but us, its visitors. Full of placards that gently scold library patrons—e.g. “YOU CAN HELP”; "Please be careful when replacing books on shelves"; "If you see vermin, report the problem to staff”—the whole thing becomes a catalogue of our library-going sins. Here are the books you have killed, it says: Dostoevsky with a crushed spine, coffee-stained sociology, one “unfortunate specimen” eaten by a dog, an encyclopedia destroyed by an untutored photocopying technique. Exhibition highlights include a plastic bag (pictured) in a case titled “Earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and fires: enemies of library collections,” latex gloves, a gas mask available at University Hardware, a Jaz disc and drive ("period of use was the mid-1990s through the early 2000's"), a CD burner, and a laserdisc of Italy's tourist attractions. All of the stuff—either exhumed from library storage, or destined to be trash—seems left behind, like the props from some event that was as equally uninspired and as visually uninteresting as the current exhibition. So, for painfully overwrought works of art—walls of abstract doodles and letters to the 1980s—by people who would like to be artists, visit Schermerhorn and Dodge. For the effortless display of stuff that would otherwise be trash, but is—when cobbled together by Janet Gertz, who doesn’t appear to care very much—a kind of contemporary art by accident, simply exit the reading room and answer your phone. 
If you managed to swing by the hooplah that happened by the steps earlier this evening, perhaps you were welcomed by Weezer's Pinkerton album blaring from a laptop while 15 or so students were dancing under the tented sheets. Perhaps you were also offered a loaf of bread by some guy in a Mardi Gras mask, waving it in the air like a glowstick at a 90's dance party. Or maybe you came by earlier, when a bottle of confetti was released into the air like champagne at a new year's celebration. For those who missed all the fuss, around 11 PM a bunch of kids gathered by the steps for "Fort Nite," where they revisted childhood and created a party out of linens and other miscellaneous materials. A little bit after 1 AM however, Columbia security showed up to shut the show down, claiming that the sheets were creating an obstruction, the lights were a fire hazard, and that students should have alerted the university before throwing the event. "People sit and smoke hookah on the lawn, so why can't we do this? What the heck?" commented one participant. Students tried to save the party by telling security that the event was all about using public space as a place where the community could take part. "Yeah, but this is a private space," one of the two security guards reminded them. On a side note, Bwog also noticed that one of the sheets being used had "BLIGH..." painted in red in large red letters (the sheet wasn't completely unrolled) though the students involved claim that the event was independent from any expansion-related student groups. Anyway, sheets or no sheets, the students decided to keep the party going a little longer before eventually retiring the event. More power to you, guys. More power to you. - MIP More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Overheard on College Walk, late last night:&nbsp; Guy: Well YOU go to Columbia! Shouldn't YOU know where all the parties are? Girl: Yeah. But it's just a shame you're not here on Orgo Night. Guy: What is it? Wait- doesn't matter. I wouldn't want to go. Girl: (angrily) Well its not like you would have a choice. You don't go to Orgo Night. (pause) It's more like Orgo Night goes to you. &nbsp;Tonight at 11:59 pm in El Butler. Be there, or don't be there. 
 Taking the tempera to the walls of McIntosh just wasn't enough to satisfy a (few) vandal(s). A tipster alerted Bwog to the brightly colored trails currently on the scaffolding at the south side of Butler Library. The tipster speculated students (who else?) could have heaved paint out of the top floor windows.&nbsp; Bwog is unsure when this happened -- we could have missed this for months now -- but judging by the poor, now turquoise tree (below) we'd say the marks are pretty fresh. - SEV&nbsp; 
 Senior Addison Anderson cheers up Bwog:&nbsp; "Everyone should know that there is a box of free NYC condoms at the main desk in Lerner.&nbsp; Everyone should also know that I am now walking around with a whole bunch of condoms and am ready to go." 
 Ah, the bittersweetness of perspective...here's the next installment of Bwog's Senior Wisdom series.&nbsp; This time, on- and off-campus journalist Jimmy Vielkind C'07 is in the hot seat. Claims to fame: As a Spectator reporter and later city editor, training editor, and contributing editor,&nbsp;I forced a genuine public debate about Columbia's proposed Manhattanville expansion. I also launched La Pagina, a weekly Spanish-language flyer to better&nbsp;serve readers who live around Columbia,&nbsp;about 40% of whom speak Spanish.&nbsp;It made Spectator the first bilingual college paper in the country. As an intern for the Daily News, I've done everything from cover Cory Lidle's plane crash to grill Alan Hevesi. And I've got Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's left&nbsp;golf shoe to prove it. Preferred swim test stroke? Side stroke. I used to be a lifeguard, but now when I get in the water I tend to just putter. What are three things you learned at Columbia? <!-- D( ); //--> (1) It took me a while to realize that there are no clear resolutions to the difficult questions and issues that confront society, just better and different ways of understanding something. The more people who are seeing something from all sides, the more likely we'll keep moving--slowly--toward resolution. Shouting loudly about one particular course of action or set of values and approaching&nbsp;ideas or issues&nbsp;combatively usually isn't productive. (2) The sky is brighter, the wind colder, and your thinking clearer walking the streets between 3-5 a.m. (3) For a good time, dial 212.531.0383. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. If a tree falls in the woods, and a reporter isn't around to see it, interview witnesses, cajole loved ones into providing biographical details, demand an explanation and hold those in power accountable for changes to prevent future fallings, then did it really fall? And would it really matter if it did? Fuck; that's 53. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The "we are being silenced" demonstrations in the spring of 2004 were elegant and powerful, and showed me how a coordinated protest can be a strong tool for leveraging change among both those in power and&nbsp;one's peers. While the resolution was imperfect, Columbia got an Office of Multicultural Affairs to finally serve as a dedicated party&nbsp;for dealing with--and hopefully preventing--the series of deplorable events that led to that demonstration. Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? Dan O'Flaherty. Duh. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Why, 100% of course. (Hi Mom!) Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Cheese. When we were younger, my brother would sometimes microwave slices of American and eat&nbsp;the resulting goop&nbsp;right off the plate. I nearly puked. The memory still haunts me. Days on campus memory? My enginerd&nbsp;father couldn't quite wrap his head around the notion that people could get liberal arts degrees and be, well, non-enginerds. He was giving me shit about it during&nbsp;an alumni panel where all the guys speaking were basically&nbsp;unemployed or "dabbling in consulting." I remember the last guy on the panel was a&nbsp;tad rotund, and was feeling really blue until he introduced himself as "Jerrold Nadler,&nbsp;Member of Congress."&nbsp;It was the best&nbsp;toldyaso elbow I've ever thrown. <!-- D( ); D( ] ); D(); //--> Regrets? wish I'd moved more out of my comfort zone and gotten to know more of my classmates. Also, I never&nbsp;heard the Columbia Orchestra play, and I never joined CUMB. I never led a protest rally. I never took a Foner lecture, or Washburn's jazz, or Bollinger, or Bakhli, or..... &nbsp; 
 Yesterday was a perfect day in our ever-more perfect union for a perfect sport:&nbsp; kickball. Emma Jacobs writes in that WKCR crushed WBAR in the semi-annual Station Game, held in Central Park. The final score was 13-2, 'KCR.&nbsp; Unfortunately WBAR members forgot to bring the trophy.&nbsp; They did, however, remember their vintage boombox.&nbsp; Which station's programming reigns supreme? You be the decider. Or the commander guy. More skinny jeans and kickin' kicks after the jump! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Bwog has been procrastinating! (Is that redundant?) We even made a list of how we recommend you procrastinate, to which you shall contribute.&nbsp;Open thread time! - Make Bwog posts - Send in tips to Bwog - Watch episodes of South Park - Go to the horsey ride track in Nassau County and be hit on by the bugler - Facebook-message all your friends from back home to see when they'll be back in the Motherland - Try and break your arch-nemesis' Mario Kart records - Doodle pictures of dinos and flowers and smiling suns - E-mail your long-lost relatives to ask them how they're doing and by the way thank them for financing your exorbitantly-priced college education - Try Artopolis! - Refresh your g-mail inbox ad infinitum - Use the new facebook feature "online now" to see which of your friends have also been on facebook all day - Watch helicopters and skywriters - Try to convince people to make the jump from the east campus plaza to the Wien balcony - Walk around like a zombie in a semi-conscious state in which you accidentally bump into things - Count the quarters you have been storing all semester - Download Goldeneye N64's Statue Park theme song as study music for a Soviet history essay - Sit in the Dodge music library and pretend you're studying, while in reality you're copying a crapload of their CD's to your laptop - Hang out with the construction workers - Cut your fingernails and toenails, and then file them down - Browse Labyrinth's bargain books for your plane/train ride fix - Browse itunes libraries - Prank ROLM phone call - Change the font on your resume - Decorate your study space - Sit on the commencement bleachers and pretend you're graduating this year 
 CTV's got Core review sessions for Lit Hum (with Mark Cohen) and Frontiers (with Darcy Kelley), with Music Hum to come tomorrow at 6PM on Channel 37! Also having to do with recorded stuff, except things that you actually want to listen to, Spec has a web-only story about the RIAA's latest shenanigans: they've thrown the book at 13 Columbians, bringing the grand total to 60. 
Jester prankster Alex Weinberg, who may or may not be making this all up, documents what happens when you win at puzzling. UPDATE, 12:07 PM: Additional photographical evidence has been located!&nbsp; The cryptic ThemEarthMeteors puzzles began to pop up again this spring, stapled in dramatic "M's" along bulletin boards in Mudd and on the semi-permanent construction barrier in front of Butler. These flyers directed passersby to www.themearthmeteors.com, an equally mysterious website (now defunct) where you or I could submit our answers. I solved them as best I could, partially because I like puzzles, but mostly because I relish any excuse to visit a non-porn website. I solved three over the course of the semester and then forgot all about them. Then, a few nights ago, a person named M e-mailed me to tell me that I had solved enough puzzles to join his secret society. Sweet. He provided the date, time, and location where would I could meet him. Since it's always been my policy to accept the rendezvous invitations of anonymous Internet strangers, I followed his instructions exactly. On Tuesday night at 10:00 PM, I arrived, knocked twice, and whispered the password. I guess some other secret society had booked Columbia's Triga III nuclear reactor, the abandoned Pupin cyclotron, and our vast network of abandoned steam tunnels, because the most mysterious and creepy place they could hold their meeting was Mudd 327. A guy ushered me into the darkened classroom, which was illuminated only by a projector displaying a five foot tall "M" on the pull-down screen. Comically epic choir music boomed from Dell laptop speakers. After enough people had trickled in (twelve, by my count) the five leaders turned on the lights and quieted their grandiose tunes so that they could welcome us to their group, The Master Theorem, an anagram of ThemEarthMeteors. (Perhaps www.themastertheorem.com was already taken.) The leaders then explained that their leader, M, had deemed us worthy. We were now invited to attend their weekly meetings during which the group creates and solves more puzzles. Yes, I had solved a series of puzzles in order to earn the privilege of solving more puzzles. That's it. This secret society had no black cloaks, no blood rituals, no rings, no alien technology. Just more goddamn puzzles. Maybe my reference frame is too mainstream, but there's a reason why the grand prize on Jeopardy isn't a take-home version of Jeopardy. Girls don't strip their way through college so they can become strippers. As I stewed in my disappointment, the lights went off again so that they could show us a PowerPoint presentation about common ciphers used to code messages. A small Asian girl took notes. Once this presentation was over, they turned the lights back on and revealed a blue box with&nbsp; combination lock over its clasp. We were then instructed to use our new knowledge to decode three clues (contained in an envelope stamped with an "M") which corresponded to a three digit combination that would open the box, which at that point I assumed to be filled with smaller boxes. I snatched the first clue, which was based on the first group of ciphers that we had been taught. I joined a group of three other people, and within about ten minutes we had solved our puzzle. The first number of the three digit combination lock was 7. The other people in my group went to join the other two groups who had been given more complicated clues and were having a harder time solving them. In the meantime, I realized that this three digit lock would only have 100 potential combinations left, since we knew the first number was 7. I figured that trying all of these wouldn't really take very long, and within three minutes, I reached 7-5-4 and the lock popped open. Although the contents of the box were actually many bags of M&amp;Ms, it felt like I had just exploded a pipe bomb of shame. I thought I was being crafty for circumventing the puzzle that they had lovingly and meticulously prepared for us, but the popular consensus seemed to be that I was a twat. One of the leaders gave me a look of disappointment and restrained anger that I've seen on little league coaches and prom dates so many times before. I closed the box again and let them continue their puzzle until they told me I could go. All things considered, The Master Theorem club may consist of puzzle-loving nerds, but at least they're well-intentioned. I don't think that M exists in the corporeal sense, and if he does, I hope he wears a suit covered in question marks like the Riddler or that insane Matthew Lesko guy who tries to give you money. The Master Theorem is a clever group of people who could just as easily be using their skills to make sarin gas bombs, so I think it's just best if we just let them enjoy their weekly puzzles. Having said that, I hope they aren't horribly mad that I wrote this piece, because they could probably have me crushed under an enormous Rubik's Cube if they so desired. If my dead body is found with a giant M burned into my chest with hydrobromic acid, then I posthumously redact this article. 
Spotted in Lerner: Matthew Fox used to sell meal plans and dining dollars. Quoth his visage: "You may want me to get LOST on Class Day, but I can't get enough of the Ferris Booth Lunch Special! Sign up online for your plan today!" We're not sure how many people present on Class Day could possibly be interested (or eligible) for meals or dining dollars, but we can't help but&nbsp;applaud Housing &amp; Dining for keeping up on its campus gossip. 
 While you were basking in the end of the first day of exams, a ton of your classmates were downtown at a swanky Vietnamese restaurant...yelling their lungs out and shutting it down. Bwog stopped by a Saigon Grill protest earlier, but it was only a small picket, part of an ongoing two-month protest by delivery workers who had been locked out and fired after being paid $1.60 an hour. Today, at least sixty Columbia students and thirty or so other reps from schools including Hunter, CUNY, the New School, Sarah Lawrence and a few others went down to the Union Square branch of the establishment to stage a sit-in and sidewalk protest. This is how it went down. Columbia kids gathered at 116th right after their CC and LitHum finals finished, then travelled en masse to Union Square to meet up with the larger group and get situated. From there, small groups of incognito kids moseyed down to the Grill, where they were met by a picket line of delivery workers who cried "Shame on you!" as they entered the restaurant. Once all the students had filled the place, they sat and politely declined to order, much to the&nbsp;confusion of&nbsp;the staff.&nbsp;Then, at 5:30, after some clandestine signals had been thrown around the room, the room&nbsp;stood up at once, ripped off their top layers of clothes, revealed a sea of uniformly red shirts, and started chanting.&nbsp;Once the chanting died down,&nbsp;a Jesuit priest blessed the effort and representatives from AAA and other&nbsp;student groups&nbsp;explained&nbsp;why they were sitting in on the restaurant.&nbsp;Once everyone&nbsp;chanted&nbsp;in unison, the roof just about&nbsp;blew off, and when it died down,&nbsp;participators started&nbsp;making&nbsp;percussive beats on the tables. It was all love and red-tinged excitement-- until, of course, the cops showed up, informing everyone that they had better get out unless they "wanted to be sitting in jail on Monday." As planned, coordinators shuffled students out, who then joined in more chanting with the picketers who remained outside, a rally that went on unflaggingly for more than an hour and a half. Several of the delivery workers led chants in Chinese- many of them don't speak English- and students joined in once they picked up on it. Various students likewise took the stand, with one declaring, "It's a beautiful thing... when the workers and students are united!" The crowd booed people entering the restaurant, the cops stood by with expressionless faces, and the fun stopped soon after the police came to set up a virtual wooden pen around the picketers and students. Anyways, look at these pictures if you don't have time to read all that. -KER 
 Today, the 6th installment in our Senior Wisdom series...bringing you a bunch of '07ers you should have met but won't have time to.&nbsp; Claims to fame:&nbsp; &nbsp; Wearing an LLBean backpack with my initials (HAG) monogrammed on the back for most of 3rd and 4th grade, living as an RA in McBain as a SENIOR (I love you McBain 7), facilitating conversations whether or not I’m asked to (shout out to my lovely ROOTEd facilitators). Also, I’m that kid in all the Columbia “look I swear we’re diverse” admissions publications.&nbsp; Preferred swim test stroke? &nbsp; Whatever keeps you afloat. Some combination of flailing arms and kicking.&nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? &nbsp; 1.&nbsp; Institutional change rarely (ever?) happens without student action. Columbia’s divestment from South Africa, the establishment of courses in Ethnic Studies, the foundation of the Malcolm X Lounge, and the creation of the Office of Multicultural Affairs (just to name a few) all came as a consequence and as a result of student protest. &nbsp; 2. TA’s do all the work but don’t even get health insurance. &nbsp; 3. There is Monet and then there’s Manet. Ohh Art Hum….. Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; Living for and working with the people and communities that I love.&nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? &nbsp; I thought the massive uprise following the announcement of our Class Day speaker was a bit out of line. If only people got that heated about the other controversies in our time here. Come on guys, the FED! Hate Crimes! And we get all antsy over THIS??&nbsp; Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? &nbsp; Eek. I feel like KJ (Kenneth Jackson) was a Matt Dean back in his day. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? I don’t know. 10%? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; &nbsp; Haha. I plead the 5th. I swear my father has a GoogleAlert on my name. Days on campus memory? Days on campus and NSOP have fused into one collective memory. I remember CUnity – was that Days on Campus? I just remember it being really warm and everyone being outside. That seems to happen every year, the prefrosh come, see the students on the grass playing Frisbee, decide to come, and then find out that the grass is only available those 2 days out of the entire year. &nbsp; Regrets? &nbsp; Not taking more electives, oh…and majoring in Econ. If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu (scroll), David Chait (scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan. 
Bwog passed by these folks last night at around 11:00PM... then 1:00 AM...and then noon...go get the kids cookies or something, being funny for a whole day is hungry work. &nbsp; 
Need a finals boost? Be adventurous. Bwog freelancer Armin Rosen explores your options. If having to wake up at 8:30 in the morning four days a week for the past three months has taught me anything, it’s that getting through college is going to require some serious drug abuse. And if this fairly commonsensical realization has taught me anything, it’s that drugs are freakin’ expensive: a can of Red Bull is a marauding $3.00, while a decent-sized tablet of Adderall sinks me $8-10. Speed, despite its alleged efficacy, is more expensive than both and, it appears, extremely dangerous. Bummer. I needed options, and found them across the street. With an inventory that boasts everything from beef tripe to squid jerky, M2M is the best place for crazy culinary shit this side of JasMart, and the array of Asian boosters is encouraging. Here’s a quick guide to help you navigate. Ssang Hwa Drink: At $.99, the medicinal-looking Ssang Hwa comes off as a bargain. Its label tags it a “refreshing drink,” but a choking whiff of the liquid within proves this to be bullshit. Those depraved individuals who find refreshment in vegemite, wheatgrass shots, Georgi or any combination thereof have reason to rejoice. Those with an overactive gag reflex do not--the unpleasant visceral churn of the Ssang Hwa will have you on the floor in no time. Tasting vaguely like olive juice spiked with Red Bull, and counts such ominously-named plants as Rhemmania root among its active ingredients. And I still fell asleep in the middle of Asian Humanities. Seeking answers, I showed the bottle to preeminent East Asia scholar William Theodore de Bary, C’41, who identified the bottle’s characters as the Koreanization of the names and numerals on the label. However, he said his knowledge of Korea focused on Confucianism and Buddhism, and that he was unfamiliar with “the more ridiculous aspects of the culture.” I then turned to Gun Yung Lee, a student in the American Language Program, who immediately recognized Ssang Hwa as a renowned herbal remedy used to fight fatigue or mild illness. Apparently Ssang Hwa is about popular as Coca Cola--those especially weak in body or spirit will drink between three and five Ssang Hwa-hot water mixtures in a single day. Bottom line: Frat pledges, if you’re ever forced to drink this stuff, it’s hazing, plain and simple. Also the “refreshing drink” tag vindicates the cultural relativists out there. Bacchus-D: It boasts 200mgs of Taurine and a “positive energy boost,” but if previous experiences with $.99 Korean energy drinks have taught me anything, it’s that labels are deceptive. No unpleasant surprises here though, and after a few sips I find myself willing to forgive its slight aftertaste of rotten eggs so long as that “extra boost” ends up coming through. Though it tastes vaguely like Red Bull, Bacchus D isn’t carbonated, and lacks the drink’s satisfying bite. But it also isn’t $3.00 a pop, and only has 10 grams of sugar. This lack of sugar is the crucial difference between Asian energy drinks and their European and American counterparts--while Red Bull launches its users onto sugar/caffeine/taurine high, herb-based Asian drinks like Bacchus have less of an edge to them. Which isn’t to say they aren’t effective--one bottle of Bacchus helped get me through a particularly trying night of studying. But I wouldn’t trust it to get me through an exam or a term paper. The Bottom line: It works, and it’s $.99. The fact that it’s apparently loaded with multi-vitamins doesn’t hurt either. Black Horse: Call me a xenophobe, but I’m typically skeptical of any bottle whose lone words of English are a URL for a website that’s entirely in Chinese. Nonetheless, this discount mystery beverage is the hidden gem of the M2M energy drink section--like Bacchus, it tastes of flat Redbull, but is cheaper ($1.49), more refreshing, and comes in just as stylish a package. Does it work? Yes. The stuff is damned effective, and also produces none of the jittery anxiety of American or European brands. A student in the Starr East Asian library tells me that that’s kind of the point--Yun Zhang, a Chinese-born graduate student at Baruch College, complains that American energy drinks are too strong for her tastes, and are not as healthy as Black Horse (which is apparently what the large Chinese character on the front of the bottle means). She says the drink contains natural ingredients well known in China for their health benefits, and that a drink like this one would be consumed both for the extra boost and for its salutory side-effects--which makes it something of a combination of Red Bull and Odwalla, only half the price of each. Bottom Line: Not as clutch as its American competitors, but worth a try. 
 Acclaimed Columbia professor and partigoer David Helfand will be spending this fall north of the border, at Quest University in Canada.&nbsp; Helfand will be a "visiting tutor" at the newly-founded university, and his faculty profile includes a link to apply to Quest in case you want to follow your favorite astrophysicist / core course founder / Varsity Show character.&nbsp; For even more serious Helfand-stalkers, the website supplies his new e-mail address and a number to call him at - but the number is actually just the main QuestU line, where he probably won't be answering phones (but with only ten professors listed, maybe he will be.) The profile's not a bad read: Helfand reveals his mission, "The goal is to obtain a complete picture of birth and death (for stars) in the Milky Way," and Dave reveals himself to be a jokestar, as well as a chef, with this gem: "David believes he is a better cook than astronomer and, ambiguously, most of his colleagues who have sampled his gastronomical undertakings agree." Unfortunately, it looks like he hasn't come up with new material recently, since those lines have already been used in his profiles here and here. 
There's a mole in the Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting, and that lucky individual sent Bwog a few notes on the experience. 1. There is unlimited free top shelf open bar on the opening night cocktail reception. I must have finished a quarter bottle of Goose. Shit. 2. Warren Buffett is VERY proud of his Columbia affiliation -- he made reference to it many times so far today and said his Columbia education (1951) and Columbia professor formed the basis of his investment philosophy. 3. Charlie Munger thinks ethanol and corn-based fuel is "the dumbest excuse of a business idea ever heard." 4. Prezbo needs to take a page or two from Buffett's book on handling disruptive protests. The shareholder Q&amp;A session was interrupted twice by a Native American group protesting the environmental effects of a Berkshire company. Buffett shut them down quietly and kindly. 5. Some smart-ass senior from Purdue decided to make an ass out of himself in asking Buffett and Bill Gates for a job. He got shot down. 6. Warren Buffett also runs the fastest ever meetings. CCSC oughta take a lesson or two. This just happened: WB: "It's now 3:00 and the meeting will come to order. I am Warren Buffett, Chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway. This first item on the agenda is the reading and approval of the previous meeting." Walter Scott, Director: "Mr. Chairman, I motion that we dispense with the reading and approve the previous minutes." WB: "Do I hear a second? All right, there is a motion on the floor to approve previous minutes without reading them. We will vote by voice vote. All in favor?" *gestures to the audience* 27,000 shareholders: "AYEE!!!!" WB: "All opposed?" 27,000 shareholders: *cricket* WB: "We now enter on the second item of the agenda: the reelection on Berkshire Hathaway directors. I have already introduced them. Votes tendered by proxy show 98% for, 2% against management's recommended slate. Any objections or new nominations from shareholders present?" 27,000 shareholders: *silence* WB: "Directors are reelected. Congratulations." &nbsp; 
Today is the seventh installment in our Senior Wisdom series--bringing you all the '07ers you should have met by now. &nbsp; Claims to fame: University Senator of Senators Preferred swim test stroke? My best stroke is the breast stroke&nbsp; &nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia?&nbsp; 1) To listen To listen to old folks and young folks To listen to those with whom I agree and those with whom I disagree, To listen to the extroverts and the recluses &nbsp; 2) To think To think about what I have listened to To understand what people are saying and why so many different voices are saying different things, To imagine the world from new and unique perspectives&nbsp; 3) To respond To respond to what I have listened to and thought about. When appropriate, when I have understanding, to reveal some of the meaning of the young folks to the old folks to create a better understanding among us all. To respond with a change, when I realize that those with whom I disagree are right. To respect the voices of those who are not often heard and when appropriate to speak up and respond for them. &nbsp; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I justify my existence with every friendly wave, smile or hug I receive. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? I loved when the graduate students threatened and then went on strike. Nothing warms the heart more than the idea of a cancelled class with drum rhythms and protest chants awaiting you at the speakout on the Sundial. I enjoy most of the sundial speakouts because I like the fact that Low Plaza and College Walk, in good weather make a better student center than Lerner ever could.&nbsp; Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? Good kissers are gentle, compassionate and selfless. My Contemporary Civilization professor, Neguin Yavari, formerly of the religion department, is the most gentle compassionate and selfless professor I have ever had. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? This is simple mathematics, please allow me to show my work. If you love Columbia it’s probably because Columbia loved you first. So whoever has given to the senior fund is definitely not a virgin and whoever has not given probably still is a virgin. 84% of the class has given to the senior fund therefore it is some number x &lt; (100% - 84%). Probably 15% Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Cheese&nbsp; &nbsp; Days on campus memory? I remember the feeling that freedom from high school was on its way and thinking that Columbia was going to be the place where I could let my hair down and relax. Regrets? “I had a few, but then again too few to mention.”&nbsp; If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu (scroll), David Chait (scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan. 
What's with the pinwheels on the Butler lawn? Bwog wondered too--apparently, kids from a Long Island high school are setting up 6,000 of them to represent the number of people who die every year from ALS, better known as Lou Gehrig's disease. It's like a cure is blowing in the wind, or something. &nbsp; 
 As you desperately attempt to fill your brain with the Art Hum knowledge you've been neglecting all term, know that there is a light at the end of this exam-ridden tunnel - the print issue, which drops Monday. Herein, Addison Anderson performs a textual analysis of your drunken bullshit. Great Minds Drink Alike Abstract: My target of analysis is the ex post facto retelling of a drunken adventure.&nbsp; What first comes to mind is just how many different narratives are possible for the population of an urban, pedestrian campus.&nbsp; No drunk driving means less dying, and Manhattan’s bounty offers thousands of ways to have an awesome night.&nbsp; Now, a look at semantics. Common Phrases: 1. “Soooo,” “waaaasted,” “druuunk,” etc., as in “I was soooo druuunk last night.&nbsp; I stole some cop’s gun and waaaasted him.”&nbsp; Such words are very common in drunk stories. The speaker expresses the extent of something in the story, usually his/her/his own blood alcohol content or how ho(ooo)t someone looked, using vowel lengthening to express this quantity in sound.&nbsp; I call this “quansonance,” and I find it not only in stories about drunkenness, but also in the real-time speech of actual drunks.&nbsp; Thus: Inquirer:&nbsp; I see you’re drinking rum.&nbsp; How much have you had? Drunk:&nbsp; Ruuuum. Inquirer:&nbsp; Ah, four. 2. “So then…” as in, “So then I pawned the cop’s gun for more schnapps, and since ‘cop’s’ rhymes with ‘schnapps,’ we all started LAUGHING.” Drunk stories are often picaresque, and “so then” is crucial to maintaining the illusion of a logical sequence of events while also allowing for the intrusion of wild escapades.&nbsp; Many stories are simply a chain of “so thens” ad nauseam (i.e. to the point at which the speaker vomited in the cab).&nbsp; The listener wonders whether the speaker is using the terms of a result clause (“so”) and the apodosis of a logical conditional (“then”) to create an illusion of inevitable necessity, perhaps in order to remove responsibility for his/her/his own actions.&nbsp; For instance: “The cop told me to stop drinking, so then I stole his gun, so then he started yelling, so then I shot his foot.”&nbsp; This obfuscates moral choice. 3. “This homeless guy…” In another consequence of our urbanity, drunk stories tend to include the presence of the indigent by means of the phrase “this homeless guy,” as in, “So then this homeless guy overheard us talking about the cop, so then we gave him some pizza and told him to keep quiet.&nbsp; So then we pushed him over a guardrail, so then we ran ‘cause we were LAUGHING.”&nbsp; The “this” in “this homeless guy” is demonstrative yet indefinite, making the homeless guy momentarily specific and yet a walking blank, as if “this” homeless guy exists only for the purpose of “this” story.&nbsp; If the phrase were “that homeless guy,” it would be as if there were only one homeless guy who shows up in everyone’s drunk stories—some sort of eternal, omnipresent Bob Homeless.&nbsp; “This homeless guy” is fleeting, while “that homeless guy” is more substantial, existing outside the narrative.&nbsp; Usage of such a phrase would run counter to the larger effort of assuring one another that homeless people aren’t real. 4. “I was like…” Usage of this phrase alerts the listener to indeterminacy in the speaker’s memory of what he or she said.&nbsp; We may attribute this amnesia to intoxication, but this glosses over a mimetic tension; the speaker is creating a representation, or simulacrum, or “like”-ness, of a vanished reality, and is ultimately saying, “Who I was no longer exists.&nbsp; I merely am, and my recreation of a past ‘I’ comes from my present state of mind and pressures me to present myself in certain ways, specifically as someone who is really cool and adventurous when drunk.&nbsp; Therefore, I was like, ‘We need more schnapps, and don’t tell anybody about this cop or this homeless guy we just killed.’” 5. “ showed up and we were like ‘Whaaat?” New York is full of celebrities, and students want to make it clear that they go where celebrities go but it’s no big deal.&nbsp; Here the speaker tries to appear jaded and above being starstruck.&nbsp; The “whaaat” expresses this detachment through its quansonance and its songlike intonation.&nbsp; What should be noted is that the speaker’s intoxication caused him/her to react to trees and/or shiny objects with the exact same “whaaat?”&nbsp; It should also be noted that the celebrity is in fact William H. Macy, every time, no matter what the speaker says to the contrary. 6. “I went home and cried myself to sleep.” Despite nights rife with sexual tension, drinkers often go home alone. The juxtaposition of “aloneness” and “rife-ness with sexual tension-ness” creates an ironic energy that must be harnessed through the self-deprecating image of crying oneself to sleep.&nbsp; For example, a young fellow might say: “So then her friends were all like ‘We gotta go, Bethany!&nbsp; You’ve got hella blood on your hands!’ So then she left and I went home and cried myself to sleep HAHAHA.”&nbsp; The usage of this phrase has become cliché , but possibilities for original expressions of the topos of drunken somnolence still exist.&nbsp; For instance, after a wild night out, I often cry myself awake. Argument Summated The aforementioned analyses are all I could come up with, but that’s because I have my own individual perspective.&nbsp; Your experience, inherently unique, is sure to yield even more incisive critiques. –Addison Anderson 
 The second-hopefully-annual Pillow Fight is tonight. Meet at the Sundial at midnight, BYOP. Let's make this into THIS. Also, study break with copious desserts from Kitchenette in the EC 2nd floor lounge at 8:00 PM! 
Ovary harvesting... the wave of the future! Diversity before idiosyncrasy Oh yeah! That was pretty fun Timely end of the year reminder 
Says the Primal Scream. Bwog concurs.
 You probably didn’t hear it here first: the freshman class, according to numerous sources, is buzzing with the knowledge that content from the Lit Hum final was leaked to at least one class prior to the exam. Details are shady, but first-years tell of widespread indignation when the exam let out at 3:30 on Friday that many students had received a “study guide” with areas to look for passage IDs and vague ideas of essay topics. The most solid information Bwog has been able to obtain indicates that a female seminar leader gave the information to her entire class, and that it spread via floors and sports teams until hundreds of students had seen the notes, which one source spotted lying around Butler Café after the exam. "Anybody could have gotten 10 out of 10 on the IDs," said one source. The Associate Dean of the Core Curriculum has been informed of the prevalence of alleged leaks. Bwog will update you as more information becomes available. NOTICE, 4:45 PM: As part of a pending comment policy revision, comments with full names will be removed at the request of the target, no questions asked. We live in the age of Google, kids. If you must name names, use initials or something. 
At the sound of midnight's Primal Scream, dozens of students broke out into a veritable Bacchic frenzy on South Lawn. More photos after the jump...&nbsp; One fighter rolled his pillowcase up like a towel-whip and snapped it at people's behinds. Another strong, beautiful, Barnard woman took her pillow to a glasses-beset CC male, and then continued to whack the fellow onto the floor and into the fetal position. "Something just clicked in my head," she said. Nervous unarmed bystanders overlooked the madness from the sidelines, as Nina Bell, the pillow fight's mastermind looked on triumphantly from the sundial, cigarette in hand. Ah, the thunderous boom of pillow hitting skull! Bwog has no idea whose limbs those are...&nbsp; Massacre!&nbsp; - SEV 
This is the 8th installement in our Senior Wisdom series...bringing you all the awesome '07ers you should have met by now.&nbsp; Claims to fame: Spectator Arts and Entertainment editor many moons ago. Preferred swim test stroke? I don't have to know how to swim. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. I can't wear Columbia athletic apparel or use my Columbia email address without pissing people off. 2. Full-time undergrads who put out a daily newspaper work really damn hard. (For serious.) 3. Many ideas/theories and the like. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I was asked to fill out this survey. (How meta of me.) What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? <!-- D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); D( ); //--> This betrays my general lack of caring about the goings on of Columbia, but the whole Matthew Fox thing is pretty awesome. It has nothing to do with me, thus making the whole episode amusing rather than irritating. Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? I try not to. You know what they say: don't shit where you learn. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 25. That seems like a good solid number. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? <!-- D( ); D( ); //--> As I can only think about smegma…. Cheese because it's dead to me now. (Wikipedia that shit. Ick.) Days on campus memory? Not going. Regrets? Nope. If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu (scroll), David Chait (scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan.&nbsp; 
Mr. Manley Cottingshire, capitalized commenter of yore, has submitted to us the following graphic. First time we've seen Sarkozy...on the left? &nbsp; 
NOTICE, Tuesday 4:20 PM:&nbsp; As noted in a previous post, comments with full names will be deleted at the request of the target. UPDATE: Here's some Spec coverage to tide you over. UPDATE 5:29PM: A new email has been released by the Core Office: We have confirmed that there was a significant misjudgment on the part of one Lit Hum instructor, which has resulted in a complicated situation.&nbsp; We now know that some students had information about the content of the Lit Hum final well before the exam took place on Friday. We are looking into this matter so that we can ascertain all the facts, but we just wanted you to know that we are aware of the situation. Thanks go to all students who contacted their instructors and the Core Office. Patricia Grieve, Chair of Literature Humanities Deborah Martinsen, Associate Dean of the Core Curriculum &nbsp; The following e-mail was sent to all Lit Hum teachers earlier today: Dear Colleagues, There has been an unfortunate breach in Lit Hum final exam security. Notes identifying the quotations and sketching out the essay questions circulated among students prior to the exam.&nbsp;&nbsp;(We have one copy of these&nbsp; notes.) THE TELL-TALE SIGN: Crime and Punishment - the students did not know of the last-minute quotation substitution. SO, if any of your students identified the passage from Crime and Punishment as occuring in the Epilogue, chances are they had access to&nbsp; these notes.&nbsp;&nbsp;If the student correctly identified all of the other passages,&nbsp;&nbsp;chances are even greater.&nbsp;&nbsp;If they identified the exact Canto in Dante, they are very high indeed. We will send out recommendations regarding grading later in the day. Meanwhile, we are trying to determine how widely these answer sheets circulated and would welcome any information you have that may help. Please refrain from submitting your final grades until we get back to you. ALSO - WE WILL REQUIRE THAT ALL INSTRUCTORS SUBMIT ALL BLUE BOOKS TO THE CORE OFFICE. Thank you, Dr. Deborah A. Martinsen Associate Dean of the Core Curriculum &nbsp; 
Well, apparently you all are too busy studying to participate in a photo contest about being too busy studying. Sumaiya Ahmed did get one good shot of Butler craziness. &nbsp; 
 Student Body Poll: Females, Liberals, GS students are better people Consume consume consume (ethically)&nbsp; There's some blood on your banana&nbsp; What happens in Geneva stays in Geneva (unless it's on YouTube) And now, something from an advisor to Palau&nbsp; 
This is the ninth installment in our Senior Wisdom series...bringing you all the awesome '07ers you should've met by now.&nbsp; Claims to fame: I yelled "CUNT" loudly and repeatedly to an audience of several hundred people on multiple occasions when I was in the Vagina Monologues freshman year (although I still wonder about the possibility of actually reclaiming that – or any – word). I threw my heart and extracurricular soul into SEEJ before I became a bit disenchanted. (The people are amazing and they do incredible work but - call me a Machiavel if you wish - all the consensus-building wasn't really my thing.) I've done the Orchesis ads since sophomore year (forgive the varying degrees of aesthetic appeal) and did the Barnard Senior Fund ads this year (forgive the surplus of girly pink polka dots). I will continue to serve on the Barnard SRI Committee as an alumna and actually make it do something valuable (I hope). I was on stage at the Apollo Theater during a CUE pre-orientation field trip, only to be defeated by a 10-year-old break dancer whose moves were, admittedly, more impressive than my overly enthusiastic gyrations and offbeat pelvic thrusts. Preferred swim test stroke? I go to Barnard where we denounce the artificial boundaries of separate types of strokes as a social construct and, furthermore, regard the imposition of a swim requirement as unnecessarily denuding, upholding the objectification of women while perpetuating the patriarchal system/western canon. Anyway, we expect that our men will find a way to carry us across the water with their hunky, tan, rippling-with-muscles bodies. Then feed us grapes. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. They all lie. It does too matter what you major in. And grades can matter, too. 2. Students here are often characterized by absurdly high numbers of hours spent in Butler, either because they are succumbing to the Ivy/NY pressure to take more credits than everyone else or because it's the closest thing to community this campus has (besides the uber-democracy of Low Steps in the springtime). 3. The need to balance faith in chance/autonomy; there is no center/objective truth; the value of people who are actually listening; always ask for extra lime; NY is unparalleled but the west coast is home; sleeping is overrated; the joys of occasionally/frequently being a pretentious asshole; and (token cheesy moment) true friends are, under no circumstances, to be taken for granted. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I've an astonishing gift for creating, compounding, and reintroducing awkwardness. Having provided such invaluable entertainment to friends and/or strangers and/or incredulous 1020 patrons, I proceed to feel no awkwardness whatsoever. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The legacy of my first-year floormate, the esteemed sex columnist Miriam Datskovsky. Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? Paul Scolieri. Michael Taussig. Sunil Gulati. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? After the debauchery and recklessly deluding influence of imminent nostalgia during senior week? Whatever it was before, minus a few. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Oral sex. As long as I can still have camembert, smoked gouda, and penetration (not simultaneously, you goofs), I will manage. Days on campus memory? Never did it. Imagine one for me. Regrets? Not taking various classes (e.g. Bollinger, Carnes, Foner, Marten). Taking psychology for my science requirement. Not discovering the leafy charm of Riverside Park sooner. Not using the librarians more because they are actually really useful for researching certain papers. Not taking more advantage of free admission to MoMA. Not being nicer. Not being meaner. Not adequately learning brevity. Not actually accomplishing more/lapsing into solipsism when answering questionnaires because I'm about to be skewered by skeptical Bwog readers starting... now. If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu (scroll), David Chait (scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan.&nbsp; 
After the RIAA initiated a series of lawsuits against Columbia students starting in February, students' rights rose to the forefront of campus debates once again, stirring up controversy about the role of the university and privacy in the digital age. But what happened to those kids? Bwog asked Orlando Rodriguez, C'09, what it's like when the Man sticks you. When did the RIAA tell you they were suing you? So in late March- it was March 25th I think- I found that my internet was shut off. I called the computer people and they told me they had shut it off because of the RIAA. The guy sounded very serious and said, "Stop or they'll sue you." Then a week later I got a letter from the RIAA, which told me to go a certain website and type in my 'case number.' And that's when you found out how much they wanted? Yeah, it's $3000. If you pay the money then the charge goes away, but if they take you to court they can charge you up to $150,000. It's $750 per song because of all the extra crap, the videos and all that. How many songs did you have? It was less than a thousand, which was low. I've heard of someone settling for $8,000, so I'm at the lowest end of the spectrum. Most of the settlements are around $5,000. So they got you for having these songs downloaded? It wasn't that I was downloading, it was that I had shared too many. I never fixed my Limewire so that they songs weren't shared. How are you settling this? Did you hire a lawyer? No, no lawyer. It's too expensive, more expensive than I'm paying. My sister works for a law firm, and they told me my best course of action would be to settle. They give you two options: settle it now- through the Internet- How, through PayPal? Yeah! There's a website you can go to- I forgot exactly what it's called- and you can pay through PayPal. It's like buying a product- I thought it was a scam at first! But within 20 days, you have to pay it all or set up a payment plan, for which they give you six months. It's an extra $250 to do the monthly plan, so now I'm paying $3,250. It comes out to $540 per month, and if you miss a payment, they will double the whole thing. Yes- to $6,000. I spoke with a lady from the RIAA, because you're assigned a specific agent or something, who told me they would be more lenient on me because I was a student though. My first payment is due in three days. <!-- D( <!--more-->\u003cbr /\>\u003cbr /\>Do you think you\'re being held up as an example?\u003cbr /\>\u003cbr /\>Yes, well... What do they think they\'re going to do? Attack everyone,\u003cbr /\>when nine out of ten students download music? I don\'t think they\'ll\u003cbr /\>actually take students to court over this, it would be like calling\u003cbr /\>their bluff. I agree that students are the ones who they should go\u003cbr /\>after, though, and that we shouldn\'t download music. I am willing to\u003cbr /\>pay... But I think it\'s unreasonable. And if I don\'t settle, they can\u003cbr /\>subpoena the school for more information.\u003cbr /\>\u003cbr /\>How are you going to pay the fine?\u003cbr /\>\u003cbr /\>Well neither the school nor the bank would give me loans because this\u003cbr /\>is non-educational. I contacted my advisor and met with her, but the\u003cbr /\>school isn\'t going to do anything because this does not have to do\u003cbr /\>with anything academically. I also come from a single-parent\u003cbr /\>household... I\'m working two jobs this summer to pay off a substantial\u003cbr /\>part by the time summer\'s over. I\'m also trying to get my uncle to\u003cbr /\>give me a loan.\u003cbr /\>\u003cbr /\>What did your mother say?\u003cbr /\>She wasn\'t upset, she just was just worried that this would stress me\u003cbr /\>out on top of school work.\u003cbr /\>\u003cbr /\>-KER\u003cbr /\>\u003c/div\>",0] Do you think you're being held up as an example? Yes, well... What do they think they're going to do? Attack everyone, when nine out of ten students download music? I don't think they'll actually take students to court over this, it would be like calling their bluff. I agree that students are the ones who they should go after, though, and that we shouldn't download music. I am willing to pay... But I think it's unreasonable. And if I don't settle, they can subpoena the school for more information. How are you going to pay the fine? Well neither the school nor the bank would give me loans because this is non-educational. I contacted my adviser and met with her, but the school isn't going to do anything because this does not have to do with anything academically. I also come from a single-parent household... I'm working two jobs this summer to pay off a substantial part by the time summer's over. I'm also trying to get my uncle to give me a loan. What did your mother say? She wasn't upset, she just was just worried that this would stress me out on top of school work. -KER 
 Spec's reporting that freshmen will have the option to retake the lit hum exam or to receive a grade based on the rest of their work this semester. Apparently, it was all the professor's fault... So the choice is obvious for most. But what about all those C students who have already jet off for the Caribbean? Full text of the email after the jump. (Don't worry, the article is still on the Spec site.) You'll notice they said they released it "to the press"- check the New York Post, Daily News, AND New York Sun tomorrow for doubtlessly enlightening information, some of which was gathered through Facebooking freshmen. To All Literature Humanities Students The following is the statement that the University has released to the press: On May 7th it came to the attention of the Literature Humanities faculty that the results of the final examination for the course may have been compromised. The exam grades were immediately set aside and an ad hoc <!-- D( ); //--> committee of senior faculty appointed to review the matter and recommend next steps.&nbsp; &nbsp;The committee met today and confirmed that the exam had been compromised and that responsibility for this lay with an individual faculty member and not with the students. &nbsp; In these circumstances the committee decided that students in the course will have two options: 1. To have the course grade determined on the basis of all work completed prior to the final exam; 2. To take a replacement exam. Patricia E. Grieve Austin E. Quigley Nancy and Jeffrey Marcus Professor in the Humanities Dean of Columbia College Chair, Literature Humanities ************************************************************************ The ad hoc committee, consisting of past, present and incoming chairs of Lit Hum plus several senior faculty currently teaching Lit Hum, expresses sympathy for all students whose year of Lit Hum at Columbia <!-- D( ); //--> has ended in this way.&nbsp; To ensure equity, the committee has set the following policy: Grades based on work completed prior to the invalidated final exam will be posted by Tuesday, May 15. Students who wish to accept the posted grade need take no further action. Students who choose to take a replacement exam after seeing their grade must declare their intent to do so to the Core Office no later than Friday, May 18, at 5:00 p.m.&nbsp; A separate e-mail address is being created for this purpose; it will be sent to you shortly.&nbsp; This notification date is needed in order to arrange the logistics required for a replacement exam. The replacement exam will be administered on the first Friday afternoon of the fall 2007 semester.&nbsp; Further details will be announced in due course. Patricia E. Grieve, Nancy and Jeffrey Marcus Professor in the Humanities, Chair of Literature Humanities Deborah A. Martinsen, Associate Dean of the Core Curriculum 
 Last night, tipster Ryan Withall recommended checking out 317 Hamilton, where, he wrote, students had gone a bit crazy on the blackboard during what must have been an intense study session. Curious, Bwog took a break from work and headed over, to find a creepy crop circle of chairs, arranged in the shape of a heart. On the board, someone had scrawled some puzzling aphorisms: "Taste love right now because forever eats at the Olive Garden" "Bravery thinks for no one, love the face you share with friends" "Treat yourself, you never know when the ones you love will move to the center of the solar system" "The Bouncing Baby drowns my sorrow" "Safety approaches those who full heartedly bathe in sweet cookie batter, for thine is the Sophomoric help" Also, Bwog heard that some charitable sophomores were wandering through Butler several hours ago, getting rid of their stash of 500 condoms by strewing them across desks ringed by toiling students, as if to say, study break!&nbsp; 
 The New York Post, which was trolling around facebook and e-mail aliases for sources yesterday, fingered the assistant Comp Lit professor whom students accused of giving away answers, in characteristically rabid fashion.&nbsp; Spectator confirmed and has an interesting story to go with it.&nbsp; The Daily News gave it two inches. &nbsp; Ivygate thought it was all hilarious and ennobled a few good comments. The New York Sun talked about other schools' problems. Oh, Rupert Murdoch... P.S. If you're in a petition-signing mood, there's a facebook group! 
This is the tenth installment in our senior wisdom series, in which we bring you awesome '07ers whom you should have met by now. &nbsp; Claims to fame: Prior to attending Columbia, I worked as a high-fashion model here in New York and around the world. &nbsp;While at Columbia, I served on my student council, as well as my college's University Senator. &nbsp;In that position, I have served as the Chairman of 3 Senate Committees, including the Student Affairs Caucus, which represents every Columbia University student. Preferred swim test stroke? I strongly believe that any stroke that gets the job done is preferable... What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) $6 Billion in the bank, and you can still have no money... 2) I can move political mountains, but I still cant walk on campus without tripping over my heels on college walk. 3) I'm pretty sure there's a lot more to life than being really, really ridiculously good looking... but I am still not sure what that is. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I tend to only be existentially important at 2AM when the press calls for last-minute quotes and comments for next day's release... What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The Minutemen/Free Speech controversy... &nbsp;Really? &nbsp;Really? Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? Easy... Chen Laoshi (bless her former teaching career...) What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? I dont think I have met a virgin on campus... where do they hide? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Cheese, I don't like things that smell that way. Days on campus memory? My first time walking out of Low Library... seriously isnt our campus ridiculous? Regrets? Often limiting my involvement to meetings and policy, instead of also being more involved socially on campus. If you're burning for more class of 2007 profiles, check it: Frances Howorth, Josh Bolotsky, Jenni Oki, Seth Flaxman, Maria Baibakova, Karen Fu (scroll), David Chait (scroll), Dan Okin, Anthony Walker, Nick Klagge, Claire Lackner, Paul Sonne, Karina Garcia, and Sakib Khan.&nbsp; 
 The second installment of&nbsp;Bwog's ongoing documentation of Professor Richard Bulliet's best lecture quips is here! Below, the venerable Middle East history don's most amusing offhand&nbsp;remarks from the second half of this semester's trial run of Islamo-Christian Civilization. The first part can be found here. On course requirements: "For the record, no one in this class is required to watch an al-Qaeda recruitment video, or go off and pursue jihad." "Graduate students might want to write something substantially longer &nbsp;- that is to say, doorstop size. I don't want to be able to lift three of them." On the International Islamic University in Pakistan: "They had 740 acres...enough to make Lee Bollinger drool with envy. Of course, they had to level several villages." "It was not a great big giant madrassa. No one was doing calisthenics with kalashnikovs. It was kinda disappointing." On European perceptions of Islamic conversion&nbsp;in Indonesia: "You might have thought that Indonesia was a less sophisticated society and that Islam represented a kind of Windows Upgrade complete with all the patches and things that still don't work right." On being a grad student: "What grad students read that is not assigned is often more important than what is. It was how I got my first introduction to "Sweet Savage Love," a rape romance being sold in supermarkets." On being a grad student in the Ottoman Empire: "Graduate students roamed the countryside in gangs, stealing or extorting money to stay in school. This is a situation we can all sympathize with." "If you had a graduate student who could not pay his way, this was not a problem; he could just be shot." On being an assistant professor: "During hemorrhoid operation I was the one who carried his doughnut-shaped pad to sit on in the lecture hall...being an assistant professor is not such an exciting experience." On Western operatives: "In Arabic, was called 'the chinless one' because his chin had been shot off in World War One. When he came to Harvard I had to pick him up at the airport, and he had two requests. The first was to find him the nearest outlet of the Church of England, the second was to show him a pharmacy where he could buy laxatives. The typical Englishman abroad." "The Bay of Pigs proved that the CIA was no more trustworthy than the USPS. These were the guys who couldn't even deliver the mail." On World War One: "There are movies, there are stories, there are histories - nobody agrees on anything. This also just so happens to be when the Armenians died." On terrorism: "The terrorists of the 19th century threw bombs at carriages, not pizza parlors...now, I'm not saying the invention of the pizza parlor was lethal, although it's certainly contributed to my obesity." Imitating an exploding stethoscope: "Yes...I've come to administer to your hemorrhoid problem...boom!" On a 1970s Iranian student conference at Columbia in which participants weeded out and booted agents of the Iranian secret police and the CIA: "What kind of a rinky-dink university just allows student groups to kick anyone out?" After discussing an incident in which a student killed a professor: "I live at an undisclosed address." -CJS 
 Columbia students who stayed tuned after American Idol tonight were rewarded by this Fox 5 news teaser: "The cheating scandal at Columbia - the teacher at the center of the storm, and the tough choice students are being forced to make." The Fox News affiliate ran a brief story, with both the usual (stock footage of college walk, picture of Wen Jin) and with the somewhat more interesting. One freshman engaged the reporter in this exchange: STUDENT: "I think, because it's Columbia, people like to sensationalize the whole thing." REPORTER: "So you're blaming it on us..." STUDENT: "Yeah, you guys." 
Bwog Music Critic Bryan Mochizuki catches up with former boss Will Welch, CC ’03. Settle in, it’s a long one.&nbsp; Will Welch isn’t the sort of alumnus you hear about a lot—he doesn’t donate eight figures in scholarship money or own the Pats or herd sheep with Heath Ledger.&nbsp; But he’s the Deputy Editor of a magazine called The Fader, so chances are he’s at least had something to do with your iTunes library.&nbsp; Welch co-wrote Kanye West’s first-ever cover story, and as an editor, helped break artists like M.I.A., Lady Sovereign, Lupe Fiasco, Baby Cham, Mavado, Love Is All, Rick Ross, and Bloc Party, to name a few.&nbsp; I got to know him when I interned for The Fader a year ago.&nbsp; A few weeks back, we grabbed Indian food. &nbsp; So when you were at Columbia, you worked at WKCR right?&nbsp; Not really, I was an intern there for my friend Hank Shteamer who now works for Time Out NY writing about music and who writes for us occasionally.&nbsp; He graduated in 2002 but I did a couple semesters of just casually working with him, he was just teaching me shit.&nbsp; The idea of working with someone like that is to eventually get your own show.&nbsp; But I kind of bagged it before that.&nbsp; It was an awesome experience – the show was Daybreak Express - but the jazz I was listening to wasn’t really aligned with the program, and I didn’t want to fake it.&nbsp; I wasn't really immersed in Charlie Parker and stuff like that.&nbsp; So I ended up not following through with it.&nbsp;&nbsp; But it was an amazing mood up there.&nbsp; Let’s see, Birdflight – I can’t remember if Birdflight, which is Phil Schaap’s Charlie Parker show, was before Daybreak Express or after.&nbsp; But he would always be in the studio with us for like half an hour.&nbsp; He saw Bird when he was like two years old with his father, and he used to crawl around on the rugs on 52nd street and stuff like that.&nbsp; He has a steel trap for a brain, so to listen to him talk and break stuff down for Hank and I was just fucking awesome.&nbsp; Just the stories we heard. &nbsp; How soon did you get the job at The Fader after you graduated?&nbsp; I started as an intern the week before I graduated.&nbsp; So I worked for like a week and then went home for a couple weeks.&nbsp; Then when I came back I was doing like three or four days a week.&nbsp; So then how soon did you move up to an editor position?&nbsp; I guess I started as an assistant editor after maybe two and a half months – before summer was over.&nbsp; I was working as a bar-back at a really obnoxious restaurant on the Westside Highway called The Park.&nbsp; So yeah, I would do that until 5 am and get to The Fader by 12.&nbsp; I started writing while I was an intern, pretty much right away.&nbsp; In fact I pitched something in the week before I graduated, my first week.&nbsp; It was an Athens, GA based story, so I went home to Atlanta for a week and a half and did that story while I was there.&nbsp; Who was the story on?&nbsp; Drive-By Truckers.&nbsp; Yeah?&nbsp; That was your first story?&nbsp; It wasn’t a cover story, it was just a one-page.&nbsp; So I went to Patterson Hood’s house in Athens and did it while I was there.&nbsp; Did you know them before you did the story?&nbsp; I had seen them a bunch of times, but I didn’t know them personally.&nbsp; So I met him there at his house.&nbsp; What was your first big feature?&nbsp; Back cover story, also on Drive-By Truckers. I was in Muscle Shoals, Alabama for like three days, then Tuscaloosa with them, doing the cover story.&nbsp; That was my first time traveling on a plane for the magazine.&nbsp; I’d done some road-trip to Ithaca, NY to do a story on the Black Eyes.&nbsp; But that was my first really big story, and then the next issue I had a back cover story on Rick Rubin and a feature on Wiley.&nbsp; Which was cool because that was really before anyone else was covering any of the grime stuff besides Dizzie Rascal.&nbsp; What’s the process for finding the new stuff? Rick Rubin’s Rick Rubin, but Wiley and Drive-By Truckers back then, how’d that come about?&nbsp; were weird because they were really well known for years in certain circles but entirely out of the context of The Fader.&nbsp; There was a lot of negative feedback to us doing a cover on them, but we never flinched for a second about it, myself and the editor-in-chief at the time.&nbsp; But as far as calling stuff ahead of the time, I don’t know.&nbsp; Part of it is believing that what you like is actually good, then also recognizing certain sign-posts that suggest that other people are going to care, too.&nbsp; It’s weird because it’s a little bit circular, putting someone on the cover.&nbsp; I wish it were more this way, but it’s a bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy.&nbsp; It’s like, “Oh, how did you know that this unheard of person on the cover was gonna turn out big?”&nbsp; “Well, the cover itself helped them.”&nbsp; To some degree, to a small degree.&nbsp; Like I said, I wish that it helped them out more than it does.&nbsp; But, I don’t know, it’s just practice.&nbsp; The whole editorial is responsible for any cover call, but I’ve been the engine behind some failed covers.&nbsp; What sort of stuff?&nbsp; I think one of the best issues of the magazine ever had a total bust of a cover.&nbsp; We did this huge hip-hop feature with all sorts of untold stories.&nbsp; And the photographs were amazing, and it was all “as told to” style stories.&nbsp; It was really things that nobody had heard before.&nbsp; We knew that we wanted to put a young, unknown, emerging artist on the cover and I was pushing for this guy Maceo, who ended up on the cover, and he had one hit – one regional hit – and no one cared about him.&nbsp; It kind of kept that hip-hop feature that we had all worked so hard on from getting across like we would have liked.&nbsp; Why do you think Maceo never hit big?&nbsp; He was at the right time, right sort of thing, right sound-&nbsp; Yeah he had a really good song and he was a really cool personality.&nbsp; He’s got a lot of style, good-looking.&nbsp; It was cool too because it was basically a snap music story just as that was beginning to break, and Diplo wrote this amazing story about how snap music is a symphony of four sounds.&nbsp; I don’t know, his label situation maybe wasn’t perfect.&nbsp; I don’t know.&nbsp; He just never got the pick-up.&nbsp; And D4L did.&nbsp; Yeah, and we knew about D4L, I had just been in Atlanta, and what I heard was that D4L was kind of a mess.&nbsp; And it’s hard to put a group of four people on the cover and make it look good, so it just seemed like they weren’t the right face for it.&nbsp; Which I still don’t think they were, but anyway, Maceo wasn’t the answer.&nbsp; So what sort of flack did you guys get after the Drive-By Truckers story?&nbsp; It was just people being like, “What?”&nbsp; The great thing about music magazines is that people become fans of them and they feel like they’re a part of them and they feel not only do they get turned onto things by magazines, but when magazines cover what they already listen to, they feel validated.&nbsp; Some people feel like a specific magazine is theirs on a particular level.&nbsp; So when a totally new kind of thing is introduced and it feels totally out of the box, understandably people feel like, “This isn’t the magazine I have been a subscriber to for two years and why are you doing this?”&nbsp; But that changes as you continue to do stuff that people feel that way about.&nbsp; They get used to it and eventually get into that kind of music, or at least learn something from the writing or the coverage.&nbsp; But yeah, country and all of its offshoots are music that’s very dear to me and that I grew up listening to, along with Pearl Jam and Guns ‘n’ Roses and the kind of music that everyone was listening to in elementary school and junior high.&nbsp; I was not only allowed to but encouraged to bring that into the magazine because my own knowledge of it and passion for it was validated among the editorial staff.&nbsp; There wasn’t that much concern for whether or not people were going to be really excited about it.&nbsp; As long as the ideals and execution were valid, the content was fair game.&nbsp; Did you listen to a lot of Atlanta rap when you were growing up or was it mostly just country?&nbsp; Well it depends what you mean by growing up.&nbsp; In elementary I listened to country music – Dwight Yoakam, Marty Stuart, Garth Brooks – and I would wear white jeans and black cowboy boots and Garth Brooks patchwork shirts to school.&nbsp; Atlanta’s the south, but wearing modern Nashville country clothes in fifth grade was really kind of weird to people.&nbsp; So I did that, but I remember when I was thirteen and playing basketball on the traveling team, I started really getting into hip-hop through my teammates.&nbsp; &nbsp; For a while, the only music I cared about at the end of the day was Outkast.&nbsp; They were talking about a city I’d lived in my whole life but they were talking about sides of it that I didn’t really know but at the same time I still felt some connection to.&nbsp; And, you know, the music itself was just completely out of this world.&nbsp; I’d been listening to funk and soul, or starting to, and it really struck a chord with me.&nbsp; My interests into hip-hop proceeded from there.&nbsp; &nbsp; And at the time, interest in hip hop for someone who was interested in music was completely inevitable, especially living in Atlanta.&nbsp; No matter what neighborhood you lived in – you know I was born in 1981, so in the mid 90’s I was in my teens, which was just an explosion of hip hop.&nbsp; My own experience was skewed towards southern hip hop – Outkast and Goodie Mob and UGK – but as a hardcore music fan all hip hop at that time was unavoidable.&nbsp; So you had that lexicon before you came to New York?&nbsp; Uh huh.&nbsp; In high school I listened to some jam music and through my friend whose dad was a Dead-head, I got into Grateful Dead.&nbsp; I didn’t live in the suburbs but there was a certain suburban aspect to my school, so that stuff was really standard in that year too.&nbsp; Then I started getting into jazz, but like anyone else, whatever was on the radio and was really good I was jamming too.&nbsp; And at the time I was listening to Hot 97.5 mostly, which had Chris Lova Lova and Poon Daddy hosting the show that I listened to in the afternoon.&nbsp; Then Chris Lova Lova became Ludacris.&nbsp; So that was kind of funny too, that this ham on the radio I used to listen to became this huge rap star.&nbsp; His first tape was really amazing, it was called Incognegro and that was his first underground tape before he got a deal.&nbsp; So I was totally aware and into all of that, but I was a hardcore Outkast and Goodie Mob fan, and then all the Dungeon Family projects that no one else cared about I was super into.&nbsp; Was it weird for you to go back to your hometown for The Fader and go to all of these clubs you’d heard about and change how you saw Atlanta?&nbsp; As I got older I had been doing that myself.&nbsp; I played drums in high school, which I don’t do anymore, but through a series of weird connections my name had been given to this rapper, named Sporty.&nbsp; I think his name might be Sporty-O now, I just sort of heard of him again, I’d been wondering if he was still around.&nbsp; But he got in touch with me because he wanted a live drummer to do some studio stuff for him.&nbsp; So I did that and I ended up going to weird clubs to see him play – I never performed live with him.&nbsp; &nbsp; And then one summer I drove a beer truck and one of the guys that would drive the truck with me a lot was also an Atlanta rapper who lived near the airport, just outside of College Park.&nbsp; And I would go to his house and we would fuck around in his home studio and stuff like that.&nbsp; So by the time I graduated from high school I had some experience with the real underground version of that scene.&nbsp; I wasn’t like friends with anybody who was famous for rapping, but I knew my way around the communities I’d heard in the Outkast songs.&nbsp; So I sort of had experience with that kind of stuff on my own.&nbsp; I mean, I wasn’t actively going to Club 112 or Magic City by myself in high school, obviously, but it wasn’t foreign to me even by the time I got to Columbia.&nbsp; And I don’t say that I’ve played drums with a rapper or delivered beer with a rapper as any kind of claim for creditability to be able to write about that music.&nbsp; It’s just that through my own interest and familiarity with that stuff, that stuff happened, so when I went to Atlanta for The Fader, there were communities and musical vocabularies that I had personal experience with, but not that I thought that that gave me ownership over it.&nbsp; It’s just to say that that wasn’t a total revelation of a different side of Atlanta.&nbsp; I feel like you have a general impulse to shift perceptions about something that’s already pretty established and categorized a certain way, to give an artist their fair due.&nbsp; Like, in the last issue you had a small piece on Bright Eyes, which would seem pretty knee-jerk to most people who pick up The Fader.&nbsp; I just think he’s a really good lyricist and a really good songwriter.&nbsp; I didn’t listen to him when I was 16, he wasn’t making music when I was 16, so I never felt the need to throw off the yoke of something that I was listening to when I was immature.&nbsp; I’m just really into his ethos and his storytelling and his really deft songwriting, not just lyrically but with the way that he actually structures the song and the way that he’s able to pull an emotion from his listeners and himself.&nbsp; &nbsp; I’m skating around the term “emo” – for me it’s not about that.&nbsp; I just get emotionally involved in his music and I think a lot of it has to do with his technical skill as a songwriter.&nbsp; He knows how to structure a song unlike anybody else his age, which is my age, and I’m just so fucking impressed by that.&nbsp; What do you think about the crossover success of Oberst and Jenny Lewis and groups that expose those idioms to a lot of listeners who have never heard of someone like Merle Haggard?&nbsp; I think the idea of needing to have done your homework shouldn’t apply to music. There was a period while I was at Columbia where I was like, “Fuck, I don’t know any of the really really classic Rolling Stones albums.&nbsp; I know the radio hits you couldn’t avoid if you tried but I don’t really know anything about the Rolling Stones.&nbsp; Or like, fuck, I don’t own Abbey Road.”&nbsp;&nbsp; And I felt like I shouldn’t even talk about music because I haven’t listened to the classics, which is funny in the context of Columbia as an academic place as well.&nbsp; &nbsp; But as far as music goes, it took some effort, but I think I succeeded in getting over the idea that you should feel bad about what you know or what you don’t know or what you like or don’t like.&nbsp; And if you’re not experienced with country because you never had access to it or searched it out, but if a country influenced record by contemporary musicians who are classified as indie rock speaks to you, it speaks to you.&nbsp; I wouldn’t know what more I would want from music other than for people to really get into it and have it strike them on some level.&nbsp; &nbsp; I think the obvious thing here to say is I would hope they get into country music from there.&nbsp; But I don’t even really feel that way.&nbsp; I would just hope that they would continue to be really turned on by music from there.&nbsp; If that means that you read the liner notes of I’m Wide Awake It’s Morning and saw that the fucking magnetic and totally emotionally powerful voice backing up Conor Oberst was Emmylou Harris and you went and bought a bunch of Emmylou Harris from there, that’s awesome.&nbsp; &nbsp; Have the last four years changed how you listen to stuff?&nbsp; Do you go home and just zone out into shit you would never cover for the magazine?&nbsp; There’s an element of that, of like, “I just want to go home and pull out a record I loved when I was 12 and had on cassette and put that on and not think about what’s cool or what’s going to do well in two months or if we’re missing the boat on something we’ve decided not to cover.”&nbsp; Any time you work or handle something in the work environment that you love so much, there’s a little stress on your relationship.&nbsp; At the end of the day, it’s not that bad.&nbsp; It hasn’t ruined loving music for me.&nbsp; And there’s just so much music that you can just go get into something else.&nbsp; &nbsp; My relationship to music is that if there’s something I found outside of the work context that I’m super excited about, I’m gonna want to end up putting it into the magazine and sharing it with people that way, so it’s really fluid like that.&nbsp; But yeah, if you love CD’s and going out and spending the 18 bucks and looking at the liner notes and now you’re in a position where you get 25 of them in the mail and one of them is good, you lose that tactile love of the object itself, but there’s other good trade-offs as well that more than make-up for whatever is lost there.&nbsp; &nbsp; Sometimes I write about something that I really love and when I’m through with the somewhat arduous process of writing about something, just because I’m slow, you end up not wanting to listen to the album a whole lot because you spend so much time with it and looked in all its nooks and crannies and ruined the mystery a little in the process of writing.&nbsp; Or maybe you met the person and they weren’t that nice or whatever and you don’t end up playing the album as much as you would have if you were the fan and you bought it.&nbsp; But that’s ok, because there’s always something else to get into. 
This is the 12th and almost-final installment in our senior wisdom series...bringing you all the awesome '07ers you should have met by now. &nbsp; Claims to fame: SGA president, Turath president, Vision Program fellow (a.k.a. I doubted the value of life, hated the world, and ate lots of burek/börek for four weeks in the Balkans). Ooh, and my hunter green scarf. Preferred swim test stroke? No swim test for me. Preferred in-water activity in general: volleyball or just floating on my back and seeing where the water takes me, that is until I start to freak out that I have no clue where I’m going. &nbsp; &nbsp; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Sleep is necessary, yet somehow that truth eludes us on a daily basis. 2. Most people learned this somewhere else or maybe not, but anyway, good friends are amazing and they can brighten up anything, including a week-long stretch in Butler as you finish (start?) writing your thesis. There’s also something really great in that moment you realize that you and your friend just crossed over into “really-good-friend” territory and you know that in ten years he/she will still be sending you links to humor columns in the New Yorker and scenes from Sesame Street. Again, most people got that one earlier in life, but that’s okay. Senior year is better than never. 3. Everything is socially constructed. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Trying to change the world very, very slowly. &nbsp; &nbsp; What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Pish. Controversies. Blah. Giant Rat at gates = wonderfulness. Protests are generally good. Protesting against the Fed cartoon, University policy, war in Iraq, no benefits for T.A.’s is definitely good. &nbsp; &nbsp; Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? Any professor who can play an instrument or sing. Musicians are hot, and I’m guessing they make good kissers.&nbsp; What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 30%?&nbsp; &nbsp; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I’m slightly lactose-intolerant and generally not a huge fan of cheese, so cheese. &nbsp; &nbsp; Days on campus memory? The Magnolia tree on Lehman Lawn was in full bloom, and it looked like a giant cloud of pink. It was absolutely stunning, and I loved it. &nbsp; &nbsp; Regrets? Not sleeping enough. Not going to Orgo Night. Not learning to ballroom dance. All in all, it’s been a good four years, and the nostalgia is definitely kicking in. &nbsp; 
Dear readers, We've been thinking a lot in the last few months about comments, which we believe are a large part of Bwog's function as a public forum. Lately, a particularly bad spate of offensive remarks and ad hominem attacks have diminished the value of that function. At the beginning of the year, we added this comment policy, which hasn't done much to prevent nasty posts. Although other blogs require users to register with e-mail addresses, we've been hesitant to do the same, both because of the relative ease with which different identities could be adopted, and the belief that students are entitled to a degree of anonymity. After a few long e-mail chains, we've come up with a tentative solution: having all comments posted from the same location on a single thread highlight when you click on one. That way, at least you could see if someone was monopolizing the discussion. But you probably have better ideas than we do. How should the comments be moderated? How much anonymity would you sacrifice for knowledge? What do you you think should be censored, and what's just free speech? Please use the comment thread to talk about...comment threads. Welcome to summer, Bwog Staff
 Finals are officially over.&nbsp; You are done, done and done -- even those of you in Intro to Accounting &amp; Finance, Jazz Improvisation, and one section of General Physics II (the only Thursday 7-10 exams).&nbsp;&nbsp; Congrats.&nbsp; Go do something really fun. UPDATE: Some SEAS finals tomorrow? Bwog is doubly sorry. 
 This is the last installment in our senior wisdom series. This time, meet the graduating seniors of The Blue and White: Publisher Jessica Shizu Isokawa, senior editors Marc Tracy and Brendan Pierson, Managing Editor Josie Doll Swindler, Editor-in-Chief Avi Zenilman, Copy Chief Nicholas Frisch, Graphics Editor Jerone Hsu, and editor-at-large Addison Anderson. We'll miss you. Claims to fame: Jessica: Blue and White former managing editor and layout editor, current publisher, patience with Avi Zenilman Nicholas: Modesty; concision; writing crossword puzzles and copy-editing for the wretches at The Blue and White and somehow remaining on staff despite unleashing countless volleys of verbal abuse against those wretches. Josie: Spec and Blue &amp; White writer and editor, avoidant personality disorder Brendan: occasional journalist, dilettante Latinist, failed pianist. Avi: Editor-in-Chief of The Blue and White, former Senior Editor of the Columbia Political Review, failed Spec columnist, jazz guitarist Marc: Blue and White partisan; Bethesdan; Camp Winaukee Service Award Winner, 2000. Also, I once flirted with Trotskyism so that I could I say I did so in venues such as this one. Jerone: Named the Bwog in a rare instance of telepathic communication with fellow graduating senior Izumi. Pooped in the bathtub when I was 6 (while still in the tub). Addison: Member of Fruit Paunch, writer for the 111th and 112th Varsity Shows, thrower of good dance parties, winner of a raffle at John Jay Dining Hall for a yellow Cheerios sweatshirt in freshman year, Boot N’ Rally Rally inaugurator.&nbsp; Last year I won a Latin translation prize.&nbsp; That’s how most people know me. Preferred swim test stroke?&nbsp; JSI: The Dodge pool is rather unsavory, so whatever gets me out of it in the shortest amount of time.&nbsp; Since speed is of the essence, freestyle. NBF: Preferred swim test stroke? Breast...heh, breasts. JDS: Taking Scuba for PE BOP: I'm not sure I can do any real strokes properly. AZZ: Anything that shows off my lats. MAT: on my back, flapping my hands, treading water with my legs. JLH: Still haven’t taken it. ASA: Anything that starts with a jack-knife.&nbsp; But you don’t yell out “Jack-knife!” You just say it very deliberately to yourself: “This will be a jack-knife.”&nbsp; What else…I’ve always liked seeing people swimming while drinking martinis or smoking cigarettes, but it’s only cool if the person is at least forty.&nbsp; Doing it in huge overalls would be nice.&nbsp; I did my test sidestroke, persistently looking to see if the attendant was watching how good I was doing, because I’m a seven year-old. What are three things you learned at Columbia? JSI: -East coast winters are bad for the soul -Reading days, not reading week -Social drama seems to peak in October, January, and April And some bookish stuff, to boot NBF: -Privilege is its own reward, apparently. -Brevity isn't always wit, but it's always appreciated, so shut the fuck up you kids in class, you know who you are. -Misogyny makes for more effective pick-up lines than you'd think -- it's all about the delivery. JDS: I didn't learn why people sit on the steps all day, I didn't learn why people major in econ, I didn't learn what the inside of 1020 looks like. BOP: -What "orientalism" means -What "commodity fetish" means -How to make hilarious jokes about these ideas by applying them to everyday life--you should try it AZZ: 1) Wait a day to call, unless you're been guaranteed 60 minutes or less. 2) The difference between normative and positive, and first-order and second-order. 3) People lie. MAT: how to shave with a blade; various things about John Milton; bylines. JLH: It’s important to read instructions carefully. ASA: 1.&nbsp; Koronet’s will give you a free slice if you put on a pizza costume, go in with a boombox full of Zapp &amp; Roger, dance around, and perform a short rap mentioning “slices,” “low prices,” “spices,” and how “it’s tha nicest.”&nbsp; Pinnacle won’t. 2. There are exposed dinosaur footprints on a hillside at the back of the parking lot of New Jersey’s Medieval Times restaurant.&nbsp; I learned that in Dinosaurs &amp; the History of Life, and when you think about the juxtaposition of those two historical leaps (now to the Middle Ages vs. now to the Dinosauric Era), it just goes to show how New Jersey belittles all that’s human.&nbsp; Rest in peace, Science Sequence. 3.&nbsp; People leave stuff lying in places all over campus to be thrown out later.&nbsp; I got two nice chairs, a huge map of the Roman Empire, and the complete works of Shakespeare all free by keeping an eye out.&nbsp; Were you aware that the bookshelf on the right side of Butler Café often has withdrawn books you can take home?&nbsp; Are you aware that I’m essentially a bag lady? 4. EXTRA, i.e. the cheesy ones I didn’t learn only here, but which sure helped: Do what’s right. Don’t beat up on yourself. Laugh loud and hard, everything’s better that way. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. JSI: I'm not really sure that I can at this point in life, which isn't to say that I don't do nice things every day, but you know.&nbsp; Still trying! NBF: As long as I'm not a waste of the planet's resources quite as much as the next guy, I think I'm at peace with myself. JDS: I needed six tickets for commencement instead of four. I matter! BOP: People consistently say I look like both Woody Allen and Conan O'Brien, but never the same people. AZZ: Cargo sweatpants, lexis-nexis, and petty nihilism. I'm really boring at dinner though, and I can't smell. MAT: As much as wearing glasses grants you a whole extra range of useful body language, I sense that my excellent vision makes me a tiny bit less cliched. JLH: Why not? ASA: I try to be a superhero, or sometimes Venom.&nbsp; Toddlers smile at me on the subway.&nbsp; And seriously, don’t you want someone to have the name Addison Anderson? What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? JSI: Crackergate!&nbsp; Which I'm guessing no one remembers.&nbsp; I get a kick out of the random.&nbsp; Real controversy – probably the TA brouhaha. NBF: I found the MEALAC debacle to be the most colorful; everyone was spoiling for a fight, and it touched on themes that have anchored controversies for decades while providing fresh new material - for instance, the epithet "shmear campaign," which I actually found offensive. JDS: Matthew Fox, who I'm looking forward to. BOP: The constant, low-level tension over the role of Barnard--those conversations are always really important and interesting for everyone. AZZ: The one where the guy from St. A's allegedly threw a bottle at a straight guy and called him "faggot." MAT: "I've been reading a lot about that school of yours." --Mr. Blyden, friend of my grandfather's, Highland Beach, FL, February 2005. Also, the McBain arsonist was on my floor in Jay. JLH: Remember when Avi called student athletes dumb chimpanzees in his short-lived spec column?&nbsp; Man, what a chimp. ASA: The MEALAC / “Columbia Unbecoming” scandal, only because it was really fun to go on a writing jag and come up with a parody for V111.&nbsp; So that’s selfish.&nbsp; Otherwise, I don’t recall any fave campus controversies that got me way psyched, bro!&nbsp; I do really like whenever people say “dead white men.” Which professor do you think would be the best kisser? JSI: I prefer TA's. NBF: Lydia Grrrrrrrrrr -- if you're into that sort of thing. JDS: Nick Lemann. BOP: Bollinger or Brinkley; power is an aphrodisiac. AZZ: She’s untenured. MAT: Bilgrami. JLH: Probably the professor who teaches the class on kissing. (Obvious?) ASA: It comes down to Katja Vogt and Lydia Goehr, both in Philosophy, obviously.&nbsp; Anyway, Katja Vogt would be the best kisser because she speaks with control as well as passion fluctuating with gentleness, and how people talk is generally a good sign of how they kiss.&nbsp; But Lydia Goehr would provide the best individual kiss event because she once told a class how she’d practiced violin so much that now she can’t play compositions anymore, she can only play the scales. So I think it’d be great if someone gave her such a good kiss that all of a sudden she could play violin again. That would be like movies.&nbsp; I haven’t gotten my grade in that class yet. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? JSI: 10% NBF: 0% of my neighbors, that's for damn sure. JDS: Between 1 and 5%, and they are healthier, wealthier, and wiser. BOP: 15% AZZ: My enemies. MAT: Somewhere between 8-15? Sounds like a survey idea! Whats great is there's almost certainly, I'd guess, wide disparities among classes here, even if you survey them all when they're seniors. Last year's seniors? No more than 3%. JLH: What percentage of seniors do you think are liars? ASA: 1.&nbsp; Cheap pun: Gee, any virgins with student loans can look forward to getting screwed from now on.&nbsp; *BA-DOOMP PHBBLRRT*&nbsp; That reeked. 2. Cheap ad hominem: Probably only one or tao percent.&nbsp; (Just kidding, he wallows in ass.&nbsp; Tao’s like Scrooge McDuck except he swims through not only gold coins but tequila-soaked boobies.) 3. Cheap ad scholam: FU SCHOOL FOR ENGINEERING AND APPLIED SCIENCES PERCENT!!!&nbsp; (I bet engineers are actually pretty good in bed – humble, pragmatic, and inventive.&nbsp; They probably don’t get stuck inside their own heads as much as angsty CC kids worried about their place in the world, so maybe you don’t have to spend as much time listening to them talk about how much they hate themselves.) 4. Keak Da Sneak will take your ear cherry. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? JSI: This question is rather unladylike, I think I'll have to abstain from answering. NBF: I may only be a quarter French, but that's enough to find this question outrageous.&nbsp; It's a false dichotomy. JDS: I don’t like swiss. BOP: If people thought harder about this question the answer wouldn't seem so obvious. AZZ: Cunnilingus. MAT: To decide that, I'd first have to divine some ingenius way to combine the two. Let me get back to you. JLH: It is unclear whether the the question refers to the role of the receiver or the giver. ASA: I already gave up coffee and onions, now cheese, too? Days on campus memory? JSI: Nope, but I do remember thinking New York was gross and kind of dirty the first time I visited. NBF: Some kid amazed at what a party school this was and deciding to come here instead of Penn for that reason.&nbsp; I bet admissions was laughing all the way to the bank. JDS: I didn't come, so during Orientation when people kept running up to me and saying "CC or SEAS?!" I had no idea what they were talking about. BOP: I didn't go, but the first time I visited I took the 2 train to 116th street and zaniness ensued. AZZ: I remember sitting on the steps, vaguely bored, but relaxed, with nothing to do.&nbsp; I immediately took an early train back to Baltimore to tell my parents I wanted to go here. Also, on the first day of orienation I thought James Williams' dad was this tall Indian dude who I soon realized lived on our floor. MAT: More like DAZE on campus! Seriously, though, I remember wanting to get it over with and having school start. Orientation, too. JLH: I vaguely remember it being a pretty good time in general. ASA: I didn’t go to D.O.C., but I did visit Columbia on a Saturday during the summer when nothing was open and there weren’t any tours.&nbsp; My dad and I walked around, broke into buildings, and talked to international grad students in labs.&nbsp; And that’s when I knew!!&nbsp; Plus, other Ivies seemed to just run together in a cloud of dysfunction and blazers.&nbsp; I’m from San Francisco and didn’t want to stay in California and NYU’s like Sesame Street with mono so I came here.&nbsp; Oh wait, I do have a Days on Campus memory because I helped host a concert thing for the kids this year.&nbsp; I just had them yell out the names of other schools and I said why Columbia’s better. Regrets? JSI: Not going to more office hours.&nbsp; ack, ack ack, dorky! NBF: Filling out this questionnaire under pressure from my editors; I am terrified of exposing its ramshackle, tawdry wit to the brilliant minds that populate Bwog comment threads and who will no doubt rip it to shreds with their razor-sharp Menckenesque invective.&nbsp; Have a blast, guys, I'll be lying in the grass outside. JDS: If anyone is angry at me, I apologize. That said, I probably should have made more people mad. BOP: Apparently people sometimes think I don't like them. I should have smiled at more people. AZZ: I wish I planned ahead, went abroad, didn't drink to overcompensate for insecurities, learned to shut up, and uninstalled AIM. MAT: Not cherishing Orientation. Underrating happiness, if only some of the time. JLH: I wish I'd proofread. ASA: If you’re interested, I’m looking to make new ones.&nbsp; LAME.&nbsp; Anyway, I regret not throwing parties in the near-vacant, blind Ruggles suite in which I had a huge dingle sophomore year. I regret not seeing a Knicks game, although I’m staying in the city so I can catch one later (after the Warriors glom the ‘ship this year).&nbsp; I sometimes regret the Barnard jokes, but I think people got the point.&nbsp; I regret every time I threw up, except for once onstage during a show, because the old West End deserved it.&nbsp; I regret sitting next to a couple giving each other handjobs at “Troy” and realizing that either God doesn’t exist or He has My sense of humor, and we’re screwed either way.&nbsp; All my other regrets should call me sometime. Well, bye Columbia, I love you!&nbsp; You were Roarrible!™ 
 An astute correspondent who somehow remains pitifully&nbsp;trapped in Butler piqued Bwog's curiosity with this observation: "Her Highness Sheikha Moza, aka the First Lady of Qatar, just took a tour through Butler. This is interesting because she is famous for spending billions to get American colleges to build satellite campuses in Qatar (check out Cornell’s campus in Doha). Is she trying to build a Butler in Doha? Probably not. Despite being very pro 'the global university,' Bollinger said at his last fireside chat that satellite campuses were not in his plans." So...maybe she's looking to build a study abroad center, a la Reid Hall in Paris? Or simply checking out Butler's avant-garde exhibit on the latest in plastic bag technology? 
Bwog has recieved tips that a Law Library technical assistant was shot and killed Tuesday night by suspects still at-large. Malik Murray was at the Aroma Chinese Restaurant on West 125th Street, according to reports from the Spectator and the New York Daily News. Funeral services were held for Malik at Washington Memorial Park at 12:30 this afternoon. Our condolences go out to those close to Murray. Bwog will continue to post developments on this story as they emerge. UPDATE May 11th, 2008: Bwog received an email from Faatimah Smith-Murray, the ex-wife of Malik Murrah and mother of his seven year old son. Smith-Murray has provided her own account of what happened one year ago, which we've included below: "Malik had just finished teaching an aikido class at Columbia and rode is bike to the New Aroma Chinese food restaurant around 11:35 p.m. When he got there, his neighbor (a woman) was in an argument with the Spanish delivery guy. Malik was trying to calm her down, but she had already called her son and told him she was agruing with the Spanish delivery guy. When her son and his friend got to the store, they asked "where is the Spanish guy you was arguing with?" The woman said, "he left, but this guy over here was popping junk!" (referring to Malik) The boys started pushing Malik around then left the store. Malik went to the door way to &nbsp;make sure the Spanish delivery guy got away. The friend of the woman's son shot 5 times into the store, shooting Malik 3 times in the torso. The 17 year old boy that shot Malik surrender himself to the police a few days after the shooting. He's still in jail waiting trial, which should commence at the end of this month. Malik was a wonderful father to our son, Muhammad. There's not a day that goes by that Muhammad doesn't ask about his "ba ba" (African for father). They used to spend every weekend together, they had a VERY close father and son bond. Malik is GREATLY missed by all who knew him." 
As part of their frenzied effort to beautify the campus before Those Who Pay the Bills arrive, landscapers could be seen on the edge of the SIPA Plaza installing everyone's favorite noxious weed. &nbsp; 
A few Schapiro residents are regretting they stayed at Columbia to party last night. From Ben Isham...&nbsp; A urinal on the 8th floor opened up some time close to midnight, putting about two inches of water on the eastern double tower there, and sending water cascading down the building (all the way to the second floor) Rooms on the floors below had water literally raining from the ceilings. The fire alarm was sounded to evacuate the building due to the risk of electrical fire (the water was flowing down around the recessed lighting on some floors) and eventually people were let back in. Hopefully everyone will be able to move out tomorrow successfully. Bwog welcomes tales from the flood.&nbsp; 
If you unfortunately needed to bolt without picking up our latest issue, here are highlights from the clickable version: Religion? In education? Better believe it... Helfand's baby, in for a checkup Facebook: So much more than a procrastination device Guide to obscure museums...like really obscure museums. Some lovely verses 
 Dear Readers, Thank you for your feedback on how to change our comment system--the knowledge out there is pretty impressive. Although various digg/bury and registration systems are intriguing, we've decided to keep it simple for now and stick with the system we described originally. Starting with this post, if you click on one comment, the rest of the comments in that thread made from the same IP address will be highlighted in yellow. (That means no more conversations with yourself. Yeah, you know who you are.) However, this doesn't have to be the end of comment reform; if you guys hate it, we'll keep tinkering. Also, we realize that just one comment can be as inappropriate as many. As such, here are some new ground rules. You're free to post whatever you want, but know that your comment will be deleted if: 1) It contains a full name, at the request of the one named. 2) It contains ethnic, gender, or sexual-orientation slurs. 3) It contains deliberate and malicious untruths, or irrelevant and ad hominem attacks. 4) It's blatantly insensitive to recent events (i.e. VATech jokes). Finally, if you continue to spew bile, we have no problem with banning your IP. If you have concerns, please let us know at bwog@columbia.edu. Missing y'all already, Bwog Staff &nbsp; 
The 2006-07 school year has contained multitudes. In fact, it may just be the most eventful year Columbia's had since... well, the year before. Remember Matthew Fox? The Chung-Diamond "scandal"? "Don't Be a Pussy"? "Epilogue to Our Crime &amp; Punishment: A Petition"? Bwog certainly does, so step into the Wayback machine - you're about to relive nine months of Columbia in a single post. August First-years move in. Orientation yields a legendary (to Bwog's mind, at least) week-long burst of posting. Addison Anderson went to a bunch of bars in the name of "journalism." Most literary post: "And now for some disorientation," which reads like early Bret Easton Ellis, if he knew about Koronet's. Orientation week was the best. &nbsp; September Facebook went literally insane. Then calmed down somewhat. Harvard abandoned ED; Columbia did not. Columbia Football had as-yet uncrushed high hopes, later crushed. Seth Flaxman declared victory. Best villains: Zuckerberg! Murphy! Ahmadinejad! You know, one of those. October Everything was coming up roses for Mark Modesitt. 1968 spirit was invoked by Jim Gilchrist. The fallout was immense - shady disciplinary letters, "news" coverage of all sorts (Jon Stewart, Fox News). Even Bwog had an opinion. But October wasn't all about relevant television coverage of Columbia issues with high production values - we also had "The Gates"! Best correspondence to Bwog: "Subject: terrorists. your worse then the mooselums who flew the planes into the buildings" November Tasti D-Lite was consumed. Women's soccer won the Ivy League championships. Zvi announced plans to leave, showed us what we'd be missing. Ann Coulter told us all how little sex we had. Thanks were given, albeit not about Ann Coulter or our personal dry spells. Best Milton Friedman obituary: Manley Cottingshire - "AS A BOY FRIEDMAN WAS UNRULY AND I FONDLY RECALL AN INSTANCE OF FIGHTING HIM FISTUALLY." December Matt Sanchez enjoyed the waning days of his legitimacy. Phi Beta Kappa made us worry Facebook was making us dumb. The periodic table became an anatomy lesson. Orgo Night happened. 212 whipped out some holiday-themed sandwiches. Bwog took the temperature of Columbia's music intelligentsia, and everyone loved T.I. Best rage: The girl whose Tide got stolen. January Campus was quiet for a while. Then we heard about the repercussions from that whole Minutemen thing - so three months ago. The CCSC elections loomed in the distance like an ominous specter. Bwog got destroyed by Wesleying in a blog-off; the Belle Jar came to dry our tears. Best sandwich commentary: In a walk, it's Armin Rosen on the Spicy Special. February Glass Houses were rocked. College Dems were thrown for a loop by teach-in. Water-guns didn't squirt students; students squirted students. The sun set on a number of things; thankfully not on Bwog, which celebrated its first (of many?) birthdays. Best unexpected twist leading to a fully-expected outcome: The wild mix of potential candidates that resulted, seemingly randomly, in Tracy Chung and Natali Segovia challenging CCSC heir apparent Michelle Diamond. March Bwog interviewed a band and a writer that people have heard of. Things started to look less rosy for Mark Modesitt, not to mention Matt Sanchez. Tracy Chung accused Michelle Diamond of nefarious doings that we don't quite remember (Diamond was exonerated). Addison Anderson struck again. Oh, yeah, and some actor is speaking at Commencement. Best could-have-been-on-Discovery-Channel feature: David Iscoe encounters a turkey. April Forties decidedly not on Forty. Financial aid scandal. Bwog got artsy and tried something new; "CUSJ" tried to pull some hijinks. The Belle Jar returned! Columbia chose its valedictorian and salutatorian. Some very sad things happened. Best discredited course: Frontiers of Science impresario David Helfand busted out some unique dance moves, while Darcy Kelley admitted to stuffing bats in her bra. Students can also make rap videos for course credit. May Scandal Humanities! Finals driving people crazy! Then most of us left.&nbsp; But Bwog is going to keep publishing - on a reduced basis - all summer. Keep emailing us your tips, and thanks, from the bottom of our cynical Bwogging hearts, for reading. Let's hope for more scandal, more features, and more fun in the years ahead. Bwog Staff 
Looks like the first-years aren't the only ones taking shortcuts. A tipster forwarded us an e-mail from a nameless, irate Music Hum teacher, threatening dire consequences for the miscreant who swiped a pile of final papers. Bwog cowers on your behalf, paper-thief. Here's the e-mail: "Dear all-- "I apologize that there has been a delay in submitting final grades for graduating seniors, and that there may be an extended delay in submitting final grades for all other students. &nbsp;This delay is due to an incident involving theft of a handful of final papers from my mailbox, and for reasons that I am not at liberty to disclose, it is now clear that these papers were stolen by a student from our class, presumably for his or her own benefit. &nbsp;Though I have already communicated with several of you whose papers were stolen, the majority of you know nothing about this. &nbsp;One of you, however, knows exactly what I am talking about. I regard this as a very serious offense. &nbsp;It involves not only theft of personal property--papers belonging to individual students--but almost surely plagiarism. &nbsp;I will absolutely get to the bottom of this, no matter how long it takes to resolve. &nbsp;I have already contacted the Music Humanities Chair about the incident, and we are about to assemble a team of administrators to investigate the matter thoroughly. Final grades for seniors will be submitted shortly, and again, grades for everyone else may be delayed for a while. &nbsp;All grades, however, including grades for seniors, are to be considered provisional. &nbsp;This means that any student's grade is subject to change pending the outcome of this investigation, and my authority to do so has just been reconfirmed by the administration. The student who is responsible for the theft of these papers will want to consider very carefully what I am now offering, for it is both simple and significant: as I already alluded to, certain matters have come to my attention that leaves no doubt in my mind that it is not only a student from our class that is responsible for the theft, but that the identity of the particular student will soon be very clear. &nbsp;I am offering you the rare opportunity to have a private conversation with me about your role in this before I bring all of my information to a disciplinary committee. &nbsp;I myself have served on various disciplinary committees for academic dishonesty at Columbia, and have twice chaired the adjudicating proceedings. &nbsp;I have personally witnessed students receiving very harsh punishments, including expulsion from the University, for matters less serious than this incident. &nbsp;I strongly encourage you to heed what I am saying here. All but one of you can safely ignore all of this as it doesn't concern you. &nbsp;That said, I regret having to send such a disturbing mass e-mail to a class that I genuinely like and respect a great deal. &nbsp;While this is a very serious matter, I also don't want to end on such a negative note: I remain happy and feel fortunate to have spent the semester with you in class, and the experience was rewarding for me overall. &nbsp;Congratulations again to the graduating seniors, and best of luck to everyone." 
 For those of you wondering how Speakergate '07 played out, Chris Szabla took these notes under his blue gown during the speeches. First, Fox called out a Spec quotee: "Matthew Fox singled out Julia Kite for saying that she didn't know who Fox was, and Prezbo followed with 'Julia, I didn't know who he was either,' adding, 'Don't worry, he's gone now.'" And then things got political: "When Quigley introduced Prezbo as being 'farsighted with regard to the spatial planning needs of the university' or something, people understood it as a reference to Manhattanville and started booing. Conversely, there were seemingly cheers whenever OMA was mentioned." And Quigley made a charming chronological faux pas: "Also, Quigley called us 'toddlers of the early 80s,' (though most of us were born from 1984-6) then chatter ensued, at which point he looked up, thought a moment, and just continued. Recycled speech?"&nbsp; Spec takes a more measured approach here.&nbsp; UPDATE, 9:15 PM: In a surprising upset, SEAS Class Day speaker Santiago Calatrava disappointed. By one account, his accent was positively Havelesque, and the speech ("one long drone about public service") dropped the phrase "challenges of engineering" about 10 times. Also, the SEAS senior fund claims about 100% participation. CC got 83%. HOW DO THEY DO IT? In other news, everyone's favorite gay-basher just died. 
 According to a press release by University Spokesman Robert Hornsby, carbon emitted by Commencement ceremonies starting about now (watch the live webcast here!) will be offset by the purchase of carbon credits, which pay for carbon absorption projects around the world. It's all the rage among the guilty-conscience set--and now you can calculate just how much greenhouse gas you're pumping into the atmosphere on your ride home! Bwog's only remaining question: did they factor in what will be coming out of Prezbo's mouth? Also, some leftovers: Via Ivygate: All you Office fanatics, the show came to Columbia just as you left. And...at least somebody liked Quigley's speech. 
Now Bwog editor emeritus Chris Szabla reports on some of the more ridiculous elements of today's pomp and circumstance. Things being thrown/held by various schools: CC: apple cores SEAS: paper airplanes/annoying plastic clapping devices GS: racing flags (because, I guess, they finally made it to the finish line) Barnard: flowers and confetti Nursing: pompoms (just...not right) Architecture: balloons were all I could see, although the Record claimed they had plastic protractors Business: monopoly money Journalism: shredded newspaper SIPA: national flags Law: rubber gavels (people didn't know they were rubber at first and apparently took cover) Dentistry: toothbrushes Continuing Ed: frisbees Teachers College: mostly seemed to ape SEAS' paper airplane thing Some beach balls also bounced among the graduates. CC students mostly let fly their apple cores (and in some cases whole apples) at SEAS, though some held steady and waited to assault Barnard. SEAS counterattacked with a volley of paper airplanes and returned the apples. PrezBo looked visibly displeased when an uneaten apple whizzed near him. As for the address, PrezBo bombed it with an untimely mention of "American Idol" (about a month late according to people who pay attention) interspersed with terribly unwitty self-deprecation.&nbsp;And concerning&nbsp;his references to the untrammeled prosperity of the world economy: huh?&nbsp; Best moment: PrezBo made a condemnatory reference to people who thought in "simple binary form". Upon hearing the words "binary form," SEAS erupted in wild cheers, and PrezBo rephrased awkwardly. CC could not conceal its laughter. More photos from Sumaiya Ahmed (actually taken on Class Day) after the jump... &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Those stuck in New York over the summer, fear not: there's plenty to do off the Island. In this installment of Bwog Adventures, Lydia DePillis takes you to the far reaches of Queens for some equine entertainment. For someone who read as many Black Stallion books as I did as a kid, Belmont Park is a legend--land of endearing underdogs and grizzled grooms, somewhere off in horse heaven. It's actually in Long Island, just over the border from Queens. But that's far enough away to make an adventure, and I had some time during reading week on what just happened to be the opening day of the season. I and two traveling companions, Rachel and CML, left at the leisurely time of 11:00 AM—races don’t start until 1:00 PM—tripping across Morningside Park to the B train, which we took down to 50th, where we transferred to the E to Jamaica station. After casting about for a half hour in the chaotic shopping zone of Jamaica (beware instructions from friendly busdrivers) we finally caught an M110 going in the right direction, which we knew only because of the guy reading the racing form with pencils in his cap. After a half hour traveling deep into the vastness of Queens, the bus deposited us and a handful of other track-goers on a curb next to a huge parking lot. Mounting a skybridge that took us to the grandstand, I gasped at the first sight of the expanse of green laid out below—at 1.5 miles, Belmont’s dirt track is one of the longest in the country. On June 9, it will be ringed by screaming fans, possibly urging home the first Triple Crown winner in 29 years. OK, unlikely, but they’ll still be screaming. Aside from a girlish horse obsession, my excitement stemmed from the sense that there’s probably no place like a racetrack anywhere else in America. It’s as good a cross section of society as you’ll find anywhere outside the US Census, playing host to every ethnicity and social stratum, from frilly-hatted Manhattan matrons to scruffy old men gambling away their paychecks. Of course, that doesn’t mean they have to associate with one another. The track, also like America, breaks down into zones. On the outside, it's more of a park, with fountains and picnic tables where big Italian families and labor unions lay out their coolers of beer and cold cuts. Horses seem forgotten--this is a place to socialize. Moving inside to the grandstand, people are more businesslike, getting their hot dogs and pretzels, placing their bets, watching the race re-run on banks of TV screens. The modern track doesn’t require that you see the races at all, and the grandstand takes care of all you need in between: food, drink, arcade games for the kids, even a barber. I’m not sure what amenities grace the private clubhouse area; that’s closed off to the plebs. I imagine a setting of sumptuous grace, with tuxedoed waiters serving canapés to Arab oil magnates, in contrast to the 60s drabness downstairs. The scene next to the track is slightly more focused, the demographic more uniform. Outdoor benches support pairs of swearing, toothless men, about a third of whom are wearing some sort of Yankees paraphernalia, a few crunching on cigars the size of small trout. The whole scene seems pungently anachronistic. "If this were a Hemingway novel,” remarks CML, “I would've ordered five whiskey and sodas right now." Overpriced plastic cups of beer are more the norm here, but the point is well taken. All legitimate tracks have buglers to announce the procession of horses from the paddock to the course. Belmont Park’s bugler is named Sam. At one point, after we had stood watching him, the red-coated man came up to us to say hi and ask if we were having a good time, his impossibly long horn catching the weak sunlight. Sam is in his 15th year bugling at Belmont, having replaced a guy who quit after scoring $130,000 in the pick six. "In between races, I look for pretty girls, and I go and I schmooze," he explained, before posing for a picture with two awed young men, and going back to work. The action of a track is tidal, in a way. Races go off about every half hour, and crowds flow inside and out on the same rhythm, surging to the fence as the field nears the finish line and receding back into the grandstand afterwards to place bets for the next race.&nbsp; At several points, I gravitate to the tunnel through which the horses trot on their way from the saddling area to the track, their fractious youth contained less by the tiny men on their backs than the stolid “ponies” that accompany them to the gate. During one visit, I’m joined by a lady with a walker on what looks like a supervised trip of disabled adults. "Oh man oh man oh man!" she says delightedly. "They're so beautiful! Hello, hello!" I feel the same way, every time. - Lydia DePillis 
Move-out yields hints of distinctive suite decor. &nbsp; 
The late John K. Lattimer, the military buff and ex-professor and chairman of the urology department at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons, was noted in yesterday's New York Times as the latest owner of Napoleon's penis. Check it: "Dr. Lattimer, a urologist, could claim a professional interest in Napoleon’s genitalia. Not so its previous owner, the Philadelphia bookseller and collector A. S. W. Rosenbach, who took a 'Rabelaisian delight' in the relic, according to his biographer, Edwin Wolf. When Rosenbach put the penis on display at the Museum of French Art in New York, visitors peered into a vitrine to see something that looked like a maltreated shoelace, or a shriveled eel." Concludes the columnist who made these observations: "it's time to let Napoleon's penis rest in peace." Thanks to CJS for the tip. 
 Matthew Fox's Class Day speech just hit YouTube, in all its ghostwritten glory. AMENDMENT, 9:45 PM EST: The assertion that Mr. Fox's speech was ghostwritten is pure speculation, and probably somewhat irresponsible. Bwog apologizes for the potentially specious claim. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
Looking to pick up some summer reading?&nbsp; The woman at the desk of Partners and Crime, in the East Village, told Bwog reporter Emma Jacobs that Manhattan’s bookshop scene’s just not what it used to be--but we didn’t believe her.&nbsp; You can still find some of the best bookshops around hanging in on Manhattan to serve every taste.&nbsp; Click here for a map of the bookshops, and happy browsing! Three Lives &amp; Co. 154 West 10th Street, Greenwich Village Wooden shelves and red brick.&nbsp; This one’s a classic, traditional bookshop in a cozy space in the West Village. Unoppressive, Non-Imperialist Bargain Books 34 Carmine Street, West Village In an incredible corner of the Village, you’ll find amazing prices on remainders focused around politics and art.&nbsp; Children’s bookshop is next door.&nbsp; Also, the name is awesome. Housing Works Used Bookstore Café 126 Crosby Street, Soho Beautiful Soho space sells used books and coffee, with proceeds going to help homeless New Yorkers living with AIDS.&nbsp; Great monthly concert series too. Partners &amp; Crime 44 Greenwich Ave This place has exclusive mysteries and detective novels.&nbsp; The staff know their stuff inside and out. Alabaster Bookshop 122 4th Avenue, East Village Another small-scale classic with used books and rare titles.&nbsp; It has a cat and amazing bargain carts outside. Slotnick Bonnie Cookbooks 163 W 10th St , West Village A bookstore for you cooks and gourmands with lots of hard to find vintage cookbook titles you never knew you’d missed. Shakespeare &amp; Co. 716 Broadway Frnt, Greenwich Village 939 Lexington Ave, Midtown East 137 E 23rd St, Gramercy Park There’s more than one, and they’re all adorable. McNally Robinson Booksellers LLC 50 Prince Street, Little Italy To be honest, this place is a little blander, but the selection is good and it has a teahouse.&nbsp; Who doesn’t love a teahouse? St. Mark’s Bookshop 31 Third Avenue, East Village A little like Labyrinth, an academic place, but with an especially great collection for starving artists. The Mysterious Bookshop 58 Warren Street, Tribeca Surprised that one mystery bookshop can make it?&nbsp; Well, there’s another. Drama Bookshop 250 W. 40th St., Midtown For more dramatic tastes, offers a collection of sheet music, plays and movie scripts. Forbidden Planet 840 Broadway, off Union Square A bookstore of comic books, graphic novels and assorted supplies to realize your personal geekdom. Urban Center Books 457 Madison Ave, Midtown&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Architecture and design bookstore of the Municipal Art Society. 
Bwog returned home to find the following announcement from Director of Media Relations Robert Hornsby in its inbox: "Last month, Columbia promptly brought information received about David Charlow's relationship with former preferred lender Student Loan Xpress to the Attorney General's attention and suspended Mr. Charlow from any engagement in the affairs of the University. As of today, Mr. Charlow has now been dismissed from his employment at Columbia College. We have been working cooperatively with the Attorney General's office to provide documents and materials related to Mr. Charlow's tenure as the head of financial aid for the undergraduate College and the School of Engineering and Applied Science. As these matters are now appropriately in the hands of the Attorney General, we cannot comment further on Mr. Charlow at this time." Charlow follows on the heels of the UTexas guy, and will add nicely to Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's trophy case. Spec has more here,&nbsp; and the New York Post (they are useful sometimes) has some serious dirt here. Our favorite quote: "I want by its design to lead the students to best decision in an idiot-proof way," wrote Charlow to the CEO of Student Loan XPress, the company that earned him over $100,000 in stock sales. Who's the idiot now, David? 
 "ARRESTS VERY LIKELY" read the press release for today's sit-in at Stanford (they don't get out until June 6, the poor dears) over the University's refusal to sign on to a nationwide anti-sweatshop campaign. The Stanford Daily hasn't said anything yet about this latest round of rabble rousing (although they have reported on the ongoing negotiations) so we don't know how well it turned out. In any case, it looks like Columbia may actually be more progressive on this one: after similar antics last April, PrezBo joined the Designated Suppliers Program, a set of labor standards for the factories that produce all those expensive shirts in the bookstore. Stanford President John Hennessy has proven more reticent, which might have something to to with the $105 billion million that Nike CEO and Stanford Business School alumnus Phil Knight forked over last year.&nbsp; Although they didn't do it eight years ago, either, so good luck. &nbsp; - LBD 
 As the weather warms and the tumbleweeds jangle their way down College Walk, a question remains: what'n&nbsp;the hell are all these people still doing here? In what could very&nbsp;well turn out to&nbsp;be the first (or, perhaps,&nbsp;last)&nbsp;of a series, Bwog attempts to answer this question--one interloper at a time. Our first subject is non-interloper Michael, who's been valiantly guarding the vertical ghost-town known as Carman Hall. Why are you here? I'm doing what I do all year round--security. I act as a deterrent. But wait--isn't this building completely empty!? At this point yes, but international students will be moving in over the next few days. Creeped out by the emptiness of it all? No. Trust me, when it's fully occupied it's hard enough. It's like a relief for us now. Anything you miss about the school year? Interaction between me and the students. I see them when they come straight from high school and I watch them grow. I try to be like a guiding light for them. Anything you don't miss? The noise. When you get five, six hundred people passing in and out it's hard to concentrate. Enlightening! More hard-hitting journalism as the summer progresses... 
The controversies surrounding Saigon Grill's mistreatment of delivery workers continue, and in case you've forgotten about&nbsp;the big&nbsp;student&nbsp;protest a few weeks ago, Calvin Sun has put together a video complete with an appropriately dramatic soundtrack. Check it out: 
 So remember the Blue Angel Lounge? No--of course you don't. If you did, you would have eaten there frequently&nbsp;and prevented the Thai restaurant on 123rd and Broadway from closing its doors this past month, you&nbsp;jerks. Anyway, Bwog remembers the Blue Angel lounge. Tangy coconut soup. Cheap lunch specials. Delivery as far as the low hundred-teens. Unbeatable views of the Broadway IRT...in any event, Thai fans' loss is Mexican-Chinese fusion fans' gain. And while Bwog is skeptical as to whether platanos go well over Singapore noodles, it's willing to try the pricey ($15-$18 an entree) China de&nbsp;Puebla, which now occupies the&nbsp;Blue Angel's old location--provided somebody else picks up the bill. UPDATE, 11:12 PM EST: If you're missing Thai, you can still get it at Thai Market down on Amsterdam bewteen 107th and 108th (we've been looking forward to it).&nbsp; - ARR 
Musings from Bwog staffer Alec Turnbull, serving up lux and veritas over a summer bartending in Boston: A pair of fragile old women in matching floral print dresses arrive first, ten minutes early. Half an hour later the room is at its 325 person capacity, and the loud buzz of conversation drowns out Harvard president-to-be Drew Faust’s first attempts to speak. My fellow bartender and I ask people to quiet down for her speech, and her third try is drowned in a chorus of SHHHs. She begins again. “I'd like to welcome everyone-” Faust continues through the rustle of everyone rushing to the bar for the last drink they'll get until she's finished. They whisper now. “White wine. Two.” “You don't have any vodka? Whiskey? Just a diet coke.” “I’ll have the pinot.” “Water, please. Flat, with three ice cubes and a lemon. Thanks.” “Do you have champagne?” A grandmotherly woman asks as she leans in to advise me, “You should find a bottle of it. You just can’t have a toast without champagne.” The toast isn’t for Drew Faust’s new role, but for her work with the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Studies, which she is leaving behind. Faust helped found the institute when Radcliffe, Harvard’s Barnard, merged with the larger university. Radcliffe's campus has lost its undergraduates and now gives year-long fellowships to established intellectuals whose work focuses on women, gender, and society. Everyone settles in to listen. Faust declares her pride the Institute and its success in bringing together people from disparate fields, promising to foster interdisciplinary scholarship and equal access to higher education. She says little more about her plans, preferring to reminisce about her time at the Institute and tell anecdotes about its successful fellows. Faust singles out theoretical physicist Lisa Randall for special praise, an unsubtle gibe at her predecessor, who claimed that women were naturally&nbsp; less talented in science. As Faust finishes, Randall slips through the admiring crowd and arrives at the bar blushing, “A spritzer, please. For the toast.” 
 If ever there were a “hot seat” upon which a major university president could sit, it would undoubtedly be between Harvard law professor Lani Guinier and NAACP legal defense fund head Ted Shaw. As two of the country’s top civil right’s scholars, and as two people profoundly troubled by, and conversant in, the state of diversity and affirmative action, it would take a slick legal-type with civil rights cred of his own to emerge unscathed--especially from at panel entitled “The Future of Diversity: A Discussion on Affirmative Action,” which was held last night at the Schomberg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem. PrezBo fits the description, but he&nbsp;still found&nbsp;himself having to strike a very fragile balance. The man wasn’t named the #24 person who’s screwing up America for nothing--he’s the precedent-setting public face of affirmative action, even if he rejected the idea that race is any better an indicator of "diversity" than class or even geography during his opening speech. But he presides over the same kind of monolithic, exclusive institution his co-panelists so vehemently criticized. Shaw, for instance, argued that true diversity was limited by the white establishment’s inability to see race from the perspective of minorities. Guinier spent most of her presentation explaining how institutions have to be diverse at their “core,” and how peripheral diversity (e.g., the superficial “differences in phenotype” achieved through affirmative action) helps insulate and protect higher education’s exclusionary center. Both identified the basic misunderstanding of race on the part of entrenched whites as a crucial social and institutional hurdle. Bollinger is not just an entrenched white, but an entrenched white with power. Civil rights defender or no, judging by the restive and oftentimes vocal nature of the audience it was lost on no one that Gruinier and Shaw’s presentations were focused on people like him. And with Bollinger’s simultaneous progressive and conservative pressures laid bare (basically the whole pissing off Bernard Goldberg thing versus the whole running a school with a $7 billion endowment thing), he performed brilliantly. In his opening speech, Bollinger both rejected the uniqueness of race and argued for affirmative action on the sole basis of the educational value of diversity. With typical Bollingerian subtlety, he took the minimalist and institutionally convenient stance that affirmative action is not about race, and that racial equity issues are not primarily about social or historical justice--notions which Grunier and Shaw identified as destructive to the current dialogue on race relations. Were Bollinger like Ruth Simmons at Brown University, he would have used Guinier’s call for core, institutional changes to make some recommendations of his own. Within a year of becoming the first black president in the history of the Ivy League, Simmons launched a Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice to explore the university’s connection to the slave trade, and to begin the process of institutional self-purification that necessarily precedes other long-term, diversity-related goals. It would be presumptuous to think that Bollinger lacks the imagination or the initiative of a Ruth Simmons. But tonight he stayed on defense, and tactfully rebutted his potential critics in the audience with a statistical profile of the incoming freshman class: fifty percent of the class of 2011 are people of color. Twenty percent are black, Hispanic or Native American. Fourteen percent qualify for Pell grants. But even if Bollinger was able to negotiate the doubtless uncomfortable territory between social and institutional responsibility, it was Shaw who provided the evening’s most eloquent argument against even trying to negotiate it at all. “I can’t let go of race,” he said, “because race can’t let go of us.” Shaw might have been referring to the dangers of trivializing or misunderstanding issues of race. Or maybe he was warning those who would&nbsp;try to let go of and hold on to race at the same time. - ARR 
In the weeks after securing their diplomas, some classically-minded seniors may be wondering about the ancient language on the symbolic paper scrolls. Bwog tipster Tao Tan went a little further. "The Latin looked just a bit off to me," Tao writes. "Specifically, I was wondering how and why they chose to render “New York” (Novum Eboracum in proper, classical Latin) the way they did. On the diploma, New York is rendered in two ways: 'Noveboracensis', a Neo-Latin adjectival form, and 'Novi Eboraci', a classically acceptable locative. Fortunately, as I was wandering around the Heyman Center this morning, I ran into Peter Pouncey, the former Dean of Columbia College and, before that, a Professor of Classics. Brandishing these pictures, I asked Peter Pouncey what he thought. After getting over the initial shock that somebody actually noticed ('What? We must have overeducated you. You’re not supposed to actually be able to *read* your diploma!'), Professor Pouncey explained that having variety in grammatical forms was highly regarded. However, Dean Pouncey was kind enough to provide a short literal translation of the Columbia College diploma. Basically, the first two lines literally translate as 'The Trustees of the New York-y University of Columbia, the College formerly known as King’s' (this is verbatim; Pouncey literally said 'New York-y', as 'Noveboracensis' is an adjectival form). Ironically, this leaves Barnard College (diploma at left) as the only Columbia school to even come close to properly rendering 'Columbia University in the City of New York' in Latin. This translates, as Peter Pouncey explained, into, quite literally, 'The Trustees of the University of Columbia (which happens to be) situated in New York City'. Not the City of New York, mind you. Anyway, all this is better than the Law diploma, which translates: 'The Trustees of the New York-y University of Columbia'." &nbsp; Way more than we needed to know, but we're glad someone's keeping tabs.&nbsp; 
Summer Columbians who are hungry, broke and puzzling over how best to commemorate the sacrifices of our men and women in unifor m are apparently welcome at the Beta house tomorrow. CORRECTION, 11:33 PM EST: Former University Senatorial candidate Dan Free wrote in to let us know that "Um...thats NOT true. I'm hosting it and its for invitees only. CHANGE IT IMMEDIATELY!" And, in a second e-mail: "Also, make sure to CORRECT the error on Bwog. Thanks." Duly noted.&nbsp; And speaking of sacrifices...regular Columbians puzzling over how best to worship the dread lord Cthulhu can seek out the Science Fiction society as soon as school begins next fall. Bwog apologizes for being a month or so late on this, but we're nevertheless curious as to how the Coed* Naked** Blood*** Wrestling**** went down. Survivors are invited to share their eyewitness accounts of the event--provided they've gotten over the trauma. 
 Astute tipster Helam Gebremariam, C '07, said Yale's class day speaker, Fareed Zakaria of Newsweek, was a "total Matt Fox knock off." She writes: "He made all of the same jokes that Fox did about how Harvard got Gates and Yale got him. He ALSO called someone out (a la Julia Kite) for writing something in the school paper about how he is a nobody in the world of class day speakers. Say what you will about Matt Fox, but 1) hes hot 2) he's funny and 3) he's original." And he's not even a writer...! 
Curious about the students who will swarm our hallowed halls come September? You know, the most recent "smartest class ever"? Never fear-- staffer Lucy Tang wades into the muck so you don't have to. Her report: If you thought the class of 2010 was annoying with their Myspace groups, discussion threads that provided too much information about&nbsp;various (non)existent sex lives, endless facebook groups that&nbsp;multiplied overnight, and random friend requests-- which all&nbsp;resulted in the retaliatory&nbsp;group "Class of 2010 PLEASE calm down... you're not even here yet!"-- then you’re going to love the class of 2011. Their main facebook group already boasts 1,138 members, 357 photos, 353 discussion posts, and an overabundance of eagerness and naivete. We all remember the feeling of excitement and fear before coming to school, but what did people do before facebook existed?&nbsp;Maybe they kept their thoughts inside and made friends face to face orientation week and in classes? Hm? Brace yourself for a quick overview of the groups that have sprouted up: For Columbia’s discerning hipster- Indie Watch -- Barnard/Columbia Edition Summary: "Woah, you like Neutral Milk Hotel too?! You must be cool! Let’s trade Last.fm's and talk about how Pitchfork’s opinion holds no sway!" A few months in, these nascent hipsters will realize that a good majority of Columbia likes Belle &amp; Sebastian, and when the football player next door starts blasting The Mountain Goats, their identities will crumble. A penchant for indie rock does not a person make. For the partiers Columbia is known for its vocal student body, protests galore-- hell, we’ve even been featured in New York magazine for our socially active student body. The class of 2011 continues this proud tradition as they try to get The U's "very lame" rating of Columbia’s party scene "re-evaluated come September beeetch!!" Saigon Grill sit-in, beer funneling... we’re all fighting for a cause here. The creator, Tania Angelica Harsono, self-proclaimed "Boobilicious Bartender and Greek Life Spy, Official Party Animal #1," is the Joan of Arc of this crusade. Every generation has a opinionated woman, and Tania seems to be following right in the steps of Gloria Steinem and Maureen Dowd. Bold, beautiful, Tania. Even before they even move in, they’ve already started to revolutionize Columbia.&nbsp; "Sexayyy dancin" indeed. Then there's&nbsp;the Hydrated Columbia Crew. Their mission statement: "If you're ready to put down your books for a couple of hours and tear NYC up... this group is for you. ( Of course we will all maintain our 4.0 GPA)" The reality: 1. As soon as these young souls arrive on campus, their first few weeks may be riddled with spontaneous trips downtown for the city’s nightlife-- Broadway shows, fine dining in Times Square (Chili’s! Red Lobster!), maybe even the occasional show at Webster Hall or Bowery. But tearing up NYC? Soon enough, these kids will realize the difficulty of navigating New York City without a fake ID, the long waits for those treacherous subway rides back from downtown, and succumb to the overall convenience of the Carman parties. 2. And the 4.0 GPA? Well, that dream will be shattered come January 2008, no need for defeated spirits so early on. We could all learn from these kids. Have fun in Carman, don’t step in the vomit in the service elevator. For the Jewish Theological Seminary students and admirers Has Janis Spindel got you down? No worries, little shikse, here's JDate for the discerning Ivy Leaguer. For the future wasted kids at Eurotrash Franglais Forever Also, last year, a curious phenomenon set upon Columbia in the form of many attractive girls strutting down college walk and speaking French, often referred to as "the hot French girls." Missed your opportunity this year? No worries, another shipment's coming in August 2007!&nbsp; On that note, I leave you with the future. Not a pretty sight. 
 He may have baby-sat New York as the crack epidemic left pipes and vials all over city sidewalks and the Crown Heights riots fissured West Indian-Hasidic relations in that neighborhood, but David Dinkins' opinion still holds sway. A politician with firm roots in the Harlem political establishment, Dinkins wrote an op-ed in support of Columbia's Manhattanville expansion in the City section of this Sunday's Times. "Columbia’s Manhattanville proposal takes the best of these ideas to gradually create a new kind of open, urban campus that will improve local streets; bring back commercial life to Broadway, 125th Street and 12th Avenue; and better connect the residential areas of Harlem with the waterfront park now under construction along the Hudson River." As the Neighborhood Retail Alliance (a.k.a momandpopnyc) points out in an item published Monday (that curiously does not mention the Dinkins op-ed), Dinkins is also on SIPA's payroll -- he teaches classes and has hosted a forum on urban policy there for the last dozen years. Meanwhile, other Harlem politicians, community groups, and Borough President Scott Stringer (who actually has some measure of oversight in this whole process) remain skeptical. Gothamist has a handy little digest of the op-ed with some links. 
 For most, summer is a season for skimpy bikinis and cold Coronas, or whatever those zany teenagers do these days.&nbsp;Along with such activities, Bwog staffers&nbsp;Lucy Tang and Daniel D’Addario will while away these months of freedom in (partial) devotion to literary pursuits, and then discussing these books in a nifty little feature called “Joy Luck Book Club.”&nbsp; Now what makes these two qualified for literary criticism? Absolutely nothing. How regular will these discussions be? The frequency will be inversely proportional to the number of open bars we find each week. First victim: Barnard alumna Marisha Pessl’s much-lauded Special Topics in Calamity Physics. Reading Rainbow! Lucy: It’s impossible to have a discussion about Special Topics in Calamity Physics without mentioning all its hype.&nbsp; 1. Marisha Pessl’s huge (and undisclosed) advance. (Great for her!) 2. Marisha Pessl is hot! (She’s no Zadie Smith) 3. The New York Times’s "The 10 Best Books of 2006" Needless to say, I am one of those mindless drones who take the Times’s recommendation as gospel, so after seeing that prestigious title placed upon it, I was extremely eager to actually read the book, and five months later, I did. After I finished skimming the last fifty pages, I was left unsatisfied and disappointed, but on a second consideration, it was a good book. When it comes down to it, Special Topics failed to wow me, but it is certainly a solid debut. Like the other (literary) voices of our generation, Pessl has crafted her own voice, replete with run-on sentences, parentheses, and just unnecessary verbal vomit. Sometimes it’s almost as if Pessl is screaming at you, “Look I know big words! And I’ve read books!” It’s irritating and annoying, but how many other authors can claim to reference fake books? Dan: Maybe the question is less "how many authors can claim to reference fake books" as "how many authors feel the need to." For example, Special Topics in Calamity Physics received similar press to Curtis Sittenfeld's Prep, another recent bildungsroman about an adrift girl at a private high school. Prep told its story simply and relatively briefly. Special Topics tells, at much greater length, a story glutted with the faux-erudite tricks that writers like Sittenfeld and others eschew in favor of good writing and character development. Speaking of which, Lucy, what did you think of character development in the novel? We can agree to disagree about whether the fake citations add an erudite or pretentious tone, but do you think that Special Topics would have earned the hype it did without the "academic" structure? Lucy: The character development was minimal, at best. All the characters, including our protagonist Blue, are rather one-faceted. I could potentially be listing the cast of a CW show: the beautiful ice queen, the handsome jock, the heartthrob from the wrong side of the tracks, the gay one, the eccentric teacher, the distinguished and caring father, and the precocious but socially stunted daughter. Unfortunately, Pessl gives readers nothing beyond these stereotypes, thus the book fails to make any emotional impact. The characters are more of a plot device than actual characters. It’s ironic that Pessl used an academic framework for such a frivolous novel. Because of the academic structure, critics deemed the book “precocious.” It was gimmicky, but it worked. This little quirk helped Special Topics stand out, and I won’t fault her for its success. Though the above has been mostly criticism, I actually enjoyed parts of Special Topics. I breezed through the middle 200 pages in one sitting, because the mystery was so engrossing. Pessl knows how to craft a story, the only flaw being the messy and convoluted ending. Despite the hefty 500+ pages, it’s a great beach read, especially considering the beginning and denouement can and should be skimmed. Now you, Dan, did you enjoy Pessl’s debut, at all? Dan: It's funny that our analyses of the novel are so close, yet you came away admiring (or at least respecting) Pessl in a way I did not. I agree that the middle of the novel was a swift read, at times even engrossing, and that Pessl rarely rises above the level of cursory sketch in describing her characters. Unlike you, though, I hardly found the "mystery" to be interesting. In fact, I think the plot-driven nature of the novel shows that Pessl misunderstands her own strengths as a writer. The redeeming moments of Special Topics were those in which said sketches transcend their own nature in well-drawn moments of interaction. The relationships between Blue and her father/her teacher can largely be described as such, until both are destroyed by a ludicrous and careless last-minute plot twist. At one point in the novel, Blue's father remarks that American audiences have no appetite for a narrative left unresolved, though such narratives are often the most satisfying. I agree with the latter point, and think that Pessl should have followed her own advice. If Pessl wanted to write an analysis of intellectual rigor and the values of "classic" texts vis-a-vis modern life, she could have done that. She could have done an equally capable job with a quiet story of human interactions; her characters may be slight, but she knows how friendships and those delicate teacher-student relationships work. But to attempt to combine both of those novels into a plotline that grows ever more ludicrous is an insult both to Pessl's reader and to the authors she so devotedly cites throughout. --The opinions above hold no real merit. It's probably best to disagree.-- 
 Those of you who have made a cottage industry out of lifting books from Butler Library probably never considered that you were condemning some poor librarian to weeks of tedious inventory work. Well book thieves, in today's "Why Are You Here?" meet the victim of your transgressions:&nbsp; John, entombed in the lower levels of the Butler stacks, counting up what's gone missing. Why are you here? I work here. I replace missing and stolen books. Are there a lot of those? Oh yeah. Does this shatter your faith in the basic goodness of Columbia students? No. I’ve been a student before too. Are there some books or areas of study that get more burglarized than others? Oh sure. All of that French lit crit, sci fi writers like Philip Dick and HP Lovecraft, all the beat stuff…and I think they should just buy a new copy of One Hundred Years of Solitude and The Blood Wedding every quarter, ‘cuz they always go missing. It’s mad nice out right now, and we’re in a windowless subterranean chamber. Bothered? No, and sometimes when it’s really hot in the summer it’s a relief to come to work. &nbsp;Scintillating! More self-justification to come! - ARR 
 The other shoe in Columbia's financial aid boondoggle dropped in Bwog's inbox this morning: a few weeks after jettisoning former Dean David Charlow, the University has recieved its comeuppance from New York State, which threw the book at us harder than any other school. “We believe Columbia’s employee was acting illegally,” said Attorney General Andrew "Enforcer" Cuomo. “A corporation must police its employees.” As such, Columbia will pay up a cool $1.1 million, and sign the College Loan Code of Conduct--but only because they wanted to, not because they had to. Or at least that's how Low Library is framing it.&nbsp; "Columbia University does not admit, and expressly denies, that it has violated any law in connection with its student loan practices," read the statement from Public Affairs director Robert Hornsby.&nbsp; "Columbia is not paying a fine or making any restitution as part of the settlement, but will contribute $1,125,000 to the Attorney General’s national fund for educating and assisting students and their parents about the financial aid process."&nbsp; One tipster opines: "You know that somehow the increased oversight is going to result in more paperwork for students. Thats what happens everytime Columbia gets busted for poor oversight- they pass the new 'rules' on." Spec got to the story first, while Bwog was having technical difficulties. Look for more backstory from them imminently. UPDATE, 2:15 EST: Sexy details in expanded article! - LBD 
In which Bwog contributor CML breaks down Facebook's flashy new features, for those of us too scared to log on since they arrived on the feed. While my brain has languished thousands of miles away from Columbia, Mark Zuckerberg and his henchmen have been busy, busy bees.&nbsp; Over the past two weeks, I’ve watched assiduously as Facebook has undergone a great transformation, having installed a platform that enables CS-savvy users to add their own applications to the site. The explosion in possibilities leaves me yearning for its bygone days of narrow scope, even though I got my account barely more than a year ago. Whether this Zuckerbergian gambit is intended to take over the lives of the 25-and-under set, or if it’s merely a plot to fatten the proverbial cow/website before leading it to the slaughterhouse/IPO, remains to be seen.&nbsp; Meanwhile, the array of possible new accoutrements can get overwhelming.&nbsp; Without further ado, an overview of some of the best, the worst, and the loudest bells and whistles: Marketplace: Undoubtedly the most ambitious and most official of the additions, Marketplace is basically Facebook’s version of Craigslist.&nbsp; If you wish to hawk your wares or find employees, you can place an ad for free in one of five distinct categories (For Sale, Housing, Jobs, Other, and Free Stuff); if you wish to find wares to buy or find employment yourself, you can place an ad for free in one of four distinct categories (Item Wanted, Housing Wanted, Looking for Work, Other Wanted).&nbsp; Restrictions are lax enough to the extent that I was able to post the above ad in “Jobs” under “Writing/Editing” , but traffic is stagnant enough in “Jobs” and other categories that I felt bad about leaving it up.&nbsp; Still, “For Sale” is a far more convenient way of passing off your old cursed Orgo textbook to some poor bastard than posting fliers around campus, although still far inferior to the late trading site Dogears.net. RATING:&nbsp; Zuckerfabulous 30 Boxes Calendar: A high-tech, sophisticated response to the now-obsolete real-life wall calendar, 30 Boxes allows the user to click on a date and type words into a little box.&nbsp; The words then appear in the box corresponding to the date you selected, just like a corporeal calendar.&nbsp; But you probably check your Facebook far more often than you check that unruly thing hanging above your kitchen table.&nbsp; You can also share your entire mundane routine almost real-time with the world by adding it to your profile--as banal as my summer is, I bet you’d get a kick out of checking it once or twice. RATING: Zuckeruppagus Gift Box: The gift box, though not really a recent thing, is notable for being the most immediate progenitor of all this chicanery.&nbsp; For the nominal fee of a dollar, you can buy a 64x64 image for your new special someone to be displayed in his profile at his discretion, to show him that you just care that much.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckertarded&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; iLike: The Borat-meets-Steve-Jobs hybrid of a name notwithstanding, iLike boasts a plethora of features ranging from the to the terrifyingly accurate “Discover New Music,” which gets you “free mp3s to match your tastes.”&nbsp; You can also see which (popular) bands are on tour,&nbsp; “Play the iLike Challenge” (basically a music version of the Facebook staple, the “Friends Game”), or “Add songs to your profile” so the rest of the world can know how suave your taste in music is.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckeruppagus Video: A logical progression from the now-ubiquitous Facebook photos, Video enables you to upload and view, well, videos of yourself and your friends and fellow Facebook-denizens, which is pretty cool but must be taxing on the server space.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckerfabulous X me: Are you tired of poking people when you want to bang them?&nbsp; Are you sick of this middle-school beating around the bush, or lack thereof?&nbsp; Are you ready to graduate to more overt forms of Facebook flirtation, like punching in the arm, saying mean things, or outright molestation?&nbsp; Do you also want to be able to get someone’s attention by “doing” something to them nonsexual as well?&nbsp; Then X Me is for you.&nbsp; Consent remains sexy.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckerfabulous Games: The “Games” app features a staggering selection of six games, including the two-player Tetris euphemism “N-blox Evil Edition,” the sexually-repressed-preteenish “Stripjack,” and the objectively moronic “Wasabi,” description: “Place your sushi strategically on your tray, and then try to eat all your opponent's sushi before they eat yours! Just don't get it up your nose!”&nbsp; RATING: Zuckertarded The Compass: No longer will the vague labels “Very Liberal” or “Conservative” suffice to explain your political views on Facebook: The Compass (from Washingtonpost.com) offers a ten-question survey that pretends to compute it to a much more accurate degree, then generates a nice image of a compass with the words “liberal” on the left, “moderate” in the center, “conservative” on the right, and a needle pointing to WHERE YOU STAND!&nbsp; As if Columbia students needed dumber and shallower reasons to judge each other.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckertarded My Last Songs Played: Now visitors to your Facebook profile can see that not only have you listed “Red Hot Chili Peppers” under your favorite music, but also that you listen to nothing else on iTunes, after you install an auxiliary program or two on your hard drive and wait a few hours for your music to be reorganized.&nbsp; Unfortunately, the ratio of street cred gained from the app to hassle undertaken from installing it is hella low.&nbsp; I couldn’t get this to work, but had I been able to, my last songs would surely have lit a fire under any women who viewed my scrawny white-guy profile:&nbsp; “Mussorgsky-A Night on Bald Mountain,” “Brahms-Piano Concerto No. 2 Movement 4,” and Brahms-Piano Concerto No. 2 Movement 3.” RATING: Zuckeruppagus Hot or Not: But in order to seduce, one must find a chick worthy of snaring—a “babia majora,” in the impeccable Latin of Mike Myers.&nbsp; Such a task becomes infinitely easier with the new application “HOT or NOT,” designed to appeal to the voyeur in us all, and a useful aid in sifting through the dirt of 2011ers to find a few diamonds worth taking advantage of.&nbsp; Posting your own photo, thankfully, is optional.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckertastic! Horoscopes: And with your new lover, is there any subject more conducive to wrapping up an awkward and vapid conversation with a score than horoscopes?&nbsp; A wise man once told me that the key to seducing a woman is knowing more about her than she knows about herself: reading and reciting her horoscope is sure to make you a self-fulfilling prophet of love. RATING: ZUCKERTASTIC! Causes: Designed specifically for the armchair activist in all of us, Causes lets anyone on Facebook to start a cause (samples range from the frivolous: “Eradicate Poverty” to the heartfelt: “HELP ME TAKE OVER THE WORLD!!!”) and donate money to it.&nbsp; But aggregate donations for all causes seem to hover around four figures, and some leading intellectual luminaries, like Xavier Sala-I-Martin and Ayn Rand, contend that gifts of cash are either ineffective or immoral, leading me to the revelation that college students are, on the whole, poor and ill-disposed to throwing mounds of cash away.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckertarded Audio: Smacking of Myspace, but pleasantly easy to disable.&nbsp; RATING: Zuckeruppagus Conclusion: Orgiastic clutter does shake the darling aesthetic of Facebook, but its eternal chokehold on our lives shall not fade.&nbsp; Remember when everyone was quitting over the Newsfeed? &nbsp; 
From a tipster: "go to google maps. click street view. check out college walk - might bwog-readers care to find their friends?" As if websites, news, print media, videos and pictures weren't enough, Google has made Googleable yet another category of information: every fucking square inch of Manhattan. While Bwog is impressed with the audacity of&nbsp;such an undertaking, it's&nbsp;not sure how exactly this is useful, unless you have hours to kill at your internship or are&nbsp;badly pining for College Walk. Cool new feature, or part of Google's sinister conspiracy to enslave the human race and ascend to God-like&nbsp;heights? You be the judge. 
In which recovering V-Show writer Rob Trump reflects on Michael Chabon's latest effort. In 2002, Michael Chabon lashed out against the modern short story, claiming that publications like The New Yorker are filled with nothing but the “quotidian, plotless, moment-of-truth revelatory story.”&nbsp; He did this in a McSweeney’s compendium, no less, giving the hipster literati two things to think about: 1) What the hell does “quotidian” mean? and 2) Whatever it is, it sounds pretty bad, so what should be done?&nbsp; The answers to these, via the internet and Chabon, respectively, are “everyday or commonplace,” and “learn something from genre fiction.”&nbsp; Genre fiction, if you can’t guess, is fiction that conforms to an established genre—science fiction, fantasy, mystery, horror, etc.&nbsp; To paraphrase: your Tuesdays with Morrie would be a lot more interesting if the old fart’s death turned him into a flesh-eating zombie, and you and a double-barreled shotgun were the only things between his bloodlust and your family.&nbsp; Put this way, I think we can all agree. Chabon’s first foray into genre fiction, The Yiddish Policemen’s Union, is also his first book since 2001’s Pulitzer Prize-winning The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, so expectations are high. And some aspects of Yiddish really deliver, starting with its premise: Yiddish is a hardboiled crime murder mystery set in Sitka, Alaska, taking place in the present day but in an alternate history timeline where Sitka became a refuge for Jews during World War II. On May 21st, Chabon said in a public interview I attended in St. Paul that he based the Alaska concept on a real bit of legislation that, having been proposed by then-Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes, was immediately shot down.&nbsp; So Chabon, in the creation of a fantastic setting, changed the minds of Congress and prevented the Holocaust.&nbsp; Contrasting that with Philip Roth’s 2004 The Plot Against America, in which the election of Charles Lindbergh nearly causes a second Holocaust here, might teach you something about the outlook of each writer.&nbsp; It’s Holocaust count: for real life, 1; for Roth, 1.5; for Chabon, 0.&nbsp; In discussing the similarities between the books (“I had thought I would have a corner on the Jewish alternative history fiction market!”), Chabon made this clear, saying he was less angry, with less of an “axe to grind,” and that he does not possess the “gripes of Roth.” (If you liked that, more unrelated Chabon wisdom: “I turned 21 on stage ‘singing,’ in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at the Electric Banana.” Yeah, those were air quotes.) Chabon’s hero, on the other hand, has quite a few axes to grind.&nbsp; Meyer Landsman is a police detective who provokes strangers, breaks laws to solve cases, and frequently drinks to excess and thinks about killing himself.&nbsp; One of the book’s most direct infusions of genre fiction—he is the stock crime novel protagonist—Landsman would seem to run the risk of being uninteresting, but he’s not.&nbsp; Chabon throws great secondary characters at him: his half-Indian, half-Jew partner with a family to consider; his ex-wife and new boss in the police department.&nbsp; In fact, all the interactions between the central characters are great.&nbsp; But this isn’t Fitzgerald: characters aren’t plot. The murder mystery is the plot.&nbsp; And that’s where the book gets problematic. A great mystery has tons of details that unfold early and present apparent contradictions.&nbsp; Think of The Hound of the Baskervilles: there can’t possibly be an actual demonic dog, right?&nbsp; It’s that confusion that keeps a reader in the mystery.&nbsp; Chabon’s plot never narrows to create contradictions, nor do his plot twists either create confusion or alleviate it.&nbsp; They just take the plot in a new, unexpected direction that makes the previous direction meaningless.&nbsp; At any given point in the novel, I feel like I could have named twenty people who might have killed the victim in twenty different ways.&nbsp; From there, I don’t need another few hundred pages for closure. I just need the willingness to admit that I own a couple d20s. Chabon’s writing, however, saves him even when he doesn’t want it to.&nbsp; He is more concise, descriptive, and poignant here even than he was in Kavalier and Clay.&nbsp; Familial relations “revert to the state of nature, like a party marooned by a shipwreck”; a voice sounds “like an onion rolling in a bucket.”&nbsp; In response to the St. Paul interviewer, Chabon said that such similes are the easiest part of writing for him, and it shows.&nbsp; They never interrupt his flow, only augment it.&nbsp; In addition to this descriptive writing, a recurring chess motif provides some of the most powerful moments in the book. It’s ultimately a bit disappointing that, for all of Chabon’s genre fiction love, the crime genre itself—excepting a fantastic ten-page action sequence—ends up hindering the novel.&nbsp; Not only does it dull the central plot, it also occasionally produces terrible one-liners, e.g.: “Just fighting crime.&nbsp; Same as last time you blew through here.”&nbsp; And I say all this with a genuine love for genre fiction.&nbsp; I count Dune as one of my favorite novels and cheered along with others when Chabon name-checked it. Despite its shortcomings, for great prose and character interactions, Yiddish is worth a late spot on your summer reading list, assuming you’ve already read and liked Kavalier and Clay.&nbsp; If you haven’t read K&amp;C, come on Ivy kid, you’re supposed to know all books that have won the Pulitzer since you learned to read.&nbsp; And this one, unlike The Hours, will give you obscure knowledge about the golden age of comic books.&nbsp; Cool kids like that stuff, you square. 
Tips are slower these days, but a critical mass has long since accumulated. Items of interest: NSOP has a theme! Not as graphically snazzy, but least they're not hyperventilating like last year. Silly kids. Don't they know that winners play basketball? This happened a while ago, but good news doesn't get old. Cute!&nbsp; 71 indictments for accused J-school rapist: why don't we just assume he's getting life and call it a day?&nbsp; CU profs come out for Spitzer spawn (at least 5, by our count)&nbsp; It appears that the SEAS 2011 valedictorian race is over. Everyone should enter this. Cereal party! 
 While Bwog suspected that 2.75 for a grease-bathed slice of pizza the size of a John Jay single was simply too good to be true, we're happy that some parity has been restored to the Roti Roll-Koronet rivalry (a slice and an Aloo Masala Frankie are both $3.00), and delighted to see capitalism punishing the apparent&nbsp;majority of you who, for reasons that not even&nbsp;Bwog can&nbsp;comprehend, prefer the latter. 
Fairweather Bwogger Sara Vogel reports from the frontlines of Transportation Alternatives' Tour de Brooklyn bike ride with a gruesome tale of famished athletes after a free lunch. Dyker Heights is far. Two trains and a bus far, and it always seems farther on Sundays. But Adria and I rubbed the sleepies from our eyes Sunday morning and waited for public transportation to take us to Dyker Heights Park anyway for some high quality NHS-style community service. We began slathering bagels with peanut butter and jelly for the flock of bikers that would be using the park as a rest stop on the Tour de Brooklyn that morning. We even got to cut two cases worth of oranges with these nifty slicers, and to chat up the dozen or so high school volunteers from Brooklyn Tech about the newest MTV Laguna Beach spin-off, set to exhibit the young lives of their classmates next year. And then the bikers arrived. It wasn't a flock so much as a horde of three thousand helmeted, two-wheeled, spandex-bound creatures led by a caravan of police vehicles. The volunteers dove out of the way as the bikers abandoned their vehicles and stormed the food, tearing at the bagel sandwiches, granola bars and bananas. I maintained sturdy enough footing to grab a bagel and a granola bar for fellow Bwogger and rider, Armin, who I spotted through the mess. In five minutes, the table was ravaged. When the bagels ran out, bikers gnawed feverishly at orange peels and scooped gobs of natural peanut butter straight out of the jar. "At least it's protein,"&nbsp; I heard one peanut butter slurper say. And then just as abruptly as they had arrived, the horde rolled out, fed and watered, to tear up the streets in the name of environmentalism. - Photos by Armin Rosen. 
 Cool trip alert: Bwog alumnus and liveblogging pioneer Bryan Mochizuki, along with a passel of current Columbia students, just touched down in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, where the group will be filming the work of NGOs to spread awareness of development issues in the East Afican nation. Follow their adventures here.&nbsp; Are you on an international expedition? Or know anyone else who's fled the country for the summer? Let us know at bwgossip@columbia.edu. 
 "Sweet shit!" Bwog thought as it considered the network of temporary fencing cris-crossing College Walk. "They’re filming a sequel to 'The Siege' right here at Columbia!" But a quick glance behind the fences--as well as the ominous absence of Bruce Willis and Denzel Washington--revealed that the university is undertaking a long-overdue renovation of its main thoroughfare. Although things seem to be at a preliminary stage, Bwog sincerely hopes that oddly-placed, high-heel devouring hexagonal bricks are a thing of the past on this campus. 
Remember Reni Laine? Frontiers of science girl? The blonde wasp? Well she ended up on Gawker again, this time for some suspicious "Webby" awards. The occasion's not important, but you know what is? Her nipple! While some would be mortified, Reni seems to take it in stride... UPDATE 10:37 EST: Stop complaining the first picture shows too little nipple (you dirty dirty people), here's more scandal, enjoy. &nbsp; 
 Thirty percent in ten years: nice round numbers. That's the amount by which Columbia and seven other colleges pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions today under Mayor Bloomberg's glitzy PlaNYC program for greening the Big Apple. The announcement came with some high praise from President Bollinger: "No idea is bigger or more important to our collective future than Mayor Bloomberg's determination that New York be a leader in responding to the challenges of climate change," he said in the press release. This stuff is complicated, but in simple terms, that's a bigger commitment than any of the major presidential candidates (and most of the minor ones) have made for that timeframe. Bwog's question: do we even know how much carbon Columbia emits now? We'll get back to you on that. Meanwhile, Public Affairs also used the release to highlight some nifty things that Columbia's climateers and recyclemaniacs have been up to this year (did you know we actually won something?). Check Nilda's site for more info. - LBD 
Our correspondent wades through the morass of Reunion 2007, last weekend’s get-together for 60 years of Columbia and Barnard grads. The annual tri-college reunion brings with it myriad opportunities for the enterprising summer student. For the social climber, it is a chance to establish some gainful contacts with potentially loaded and influential alumni. For the scavenger--and particularly for the scavenger who treats the Cottage’s “free wine with every entrée” arrangement with the deathly seriousness it deserves--it is an opportunity to drink on the university’s dime (Alma Mater might suck at reigning in her financial aid officials, but she can throw a hell of a wine and cheese). For the sarcastic and overly-analytical set (bloggers, for instance) the reunion was a chance to interact with a rapidly fossilizing generation of Columbians for whom race quotas were a reality and co-ed floors an absurd hypothetical; to gape in horror at what you may very well be like one day, and to shudder at the prospect of something as presently abstract as a 50-year (or even 5-year) college reunion. Because Columbia will try to pitch Manhattanville to anybody with 15 minutes to spare, one of the first events on the schedule was a briefing on the proposed campus. For this, Roone Arledge cinema was practically empty--not so shocking when one considers that pretty much all of the reunion’s attendees will be dead by the time the campus is completed. While the alumni’s lack of curiosity on such issues was notable, the briefing brought to light problems that have been heretofore ignored: the proposed campus is an architectural nightmare. With the briefing concluded, I wandered into Hamilton Hall, where in typical Columbia fashion the alumni were bonding over some higher-level intellectual discourse. Professor Roosevelt Mantas’s scheduled&nbsp;discussion on Neitzschian morals had drown a crowd. The Core Curriculum office’s conference room was packed, and a cynic could fairly deduce that our alumni are more concerned with Nietzsche than with the future of their own university--either that or the predominantly bald, gray, white and male crowd was pining for one more hour of Columbia-style pedantry. “Psychiatrist of the primitive man…rigorously non-prescriptive…traditional discursive register”--one wonders how many decades of separation it takes for such vomitus to have an even distantly therapeutic effect. But for many of the alumni, this might have been the first chance since their last class reunion five years earlier to flex some of their Columbia-toned intellectual muscle--one participant claimed that he had read most of Nietzsche’s works while an undergraduate, and another railed against the assumedly non-Columbian cretins intent on ruining Nietzsche’s greatest quotes (Come to find out, “God is dead” has nothing to do with atheism. Who woulda thunk it?). It occurred to me that the participants weren’t as exhilarated by the didacticism of it all as they were by a chance to step back into the Columbia bubble, a suspicion that was partly confirmed by a class of 67’ grad and 3rd generation Columbian I spoke to after the event. “Ours called itself ‘the cleverest class,’” he said, adding that he knew people who had “gone to Harvard and knew nothing.” OK: so the alumni are nostalgia-craven, socially passive, Nietzsche-reading intellectual snobs. But what about their kids? To find out, I infiltrated the "Camp Columbia" tent, a vaguely Coney Island-themed setup serving cheap white wine (not to the kids, of course. For some reason the place was flooded with adults) and various varieties of trefe. I was hesitant to approach the little bastards, but luckily recent grad Caitlin Shure, C ’07 had been tapped as a reunion volunteer, and her expertise in neuroscience seemed to be serving her well. ”This is Luca” she said, coddling an angelic boy of 8 or 9. Although he “doesn’t want to talk,” Shure had brilliantly deduced that he’s “a li ttle bit on the metrosexual side”--the giveaway being the large pink flower painted on his left cheek, and the fact that he had seen “The Music Man” and not “The Godfather” (I’m going to assume that he’s named after Luca Brasi. So there). When asked if she recoiled at the freakish glimpse of her future, Columbia-legacied offspring, Shure wisely replied that she didn’t want to have kids. Interesting, I thought--we could all opt for sterility and kill off legacy once and for all, perhaps a good thing in light of the vapid, non-communicative face-painted terrors polluting South Lawn. Bored with the extremely young, I thought I’d try my hand at interacting with the extremely old. So after slipping past the volunteers guarding the computer science lounge, I had a look around the Golden Lion’s Club--the official hangout for graduates from 1957 and earlier. The lounge was empty, save for a few older-looking gentlemen who seemed to be keeping to themselves. It didn’t take long to strike up a conversation. The alumnus didn’t want his name used, but he had a great story. He had grown up in an immigrant household in the North Bronx--he spoke Yiddish at home, studied hard in high school, and went to CUNY’s then-prestigious engineering school (in the late 40s it was considered better than MIT’s) right up until the Korean war intervened in his education. Back then, opportunities for lower-class Jewish students at prestigious schools were still scarce--but when his army service ended, he found himself with a free ride at Columbia engineering. He explained to me that his presence at the reunion was out of gratitude to the network of Columbians who had helped him over the years, and a way of thanking the school for giving him a chance to do something he could not have done a generation earlier: be a member of that network in the first place. For a man wearing the same suit he’d been graduated in fifty years earlier, Columbia represented inclusiveness and opportunity, and not Nietzsche-quoting 3rd-generation legacies and their irritating metrosexual kids. So if the Columbians of the past can tell us anything about the Columbians of the future, it’s that there’s a very good chance our school’s pedantry and social neuroses aren’t the only things we’ll take away from our experiences here. Or at least we can hope so. - ARR 
After three long years, the Westside Supermarket reopened its doors last Friday. When it closed in 2004, disgruntled shoppers covered the store closing sign with graffiti that related stories of loves lost and found in the market’s produce aisles and threats to move away from the neighborhood as a result of being left without a “decent” supermarket. Having arrived in Morningside Heights too late for firsthand experience of the original Westside Market, foodie Elizabeth Grefrath made her inaugural trek to the legendary store this Monday. The delightful aroma of nearly ripe produce greets the customer steps before entering the new Westside Market, tempering the sweaty stink that overtakes New York in the summer. The sight of fresh fruits and veggies is almost as refreshing—and at the Westside, unlike you can buy your roughage without breaking the bank. Towers of tinned tuna! Exotic foreign juices! Nutella for $1.99/13 oz! You’ll never do to Fairway again--a trip down the aisles reveals that Westside prices on cereal, rice, soup, pasta as good or better than the mother of all grocery stores on 76th and 125th. The cheese area, not an aisle but an island of fromage surrounded by outlying sample stations, quickly becomes my favorite part of the store. The astonishing array features everything from delicate and tender mozzarella di bufala to designer hard cheeses, such as the exquisite Emmanthal, and some melting-out-of-its-rind brie. After aiding a vertically challenged customer in reaching for water crackers located about the cheese, I heard a child mope that “this place probably doesn’t have lemon ice pops.” The mother answered, “oh no, I’m sure they do.” They did, in fact, have them, in several varieties. Actually, Westside had everything that I look for in a good grocery, including Eight O’Clock Coffee, Iranian pistachios, Barilla pasta, fresh figs and herbs, yellow turnips, aged balsamic vineger from Modena, and imported canned plum tomatoes from San Marzano, Italy. If you can’t find something you need, a little box at the entrance encourages you to “tell us. We’ll order it.” When I started to write down that the Market needed to invest in Hecker’s Flour and Lio Olive Oil, a store manager approached me and apologized for not having what I needed. What I needed, versus what I wanted. Westside Supermarket realizes the difference, and strives to supply both. At Westside, in contrast to every supermarket I’ve shopped in, the people at the meat, deli, cheese and salad (all toppings, $6.99/pound!) ask what they can do for me. In line to pay for the groceries, a bagger asked me how he could help me get my purchases to my home. Free coffee, in four blends, and with four types of milk. Splenda flowing freely and unmonitored, a touch of true class. Perhaps this is just a result of Re-Opening Day adrenaline, doomed to fade when people re-learn the Westside habit. I’m going to buck my cynical Columbian instincts and hope that it is not. As I walked home from the Westside, two evenly balanced grocery bags on my arms and cup of free coffee in hand, and I believed for a short while in the goodness of mankind. &nbsp;- Photos by Armin Rosen 
Details were thin in PrezBo's announcement regarding Columbia's decision to curb its carbon habit, which should have dropped in your inbox sometime today. Ever curious, Bwog took its questions to sustainability czar and New Yorker of the Week Nilda Mesa, who made everything a little more concrete. What data has Columbia gathered on its current carbon emissions? How does the University plan to monitor progress, and are there intermediate targets? We are in the process of beginning the exhaustive data collection effort.&nbsp; It involves many departments of the University, and will focus on the areas of energy, waste, transportation and refrigerants.&nbsp;Given the complexity of the University, and that this is new,&nbsp;to get accurate figures will take some time.&nbsp; We will be in good shape though, with the measures we already began this year to put in systems to collect the data, such as metering the buildings separately at Morningside, Lamont and Baker Field.&nbsp;We will indeed have intermediate targets over the next 10 years.&nbsp; It's a very exciting time.&nbsp; Where will the reduction in emissions come from? We will know better once we have an accurate inventory identifying the sources.&nbsp; We expect our reductions will mirror the city's patterns, and will come from such initiatives as installing light sensors and more energy-efficient lighting, installing double-paned glass, and purchasing energy-efficient appliances and boilers, some of which we have already begun to do.&nbsp; Recycling will also be a component, and we are looking at the feasibility of purchasing renewable energy such as wind. It's a big effort, and we'll succeed if everyone does their part on even the little things like turning off lights and computers. How much will this commitment cost the University to implement? We will know better once the inventory is done and we have a good sense of where the opportunities are.&nbsp; We expect we will save money in many instances over the long run because fuel costs are so high. - LBD 
For those of you who weren't on 3rd Avenue in the 110s today (about a mile from fair Alma's gates as the crow flies), and didn't make it to&nbsp;this year's huge&nbsp;Puerto Rican Day festival,&nbsp;here's what you missed: There was red, white and blue everywhere, but the day's award for best show of Puerto Rican pride definitely goes to these guys: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Also spotted just east of here, at 110th and Morningside Drive: a graffitti attributable to DeWitt Clinton professor of History Eric Foner (either that or proof that he has a very creepy stalker/admirer).&nbsp;With his legacy as a historian secure, Bwog wonders why the Reconstruction and Civil War expert might be making a late-inning bid for street-art immortality. Curious. Most curious indeed.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; -ARR 
In which Bwog freelancer Justin Goncalves reviews the newest egg from an odd duck. &nbsp; Before reading No one belongs here more than you, I fell in love with Miranda July.&nbsp; I was prepared to steal her away from her boyfriend (Thumbsucker director Mike Millis) and live with her in Portland. She would stay upstairs, working on her short stories or her performance art or even some new movie script; I would be downstairs, being Miranda July’s husband. The world would be a genuinely better place. Sure, this is kind of weird, but it wasn’t until I started reading&nbsp;her recently published collection that I realized that this fantasy fits right alongside July’s other short stories—except I would have to be a woman, she would have to be a lesbian, and anything sexual would be completely and unequivocally apocalyptic.&nbsp; Much like her 2006 award-winning film Me and You and Everyone We Know, July fosters a relationship between the audience and characters that is as disturbing as it is heartwarming. July’s strength, and ultimately the most compelling aspect of No one, is her ability to imagine people. Each personality, from the swim-instructor giving lessons in her kitchen to the wig-wearing lesbian who makes a living through peep shows, is created as a full blooded person, not just a set of attributes. The complexities and nuances of even the most bizarre characters allow for an effortless suspension of disbelief. You’ll find yourself personally invested in a character, even when you’re sure that you would never root for a failed author as she attempts to woo the sixteen year-old boy/man of her dreams (you say that now).&nbsp; The two strongest pieces are also the collection’s longest, each a little over thirty pages. “Something Out of Nothing,” previously published in both Bridge and The New Yorker, serves as No one’s cornerstone, showcasing July’s ability to create a character and follow him or her—her in this case—through profoundly difficult times. Unlike her shorter pieces, July has given herself the time to really build a character: a first person portrait skillfully intermixed with anecdotes and flashbacks. The narrator, Gwen—the name given to both her peep show persona and a lone wooden post in her apartment—chronicles the unrequited adoration of her best friend, Pip, from adolescence to Portland.&nbsp; “Making Love in 2003,” previously published in The Paris Review, features a mildly psychotic budding author with quite a literal attraction to the supernatural. In the beginning, our nameless narrator is attempting to reunite with a former college advisor regarding her new book about her sexual experience with a black ectoplasm named Steve, but instead sits down and talks with his wife, Madeleine L’Engle (yes, that one). It’s hard not to sympathize with this narrator even when her search for the ectoplasm’s past affection leads her to pedophilia. The lack of a name for her protagonist doesn’t inhibit July’s genius for realistically grounding her expansive imagination.&nbsp; Unfortunately for the reader (and for July’s collection) many of the pieces of shorter fiction never establish this connection, meandering about in the same anonymous narrative that never gives itself the opportunity to develop, leaving you somehow unfulfilled and sometimes even profoundly bored. “The Man on the Stairs,” “This Person,” and “The Moves” are all flawed attempts at some universality that instead comes across as vague. It reminds me of this interview with Rivers Cuomo I read after Weezer had released their self-titled “Green Album,” in which Cuomo explained his intention to write pop songs about love and emotional turmoil that everyone can relate to. The album kind of sucked. He was better off writing about falling for someone that only existed in his dreams or, in July’s terms, a lesbian. Because, believe it or not, on some level that’s where we can all relate. 
 Bwog's events calendar was getting a little crowded, what with&nbsp;New York&nbsp;being chock-full of amazing things to do every single hour of every single day in the summer and all. Stephanie Quan offers this select list of cool things going on this week- with commentary, in true&nbsp;Bwog Events fashion.&nbsp;Print and use as checklist? * = free Monday, June 11 Maroon 5 - Yup. They're back, in case you didn't see the Target commercials. Bowery Ballroom, $30 8pm Feist - Her new album, The Reminder, was just released and is being sold at Starbucks and Urban Outfitters all over the city. Town Hall, $30 8pm (also on Tuesday) Tommy Emmanuel - If you're in the mood to try something new. B.B. King Blues Club 8pm $30 Les Paul and his trio - Gibson did name their most famous guitar after him. Iridium 8:30 and 10:30 pm $40 *Wall Street Noir - For all the disgruntled I-banking interns. Meet the author Peter Spiegelman. Barnes and Noble (Astor Place) 7pm Tuesday, June 12 *Museum Mile Festival - New York's biggest block party returns with 23 blocks of 5th avenues most renowned museums. Free access to 9 museums. Chalk murals on the sidewalks. Live bands and appearances by local artists. 5th Ave between 82nd and 105th 6-9 pm *Central Park - The Met Opera presents: La Boheme. Puccini's opera comes alive. Great Lawn 8pm *Brooklyn Philharmonic session - Baroque hits. South Street Seaport 8pm Akron/Family and White Magic - Freak-folk and delicious. Bowery Ballroom 7pm $15. Lily Allen - To fill all your pop needs. Roseland Ballroom 7:30pm $26 Stevie Nicks - You'll have to go to Jersey, but come on…it's the voice behind Fleetwood's most famous songs. PNC Bank Arts Center 8pm $26 (also on Wednesday) Open Roads: New Italian Cinema - Self explanatory. Walter Reed Theater $10 Steve Bird -&nbsp;A good laugh after work. Bowery Poetry Club 10pm $5 *The Interloper - This novel has been described as "a pleasantly creep debut" by Publisher's Weekly. Meet Antonie Wilson. Barnes and Noble (Greenwich) 7:30pm *The Diana Chronicles - Meet Tina Brown, frienemy of Princess Di. Barnes and Noble (Union Square) 7pm The Moth StorySLAM - Somewhere between Cringe Night and regular slams. Nuyorican 7:30pm $6 Wednesday, June 13 Pink Martini - One big frickin' lounge group. Carnegie Hall 8pm $40+ *Central Park - The Met Opera presents: Faust- Gounod under the stars. Great Lawn 8pm. Breathless - Jean Luc Godard's 1960 debut. BAM Rose Cinema, 7 and 9:15pm $11 Franz Ferdinand - It's always a holiday. Bowery Ballroom 8pm $25 The World of Dance - For more information, call 212-621-0609 New York Public Library, Donnell Library Center Auditorium 2:30pm Thursday, June 14 *Richard Serra Sculpture: Forty Years - His exhibit opened at the MoMA last week. Meet the sculptor. The Strand 7pm *Celebrate Brooklyn: Neville Brothers - The opening night for this festival. Prospect Park 8pm *Ghosts of Abu Ghraib - The HBO documentary about torture in Iraq. Riverside Church 6:30pm *Scottish Dancing - Call for more information (212-849-8282). Holy Cross School 7:30pm Friday, June 15 Central Park Summerstage: Cassandra Wilson, Olu Dara- Jazz and blues. Opening Night 7pm *The Disappeared - See this exhibit on artists' response to Latin American politics before it disappears on the 17th. El Museo del Barrio Radical Lace and Subversive Knitting - Knitting needles the size of telephone poles. Enough said. The Museum of Arts and Design $7 Chelsea Challenge 2007 - It's better than the Ice Capades and sponsored by the NYC Gay Hockey Association. Sky Rink at Chelsea Piers $90 to play, $35 for the dinner, free to watch (we think) Saturday, June 16 Central Park Summerstage: Television, Apples in Stereo, Dragons of Zynth - Described as "three generations of alternative music" on the Summerstage website. 3pm An Afternoon with Chuck Palahniuk - reading, discussion, signing. Buy tickets now online. You'll get a signed copy of Rant and a Strand tote. The Strand 2pm $35. BBC America's BritBus Tour - Music, photos and food. Knitting Factory 8pm $10 *Hike the Heights 3: Giraffe Path - Sponsored by CLIMB. Highbridge Park An African Village: Postcards from Potou - National Dance Institute's 30th Annual performance. LaGuardia High School Concert Hall 3pm (also Sunday at 3pm and Monday at 6:30pm) $15 Sunday, June 17 *Los Soneros de Oriente (Cuban Son) - It is Caribbean week after all. Charles Dana Discovery Center in Central Park 4pm Central Park Summerstage: Tiken Jah Fakoly, Idan Raichel Project, DJ Kadafi - African reggae and Middle Eastern music. 3pm *Let's dance - The Soho Dance Studio presents free lessons at Riverside Park around 70th St. *75 Years of Architecture at MoMA – until June 18th MoMA *To Save and Project: MoMA's 5th annual festival of film preservation - until June 18th MoMA And finally... Find of the week: Did you know that rowing in Central Park is 10 dollars an hour? With four other friends, that's $2 an hour each. (P.S. By the time this goes up, some of the shows will be sold out. Lo siento.) 
 French lit obsessives might recall a character from Camus’s The Plague who spends years reworking the opening sentence of a novel. It’s a commentary on the human condition, or some shit...anyway, Butler library the Columbia library system, which has inspired everyone from Max Weber to Orhan Pamuk, could well have its own resident serial re-writer/tormented literatus. Meet Butler lounge denizen Marcos, C ’98, today’s victim of... Why are you here? I’m writing a novel. What’s it about? I have no idea. How long have you been working on it? Five years.&nbsp; Why are you writing it here of all places? I’m an alumnus…they have good coffee. I notice you’re usually holding court with people at one of the booths… I’m procrastinating. So you aren’t here for the intellectual stimulation? That and the procrastination. Exhilarating! In other totally unrelated news: the New York Daily News has deemed upperclassman dive 1020 an accurate barometer of public opinion. 1020's opinion: last night’s “Soprano’s” finale sucked ass. -ARR 
Editor emerita Anna Corke, of Cooking with Bwog fame, gives us a glance into life behind the kitchen doors. Here is what I do: toss salad greens with olive oil, lemon juice, salt, pepper, diced tomatoes, and crumbled feta; garnish with mixed olives, sliced cucumber, peppercinis, cucumber yogurt; plate with toasted pita, lamb on the bone, and breaded onion rings. Place each item so that one inch inside the rim of the plate is clear of food, garnishes always come in threes, and the food is as tall as possible. Oh, and this one customer wants extra olives, dressing on the side, the lamb well-done, pita untoasted, and a side of maple syrup. Mess it up and I get yelled at by a cute waitress and an uncute chef named Justin, who reminds me to “make it a quickie” while brandishing both a wrinkled sausage and a large serrated knife. Mess it up and they get yelled at by a paying customer whom I will never see, but who is undoubtedly wearing ethnic jewelry and Dior sunglasses - an authentic Bainbridge Islander (population: 20,000 lawyers). This summer, instead of learning the finer points of envelope-licking or how to take messages for a Congressman, I am learning to sweat over salad presentation at Café Nola. This is my second summer cooking in restaurants. Like most young pantry cooks, I started as a dishwasher and was slowly trained into the art of cutting rapidly and preparing large quantities of food for the mealtime onslaught. Throwing someone not used to restaurants into a cooking position can result in not only physical injuries – my boss once saw someone slice all of the skin off of one side of her finger – but also a lethal mix of stress and exhaustion. Many have cried. More have quit. The trick to avoiding such trauma is something any ER doctor could tell you about: staying focused and moving as fast as you comfortably can. Accuracy is usually more important than speed. But when I’ve got a chef yelling “I need two racks, a house, a stripper, a wang and a squawk on the fly” (read: two rack-of-lamb salads, a house salad, a serving of chicken strips, an order of bread pudding and a side of guacamole as fast as possible”), 12 potatoes to peel, eight quarts of black bean salsa to make, two crème brulees to torch, and a recently burned hand, it’s easy to envy the cubicle dwellers their peace. The hours are long - once I worked 16 hours with only one 5 minute break - and the callused and conditioned cooks have no pity for trim little me. The lack of pity is making me stronger, though. I’ve learned to catch food flung from across the kitchen, lift garbage bags weighing as much as I do into a dumpster, whip whipped cream by hand, cook damn good food, and put up with the base dialogue that somehow always accompanies the sensual art of cooking. “Hey Anna, I’ve got an idea: your chin, my balls,” yells my boss, “Oh, and I need a bread pudding in the window.” Then he asks one of the waitresses if she’ll give him her panties. “How can I give you something that I’m not wearing?” she replies, as I finish cutting bread pudding and set it on a plate for the chef to throw in the oven. “Poontang in the window!” I yell – this is our nickname for the best bread pudding ever. “Get your mind out of the Anna,” says Justin. I have a reputation here as the gutter itself, and coming home from work often means staying cloistered for a few hours reading chemistry textbooks in an effort to get my mind out of, well, myself. It gets easier. We’re starting a new menu this week and, to my surprise, it only took me one attempt to memorize the new plates. Good thing, too, since the power went out yesterday and I ended up making salads by candlelight – the dining public will eat through any kind of disaster. In all fairness, figuring out the new food is easier for me than for the servers since cooks order anything off of the menu for free. And some of this stuff is fucking mouthwatering: salmon pad thai, grilled asparagus salad with apples and pecans, enchiladas filled with cactus and cumin sour cream, mac and cheese with crab, and, of course, hot poontang with whipped cream and dripping caramel. Dear Columbia, I miss you, but they’re feeding me well here. 
Bwog thought the seventh floor of Hamilton was kinda just fine the way it was. The Hamilton elevator not so much. But hey, what the hell d o we know? Elsewhere in the ever-exciting world of campus facilities: the Mac is still standing, but probably not for that much longer--Barnard residents have told us they've been informed by e-mail that everybody's favorite concrete slab has been slated for destruction sometime during the next couple of weeks. Sad news, but we're oddly comforted (or maybe just thoroughly confused) by this ancient piece of Digitalia: "One's experience of traveling through MacIntosh Hall can be understood as a purely spatial experience dictated by a drastic contrast between forward motion on this journey and retrospection on reverse motion along the journey." Will one's experience of watching Mac get torn down be quite the spatial, drastically contrasting, forwardly moving and plaintively retrospective experience as grabbing a cup of Java City between classes? Stay tuned. 
 Well, we heard whispers about this before, and three whispers makes a rumor: is Nacho's Kitchen closing? An Eater.com tipster tells of Health violations, while Wikicu confidently proclaims that Columbia's bar of second choice will be replaced by a Jamba Juice. We also know that Morningside Heights has become a dicey place to own a bar, what with the Man starting to care that the majority of the clientele should only be ordering diet Cokes. We could hardly blame them for moving on to better pastures...but this means that Bwog needs a better fake. 
 More in food news: Chipotle is arriving at the end of the month, and they're courting Columbia students in a big way. The new shop's advance team let Bwog know that on Wednesday, June 27, they're holding a kickoff event to raise money for Columbia athletics--from 11:00 AM to 8:00 PM, five bucks will get you a hefty burrito and a drink, and all the money goes to CU teams. We'll remind you as the time approaches. If food's one way to our heart, and money's another, flashy websites are a third (we squandered a good half hour on this one--check out the dog section) and ethical food raising a fourth. The press release heavily promoted their naturally raised meats and organic beans, which should make your&nbsp; chunky hunk of Mexican taste even better.&nbsp; So, go forth and gorge, summer Columbians. And go Lions. &nbsp; 
 As far as aliens, UFOs, the Kennedy assassination, God and the NBA draft lottery are concerned, the poster says it all: I want to believe. I want to credit The Conspiracy with Patrick Ewing's 15 brilliant years as a New York Knick. But Mulder had it right: be lief and doubt are so closely intertwined that true belief is better left to the crackpots. By such conventional standards, Josie is a crackpot. I spotted her handing out pink quartersheets near the entrance to Lerner; because of her slight build, youngish appearance and thrift store, hipster asceticism I mistook her for a musician promoting a concert. Not a bad guess--but in fact she was a member of the Society of the Ancients promoting the notion that aliens deserve an assist on everything from the pyramids to iPods. I was immediately interested--not in aliens, of course, but in why someone would suffer the comparative humiliation of publicly pleading the case for their existence. I began chatting with her, and learned&nbsp;that her group has been canvassing all over the city (making her presence at Columbia somewhat arbitrary). After hearing about how humans had "obviously had help" in their seemingly "sporadic" development of new technologies, she explained to me that her group had plenty of confidence in the technological capabilities of the human race--it's just that she and her co-ancients felt "drawn to this kind of thing." Which means her belief is less about conspiratorial hokum than coming together in the presence of some inaccessible, external power; to, as she put it, feel like "we're not alone." Josie strolled freely among passerby outside of Lerner, making the case for this unique and seemingly crackpotted brand of non-aloneness to whoever was willing to take a handbill. This blogger predicts she grew frustrated with the grizzled, academic agnosticism that discounts such fanciful human-alien cooperation, and curled up with a box set of "X-Files" season 3 DVDs--known to nerds and aficionados as the&nbsp;season before Mulder becomes convinced that the aliens don't actually exist and that&nbsp;the government is just fucking with him. On an impending destruction-related note: this notice appeared in the front window of the Mac yesterday, suggesting that the building's last few traces of asbestos are being removed in preparation of its upcoming demolition. As for the demolition itself, workers informed Bwog that they are currently constructing a wooden barrier to keep the curious out and the soon-to-be-former building's dust and debris in. &nbsp; - ARR 
 Think your summer plans are exciting? Well&nbsp;porn legend turned Marine corporal turned conservative activist Matt Sanchez has you beat. Eschewing the safety of comparatively calmer destinations (Eastern Chad, for instance?), Sanchez has traveled to a certain far-away quagmire of death squads, roadside bombs and internecine warfare--namely Iraq. Not satisfied with American media coverage of the Mess-O-Potamia, Sanchez is attempting to set the record straight, embedding himself with an American military unit and posting daily to a blog. Sanchez's work makes for some interesting reading, and Bwog wishes the Corporal luck in returning to America safely. 
 Color photos! Cool design! The backing of a million-dollar publication! Jump on it while you can, kids. Anyone interested in the positions of: Managing Editor (Features) Managing Editor (A&amp;E) Web Deputy Lead Story Editor Senior Writer Should contact Alex Gartenfeld, Editor, at ajg2102@columbia.edu&nbsp;for more information. 
More stuff to do, see, eat, smell, find, hear and otherwise experience in New York City, courtesy of goings-on guru Stephanie Quan (* denotes free).&nbsp; Monday, June 18th *75 Years of Architecture at MoMA — last call. MoMA *To Save and Project: MoMA's 5th annual festival of film preservation – last call. MoMA *HBO Bryant Park Sumer Film Festival: Annie Hall-&nbsp; Props go to the two girls on the steps that told me about this. Classic movie, classic architecture, diane keaton looking hot, and woody allen being as neurotic as ever.&nbsp; Byant Park, movie begins between 8-9pm (every Monday) "Take the A Train" – a concert by The New York City Gay Men's Chorus and Big Apple Performing Arts. Oh you're curious…Nokia Theater Times Square 8pm $30 * "View"- SVA students present their work. Columbia's MFA presentation already past by, so try another school. School Of Visual Arts 209 East 23rd street &nbsp;M-F 9-7, S 10-6 Tuesday, June 19th Jazz Means Peace- Aria Aperta's experiment that holds jazz concerts to promote peace organizations in a very un-ONE.org way. Bowery Poetry Club 8pm $8 *Midsummer Night Swing (opening night) - Battle Royal of the Bands. Big Bands, Big Battle. George Gee &amp; His Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra plays the Count Basie Orchestra as they battle the David Berger &amp; the Sultans of Swing as the Duke Ellington Orchestra. Lincoln Center 6:30pm *Bryant Park Knits- Because knitting the heels of socks is hard without a little help. Upper Terrace, Bryant Park 2pm (every Tuesday) THE (Begining of the End) with Letitia Guillory- The first of five works dealing with the "survival and celebration of the human spirit". Each of these pieces are designed to be an "adventure" that keeps the audience wanting to come back for more. Also on Saturday and Sunday. Ft. Greene Park (Myrtle Avenue side of park) 7pm. Probably free. City Cinema Village East: Student Movie Night- Hang out and watch current movies for guess what? $7. You even get a free large popcorn. You would almost think you were in the 'burbs with prices like that. Check out movie times at&nbsp;City Cinema, Village East $7 Wednesday, June 20th *Midsummer Night Swing- Charanga Soleil- 10 piece ensemble plays Cuban salsa, Congolese rumba-soukos, and Haitian compass. Lincoln Center 6:30pm New York Philharmonic: Mahler, Maazel and Voigt – Maazel conducts select works of Strauss and Mahler's Seventh Symphony. See CUArts.com for discounted orchestra tickets try the website for student rush tickets on Monday. Pre-concert talks are one hour before the show. Lincoln Center (Wednesday and Thursday 7:30pm, Friday and Saturday 8pm) $12 rush, $25 through CUArts. *Word for Word Author Talk: Jane Green- The woman who helped to establish the genre of "chick lit". Inspiration for Kaavya Viswanathan? Bryant Park Reading Room 12:30pm *Bangkok Haunts- Following his best sellers, Bangkok 8 and Bangkok Tattoo, Burdett comes back to discuss his latest book. Someone always enjoyed that Bangkok joke. Strand 7pm *Poetic City- For those who enjoy poetry and long walks along the river. Readings by Mark Strand, Chris Abani, Franz Wright &amp; musical guest Taylor McFerrin. Sponsored by Poets House. Nelson Rockefeller Park in Battery Park City 7pm Thursday, June 21st *OCircus- vaudeville/burlesque troupes performing a sorta old fashioned circus act. Bowery Poetry Club 8pm * "The Best of Everything" by J.B. Edwards- a one act play about dysfunctional people. Sponsored by The National Arts Club at15 Gramercy Park South *yoga lessons- Its free. End of story. SW corner of the Lawn, Bryant Park 6pm (every thursday) *The Apocalypse Reader- Because you were that much more intrigued by Apocalypto. Authors from this collection of short stories read excerpts and sign copies. Strand 7pm *tai chi lessons- You've always wanted to try it. Move that ball of energy. Fountain Terrace, Bryant Park 7:30 am (every thursday) *Midsummer Night Swing- Salute to Gay Pride- Jai of Queer Eye and America's Next Top Model will be there. disco, hustle, funk, and house. Lincoln Center 6:30pm Friday, June 22nd *Central Park Summerstage: Comedy Central Park Featuring: Dave Attell, John Mulaney, Joe DeRosa, Amy Schumer, Kurt Metzger, Ted Alexandro- Free laughs. Central Park Summerstage 7:30-10pm *Miley Cyrus as hannah montana- Play the tourist on Good Morning America, watch a concert for free. Bryant Park, 7am *Midsummer Night Swing- Big Joe &amp; The Dynaflows- Big swing, jazz, and jump blues. Lincoln Center 6:30pm Funkworthy- Unintelligible noise that makes you want to move. Bowery Poetry Club 10pm $10 Toshi Swedish Party- Toshi's back and at a new location. Topless bartenders and sponsored alcohol galore. Domino Sugar Factory 9pm $20 girls $40 boys Saturday, June 23rd Alash Tuvan Throat Singers- From Tuva (Look it up in google maps), this ensemble has mastered singing in multiple tones simultaneously. Seriously awesome. Bowery Poetry Club 6pm $10 Pride Rapture- Ladies Night takes on a whole new meaning. Pier 54 6pm $25 *Midsummer Night Swing- Salsa Saturday- 'The Original Tito Puente Orchestra will take you back to the 1950s and the days of the mambo kings'. Lincoln Center 6:30 Sunday, June 24th *Central Park Summerstage: Canada Day! Featuring Sloan, Apostle of Hustle, and Duhks – Celebrate all that is Canadian (unlocked doors… universal health insurance… Avril Lavigne…) Central Park Summerstage 3:00-7:00pm &nbsp;&nbsp; *Pride March- It's back. Join LBGT as they dress up in drag and dance down New York. The 38th annual "gay parade" begins at 52nd street and 5th and ends at Christopher and Greenwich St. noon. *Pride Rally- Watch dozens of performers and artists rally around a cause and talk about their past experiences. Bryant Park 2pm *Harlem Meer Performance Festival: Harlem Blues &amp; Jazz Band (Blues &amp; Jazz) – more free music. Dana Discovery Center. Call call 212-860-1370 for more info. Tip of the week: The Philharmonic has open rehearsals before all major concert series. So if you're not ready so shell out major money for tickets, or missed the student rush opportunity, join the orchestra and conductor 9:45am on Wednesday to watch them work behind the scenes. Tickets are 15 dollars and it's just as good as the real concert if not more interactive. 
 Vampire Weekend is having a moment. Just today, Kelefa Sanneh of the New York Times wrote a glowing piece about them, and they've recently appeared in Rolling Stone, L Magazine, and on hundreds of indie-rock blogs. (Also, they played&nbsp;Bowery, like, omg!) In case you've forgotten who they are (and if you missed their&nbsp;hot beats&nbsp;at St. A's and ADP&nbsp;during the year), here's an old Bwog interview to jog your memory (and perhaps induce indie fan-girl squeals). &nbsp; ALSO:&nbsp;Genre magazine did a fabulous cover and spread on Jake and Marty LaSalle: brothers, Adonis-like figures, jugglers, and soon-to-be Columbia seniors recent graduates. They can show us lunges any day. 
Face-to-face with his former self, Bwog staffer and summer denizen Armin Rosen reflects on the pre-college phenomenon. More after the jump. Of all the traumatic events that marred what would have otherwise been a happy and productive middle school career, my brush with president Dwight David Eisenhower was one of the worst. Going to an unfamiliar, far-off corner of the globe with People to People--Eisenhower's Cold War-era “student ambassador” program--sure did seem like a good idea at the time. But since that time was the summer before seventh grade and that part of the world consisted mostly of dusty, open wasteland (nothing personal, Australia--I'm just not a fan), the ten days had a certain Hell-on-earth quality to it that took me a while to shake.&nbsp; So when a small army of innocent-looking high schoolers in identical People-to-People polo shirts descended on Van Am quad this afternoon, I vanquished any lingering Proustian associations and endeavored to figure out why they were here.&nbsp;&nbsp; The almost fascist uniformity of dress--maroon polos paired with heavy, sweat-stained khaki pants--must have been a red flag for at least of few of these kids. And as a pre-college program brat myself (Summer at Brown, '04), I know that&nbsp;freedom is crucial in&nbsp;staving off insanity whilst surrounded by hundreds of overeager resume-padders like yourself. So did these kids realize what they had gotten themselves in to?&nbsp; Answers varied. A group of girls lounging in the shade outside of Wallach said they were here for a “Theater Leadership” program. When I asked them exactly what Theater Leadership entailed, they shrugged and told me that the program promised to immerse them in the “culture of New York” and teach them about what it takes to succeed in the arts world. I approached a&nbsp;larger group of students here for an international affairs seminar, and when I pointed out the grim economics of the vast summer college program industry--exploiting the hysteria of upper-middle class parents intent on giving their children an entirely theoretical leg-up in the college admissions process--an instant look of familiarity came to their faces.&nbsp; One girl from Hong Kong said that she chosen the program because it “sounded prestigious.” That's how they get you, I explained--although, I said, a summer program can still be a 10-day long alcoholic and hormonal binge if you try hard enough.&nbsp; Not so for these People-to-Peoplers. A girl from Ithaca told of a strict 11 PM curfew, when she had to return to her phone-booth sized John Jay single. What was she planning on doing during the evening hours, aside from reflecting on life, staring into the quad, or, Heaven forbid, reading a book? Not surf the web, a boy from Toronto told me--the Columbia wireless network is password protected for summer residents in John Jay and Hartley-Wallach. &nbsp; After learning that there are punishments in place for everything from “inappropriate displays of affection” to wandering Van Am without two or three buddies in tow, I began racking by brain for ways around People-to-People's security cabal. Finding none (aside&nbsp;from a&nbsp;likely-nonexistent connection between the Hartley-Wallach and Hamilton-Kent tunnels), I passed my sympathy along to the imprisoned and over-pressured Peopleniks, whose retainers seemed even more authoritarian than I remembered.&nbsp; “Man,” said the Canadian, “I musta been high when I signed up for this shit.” But never fear, young northerner! Columbia's a playground once you figure out a way past night patrol. And to that end, here are THINGS EVERY HIGH SCHOOL SUMMER RESIDENT SHOULD KNOW ABOUT COLUMBIA AND MORNINGSIDE HEIGHTS:&nbsp; -- Not that Bwog encourages underage drinking or anything, but for certain bouncers at certain neighborhood bars a polite nod of the head usually does the trick. Also the liquor store on 123rd is cheaper, better stocked and a bit more lax than the one on 113th. &nbsp; -- Since most of us realize that the summer fee at Dodge is complete and utter bullshit, you can probably just pretend to be a Columbia student and get sympathetic visiting and summer students to swipe you in. I, for one, would be happy to pass a swipe along to anyone who needs it.&nbsp; -- There's nothing you can get on 34th Street that you can't get cheaper on 125th Street.&nbsp; -- The best Mexican restaurant known to man is located at 139th and Broadway.&nbsp; -- And speaking of mouthgasms: 109th and Amsterdam. Spicy Special. Go there and get one--or hell, get four. &nbsp; -- Read Bwog obsessively.&nbsp;No--religiously. -- Columbia Cottage at 111th and Amsterdam is a must. Order the Orange Beef--and if your waiter decides you've had enough, there's usually an unattended box of Franzia right by the bathrooms. -- You probably don't realize it now, but Central Park is all of ten minutes away on foot.&nbsp; So Bwog wishes all but the best to this year's People-to-People participants. We hope this program turns all of you into strong, future theatre-leaders and so forth, and that you find there's more to New York than the lovely though undeniably constricting Van Am Quad. 
Besides Chipotle and cute guys, other Things of Consequence have occured in the world of the Heights over the last few days. Here's a bit of context. &nbsp; PrezBo issued a statement condemning members of a British teachers union who decided to boycott their Israeli counterparts because of their "complicity" in the Jewish state's oppression of Palestine. Courageous stand or no, PrezBo's getting a lot of props with the Jewish community, both at home and abroad. Hail Sir Bollinger, defender of the righteous. Meanwhile, the Manhattanville project steams ahead--the city just certified Columbia's rezoning plan for the area, giving the community 60 days to comment and vote on the propozed changes. Bollinger says the new campus will be "fundamentally diff erent" from the Morningside fortress, but that hasn't satisfied neighborhood agitators, who&nbsp; contend that no amount shiny, expensive retail (or cool environmental architecture, which we're sure had nothing to do with us complaining about how it originally didn't exist) will make up for the lack of affordable housing. SCEG wants you to protest, and Renzo couldn't give a damn. Surprises on all sides. UPDATE, 2:17 PM EST: More info from the Times' city blog, and for a significantly longer read, the Draft Environmental Impact Statement itself (which Spec has already ably covered).&nbsp; - LBD 
 Because of all the deaths and illnesses attributable to our library's rat-infested coffee shop, the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (Division of Environmental Health) has seen fit to the uphold the public good and shut down the Butler denizen's only source of sustenance, Blue Java. Of course Blue Java hasn't killed anybody and isn't infested by rats. Or is it? This notice from the NYCDoHaMH (DoEH), apparently posted at&nbsp;around 11 AM this morning, leaves much to the imagination. But given the recent spate of arbitrary restaurant closings, it's likely that Blue's violations were pretty mild. To confirm this, Bwog called the Health Department's media desk, where we were brusquely informed that inquiries "take a&nbsp;long while" to process, and we were referred to an e-mail address where we could make a formal request for information (smarkt@health.nyc.gov, for the interested). Since we’re not down with bureaucratic red tape, Bwog dialed the media desk again. Much to our relief we were answered by a different receptionist, who said she would try to get to the bottom of the Blue Java mystery by the end of business hours today. She also told us about the Health Department's nifty search engine feature. It seems that Blue Java has an impeccable inspection record, although Bwog is outraged that a dry establishment would so flagrantly endanger public health by not adequately warning customers about the dangers of "Alcohol and Pregnancy." UPDATE, 10:21 AM EST, 6/20:&nbsp; There is now a sign right beneath the Health Department notice stating that the Department has required Blue Java to have a two-welled sink, and that the coffee shop will be closed until it complies. Could this be an all-too-transparent cover-up by library management? Doubtful, but for the suspicious: Bwog has been informed that Health Department violations usually hit the public domain after about a week, so if you're still interested check back next Wednesday. -ARR 
Because Bwog doesn't do hot, sandy or constantly-in-existential-danger, Iraq didn't quite make it into our summer plans. Not so for Matt Sanchez, GS,&nbsp; who has been blogging out of the war-torn country for the past couple of weeks. What the hell's gotten into the conservative activist, military man, Spec opinion writer, American studies major and one-time porn icon? We reached the Marine corporal by e-mail in an attempt to find&nbsp; out. &nbsp; How did you get the opportunity to travel to Iraq? Moreover, why go there in the first place? I applied for the media embed; the process seems daunting but if you're tenacious and know exactly what you want to do, your chances of getting approved are a lot higher.&nbsp; I had several advantages. I have a security clearance from&nbsp;my time at NYPD&nbsp;Counter-Terrorism, &nbsp;I know people who have been through the process and they explained it in detail, I had a definite plan of doing a syndicated radio show, In Their Own Words and Hometown Heroes, and I was as specific as possible with dates, units, places etc. The reason why I came here in the first place was because I just wasn't content with the media coverage.&nbsp; Having seen, personally, how the media can twist, mislead or just fabricate stories, I really wanted to see things for myself.&nbsp; You see, I know lots of people who have been to Iraq and back and I had not been given that opportunity, so I was eager to see for myself&nbsp; Let's face it, this is THE issue of 21st century and, frankly, I want to know what's going on as much as possible.&nbsp; &nbsp; Iraq strikes me as a pretty violent place. How safe do you personally feel there? Since I've been in country, I've been IED, RPG'ed, shot at with small arms fire and have witnessed a suicide bomber...Iraq is a dangerous place; when we have debarked on the streets of Fallujah, you scan windows and rooftops in a way that would be impossible on my Midtown block.&nbsp; Surprisingly, I feel fairly safe.&nbsp; The Marines know their stuff, and they work hard at safety, both on and off the base.&nbsp; I will tell you, the first time I heard small arms fire touch down around us, I was surprised to see my training kick in and focus at the job in hand.&nbsp; The Marines picked up their weapons and I got my camera.&nbsp; I couldn't ask for a better nor braver security detail. Your blog takes a pretty optimistic view on things,&nbsp;while most other media does not. Why should&nbsp;we believe you over them? If the press is the eyes, ears and voice of a nation, then we are currently deaf, dumb and blind.&nbsp; My blog takes what I feel is a realistic view given the facts on the ground. I try to be as open and detailed as possible in describing the dangers, without being melodramatic or exagerating.&nbsp; You should not "believe" me over them, but I do hope yo u will begin to question the mainstream media as much as you question me.&nbsp; I've noticed quite a bit of media misinformation, you can check that out on my website.&nbsp; The al Anbar province, aka the Sunni Triangle, is as big as Utah and yet there were five embedded reporters here, at last count.&nbsp; When I was in Camp Cedar, in southern Iraq, I was told I was the first reporter to ever go through there.&nbsp; Far too many of the journalists report from the comfort of the Green Zone, which is the most fortified gated community in the world.&nbsp; Much of what is going on here in al Anbar...has been either misreported or glazed over.&nbsp; Let's not forget that the press...practically cheered during the Fallujah offensive of 2004.&nbsp;&nbsp; I will never play down the dangers these men and women undergo, I would hardly call that "optimistic".&nbsp; Everyone has a point of view, but from where I'm standing the media is facing in the wrong direction.&nbsp; &nbsp; The American media has seen a glut of stories about the discouragement of soldiers in Iraq (such as a front-page story in the Village Voice just last week). Considering the popular sentiment that the war has been a failure, what is morale actually like among the&nbsp;American soldiers you've spoken to? I don't think Americans think the war is a failure.&nbsp; The feedback I get is that the war is important, there are problems and most people feel that something needs to be done and that there is a threat here in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Horn of Africa that could directly impact&nbsp;mainla nd USA.&nbsp; I also think that we, in the US have the luxury of disregarding the conflict in Iraq, since our lives are so far removed from the dangers of terrorism.&nbsp;The press does its part to play down those dangers, notably in the planned assault on a military base in New Jersey and the foiled assault on JFK.&nbsp; I also know that neither&nbsp;Columbia University&nbsp;nor the Village Voice is very representative of most Americans.&nbsp; Morningside is not just a neighborhood, it's a membrane around a self-inseminating organ.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I've met many Marines, soldiers and Airmen who have been here more than one time and have re-enlisted, because they feel this job is important.&nbsp; I have yet to meet a member of the American Armed Forces who feels the media has done an accurate of fair job of reflecting this conflict. &nbsp; &nbsp; What are five things you've observed in Iraq that you feel the mainstream media has either&nbsp;not reported or underreported? Five Major Myths about Iraq: &nbsp; 1. This is&nbsp;a&nbsp;civil war 2. Iraqis are angry about Abu Graib or Haditha 3. This is an occupation 4. Americans are torturing people 5. Troops are discouraged &nbsp; Five Scoops on Iraq: &nbsp; 1. Troops are human 2. Iraqi Children wave and smile at troops. 3. Military provides healthcare 4. Iraqis have no gas despite sitting on major oil reserves 5. Iraqis look to American forces to provide daily necessities, and that should probably start to change.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Do you plan on returning to Columbia in the fall? Do you think your experiences in Iraq will help you as an American Studies major? Yes, I intend to return in the Fall, although I will be extremely busy with work.&nbsp; My final paper will be on "American Values as projected through the Military during a time of Occupation."&nbsp; And I have a feeling that this summer will give me plenty of insight.&nbsp; -ARR -Photos by Matt Sanchez 
 Here comes the revolution: members of the Annapolis Group, a loose consortium of liberal arts colleges, have finally decided to bolt from U.S. News and World Report's embattled college rankings, and are promising to come up with a system of their own. Among them is outgoing Barnard President Judith Shapiro, who laid out her opposition back in 1998, penning those fabulous title quotes and making the dubious claim that the rankings cannot be an accurate measure of collegiate quality if they place Barnard so low (the bears aren't that low--just solidly middle of the road).&nbsp; Spokespeople said that "over 50 percent" of the organization had decided not to provide&nbsp; their data to the annual survey. Bwog wonders which half that would be. 
 Previously, on the Joy Luck Book Club: Marisha Pessl's merits as author and as hottie were debated. In this week's episode, certified hottie Dave Eggers presents What is the What, and the J.L.B.C. convenes, gin cocktails in hand, to their secret clubhouse somewhere in the outer boroughs... Reading Rainbow! Dan: Dave Eggers is famous for two things: the painfully earnest magazine McSweeney's and A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius, a wonderful book that I can barely recall. (That's the one with the brother and The Real World audition, right?) What is the What represents both a return to the literary spotlight and something of a return to form for Eggers - after two little-read works of fiction, he's once again bending genres with a novelized autobiography told by Valentino Achak Deng, a Sudanese refugee. The sentimental subject matter indicates to previously unaware readers Eggers's stumbling-block - his earnestness. Valentino undergoes struggles that would seem ludicrous were they not, you know, real, and has about him a superhuman innocence. However, the reader grows more and more involved in Valentino's story as the novel continues, and he begins to seem less cloying, more real. (An instance where he wonders if his friend's death will attract as much publicity as Princess Diana's is unexpectedly touching, for instance.) What is the What showcases one of Eggers's great strengths: a remarkable ability to tell a story a distinct voice, even one that is not his own. What about you, Lucy? Were you pleased to see Dave Eggers telling a story that can be endorsed by Angelina Jolie, or do you wish he'd go back to playing Frisbee with Toph? Lucy: My relationship with Dave Eggers has been pretty abusive. I really thought we clicked with AHWOSG; even today, I am not ashamed to deem it one of my favorite books (even with the extreme hype and backlash). Then after he earned my trust, he started to jerk me around, knowing that I would remain foolishly loyal. Even though I couldn't even finish How We are Hungry, and was disappointed by You Shall Know Our Velocity, I was still a total Dave Eggers fangirl. With his most recent foray into literature, I can finally rave about Dave Eggers without accusations of buying into the McSweeney's hype. What is the What proves that Dave Eggers can write well about a topic that's not himself. It is impossible to discern Eggers' voice in What is the What, gone are the self-deprecating attitude, the long-winded stream of consciousness, and the snark. What is the What does for Eggers what his two previous works failed to do, it cements his reputation as an author by demonstrating his ability to move beyond his personal voice. That said, I still prefer Eggers mulling over Toph's sexual orientation. &nbsp;&nbsp;Dan: Even though I agree with everything you said, I would add that it's almost as though Eggers is all too aware of his reputation as a literary pranks ter, and is veering too far in the opposite direction. While I respected What is the What a great deal and I feel like I learned a lot while reading it, I didn't love it. It was literary roughage. You really SHOULD read it, for its lovely if subdued prose and for the story it tells. But I miss the old&nbsp; Eggers somewhat - he seems to have sublimated himself so far into Valentino Achak Deng that no irony or elegance peeks through. I'm glad I know as much about Sudan as Angie now, but around page 200 of the emigration from Sudan, I began to wonder if Eggers could import a bit more staggering genius into his heartbreaking tale. (Ha ha ha!) Valentino Achak Deng himself is clearly a lovely and fascinating man, if not quite as fascinating as Eggers himself at the height of his powers. I wouldn't blame you, though, if you reached for an old McSweeney's compilation first. Also, Lucy, now that I have at least a vague idea of what the what is, I'd like to answer that other great Eggers question: what is the sexuality of Toph. Lucy: A Frisbee-Tossing Work of Stumbling Gayness. Kidding, I love Toph Eggers (whatever his sexual orientation may be), and not just because I have a penchant for little boys (though he's not so little anymore, score!). Our affection for Toph after so many years just shows the brilliance of Eggers' debut. As hard as Dave Eggers tries, he will never escape himself. AHWOSG established his identity so strongly that it's sad not to hear him ramble on for pages about his own insecurities. Now that McSweeney's is bankrupt, maybe Eggers will once again revel in self-deprecation. I can only hope... In our next installment, we'll discuss Haruki Murakami's After Dark. Until then, we remain- -The Joy Luck Book Club (Lucy Tang '11, Daniel D'Addario '11) 
In which Bwog newbie Sarah Rapp reviews a tale of love gone nuts. I had two concerns on my mind upon entering Dan Klore’s documentary Crazy Love: first, that I had forgotten my grey sweatshirt reserved for overly air conditioned environments; and second, that the title was incredibly cliché.&nbsp; Crazy. Love. In my opinion, two of the more overused terms in the English language. The extremes are appealing, but also somehow vague, and I was preemptively disappointed in Klore for the choice of this specific combination. However, by the end of the film, I realized that I haven’t seen a more apt title since Snakes on a Plane and Three Men and a Baby. Bwog readers in their 50s (I know you’re out there) may remember this story from the tabloids. It’s 1957, and Linda Riss, a flirtatious but wholesome bombshell, meets smart, successful older man Burt Pugach. Love ensues, then the bomb drops – he’s married, oh no! They break up, she meets someone new, he stalks her, can’t get her back, so Pugach, in a jealous and insane rage, does what any lovesick kid from the Bronx would do: hires a thug to throw acid in her face. Linda, now minus her eyesight and a fiancée, spends years watching suitors run after seeing what’s behind her Hollywood shades, and finds herself alone. Meanwhile, back at the prison, Burt continues to obsess over his Linda, writing her letters, sending her money, calling her. Fourteen years go by, and Burt gets out early on parole, makes his media rounds and in a confusing and inappropriate stunt, proposes to Linda while being interviewed on national television. Linda accepts. It is hard to remain impartial and hear Burt’s side of the story– the all caps headline “GIRL BLINDED BY ACID THROWER” will burn in your head the entire film. Klore does a nice job of avoiding the temptation to make this film an attack on Pugach, emphasizing their love before the incident, and their love now, which is of a different breed. The talking heads besides Burt and Linda are almost a pleasure. On the one hand, they’re good storytellers with good memories who flesh out the horrifying love story. On the other hand, hearing the smoker growl and seeing liver spots is somewhat unpleasant.&nbsp; The story may make itself, but the movie’s presentation and timing make it even better. For those of us who hadn’t read a synopsis beforehand, the secret is hidden quite well, and at the moment when Linda Riss recounts the fateful day, Klore decides to not show Linda saying the punchline—some things are too horrible to speak aloud. The former Miss Riss takes a drag of her cigarette instead of completing the sentence: “I opened the door, and then…” Klore cuts to the chilling newspaper headline and turns up the music, which is well chosen and enjoyable, including some great throwbacks from Smokey Robinson and the Miracles and Screamin’ Jay Hawkins. Also, you’ll appreciate the irony in Elvis Presley’s “Burning Love”. Crazy Love isn’t your average love story, but if I know anything about our generation, it’s that we like ourselves a good fucked up love story. Crazy Love is a fascinating look into a tabloid headline that seems to make no sense from the outside. It’s engrossing, disturbing, and impressively edited. I’d like to tell you that you’ll get answers – for why Burt did it, why Linda accepted his proposal, how they can live in the same house knowing what they know – but I can’t make any promises.&nbsp; 
Tipster Kendall Barnes spotted this on Facebook Marketplace for York, England, where she is currently studying abroad.&nbsp; In other crazy foreigner news, we got this odd message from a would-be 2014-er: Hello, My name is Laura. I am 15 years old and i always dream to will be a student of the famous university&nbsp;: Columbia. I just want to talk with a student to have more informations. Well, there is my msn : Bye =) If anyone wants to share some famous university wisdom with Laura, feel free.&nbsp; 
 In which Bwog staffer Hillary B. unearths a trove of desperate preteen pleas. The other day, one of my fellow interns at the marketing/publicity firm where I work turned to me and asked, “Do you know what happened to all the Good Charlotte fan mail?” That band once had been among our clients, and we’ve been receiving their mail for over a year. &nbsp; “I don’t know… I think Autumn threw it all out,” I said. This was true – a few weeks ago, we had cleaned out the mailroom and the entire bag of fan mail had been unceremoniously dumped in the trash. What I didn’t tell my colleague was that I had later smuggled the bag into my backpack and brought it home with me.&nbsp; As much fun as I had tampering with the mail – hey, it’s not like that’s a felony or anything, right? Right? – I’d have to say that on the whole, this was a learning experience for me. I now consider myself an expert on Good Charlotte fan mail composition. Read on to find out how you, too, can write a letter that’ll bring Benji and Joel Madden to their knees. &nbsp; Step 1: Be a 15-Year-Old Girl The vast majority of Good Charlotte fans are young ladies just shy of the tween years. Out of 30some letters, a grand total of one was written by a boy – and nobody admitted to being older than a sophomore in high school. Then again, there are exceptions to this rule, as proven by this amazing letter from Katie in Ohio:&nbsp; “Dear Good Charlotte, I Love You Joel Madden! You are the only one I think is Hot! Will you marry me? I like SpongeBob. How old are you? I am 9 years old. You are my favorite rock band. Your Girlfriend, Katie. P.S. Write me back BABY!” &nbsp; Step 2: Be Foreign Many of the best letters came from outside the U. S. It’s difficult to say whether this is because people from other countries are more charming than Americans or because their command of the English language is not always the best.&nbsp; From Ola and Monika in Poland: “Good Charlotte is our life and our addiction. We would like to ask you for a photograph with autograph of every member of GC, every one three times… We believe, that you realize our request, because we can’t here so things how fans in USA… P.S. Invite to our beautiful country.”&nbsp; From Vanessa in the Phillipines: “I want to congratulate you guys for the every steps done successfully it was really great! Oh, how I wish you can write me back &amp; can I win your autograph guys? Because I think it was really cool to have it I’m hoping &amp; waiting for that.”&nbsp; From Carmiel in Italy:&nbsp; “I like you because you have a sweet voice, it moves me, IT COMES IN MY HEART… My biggest wish in the world is to meet you (FOR YOU I COULD GO AT THE CAPE OF THE WORLD) I am jealous of all the girls that are in your video clip.”&nbsp; From a Canadian with questionable sanity:&nbsp; &nbsp; Step 4: Get Creative Several other fans also made drawings that proved their love of Good Charlotte. Some were pretty good:&nbsp; &nbsp; Some were worth a gold star and an extra graham cracker at snack time:&nbsp; &nbsp; And some were just odd: &nbsp; &nbsp; Step 5: Make Sure You Know Who You’re Writing To Chances are that Good Charlotte wouldn’t have been too thrilled had they ever laid eyes on this letter, which was mixed in with the others:&nbsp; So what are you waiting for? Go finish up your fan mail masterpiece -= and don’t forget to include your email address, address, and phone number, so that Benji, Joel and company can get back to you ASAP. Unless you decide to end your letter the same way Sara from Pennsylvania did:&nbsp; “Im not gona give you my # b/c all the other fans are like someday call me at 555----! I am not like that.” 
It’s the summer, The Heights is painfully empty, campus is strangely quiet, maybe it’s time to go beyond Columbia’s gates and head into… the outer boroughs. Bwog staffer Lucy Tang treks to Bushwick to get punched in the face, so one day, you can too!&nbsp; The last time I was in a mosh pit, I got punched in the face. Serves me right, I suppose, for seeing Fall Out Boy (though to be fair, I was 13, and not actually there to see Fall Out Boy). Then last Friday the 22nd, my face was once again trampled; same skinny jeans, less studded Hot Topic belts. The occasion?&nbsp; A Todd P show. &nbsp; For Parts and Labor’s record release party, Todd P had Golden Error, TheDeathSet, Parts and Labor, and Matt and Kim on hand. Fun factoid, the show was relocated from its original location because the interns and volunteers walked into a future sweatshop. Needless to say, sewing machines and moshing hipsters don’t really mix. As expected, Todd P shows are a little grimy, usually located in obscure warehouses in the middle of Brooklyn. Though it may be a trek, the number of “cool” all-ages activities in New York is dwindling, and the opportunity to see multiple bands for ten dollars or less is a rare deal. The show stayed pretty low-key for Golden Era and Parts and Labor, but during TheDeathSet’s set, a blossoming mosh pit had its beginnings. Body parts splayed in mid-air, bearded men spastically dancing, the occasional flinch from cigarette burns- montage of mania. However, the insanity really hit during Matt and Kim’s homecoming, the crowd were in frenzy over these local favorites (not to mention, the most adorable couple ever). During “Lightspeed,” the synchronized clapping showed just how happy their fans were to see them back in Brooklyn. &nbsp; (Hey Matt! Hey random guy's bald spot!)&nbsp; Though the sound wasn’t great, the combination of Matt’s witty banter and the energy of the crowd made up for any technical difficulties, and bodily injury. People hurling through the air, girls falling over, the crowd throttling back forth as one unit… &nbsp; Who said hipsters don't dance? &nbsp; 
Armin Rosen reports on the weirdest place in New York's w eirdest event: yesterday's Mermaid Parade in Coney Island. Many a bare breast was on display at the 25th (and perhaps last) edition of the Mermaid Parade, Coney Island's annual, nautically-themed celebration of the campy, t opless and strange. Indeed, Sodom by the Sea earned its permissive nickname yesterday, as legions of mostly-naked revelers in often-dazzling homemade mermaid costumes caroused their way down Surf Avenue, much to the delight of the thousands of sun and alcohol-drunk onlookers taking in one of New York's more idiosyncratic summer traditions. Since this is a family Bwog, we're obligated to say that there was more to the parade than artfully decorated mermaid mammary. Which is true, we suppose--after all, the parade is proof that when freaks and eccentrics, as well as normals of a freakish, eccentric bent have enough time on their hands the results can be spectacular. So here's our best of the parade--photos and such after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; One of the more impressive floats at the parade was this crank-powered pirate ship that terrorized Surf Avenue with a high-pressure water cannon. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Shrimp hats and accordions! Why didn't I think of that?!?!&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; But not all was shrimp hats and accordions: with a massive redevelopment plan in the works and Coney Island's Astroland amusement park slated for closure at summer's end, anti-Bloomberg sentiment ran high among some parade par ticipants. The slogans "Keep Coney Weird" and "Save Coney Island" were sported by many a parader, although real estate developer Joe Sitt's plan to begin trashing the popular landmark this fall puts the future of Coney Island's unique brand of weirdness in serious jeopardy. With another highly problematic redevelopment project on the verge of completely destroying downtown Brooklyn, it looks like Johnathan Lethem's observation that the borough's "residual low self-esteem" is being exploited by soulless real estate moguls is dead-on--yes, there was a marching band clad in loud, neon-orange "Save Coney Island" tanktops. But with the development controversy mostly in the background, the attitudes of most revelers--including this one--tended towards an unsatisfying combination of resignation and denial. Of course the Boardwalk's massive pina coladas helped with both, although fittingly, the massive pina colada stand at 12th and the Boardwalk might not survive the purge... &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; No participants made a kitschier or more powerful social statement than this pair. And while I'm on the subject...how lame is that "Future of Coney Island" website I linked to a couple paragraphs ago? To start with, the skyline running across the top of the page only depicts structures that are protected historical landmarks, such as the Cyclone, the Wonder Wheel and the now-defunct but still-standing Parachute Jump. Nowhere do you see the indoor water park, timeshare units or high-rise hotels that have made the project so contentious. And how un-fucking-convincing is that comments section? Although to be fair, it seems like it was never meant to be convincing, and is only there to reinforce the message that nobody cares what the hell you think. That's right, readers--it's a comments page meant to crush public dissent. Orwell would feel vindicated... &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; On to cheerier topics--like mermaid families! In this blogger's opinion, those kids have the coolest parents ever, or are totally scarred for life. The boy's frighteningly realistic pirate snarl had me leaning towards the "scarred for life" option, although the parasol-toting mermaid girl seemed normal enough. Thoughts? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; I can't think of any better way to close out a blog post about the Mermaid Parade than with a picture of a giant crab battling a bearded lady. For the curious, crustacean and carnival freak fought to a near-draw, with the latter's net-dress putting up a valiant defense against the former's giant claw. Hopefully they'll have a rematch next year--but what our beloved Sodom will look like by that point is anybody's guess. 
 And now for another smattering of weekly events compiled by Stephanie Quan. Hurry, some of these start in the next couple of hours! Monday, June 25 Wiz Kidz - Test your knowledge of things from really slow songs to bipolar movies with three of your friends against teams from all over the city. Crash Mansion, 7:30pm, $7 http://www.bigquizthing.com Wilco - "Hearty and prim" according to The Onion. Hammerstein Ballroom, 6:30pm, $37 http://www.mcstudios.com *HBO Film Festival: Thing from Another World- Get there EARLY, sit CLOSE. Bryant Park, 8pm http://www.bryantpark.org/calendar/film-festival.php Let's Get Lost - Bruce Weber's documentary on the life of jazz trumpeter and drug addict, Chet Baker. Film Forum, $10, <!-- D( ); //--> http://www.filmforum.org NY Asian Film Festival - Through July 5th. IFC Center, $11 http://www.ifc.com Human Rights Watch International Film Festival- through June 28th. Walter Reade Theater, $7 (student tickets) http://hrw.org/iff/2007/ny/ Punch Puppetry - Puppets! Galapagos, 7pm, $5 http://upcoming.yahoo.com/event/204690/ *Soon I Will Be Invincible - Because you love comic books/graphic novels. Meet Austin Grossman, The Strand, 7pm http://strandbooks.com&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tuesday, June 26 Michelle Obama - Yup, Barack's wife speaking at the NY Historical Society's series about "women in public life." Tickets to this event are incredibly expensive, but you probably camp outside to try to meet her afterwards. NY Historical Society, 12:30pm, $300. http://www.nyhistory.org *Dragon in the Park - Chinese group Melody of the Dragon begins Central Park's Naumburg Orchestral Concert Series. Lots of unusual instruments, including two stringed fiddles. Naumberg Bandshell, 7:30pm, http://naumburgconcerts.org/ Sinead O'Connor-&nbsp; To quote Empire Records "Well, <!-- D( ); //--> Sinead O'Rebellion! Shock me shock me shock me with that deviant behavior!" Joe's Pub, 7:30pm, $35 http://www.joespub.com *The Lazy Enviromentalist - Because you want to be as green as the new Columbia science building and meet Josh Dorfman. Barnes and Noble, Astor Place, 7pm *Peeling the Onion - Gunter Grass will be at Barnes and Noble, Union Square, 7pm *Midsummer Night Swing (MNS) - Big Band Tuesday. Swingtime Big Band. Lincoln Center, 6:30pm. http://www.lincolncenter.org/load_screen.asp?screen=advanced%20search%20results&amp;program=7&nbsp; Wednesday, June 27&nbsp; Rise Against and Silverstein and Comeback Kid - Let out your inner high schooler. Nokia Theater, 8pm, $30 www.nokiatheatrenyc.com&nbsp;&nbsp; Celebrate Brooklyn: Manu Chao - This is absurdly sold out. Prospect Park Bandshell, 6:30pm $30 http://briconline.org/celebrate <!-- D( ); //--> /schedule_2007.asp John Wayne Centenary: El Dorado - Because you can't see Manu Chao. MoMA, 8:30pm, $10 http://www.moma.org/exhibitions/film_exhibitions.php?id=4864&amp;ref=calendar *Midsummer Nights Swing - Irish Traditional. Ceilie Band. Lincoln Center, 6:30pm. http://www.lincolncenter.org/load_screen.asp?screen=advanced%20search%20results&amp;program=7&nbsp;&nbsp; *Word for Word Author Talk - Meet the Tour de France winner, Floyd Landis. His new memoir is entitled "Positively False: The Real Story of How I Won the Tour de France". Hm… &nbsp;Bryant Park Reading Room, 12:30pm, 212-768-4242 * The Players - Sports in arts, its implications and influences. The Arsenal Gallery, 3rd floor of Park Department Headquarters, Central Park, Fifth Avenue at 64th Street 5pm, http://www.nycgovparks.org/sub_things_to_do/attractions/public_art/arsenal_gallery/pa_arsenal_gallery.html Thursday, June 28th&nbsp; Richard Hawley &amp; Nicolai Dunger w/ Benjy Ferree South Street Seaport, 7pm, <!-- D( ); //--> http://www.brooklynvegan.com/archives/2006/06/2006_south_stre.html *Midsummer Nights Swing - Low Jazz. David Ostwald's Gully Low Jazz Band. Lincoln Center, 6:30pm. http://www.lincolncenter.org/load_screen.asp?screen=advanced%20search%20results&amp;program=7 *Central Park Summerstage - Levon Helm Band- free Snapple for the first 100 people. Central Park Summerstage, 6:30pm, http://www.summerstage.org/&nbsp; Friday, June 29th *Harlem Meer Performance Festival: Folklore Urbano- now for something completely different. Dana Discovery Center, 4pm http://www.centralparknyc.org/activities/music&nbsp;&nbsp; *Midsummer Nights Swing - Western Swing. Bob Wills' Texas Playboys. Lincoln Center, 6:30pm. http://www.lincolncenter.org/load_screen.asp?screen=advanced%20search%20results&amp;program=7 *Shoot the Widow- An autobiography of a biographer. Meet Meryle Secrest. The Strand, 7pm, <!-- D( ); //--> http://strandbooks.com&nbsp; Saturday, June 30th&nbsp; *Midsummer Nights Swing - Kids Day! Lincoln Center, 6:30pm. http://www.lincolncenter.org/load_screen.asp?screen=advanced%20search%20results&amp;program=7 Vampire Weekend - Bwog just can't get enough of these guys. Bowery Ballroom, 8pm, $12 http://www.boweryballroom.com/calendar/index.html *Central Park Summerstage - Ozomatli, Babylon Circus, DJ Joro Boro - a band, a circus, and a DJ sample everything from gypsy folk to Jamaican dub. Guest Chef Abe Lopez of Suenos. Central Park Summerstage, 3pm, http://www.summerstage.org/ &nbsp; *Weeding- Feeling volunteer-y? weed and maintain gardens with the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy. Brooklyn Bridge Park, 10am, email Taylor Black at tblack@bbpc.net or call 718-802-0603. *Andreas Gursky - An exhibit recommended by offbeatny.com. Photos that give an amazing feeling of texture. Matthew Marks Gallery. http://www.matthewmarks.com <!-- D( ); //--> /index.php?n=2&amp;c=7&amp;e=432&amp;l=102 Sunday, July 1st&nbsp;&nbsp; *Midsummer Nights Swing - Salsa Saturday. Ray Rodriquez y Swing Sabroso. Lincoln Center, 6:30pm. http://www.lincolncenter.org/load_screen.asp?screen=advanced%20search%20results&amp;program=7 *Central Park Summerstage: Rodrigo y Gabriela, Vietnam, JDH and DAVE P – Acoustic music galore and so much more. Guest Chef Sue Torres of Los Dados. Central Park Summerstage, 3pm, http://www.summerstage.org &nbsp; *The Science Barge - Check out this demonstration of renewable energy supporting sustainable food production. Its colorful and uses hydroponics. Whoot. Pier 84, tours at 11:00am, 12:00pm, 3:00pm and 4:00pm http://nysunworks.org/science_barge/about_the_barge.html &nbsp; Find of the week: RIVER TO RIVER FESTIVAL STARTS THIS WEEK. It has waaay to much stuff to list. Here's the site http://www.rivertorivernyc.com/ 
A week ago, bwogger Armin Rosen&nbsp;traveled to the ends of the earth--at least for a New Yorker. You’re a long way from Manhattan by the time the A train finally reaches&nbsp; the most scenic stretch of track in the entire New York subway system. Once it finishes plodding 25 miles of subterranean darkness, the A speeds through a national wildlife refuge, and passes scenery more suited to New England or tidal Virginia than New York’s largest and second most populous borough. But people don’t travel to the Rockaways looking for a typical New York experience--while The L Magazine once deemed the Nassau Avenue G station (not far from the Rockaways, relatively speaking) one of the foulest-smelling places in New York, the Broad Channel station treats passengers waiting for Rockaway Beach-bound shuttle trains to a scent they probably never imagined encountering within the MTA system: salt air. Broad Channel is an island in the middle of Jamaica Bay. Roughly 3,000 people live there, and many of them have backyards with access to the Bay, or views of the Rockaways or nearby JFK airport. If you squint you can almost see the Manhattan skyline towering incongruously in the distance, a reminder of how simultaneously close by and far away Broad Channel’s few thousand stalwarts are from the city’s chaos. &nbsp; &nbsp; I was always half-curious as to whether or not the vaguely phallic protrusion of land jutting out of eastern Queens and into the Atlantic Ocean was actually there; whether it wasn’t just a proverbial “conspiracy of cartographers” stuck onto the edge of the subway map to taunt grizzled city-dwellers with the possibility of escape. It does exist, and on first glance there isn’t anything particularly spectacular about it: high-rise apartment projects and empty streets lined with low-lying neatly-organized single-family homes. If it weren’t for the word “beach” on all the street signs and in the names of the subway stations I’d swear I was in Bay Ridge.&nbsp; But Rockaway Beach’s placid normalcy only establishes it as one of the last great unexploited places in New York. At 14 miles long, it's one of the largest urban beaches in the country, only 45 minutes from Manhattan’s financial district. Yet while Coney Island has aquariums, baseball teams, amusement parks, music festivals, parades and the original Nathan’s, Rockaway Beach has nothing--just some handball courts, some changing rooms, and the occasional Helado cart. It’s this emptiness that gives the beach its charm--it boasts nothing but the unadulterated meeting of ocean and sand, and tries to be nothing other than a place to lazily watch the day go by or lazily get pummeled by the surf, which is thankfully freezing. After hours spent relaxing, throwing back drinks and acquiring what would turn out to be some absolutely horrific sunburns, a once far-off thunderstorm ominously hovers over the south Rockaways and my group decides to call it a day. Our walk down the beach takes us past evidence that somebody’s discovered the lethargic charm of the Rockaways after all, as the beach’s pleasantly undeveloped boardwalk gives way to vast, vacant tracts reserved for yet-to-be-built upscale housing developments. An hour later we’re back to the world of psychotic taxi drivers, panhandlers and hotdog stands; to Manhattan and its sometimes unbearably grueling pace of life. It’s a little strange to be walking down St. Mark’s Place while digging grains of sand out of my scalp, and stranger still to be in the same city as a place so literally and figuratively remote as charmingly languid Rockaway Beach. Yet it’s also gratifying to know that even in a place as gigantic as New York City, escape is only a subway ride away. 
Before Midlake’s whirlwind European and national tours, Bwog staffer Lucy Tang catches up with drummer McKenzie Smith. While 4th of July usually evokes images of barbeques and beaches, it’s also starting to hold connotations of free music. This year, we have Midlake supporting headliners The New Pornographers as part of River to River’s festival in Battery City Park; this show is a great option for those interns and whoever stuck in the city on 7/4. Though it’s too late to get tickets now, scalping remains a viable option. The opening band, Midlake, is a mish mash of sounds. Their debut Bamnan and Slivercork was a critical success, experimental pop full of lush sounds along the vein of Grandaddy and The Flaming Lips. Then, they turned a 180 and transcended time with The Trials of Van Occupanther, reviving folk-rock with “Roscoe” and “Young Bride.” Fortunately, I had the opportunity to talk to McKenzie Smith of Midlake before things get hectic. On their 4th of July gig I don’t know what to expect, I’ve heard it’s a cool event. It should be good. New York is growing for us, so I’m sure there’ll be some people who know us there. We’re supporting New Pornographers, so most people will probably be there for them, but there’ll be some fans, hopefully. On fans Jason Lee and Gnarls Barkley It’s one of the funny things, even celebrities like music . We’ve become real good friends with Jason. He even came to Denton, stayed with us for a week, and directed a video for us. Every time we’re in L.A., we usually get to see him. He’s been a great supporter and very a good friend. Our guitar player just got married last weekend, so he, his lady Beth, and Pilot came down for the wedding. Celebrities fans don’t make you cool, but it helps with promotion and stuff like that. We’ve had a lot of cool people endorse us, and if someone listens to us after Gnarls Barkley likes us, then cool! On&nbsp; European vs. American fans Their accents are different .&nbsp; You know, I’m trying to figure out the difference, I don’t know, people are people; we Americans think Europeans are so smart and catch on to art and culture more. There’s so much history there, so it’s more natural for some of those people. Just the country we live in, everything is in abundance, strip malls everywhere, super-size everything. But you go to Europe, and you see a KFC on every corner, so I wouldn’t say they are more advanced. I think we’re a little bit of ahead in Europe; we do more touring, we do a lot of radio shows, a lot of interviews, and we have big support from BBC radio. Over here, you don’t really stand a chance. A little radio support here, maybe KROQ in LA, you can get some college support, but it’s a different thing over in Europe. We played in Sweden several times, Copenhagen and Denmark; it’s very bizarre how quiet the audiences are. For the most part, they stand absolutely still, do not talk, watch the songs, and sing every single word to every song. We did a show in a town in France, where we’ve never played before, in a small club 200 or 300 people. The audience watched both support bands, applauded politely and enthusiastically. Every single band got an encore, the audience was so appreciative. The U.S. crowds aren’t quite like that. Then you go to the U.K. and you have some of the crowds yapping away. That’s more like Americans, but we’ve had great experiences here with crowds too. Also, we have a lot of magazine features in Europe, big magazines. In the U.S., we have little mentions in Rolling Stone and Spin, some cool stuff in Paste, we’ve been in Under the Radar, Anthem, more obscure magazines, but no real features. On blogs I feel I think it’s really great. The internet in that reason is very good. Several blogs have been really supportive, and that’s done a lot for us. I think the internet has helped us become successful, they’re really crucial. “Roscoe” got out on the internet for a long time and that caused a little bit of buzz for us. There are so many blogs that it’s hard to keep up. I don’t know where to begin to find an indie rock blog. gorilla vs. bear, that’s one, those guys are from around here. There’s just so many, it’s overwhelming. On the transition from Bamnan Slivercork to The Trials of Van Occupanther What you’re listening to and influenced to by the time has a lot of do with the sound. Basically, Bamnan Slivercork was our first real album, we’d done an EP before that, and everything is kind of a learning process. During the first record, we thought we’d evolved and matured and changed. We were listening to a lot more off-kilter kind of stuff, we were listening to Grandaddy, Mercury Rev, Clinic, The Flaming Lips, so we were more influenced by that type of music. By the next album rolled around, we segued way into listening to a lot of stuff from 70s. The lead singer, Tim, fell in love with Neil Young, big obsession with those type of records. Tim started writing songs for the album and the music that was coming out of him was very much like that sound. We just embraced it, “Shit, I guess we sound like this now. On the next album We are in pre-production. Tim has been writing a lot, we’ve been working on some of the songs. Right after this tour, we’re setting up a new studio in Denton, and that’s going to be in August before we embark on the States tour. The next album sounds a bit darker,but it’s not a complete departure from the last album, but it will be more developed. It will sound different, but not like a departure from the first to the second. It’s not like we’re listening to eighties hair metal, it’s still 70s, but a different place for sure. I really like it so far, I think what Tim has done with the songs is amazing. On the next club anthem You know, some of the remixes have been “dance-y” in Europe, someone heard a remix of “Roscoe” in some German dance club. I don’t know if someone would do a straight house mix of something, but more power to them. Basically, it’s flattering, we’re not putting our name on it, so hopefully it comes out good for their sake. I think it’d be funny if someone made a house remix of one of our songs, who knows. &nbsp; All the best to Midlake! Check them out July 4th at Battery City Park. And if you miss them then, they return September 8th at Webster Hall. 
From the throes of summer-class paper-writing, Dominique Jean-Louis reports "weird people" are kissing, dancing, and engaging in other merry-making activities on the roof of Lerner, all with thunder booming in the distance. How romantic. Just watch out for those skylights. 
Good news, followed by some possibly not so good, but on closer ex amination pretty awesome news: CHIPOTLE IS OPEN! And better still, they're offering a $5 drink-and-burrito combo until closing today. Athletes can rejoice at the fact that 100% of today's sales will go towards Columbia athletics; stoners and lovers of Mexican food can rejoice at the markup being not nearly so bad as feared--burritos and tacos are a reasonable $6.75, the same price as at most of the chain's suburban locations. Meanwhile...NACHOS IS CLOSED! But buck up, class of 2011--there are still plenty of places&nbsp;around campus where&nbsp;you&nbsp;can underagedly get your drink on, although the ones&nbsp;Bwog is thinking of are crowded enough already. Workers at the newly-gutted former nightclub/Mexican restaurant informed Bwog that a resta urant and juice bar will soon occupy Nacho's old location. Could this mean that the Jamba Juice rumors are true? Maybe, although Jamba's urban markup is a lot worse than Chipotle's (it's five bucks for a small Jamba in midtown, compared to $3.25 in the 'burbs). And on a non-Mexican food related note: Columnist Robert Samuelson accuses Judith Shapiro and Co. of "embracing censorship." The Washington Post isn't quite as critical as Samuelson, but still has its doubts. Finally, for the curious: that bad 80s pop music you hear is emanating from this year's massive clam-bake themed Student Services staff party. It looks like a fun time, although Bwog really isn't loving the humidity right now... - ARR 
Halley Bondy, BC ’06, already has a one-woman show running Off-Off Broadway—Sleep Tight Mick— that explores the idiosyncrasies of modern pop culture from the eyes of a polygamist cult escapee. FlavorPill loved it. The Anthro/Women’s Studies writes to Bwog about playing eight characters, living in a temp/intern/freelance vortex, and on-stage orgasms.&nbsp; How does a Barnard grad like yourself get a play up Off-Off Broadway within a year of graduating?&nbsp; I've always gravitated toward theater but I wanted to avoid the demoralizing audition circuit. Compared to a lot of New York actors, my resume is really bleak, but I've been building my writing creds...and you don’t have to audition for that. As a journalist&nbsp;I learned&nbsp;New York theater isn't some inaccessible entity in the sky.&nbsp;I befriended&nbsp;Robert Dominguez,&nbsp;an editor at the Daily News where I worked . He&nbsp;had somehow managed to maintain&nbsp;a stressful journalism job while producing plays in the Fringe&nbsp;Festival. I shyly presented my writing&nbsp;to him, and a creative collaboration began.&nbsp;We researched different play competitions around the city and came across the ONE festival at Teatro la Tea. I wrote Sleep Tight Mick, I entered it, performed it, and won. It has since gotten&nbsp;another festival at the Manhattan Repertory Theater, and I plan&nbsp;on entering it to many more.&nbsp;&nbsp; How did the idea for this play come about? Sleep Tight Mick&nbsp;is about a young woman&nbsp;who grew up&nbsp;in a polygamist cult and has to adapt to life in New York after she escapes. (If it’s&nbsp;autobiographical at all, it's only through metaphors).&nbsp;I was interested in a lovable character who is completely ignorant of our day-to-day experience, who lives outside of society as we know it, and who is purely&nbsp;a victim of her circumstances. I wanted to create an icon who forces us to laugh at our culture. One of my greatest inspirations for the show actually took place in an American history class I took at Barnard under Professor Thaddeus Russell. In short, after the slaves were emancipated, the government sent a legion of semi-evangelists to go down south and teach the newly freed slaves how to behave like they're&nbsp;"free" ("Desire work" "Love work" "No booze" "no dancing," etc). The speeches must have sounded completely absurd to them, and not to mention, almost as binding as slavery. And polygamist cults are just too cool to resist. What is Sleep Tight Mick? It's a one-woman show. I play eight or so characters, including Mick as narrator, a cult leader named Father Spirit, and a too-hot-to-trot New Yorker named Utah, and many more! Mick tells the tale from&nbsp;her perspective but portrays the different characters as she sees them.&nbsp;Oh, and she's in a bedbug-laden hostel in Ecuador, and she hasn't had a good night sleep in 25 years. You'll see why. You'll undoubtedly laugh and cry.&nbsp; In 5 words or less, why should we see Sleep Tight Mick? Rum, Bedbugs, On-Stage Orgasms.&nbsp; What kind of acting/playwriting did you do while at Columbia? I was in Chowdah. I took a playwriting course through Barnard and an Acting Solo performance class under Barnard. My freshman year, I was also in the Naked Show, which was a spoof comedy about how nudity saved Columbia University activism. &nbsp; What have you been doing with your unemployed off time? I'm living in temp/intern/freelance vortex. I freelance for Backstage and I just stopped temping at Newsweek. I thought my stint with the Daily News was finished but they just called me to ask me to review Latin American erotica. Other than that, I'm interviewing like the dickens trying to support myself. I live in Astoria, which I highly recommend.&nbsp; Do you sometimes find yourself wandering around Harlem and tempted to waft back to Columbia? I miss the convenience and free health care. But other than that, I'm happy as a clam just to be a graduate. &nbsp; Any advice for aspiring offbeat, Off-Off-Broadway playwriters? Get all your smart, reliable&nbsp;friends together, collaborate with them and be loyal to them. It'd be nice if one of them has money, but it's not a requirement. Sleep Tight Mick opens tonight at Teatro la Tea at 8pm. See below for full schedule: June 27-July 1st, 8 pm Sunday, July 1st, 2 pm. Teatro la Tea 107 Suffolk @ Rivington, $10. (F to Delancey)&nbsp; Manhattan Repertory Theater Festival July 25th, 27 and 28. 9 pm 303 w. 42nd street, 3rd floor $20, including free alcohol 
Remember Tania "Boobilicious Bartender and Greek Life Spy, Official Party Animal #1" Harsono? Well she's baaack... Bwogger Lucy Tang delves again into the seedy side of 2011. During Bwog's first glimpse into the class of 2011, many people accused me of singling out, mocking, hazing, and humiliating Tania (which is completely fair, but it was all in jest). Not surprisingly, the number of willing victims for the Freshmen Profile dwindled down after that spectacle. Fortunately Tania's got a sense of humor, not to mention courage, and she was willing to talk to me again to jumpstart Bwog's Freshmen Profile series. This time we get a fuller picture of Tania, more subdued. After all, no one is drunk 24/7... Hometown: Vancouver BC Prospective major: Double in Economics and Political Science Dorm: JJ floor 11 How long do you think it'll take you to lose your... Dignity? I already have (thanks Lucy!!) Moral compass? I never will - I've mapped the moral waters Sanity? 1 day - first day of NSOP, I'll finally meet all the Facebook friends and be sorely embarrassed when I can't identify most of them, so I'll put in extra effort to remember names, and my head will implode and become the size of the universe before the Big Bang. Speaking of Facebook, you're one of the more "notorious" figures, are you worried that people have the wrong impression? My photos are 100% authentic. Whatever I do, I'm not ashamed of having done, and I'm not unwilling to have documented. Wrong impressions can always be righted, but trying to fix what impression was given online with another persona fabricated online is not the path I'd like to walk. I'll wait till I arrive on campus to set the record straight. While 2010 went nuts with the myspace, 2011 is the first official class to actually meet each other over the internet. Do you think you're missing out on part of the college experience? Yes and no. Yes: there are a select few individuals who are extremely active on the Class of 2011 group board. For those of us who browse the discussions but do not participate, we are able to see our classmates' thoughts, interests, and even writing style, without having ever interacted with them. That's unfair. Meeting people is all about 'meeting' people. With the rise of Facebook, I'm afraid that some people may subconsciously find themselves filtering their friends even before they arrive on campus. No: all of those discussion boards you see up on our Facebook group are simulations of what we would've been talking about during the first few days of NSOP. Why not speed along the process and arrive on campus, comforted knowing that we have established friendly relations with 3 or more of our floor mates? How do you choose your Facebook friends? If I've hung out with them, I friend them. If I've met them once AND taken a picture with them or of them, I friend them - so I can tag them. If I've never met them, it's either because they're my fellow Columbia pre-freshmen or program pre-participants, or it could be that they're just pretty people. What are you doing with your last pre-college summer? I'm spending a month in Indonesia working at the national high school basketball reporting office, visiting with my grandparents, touring Borobudur - one of the Wonders of the man-made World, and relaxing in Bali - one of the truest paradises I've encountered. Then I'm meeting up with my ex-boyfriend and his family in Croatia. After that, I have a week to say farewell to my Vancouver friends and family before I take off to New York!! My last pre-college summer is very low-stress, un-intellectual, and sociable, quite unlike my past 4 summers! What did you think when you first stepped on campus? "I'm living here without air conditioning?" The first time I saw the campus was during the summer program in 2006 - July, smack in the heat of New York's notoriously and disgustingly muggy weather. What aspect of Columbia are you most excited about? I think most people would expect me to say "the parties", but they're actually not what I'm most looking forward to. I've had enough parties during my senior year to dull the luster of similar events during my first few semesters. Rather, I'm thrilled about finally being in an academic environment where the students are treated as adults - not as un-opinionated automatons who need to be spoon-fed notes and concepts, as we were treated in my high school - and where the atmosphere is rife with knowledge that knows no bounds. &nbsp; 
 We were impressed when she came to speak at Spectator's Blue Pencil Dinner. We fell in love when she took a stand against Parismania.&nbsp; Janice Min, you are an alumna who makes Bwog proud.&nbsp; 
