 Dear readers, After more than two years with the same front page, we have decided that Bwog is in need of another makeover. The new version will be launching today, and we've kept pretty much all of the features that we had before, merely reorganizing them for an even more streamlined look. We have added two new features, and will be adding more in the next few weeks. First, the "City," "Arts," and "Hawk" tabs will be used for easier organization, and will also (like the hawk blog) get their own exclusive content. Second, we've added a Lost and Found box to put lost and found announcements in. We'll be tweaking the site over the coming weeks, so please let us know what you think in the comments. Thanks for reading, James Downie Bwog Editor 
 A quick roundup of some of headlines that appeared in our inbox in the past few days: For all those who have resolved to go to get fit in the new year, there may be no better example of the benefits than Barack Obama - he began his now-famous commitment to fitness as a senior at Columbia. Cut out the sugar cubes: Medical Center researchers have linked blood sugar spikes to memory loss. Women's basketball star Judie Lomax was named to the Naismith Trophy Early Season watch list, the only player from the Ivy League on the list. Finally, Bwog salutes former Rhode Island Senator Claiborne Pell, architect of the Pell Grant program, who died yesterday at the age of 90. Pell recieved a master's in history from Columbia in 1946, and Columbia ranks 1st among private universities in percentage of students recieving Pell Grants. 
 "Let me begin with the caveats: I like men," writes Barnard's president in today's Washington Post, "But as the financial debacle unfolds, I can't help noticing that all the perpetrators of the greatest economic mess in eight decades are, well, men." Oh yes, you may have heard many other explanations for the Wall Street crisis: irresponsible lending agencies, insane hedge fund managers, a housing prices bubble,&nbsp; and so on. But according to Barnard's president (who was a professor at Harvard Business School before coming to Morningside Heights), though, the problem lies in the nefarious XY chromosome pairing. Male-dominated Wall Street DSpar argues, could have been saved by some female leadership, because "women may be less inclined than men to place the kind of bets that can get them in real trouble." Oh, and female whistleblowers (on Wall Street or elsewhere) are also never listened to.&nbsp; Don't worry, though, guys: Spar assures you that "I have spent most of my career surrounded by men, and I have no major complaints." 
 For those of you in the city during break, Bwog art correspondent Kristina Budelis fills you in on what's happening at the museums and galleries around town: After weeks of dreaming about break, followed by a few more weeks of blithe freedom, some students may yearn to spice up the cycle of sleeping, eating, job hunting, and the occasional Facebook stalking. For the fortunate few still meandering around the city, seize these gloriously homework-free days and explore some of the museums and galleries you’ve been neglecting. After all, you won’t have your CUID forever.&nbsp; THE MET For the ADD art connoisseur, the Philippe de Montebello exhibit is a must-see. Montebello, the longest-serving director in the Met’s history, is about to retire, and, to celebrate his going-away in style, the Met’s curators have assembled about 300 of the most exciting and transformative works from the 84,000 acquired during his 30-year tenure. The exhibit is highly eclectic, completely eschewing cohesion, but you’ll be too busy swiveling your head to care. The works span from Roman rings and Egyptian amulets to post-modern painting and black-and-white photography, and viewing such works side-by-side produces some unexpected dynamics. The exhibit not only celebrates Mr. Montebello’s tenure, but also provides a snapshot of the Met’s collection at a crucial turning point in its history. Reality Check: Truth and Illusion in Contemporary Photography has a pretentiously vague and ambitious mission statement: to “survey the ways in which artists exploit photography’s fundamental illusionism to create a sense of ambiguity about what is real and what is not.” Yet the exhibit is beautifully executed, and successfully presents a cross-section of contemporary photography and (okay, fine) its “fundamental illusionism.” Some of the photos are highly photoshopped, and will make you pause as you marvel at the surreal colors, while others are industrially focused and minimalist in style. Meanwhile, Philip-Lorca diCorcia’s intimate portraits and Joel Sternfeld’s contemplative landscape will reassure you that some things will never go out of style. THE WHITNEY As Peter Schjeldahl wrote in a recent issue of The New Yorker, “to view William Eggleston: Democratic Camera, Photographs and Video, 1961-2008, at the Whitney, is to be pummelled by eccentric beauty, and to wonder about it.” Eggleston was one of the pioneers of fine art color photography, and you’ll realize right away why his photographs made a splash. The colors in his dye-transfer prints are sometimes delicate and sometimes drunk with vibrancy, but always alluring. His treatment of simple, every day subject matter and his environmental portraits will make you want to go out and buy some color film. The exhibit also shows his early black and white work and incorporates his video work, nicely illustrating the projectory of his career.&nbsp; Alexander Calder: The Paris Years (1926-1933) is playful and electrifying. It features the early work of Alexander Calder, a 20th Century renaissance man. Although he started out as a mechanical engineering major, his inventive, creative spirit led him to painting, lithographs, jewelry and the invention of the mobile. He redefined the medium of sculpture by transitioning from marble and clay busts to those of wire. And like his drawings, his expressive sculptures have a sketch-like, even doodle-esque nature. Be sure to check out his project “The Circus,” in which he created a miniature circus designed to fit into suitcases so he could travel with it. It is a large, sprawling exhibit, but it is also as lively and enthralling as a good magic show. THE MOMA Bwog already wrote about MoMA recently, and if you have not yet seen the Miro exhibition (which ends on the 12th), you should.&nbsp; His early paintings, evocative in their simplicity, will convince even the biggest modern art skeptic that sometimes trying to achieve the maximum of feeling with the minimum of means is both attainable and, well, really cool. His surrealist and Dadaist art will make you think, and his wild use of color will satisfy the wannabe psychedelic drug user within us all. The exhibit does a good job of charting his meandering artistic journey, and the plethora of styles on display will give you hope that you too can transcend indecisiveness and pull your life together some day. Plus, the curator’s notes are among the best that Bwog has even seen – witty, accessible and insightful without a hint of pretension.&nbsp; And whenever you go, check out the film schedule before you hop on the subway. They often have a great selection of free movies that will win you major indie cred with your film major friends.&nbsp;&nbsp; THE JEWISH MUSEUM If you’ve ever been to Lincoln Center (see right), you’ve experienced the magic of Chagall. While Bwog was a little disappointed that the murals in Chagall and the Artists of the Russian Jewish Theater, 1919-1949 were earlier and less colorful than Chagall’s more famous works, there are several large-scale theater murals you can get lost in. These are accompanied by a smattering of his preparatory sketches, and a few rooms of other artists who worked on Russian Jewish theatre productions in the 1920s and 30s. The exhibit provides great insight into this cultural moment of the Soviet Union, and the write-ups will intrigue the History majors among you. While you’re at the Jewish Museum, be sure to swing by the Dead Sea Scrolls on the 3rd Floor as well. We hear they’re sort of important. Note: The Jewish Museum does NOT participate in “Passport to New York,” so you will actually have to shell out $7.50 for this one. But if it’s time you value, it’s a quick M106 bus ride from Broadway. Pace/MacGill Gallery Duane Michals: Photographs from the Floating World features 32 color prints, in the shape of fans, with hand-applied, poetic text. Taken aback? So was Bwog, but in a good way. The unconventional form aims to evoke the Japenese Ukiyo-e aesthetic of the so-called “floating world” of sophisticated culture. And Michals, like Francois-Marie Banier, has long incorporated text with his photographs. Although this photographer has a background in commercial and fashion photography, most associate him with his very artsy, very haunting, very erotic black and white mini-sequences. Thus, this exhibit marks a significant shift in his fine art style : he is working in color, and, despite the unconventional form of the photos, it feels like he is trying to fuse his formerly distinct commercial and fine art styles. Some of the photographs could be straight out of a Vanity Fair fashion shoot or a Kodak ad, which is odd given the unconventional format and the poetic, conceptual words scrawled at the bottom of the frame. One gets the sense that this is an attempt at re-molding his style and not a cohesive or polished final project, but whatever it is, it’s deliciously fresh and delightfully dream-like.&nbsp; 
 Many of you have notified us (and Spec reported earlier) that Swish has suddenly closed, though only temporarily. Some speculated it might be for health code violations, while others chalked it up to a changing look. Bwog tipster Zack Sheppard suggests it may be closer to the latter, and the changes will be culinary as well as cosmetic: "I gave their old number a call and it connected me to Tomo, where they said Swish was closed for a month and, when it reopened, was going to be all Japanese food "like us." News to me. And a disappointment, I liked Swish's non-Japanese food." He also sent along a photo of the shuttered restaurant. Bwog shares Zack's disappointment. 
 Several of Columbia's teams aren't competing right now, but the basketball and wrestling teams have kept going over the break. Men's Basketball: The men's basketball has had a tough winter break, losing 4 of 5 games during the break. In the Aeropastale Holiday Festival, the team lost to ACC power Virginia Tech 64-52 before beating Marist 63-58. A week later, the Lions let Sacred Heart rally from a double-digit deficit, and lost 84-79 in overtime. Finally, a post New Year's road trip has seen the team take two losses, 73-59 to Lehigh on the 2nd and 62-50 last night at American University. Among Ivy League teams, Columbia's 4-9 non-conference record is actually 4th - only Cornell and Harvard have winning records right now. The team's woes can at least be partly blamed on playing without leading scorer Patrick Foley (13.4 ppg) and leading rebounder Asenso Ampim (6.7 rpg), both of whom have been injured since before break. A bright spot, though, has been the play of first-year guard Noruwa Agho, who is averaging 24 minutes and 8 points now, and was named Ivy League Rookie of the Week for scoring 21 against Sacred Heart. The Lions play one final non-conference game against NJIT on Friday, before beginning their Ivy League play on the 17th at home to title favorites Cornell. Women's Basketball: Like their male counterparts, the women's basketball team have only managed one win so far over break. Losses at home to NC State (78-58) and at Cal State Northridge (74-64) were followed by a 65-63 win at Cal State Fullerton and an 87-66 loss to American on Sunday night. Their overall 5-7 record, though, is tied for 2nd best among Ivy League schools - only Harvard has a winning non-conference record. Star Judie Lomax, though, has continued her stellar play, picking up her second and third Ivy League Player of the Week awards over break. Lomax has averaged a double-double for the season (13.9 points and 13.4 rebounds per game) and shot 55% from the field. Over break, her numbers have been even better: just under 19 points and 14 rebounds per game, including a monster 22 points and 18 rebounds against Cal State Northridge. The women team's plays at Longwood University in Virginia tomorrow and at home against Northern Colorado on Sunday, before opening league play against Cornell on the 17th. Wrestling: The wrestling team dropped two matches on January 4th, 21-18 to Wyoming and 24-10 to Cal State Fullerton. The team is staying in California for its other set of matches: three (against UC Davis, Stanford, and Cal State Bakersfield) on the 10th. They then wrestle in the New York State Championships on the 16th and 17th. Sophomore Ryan Flores is now ranked 13th in the heavyweight category of the InterMat/NWCA/NWMA individual rankings. Other Sports: The Ivy League defending champion fencing team begins its season on the 16th, at the North American Cup in Kentucky, the swimming and diving team restarts against Bucknell at home on the 18th, and the indoor track team has a tri-meet against Yale and Dartmouth on the 18th as well. - JCD 
 As you may have heard, there's a bit of a to-do in Gaza right now. Being an utterly uncontroversial source for Israel-Palestine conflict analysis, Columbia hasn't been able to keep its name out of the media, with several professors offering their thoughts on the latest clash. Some samples: Just before the start of the conflict, Yinon Cohen co-authored an editorial advocating for a new push on the two-state solution. Joseph Massad, in Gulf News (an English-language daily published in Dubai) "The lesson that Zionism has refused to learn, and still refuses to learn, is that the Palestinian yearning for freedom from the Zionist yoke cannot be extinguished no matter how barbaric Israel's crimes become." Massad also compared Gaza in 2009 to the 1943 Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. Old McCain-Palin target Rashid Khalidi has been busy as well: telling everyone in today's Times "What You Don't Know About Gaza," and declaring the failure of the Israeli assault in Newsday and on NPR And finally, GS Dean and Middle East Institute director Peter Awn talked to the Wall Street Journal about "What Could Happen to Gaza After War?" Bwog of course takes no position on the conflict, but, given that students held a vigil for Gaza when there wasn't a full scale invasion going on, we suspect it might become a flashpoint when school resumes. Call it a hunch. (Photo by the Associated Press) 
 Two years ago, when New York named its five most influential intellectuals in New York, three of the five had direct connections to Columbia. The first two were well-known professors Jeffrey Sachs and Brian Greene, but Bwog pauses today to remember the third Columbia presence on that list, Father Richard Neuhaus, who died today at the age of 72. Unlike his professorial counterparts, Neuhaus, the famous conservative theologian and editor-in-chief of First Things, was no campus star, or even an official faculty member. Instead, he only spent several springs preaching at the Catholic Ministry's on-campus masses. While his politics may not have matched with most of Columbia, or even much of his Catholic audience, his sermons - noted for their old-school oratorical stylings - were hugely popular among those who knew about them. For the curious, Bwog highly recommends former B&amp;W editor Andrew Flynn's profile of Neuhaus in our April/May 2007 issue,&nbsp; and you can also listen to his old sermons on the Columbia Catholic Ministry's website. - JCD 
 And you thought cell phones were only for what the kids call "texting": six SIPA students, in partnership with UNICEF, have received the first-place award in the US Agency for International Development's "Development 2.0 Challenge" for their project incorporating cell phones in monitoring child malnutrition. According to their project proposal, the students intend to replace the current paper-based system of monitoring children's health with one using cell phones, allowing countries "to geographically map and track child malnutrition trends accurately and in real time. This tool will provide a critical means of intervention into rapidly unfolding food and nutrition crises." The project will be tested in Malawi from this month through May. Also, we don't want to let any more time go by without congratulating Sam Daly, CC '09, who last month recieved a prestigious Marshall Scholarship. Daly, whose "studies at Columbia have focused on African history and languages, specifically Swahili and Yoruba" will pursue a master's degree at Oxford in the fall, joining Rhodes Scholar Jisung Park. Congrats to Sam! 
 While student groups may still be in the planning stages of any events about the Gaza conflict, some more Columbia professors have voiced their opposition to Israel's actions, signing an open letter to Barack Obama written by USC English professor David Lloyd. Among the approximately 800 signatories are 14 Columbia faculty members, including: Anthro professor Lila Abu-Lughod (at right) and MEALAC professor Gil Andijar, who both supported the academic boycott of Israel that PrezBo opposed. Three other full professors - English professor/walk-outer Bruce Robbins, renowned scholar/payphone adherent Gayatri Spivak, and Anthro professor/man of impeccable style Michael Taussig, all of whom joined Abu-Lughod and Andijar in signing an anti-Bollinger "Statement of Concern" in the wake of Ahmadinejad's visit to Columbia. The rest are a mix of assistant professors, postdoc fellows, and graduate students, including six in the anthropology department. With a majority of the signatures (so far) from anthropology, at least we know which department David Horowitz can choose if he gets tired of saying "MEALAC." 
 Via City Room, Bwog learns that Duane Reade has rolled out a new logo at newly renovated stores, replacing the longtime interlocking blue and red DR with a black-and-white, non-interlocking version. City Room commenters pointed out that the logo seems to draw its "inspiration" from Radio Shack. But the store, which has been in and out of legal trouble over the past few years, may also soon become another casualty of the recession. According to the Wall Street Journal, Duane Reade is among nine retailers and restaurants that Standard &amp; Poor's rates as "at significant risk of default, with junk-bond ratings of CCC, or 'very weak.'" A Duane Reade spokesman denied that the store was in any trouble, but, of the six members on S&amp;P's list last year, three have since filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Bwog knows one way they could improve the bottom-line: don't roll out Christmas decorations in September. 
 The University of Havana-North, not content with having one of its own in the oval office, continues to add alumni to the new administration. This time, the post is chairman of the FCC, which has been in censorship overdrive ever since Janet-Jackson-boob-gate, and the nominee is Julius Genachowski, CC '85. Genachowski not only overlapped with Obama's two years at Columbia, but also was his Harvard law school classmate, working under Obama at the Harvard Law Review. He has already served as General Consul Counsel to the FCC in the mid 90s, but is in fact best known for his technology experience, including "spearheading Obama's online campaign strategy, which used social networking and other tools to spread Obama's campaign message and raise record campaign contributions." Bwog hopes he will at least stop the censors calling "fellatio a trouser-friendly kiss." 
 Better late than never: one week before his inauguration, an article Barack Obama wrote for the now-defunct campus magazine The Sundial has finally surfaced in full on Politico. The article had first been excerpted in the class notes section of Columbia College's alumni magazine's November/December issue. Written in the spring of 1983, just months before Obama's graduation, the article lauds two campus groups - Arms Race Alternatives and Students Against Militarism - for their anti-war efforts. Declaring that "the more sensitive among us struggle to extrapolate experiences of war from our everyday experience," Obama compliments the two groups on bringing "the words of that formidable roster on the face of Butler Library, names like Thoreau, Jefferson, and Whitman, to bear on the twisted logic of which we are today a part." Oh, and he quotes Peter Tosh, which Bwog considers nothing less than awesome. As Politico puts it, "this is not exactly his best work, but it offers a new glimpse of his very conventional campus liberalism of the time." Somehow, though, Bwog doubts this would've changed anyone's vote. 
 Housing and Dining, being too cool for email announcements, has stealthily added a "New in 2009" part to the room selection section of its website. The new policies: "The Same Room/Same Suite policy has been eliminated. All students who wish to reside in Housing must go through the Room Selection process. 30 point senior groups will pick before 30 point EC Exclusion Suite groups. Groups of 5 seniors have the option to pick into an EC Exclusion Suite. Sophomore groups in Suite Selection have the option to split up into groups of 2 and pick into corridor-style doubles during Sophomore Pair Up." What possessed Housing to commit such madness (well, aside from the sophomore pairing up idea) is unknown at this time. &nbsp; 
 Why, look, the Spec has a new set of columnists! Hoping to end the association of the Spec opinion pages and giant penises are:&nbsp; Monday: Eric Hirsch (CC '09, former associate editor of AdHoc), Philip Petrov (CC '09, literary editor of The Current) Tuesday: MaryAlice Parks (CC '09, member of CUPlayers and a coordinator of Artists Reaching Out), Tiara Winter-Schorr (GS '10) Wednesday: Lauren Salz (BC '11, CUGOP Executive Director), joint column by Roosevelt Institution members Adrian Haimovich (SEAS '10) and Vedant Misra (CC '09) Thursday: Christopher Morris-Lent (CC '09, former Bwog writer), Jon Hollander (CC '10, and one of three returning columns, along with Lauren Salz and the joint Redburn/Leonard column) Friday: Joint column by former Dems members Kate Redburn and Sarah Leonard (both CC '10), former Spec editorial board member Daniel D'Addario (CC '10) Among the non-returnees are CCSC VP for Policy Adil Ahmed and crowd favorite Anthony Kelley. The competition for most QuickSpec links begins next week. 
 Commentariat got its hands the names of the early Phi Beta Kappa inductees: Rajiv Agarwal, Rudi Batzell, Mikaela Bradbury, Jennifer Brown, Cindy Cai, Willy Chang, Emily Clader, Yasemin Erboy, Amari Hammonds, Emily Jordan, Kyle Jurado, Leora Kelman, Jisung Park, Andrei Petrenko, Brendan Price, Richard Prins, Mollie Schwartz, Swarup Swaminathan, Xiyin Tang, and Xiao Wei. Congrats to the inductees! The rest of the members will be notified in the spring. Aspiring PBK members can learn the rather vague entry criteria in one of our old AskBwogs. And for those of you not in the city or watching cable news right now, an Airbus 320 has crashed into the Hudson River near 48th Street. US Airways Flight 1549 was flying from LaGuardia to Charlotte, North Carolina, and may have run into a flock of geese before going down. Thankfully, no one was hurt killed.&nbsp; 
 Wondering what you have to do to be an early member of Phi Beta Kappa? Here's what Bwog found out about our early nominees: Rajiv Agarwal, Philosophy, co-president of Columbia Global Justice Rudi Batzell, History, Undergraduate History Council chair, editor/reviver of the Undergraduate History Journal, former editor of Lucha's El Participante, and anti-ROTC panelist. Mikaela Bradbury, Anthropology, observer of street vendors. Jennifer Brown, English Cindy Cai, Biology/Music, member of Kappa Phi Lambda, piano player Willy Chang, Physics, researcher of things Bwog doesn't understand, born in 1984 (Bwog loves an older man...) Emily Clader, Mathematics/Philosophy, Bach Society alto Yasemin Erboy, Environmental Sciences, EcoRep, part of the Lamont-Doherty Observatory Amari Hammonds, Sociology, former Bwog and Spec writer, Vagina Monologuer, reality TV star. Emily Jordan, Anthropology/Psychology, Iowan, mouse observer, loves getting "naked." Kyle Jurado, Economics, Intervarsity president Leora Kelman, Economics-Philosophy, volunteer with Project Sunshine, spotter of cockroaches Jisung Park, Economics/Political Science, Rhodes Scholar (and many other things, but really, what else do you need to know?) Andrei Petrenko, Physics, squash co-captain Brendan Price, Econ-Poli Sci/Math, former Spec deputy editorial page editor Richard Prins, Writing, fan of Norman Siegel, owner of an excellent Facebook page, poet Mollie Schwartz, Chemical Physics, atom manufacturer Swarup Swaminathan, Biochemistry, recepient of a Goldman Sachs scholarship, renowned harmonium player Xiyin Tang, English, former Spec style editor, WBAR personnel director, not a fan of privacy Xiao Wei, Biology, investment banker Econ leads the pack with four inductees, while English and Bio-related majors tie with three early inductees each. Also, Bwog's consulted every online source we can think of, but we know our readers know them best, so let us know what we've missed about our inductees in the comments. Again, congratulations to the inductees! 
 Two pieces of (somewhat) Obama-related media: first, one of his first college roommates writes about their time together in the fall of 1981. Phil Boerner '84, who transferred with Obama from Occidental, remembers Obama that, "as a host and roommate, he sometimes did the shopping and cooked the chicken curry." Oh, and Obama may have spent so much time in the library because "our apartment had irregular heat, and we didn’t enjoy hanging out there once the weather got cold." The pair also hit up establishments that Columbia students still haunt, including Tom's ("for breakfast"), the Met, and the Central Park jogging loop. Meanwhile, in the New York Times, author Kevin Baker '80 decides that, because he "came to New York, and to Columbia University, just a few years before Barack Obama arrived in 1981," he should remind us what New York was like in the early 80s. "It was a dirtier city then, more violent, more interesting," he writes, "more accessible to poor, eager young people." Still, "everything seemed like a revelation, right from the first day at Columbia, when my art humanities professor took us to St. John the Divine and explained what a Gothic cathedral was." Some things never change. 
 Classes "begin" in a few days, figuratively because a few of Bwog's have already been canceled for CC'83 Awesomeness Festivities.&nbsp; But your fair university didn't get nearly as much sleep as you did over break.&nbsp; Here's what Alma Mater's been up to. People of Old Alumni provide proof that we'll all find jobs, eventually.&nbsp; In the meantime, buff your resume with good deeds for the UN, or fulfill your second grade dream and work for the circus (Bwog is jealous of the latter grads).&nbsp; If the arts are your thing, you could end up guiding an opera company or debuting at Sundance. People of New The good times might be few years away, but you can still relish your present hell situation in this (frigid) town.&nbsp; Alex Gross, CC'11, came here for football and was profiled by his local paper.&nbsp; The Dayton Daily News mentions "learning how to get around the city by subway" as one of the things he has managed to pick up.&nbsp; And how to stand on line, instead of in line.&nbsp; Four other Columbians were recently profiled in The New York Times.&nbsp; A few years ago, they formed the Columbia Ballet Collaborative after, you know, "juggling calculus, molecular biology and Hindi-Urdu" and the other cool things college kids do.&nbsp; Representing straight-laced, conscientious Butler residents everywhere, one student assured the reporter "I never take drugs." La Recherche As it turns out, you can blame your parents for the ills that have befallen you since leaving home.&nbsp; You can also blame our faculty for not working hard enough when the GW Bridge finally collapses.&nbsp; And, for two fewer things to worry about, Columbia is trying to find out whether that tsunami a few thousand years ago actually happened and what to do with those pesky drunks who fall on the subway tracks and delay our Met visits. Leitmotifs Yeah, we're still bitching about the endowment.&nbsp; Fortunately, we didn't lose any with Madoff, and (but?) NYU did.&nbsp; Time magazine noticed the ROTC debate and CityRoom is still thinking about 1968. Photo by Anish Bramhandkar 
 A tipster/fan reminds us that campus artist Reni Lane CC '10 has not only signed with major label Custard/Universal Motown (joining James Blunt, among others), but also will have her song "Place for Us" on tonight's episode of Showtime's "The L Word." You can hear the song right now on her Myspace page. Sure, Showtime isn't on Columbia's cable system, but Bwog has no doubt our readers know how to get their hands on TV shows. "Place for Us" is also the first song from her first major label album, which will be released this spring. And remember, she made Frontiers of Science catchy. 
 On the first day of classes, you may be looking for a pick-me-up, and Oren's Coffee will be there to help. Among the many different inauguration promotions across the country, Oren's is giving away free coffee from 10:44 am to 12:44 pm tomorrow. They've also unveiled a special "Blend 44: Beans You Can Believe In" for the inauguration, which purports to combine elements of Obama's background. The blend, described as having "a full-bodied, sweet, huge aroma," includes "two Colombian coffee bean varieties representing the richness of Obama’s study at NYC’s Columbia University and the lushness and pride in his family’s new District of Columbia (DC) address." Bwog wonders what this Facebook group thinks of that. 
 A bad sign for the new semester: Butler Library's basement has flooded, and, according to a security guard, the whole building is without water or heat. In fact, "all mechanical systems went down," the guard said. Butler will be closed at least for the day, but it's unknown how long it will be until the problems are repaired. UPDATE (8:25 PM): From the main library website: "Alert -- Due to a severe water problem in the basement of Butler Library and the absence of heat and restrooms in the building, Butler will not open as planned on Tuesday morning, January 20. At this time, the plan is to reopen the building at noon." 
 Tasti D-Lite has served its last four-ounce cup of sweetened dairy-based frozen dessert substance on the fifth fourth floor of Lerner. Bwog discovered the d-parted D-Lite kiosk Monday night, just as employees were giving the area a final sweeping. No word yet on why Tasti has vanished from Lerner, but Bwog will doggedly track down answers from Housing and Dining administrators as soon as possible. Courage. 
 For those who were actually thinking of going to Ricky's soon, hold off. Please. Tomorrow, thanks to a class action lawsuit, department stores including Macy's and Saks Fifth Avenue will be giving away $175 million worth of free cosmetics - one item per person on a first-come, first-served basis. Technically, the giveaway is only for anyone who bought cosmetics at these stores between 1994 and 2003, but word is that there's no actual way of authenticating that. The only problem: you can't choose your free item - they're drawn from a list. In summary, tomorrow includes free caffeine, free cosmetics, and a new, Columbia-minted President. Almost makes one forget the end of break... 
 Most professors show leniency over inauguration day attendance. If yours hasn't, trying showing him or her this editorial. Students make their way to DC.&nbsp; College Dems celebrate, the BSO gets excited, Republicans try to move move on. And now, actual policy: four different opinion pieces on Gaza. 
 Today is the first day of the semester, and, as is our tradition, Bwog will be posting all your professors' opening remarks. Email all the inspiring/hilarious/insane things your professors say to open the class to bwgossip@columbia.edu so that everyone will be as excited and terrified as you are. Here are the things that were said to open and close last semester's classes. As always, the standard is Richard Bulliet. &nbsp; 
Despite the cold, Columbians have turned out in force for the inauguration viewing on Low Plaza. If you were hoping to see Obama's speech outside, prepare to stand at the back. Whether you're in DC, around New York, or on campus, send in your Inauguration Day photos to bwgossip@columbia.edu. For those of you staying in to watch the speech, there are a plethora of options, including C-SPAN and CNN. 
 Last night, Bwog reported on the shocking disappearance of the Tasti D-Lite kiosk from Lerner. It turns out that the departure was as sudden as our photo suggested. According to Michael Novielli of Student Auxiliary and Business Services: "Dining Services was notified on Friday, January 16 that Tasti-D-Lite would be permanently closing its location on the fourth floor of Lerner Hall due to steeply declining sales." Steeply declining? Oh economy, what hath you wrought. As for what will be take Tasti's place, Novielli says "Dining Services has begun the process of assessing potential replacement vendors. More information on new use for the space will be available soon." Until then, friends: courage. 
 Bwog's in the market for a daily editor or two for the new semester. The job: writing the various posts for your designated day (QuickSpecs, free food, gossip, etc.), covering breaking news, and generally running the Bwog's minute-to-minute operations. Perks include scaring administrators, advance free food knowledge, the chance to write witty headlines, and free extra emails. So here's what to do -- send us the following: 1. Five (5) QuickSpec headlines for any issue from this week. 2. One (1) previous Bwog post you liked and why. 3. One (1) previous Bwog post you didn't like and why. 4. A list of five (5) ideas for future posts and/or consistent features. 5. A mock Bwog post on any topic of your choice, not to exceed three hundred (300) words. Email these things to bwog@columbia.edu by Sunday, January 25th at 11:59 PM. Email any questions to this same email address. For those who are interested in contributing to Bwog in other ways, we'll be looking for arts, theater, student government and sports correspondents - details to follow soon. Happy applying! 
City Room interviews Obama's old roommate (whose own article Bwog linked to on Saturday) about the many savory details of their time together, including being forced to use Dodge's showers, and their reliance upon Tom's for breakfast. On the photography side of things, Bwog daily editor Jon Hill contributes some of his shots of Columbia during the presidential festivities. More photos after the jump. From inside Roone Arledge during and right after the swearing of the oath 
 Bwog humbly presents our traditional anthology of professors' opening remarks. Remember to send any overheards tomorrow to bwgossip@columbia.edu. Morris Rossabi, History of the Mongols "A visitor to Mongolia once came upon a Mongolian woman whom he thought had enormous breasts that seemed to be moving. Upon further investigation, he found that the woman was nursing a young lamb." Rossabi then explained this story showed the strong relation between man and animal in Mongolia. Marcellus Andrews, Intro to Economic Reasoning (Barnard) "So as you can see, I'm an old black man. And today is a day where old black men tend to get weepy. I'm ugly when I cry, so I'll restrain myself." Catherine Monk, Abnormal Behavior Students were treated to one of Professor Monk's choice music selections: namely, "Crazy" by Gnarls Barkley. Richard Bulliet, History of the Modern Middle East "The Modernization of the Middle East similarly suggests that modernization is a precisely describable process by which each part of the world at its own pace will become like America. Which is a wonderful concept because America is, at least today, the most wonderful country in the world. Maybe it wasn't yesterday, but…" "The first meeting of the course is 'the bullshit course,'... so this is basically the bullshit lecture" "There will be things like 'pick readings from the discussion section and write an essay about them. And you will think oh shit, I didn't do the readings.'" 
 The US government, I mean, Columbia&#65533;s bureaucracy isn&#65533;t doing exactly everything it should be doing? Eee gad! Liberals, stop being excited. Now. Liberals, you are a slave to your ideologies! Liberate yourself! Obama-day a good excuse to go to Tom&#65533;s Diner, and crazy parties, in D.C.? What? &nbsp; 
To brighten up this, the first real day of school now that both vacation and inauguration fun are officially over, Bwog will again be posting any noteworthy opening comments your new professors make today. So please email any inspiring/hilarious/insane things your professors say to introduce a class to bwgossip@columbia.edu so that everyone will be as excited and terrified as you are. Particularly special inauguration/Obama related comments are also welcome. Here are some of the highlights of opening and closing remarks from last semester, and the best of yesterday&#65533;s professor rhetoric. We beg you to email us if your professor curses more than the infamous Richard Bulliet. 
You&#65533;ll be glad to know that that the online press officially recognized the efforts made by several thousand Columbians yesterday to get some free cider, get a decent spot on Low, and hold the kvetching about cold toes while President Obama (we can say that now!) was inaugurated. According to AFP, students didn&#65533;t turn out to watch the surprisingly functional jumbotron for the sake of patriotism, historic social change, or school pride &#65533; we were actually &#65533;hoping that a little of Obama&#65533;s magic might rub off on us.&#65533; Sprinkled with quotes from several Columbia students, the article certainly does convey the euphoric, um, &#65533;magical,&#65533; experience of being on the steps yesterday at noon. But several of the quoted spectators also expressed concern about whether Obama can live up to his hype. Nothing new there. Except that the average Columbia Joe isn&#65533;t the only one wondering that. Several Columbia professors were also approached for comments by news outlets for inauguration articles posted online throughout the day yesterday. And the quotes these professors provided weren&#65533;t all about how proud we are of our man, or how we all feel so connected to Barack by that grand unifying force, the core curriculum. No, sir. From the euphoria of their offices, a professor each from the Law School, History Department, and Economics Department expressed varying degrees of what some might call criticism, and others might call realism. Law Professor Patricia Williams, in what Channel 42 Local Fox News of Omaha calls &#65533;a note of caution,&#65533; said that people tend to see Obama&#65533;s election as the full realization of Dr. King&#65533;s dream, while Joseph Stiglitz warned Bloomberg News that &#65533;nothing that Obama can do can undo the damage quickly.&#65533; Perhaps most important, however, were Eric Foner&#65533;s comments:. In response to Obama&#65533;s frequent Lincoln references, Foner told the Nevada Appeal &#65533;I&#65533;d calm it down if I were him,&#65533; the danger being that the President won&#65533;t &#65533;live up to&#65533; Lincoln&#65533;s standard. Bwog is always happy to give ample credit to serious news on serious internet based publications. But seriously, folks &#65533; Joseph Stiglitz? Eric Foner? These are the hard hitters, why should they go out of their way to make slightly cynical comments in slightly unknown news outlets? Like one student who was quoted in AFP story, Bwog wonders whether here at Columbia &#65533;we&#65533;re going to have to stop liking Obama now he&#65533;s in power.&#65533; 
 Despite the success of eminent domain efforts, Columbia's real estate war appears to never cease. Now, they've come into conflict with the State Historic Preservation Office, which has created a new historic area of Morningside Heights that includes three buildings Columbia intended to demolish. The three buildings, 408, 410, and 412 West 115th Street (Google Maps link), are "some of the earliest built multiunit residential buildings that still stand in Morningside Heights." Preferring to unleash its inner Shiva as soon as possible, Columbia announced plans over the summer "to raze these buildings while it considers future uses for the site." 69th District Assemblyman (and possible Senate appointee) Daniel O'Donnell, however, successfully included the buildings inside the new "Morningside Drive Historic District," which includes portions of Morningside Drive, 115th, and 116th Streets. If Columbia's looking for another building to demolish, Bwog humbly suggests the brick-and-cinderblock eyesore otherwise known as Mudd. 
 Suggesting that frozen-yogurt customers are perhaps less than loyal, Tasti D-Lite experienced a 75% decline in sales in the first semester before abruptly departing campus this past Friday. Was it off-campus flex? The introduction of (more popular) Pinkberry? The economy? We'll probably never know. As for what would go in its place, Columbia Dining Services told Bwog that "a brand like Chick-Fil-A or Jamba Juice would rather have a location with foot traffic 365 days a year." In addition, the space formerly occupied by the Tasti kiosk has no running water, just electricity, which rules out many potential vendors (Tasti employees apparently cleaned/washed up down in the Lerner student kitchen). Regardless, any new location would appear "probably in the fall," and would be selected with input from the Dining Advisory Committee (which includes each school's student services representatives). 
 Nick Sprayregen, one of two property owners resisting the&nbsp; the Manhattanville expansion project, filed a suit today against the Empire State Development Corporation, claiming that the ESDC made various errors in the process of deciding that eminent domain laws apply to the Manhattanville area, allowing the state to seize it and sell to Columbia. According to Sprayregen, one of the major errors was made in determining the area to be "blighted," which allows the state to seize it and sell it to any buyer who promises to develop it in a way that will at least partly serve the public interest (through providing housing, social services, etc.). But aside from the slumlord argument that Columbia has owned many buildings in the area for years, and "so the state of those properties is the university's responsibility," Sprayregen bluntly states over and over in his 107 page petition that the whole thing's a big conspiracy. Various city and state bodies completely flouted many aspects of the law, he says, to allow an "elite private university" to do whatever it wants. The suit hopes to counter the long process of government approval for the Manhattanville project&nbsp; - the city's Land Use Committee approved the plans over a year ago, the EDSC made a preliminary decision in favor of Columbia eight months ago, and a final decision in December. And the suit will likely take at least another year to play out, several if Sprayregen has correctly predicted that it will reach the supreme court. But stay tuned - Sprayregen's petition, with its talk of a "secret collaboration" between government bodies and Columbia to "fabricate pretextual purposes to cover up the illegality of its dominant purpose," could spawn a fast-paced spy/conspiracy thriller staring Matt Damon any day now. Check out our past coverage for more background on Manhattanville. 
 And yet more benjamins go up in smoke. Earlier this afternoon, Columbia confirmed a Bloomberg News report that it had "uncovered" a $3 million loss in its law school endowment tied to Bernie Madoff. Madoff is currently out on bail for what many are calling the largest Ponzi scheme in history. The $3 million is part of a 1980 gift to the law school from an unnamed alumnus who retained the right to decide how the money was invested. Columbia spokesman Robert Hornsby told Bloomberg that "only in rare circumstances in the past, and after approval by the university's gift review committee, has Columbia accepted such a gift to be retained in another form of investment." As for the larger "merged endowment pool," under which most gifts are invested, Columbia has not discovered any further losses. According to Hornsby, Columbia also does not have any funds managed by Ezra Merkin's fund Ascot Partners. It is unknown how much of the law school endowment is represented by $3 million, as Columbia does not break down the endowment by school. Regardless, Columbia can now join the club of schools defrauded by Madoff, which also includes New York Law School ($2 million), Bard ($3 million), Yeshiva ($14.5 million), Tufts ($20 million), and NYU ($24 million). 
 Daughter of Camelot Caroline Kennedy officially withdrew her bid for Hillary Clinton's senate seat around midnight last night, ending her bungled campaign of not answering questions and irritating verbal tics. The Kennedy camp has not answered any questions about the unexpected move (see previous sentence), but the New York Times and the NY Post are offering conflicting explanations. The Times claims Uncle Ted's health was the reason, and the Post posits that Caroline discovered Paterson was not going to select her and so dropped out. Paterson has said he will announce his pick this Saturday, and, though he is not a top contender, the Bwog is still rooting for Daniel O'Donnell, our Morningside Heights Assemblyman, who met with Paterson to discuss the job. If he wins, maybe his magic will rub off on us too! Kennedy's surprise retraction makes the tumultuous race to win the governor's appointment, already clouded by the greed of a certain coiffure-troubled governor, even more chaotic. At least take heart that our senator won't be Roland Burris.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The Columbia bureaucracy may be untangled for professors... ...but you'll be seeing them more on Friday. You can preserve your memory, but must forgo doughnuts. A college sport created a coherent playoff system, but it's not football. 
 We know, you're devastated, and need time to mourn. But please forgive us this small commemoration, a look back at all the moments Tasti and Bwog have had together, in the last post until something else actually happens (we promise!). In the beginning, a pair of intrepid freshwomen embarked on a three-day Tasti-only diet, to find out if one could possibly get too much of such a good thing (as they found out, one most certainly can).&nbsp; This inaugurated the long, slow slide of Tasti's fortunes to their current state, punctuated by the arrival of the challenger Pinkberry. Pinkberry took the neighborhood by storm, and Tasti raised its prices, thinking its airy artificial puff could compete with yogurt-y deliciousness. Bwog began expanding its froyo universe--Red Mango! Yolato!--and Tasti's star was falling, until it finally came to rest, forsaken by those who once loved it most. Bwog has spent innumerable hours in the Tasti Lounge, listening to the happy hordes chatter over their guilt-free desserts. Now, the nearest place to get a fix is at Broadway and 86th. Goodbye Fluffernutter! Goodbye Mango Dream! The chain, New York-born and now based out of Tennessee, hopes to expand to 500 locations world wide. But for the Lions and the Bears, Tasti has passed beyond. - LBD 
 President Obama signed an executive order closing overseas CIA prisons and Guantanamo today, promising that the prison will be out of operation within a year. Matthew Waxman, Columbia law professor and former detainee affairs official for the Bush administration, had a few pointers. Waxman has been calling for the end of Guantanamo for a while, but, though that objective has now been achieved, he has not donned a party hat and thrown confetti. In a new Foriegn Policy article, Waxman emphasizied the difficult road ahead, writing, "any closure plan will entail risks and difficult trade-offs." So much for fun and easy closings of torture centers. There is no word yet on the executive order to close McBain. 
An Intrepid Bwog agent just discovered this sign outside of Campo: &nbsp; Not sure where Campo is quoting Flex from, but mark your calendars, anyway. It may not be coming on campus, but this is the next best thing.&nbsp; 
 Bwog humbly presents part two in this semester's anthology of professors' opening remarks.&nbsp; Alfred MacAdam, Latin American Literature in Translation While talking about the mysterious fourth floor of Barnard's Milbank Hall "I don't know what they do with all those mirrors up there. Reminds me of Mae West - do you guys know who she was? She was a famous sex figure in the days of yore, and she had these mirrors on the ceiling of her bedroom, I guess to watch herself in action. I don't really know how that would work. Mimics moving head 'Hey you, move your head, you're blocking my view!' Like that?" Alan Franklin Segal, Life After Death "I'm not contagious unless you want to put your finger in my belly button." Andrew Nathan, Chinese Foreign Policy "This room doesn't appear to have a blackboard. Unless this is one. Looks behind him. Shall I write on it? Tries writing, gingerly. It works!" Richard Bulliet, Nobility and Civility II In a discussion ostensibly about Rousseau's Discourse on the Origins of Inequality: James Mirollo: "Why did people settle on rivers anyway? There can't be a practical reason!" Richard Buillet: "It's all about the fish! All about the fish!" (belly laughs) More Buillet: "So we should all just come into class every day and all touch our foreheads and chant 'Nobility and Civility' and then after we've gotten through that we can just talk about pretty much anything we want."
 Communal fake-boyfriend/dishy stats wizard Nate Silver has been spotted in Hamilton Hall! After some frantic Googling, Bwog's discovered that Silver's in town to give a lecture about election website methodology at Lincoln Center from 6:30 PM to 8:30 PM.&nbsp; If Silver's still in Hamilton, that means there's still time to head down to catch the lecture. 
 Barack Obama is President. It’s your first weekend back in New York City. You don’t have any homework yet. Pick your reason, and go party! Friday, Saturday, &amp; Sunday Taschen Books Warehouse Sale Friday &amp; Saturday 11am-8pm, Sunday noon-8pm: Taschen Store NY, 107 Greene St. (212.226.2212) Taschen, renowned art book publishers, slash their price 50-75%.&nbsp; You probably won’t find many of your textbooks here, but it’s the perfect opportunity to indulge a hobby. Price: Free! Friday FOCUS!&nbsp; 2009 California: A Century of New Music Friday 8pm: Peter Jay Sharp Theater @ Juilliard, 155 W 65th St. (212.769.7406) Starting Friday, Juilliard musicians donate their talents to share the most cutting edge compositions of classical music.&nbsp; You won’t hear these tunes in Music Hum, so stop on by.&nbsp; You have nothing to lose - the event is free!&nbsp;&nbsp; Price: Free! The Moth: In Harm’s Way Friday 7pm: The Players Club 16 Gramercy Park S (212.475.6116) This spoken word event includes performances by former undercover FBI agents, Sudanese refugees, and other people with interesting stories of heroism to tell.&nbsp; Hosted by comedian Tom Shillue. Price: $20 Saturday ROFLcon Saturday noon-6:45pm: Santos Party House 100 Lafayette St (212.584.5492) Commiserate with other internet enthusiasts.&nbsp; Hear talks, hang out with Obama Girl, and generally soak up the joys that the internet age has had to offer us. Price: $30-50 Garden Workshop: Terrariums Saturday 1pm: Wave Hill House, West 249th St. and Independence Ave., Bronx Build your own miniature landscape inside a tiny glass jar.&nbsp; Do it now—you’ll need something pretty to keep you company once the semester really gets in gear.&nbsp; Registration required: call 718.549.3200 x305. Price: $40 member/$55 non-member Sunday Winter Restaurant Week 2009 Manhattan’s finest restaurants open their doors to us poor cash-strapped plebians.&nbsp; Though I doubt any of them accept Flex, you’ll nonetheless walk away without any spending guilt.&nbsp; Three course prix-fixe gourmet meals?&nbsp; Just what the recession ordered.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sunday-Friday Lunch and Dinner: various locations Price: Lunch $24.07/Dinner $35 
 And now my life has changed: I used to write screenplays. My independence seems to vanish when crime pays. But every now and then my shot-selection's poor, I know that I just need space like I've never done before. Help me if you can, my grades are down And I do appreciate your work gets frowns. Help me get my team on solid ground, Won't you please, please help me? 
 Though she's no Peter Farrelly (SoA, '86) yet, screenwriter and director Courtney Hunt entered the world of Columbia-alumni-turned-Hollywood-glitterati this week. Hunt's low-budget indie film, Frozen River, received two Oscar nominations for best original screenplay and best actress. The story of single mothers struggling to survive in poverty along the St. Lawrence River, the film stars Melissa Leo and has earned praise from fellow Columbian Andrew Sarris, who called it "one of the strongest feminist statements I have ever seen onscreen." Hunt graduated from the Columbia MFA program in 1994, producing a short version of Frozen River as part of her degree. She then spent over a decade researching, writing, and filming the feature-length version, which she entered in the Sundance Film Festival last year to wide acclaim. What are Hunt's film's chances of winning? Well, she's up against the likes of Meryl Streep in the Best Actress category and Milk in the Best Original Screenplay category, but if history is any guide, she does have a chance. Frozen River won a New York Film Critics Circle award and the grand jury prize at Sundance, bringing its award total to 19 wins from 35 nominations. Bwog, meanwhile, is still waiting for a Best Picture nomination for WALL-E. 
 The Friday Sports Roundup returns from a relaxing winter break. Men's basketball: After a 73-50 win over NJIT (forward Jason Miller led the way with 16 points and 10 rebounds), the Lions were unable to open the Ivy League season with a win, falling 71-59 to a strong Cornell team. Despite leading by 28-23 at the half, and despite playing at home, Columbia was unable to hold on, as Cornell shot 65% from the field in the second half. Columbia's Niko Scott scored a season-high 21 points (and pulled down 8 rebounds), while Cornell had four players in double figures, including Louis Dale's 19 and Ryan Wittman's 16. In other Ivy League play, Brown scraped by Yale 64-62, Dartmouth won 59-55 over Harvard, and Princeton dominated Penn 64-49. This weekend, Columbia goes to Ithaca, looking for revenge against Cornell. Tipoff is at 4 p.m., and the game can be heard on WKCR and 970AM. Fencing: The fencing team began its season last weekend at the North American Cup in Louisville, Kentucky, where four fencers finished in the top 10 in their respective categories. This Saturday and Sunday at NYU, the Lions begin team competition against some of the best teams in the country, including national champion Ohio State and runner-up Notre Dame. Women's Basketball: While the men were unable to open their conference play with a win, the women started with a 47-44 win over Cornell last Saturday. Kathleen Barry had 14 points for the Lions, while Judie Lomax grabbed 15 rebounds. It was the third win in a row for the Lions (who beat Northern Colorado 77-74 on the 11th), and they hope to keep the streak alive tomorrow in a rematch against Cornell in Ithaca. Swimming &amp; Diving: After a long winter break, the men's and women's swimming and diving teams came back strong last weekend, both winning over Bucknell (the men 141-102 and the women 155-88). The teams resume league competition tomorrow at Cornell. Wrestling: Last weekend, the wrestling team returned strong from their Winter Break trip to California, placing 3rd out of 18 teams at the New York State Championships. Senior Derek Sickles and sophomore Ryan Flores won individual titles. This weekend, the team heads to Washington D.C. on Sunday for matches against American and George Mason. Track and Field: The track team began its season this past weekend by coming in third in a tri-meet with Yale and Dartmouth. Several individuals came in first in their events, though, including: first-year Sharay Hale (400 meters), first-year Kyra Caldwell (500 meters), both men's and women's 4x800 relay team, junior Serita Lachesis (mile), first-year Monique Roberts (high jump), first-year Unzuma Udeh (triple jump), sophomore Jeff Moriarty (mile), senior Ryan Hays (1000 meters), and sophomore Jeremy Whyte (triple jump). Today, the track team takes part in the Albany Great Dane Classic, held at the New York City Armory. - JCD 
 With the new year comes new dining policies, and none may be more threatening to freshman waistlines than the institution of "Order-by-Phone" pickup system at JJ's. According to Dining Services, "you can order any food item from the menu in advance by calling 212-851-5801 and can pick it up approximately 15 minutes after the phone call." The service (which is also available for the Kosher Deli during the day) is available Sunday - Thursday from 6 pm to 1 am. JJ's also now offers a catering service for student group events, ensuring that a steady supply of chicken fingers will make its way into our free food announcements.&nbsp; But while the actual JJ's menu will remain unchanged, several other campus eateries have introduced new options for the semester, including new salads at Ferris, and Bento Boxes from Mill Korean at Uris. See the full list of new ways to spend your Dining Dollars after the jump. Ferris Booth - New entree salad features (Asian Mandarin Chicken salad, Spicy Shrimp and Avocado Salad, Grilled Wild Salmon Salad), Salsa and Chips special, new gourmet entrees at night Uris - Bento Boxes from the Mill Korean, Boars Head Sandwiches Café 212 - Wasabi Tuna Sandwich Carlton - New Mill Korean entrees Lenfest - Daily grill specials 
 Yesterday Bwog wrote about Courtney Hunt's (SoA '94) Academy-recognized success. Now, another MFA grad, Cherien Dabis (SoA '04), is recieving acclaim at Sundance for her first feature film, Amreeka. Amreeka (the Arabic word for America) focuses on a Palestinian woman who takes her son to the United States right before the recent invasion of Iraq, and the struggles once they get there. Dabis, a Palestinian-American who until now was best known as part of staff behind the The L Word, based the story in part on her experiences growing up in Kansas during the first Gulf War. While the film is still looking for a distributor, it has recieved both audience and critical acclaim, with The Hollywood Reporter saying Dabis "has thoroughly re-energized the genre with refreshing wit, honest emotions, incisive observations and a perfect cast she literally flew around the world to find." No doubt the MFA program is ordering new admissions pamphlets pronto. 
 Looking for a little activism to go with your lunch next Monday or Tuesday? A group claiming the name "The Columbia Community Stands With Gaza" has announced a series of pro-Gaza events to take place next week. The events include a protest, a speak out, and a series of candlelight vigils (three types of events often called the "Activist Trinity"). The protest and speak out will start at noon on Monday on Low Plaza and Tuesday at the sundial, respectively, while the vigils will be held at sundial in the early evening throughout the week. For the protest, the announcement encourages students to make different kinds of posters, giving examples like "Columbia Students Stand with Gaza," "Jewish Students Stand with Gaza," "People of Color Stand with Gaza," and "Queers Stand with Gaza." Though there just may be a pattern in those examples, Bwog recommends against "White People Stand With Gaza" or "Ewoks Stand With Gaza." And since Columbia is known for its rational discussion of all things Palestinian and Israeli, we're confident this'll go just as swimmingly. Absolutely confident. UPDATE: Bwog has been informed that the Monday protest coincides with a "Rally of Solidarity and Peace for Israel," taking place at the same time on Monday at the sundial. Organizers tell Bwog that that the rally was scheduled before the "Columbia Community Stands With Gaza" events were announced.&nbsp; Should be fun. 
 While one senatorial appointment may have already been made, another will finish in 24 hours. Earlier this evening, CCSC president George Krebs sent Bwog the list of nominees to replace Tiffany Dockery, who suddenly resigned early last December. They are: Billy Freeland, CC '09 Dov Friedman, CC '09 Alex Frouman, CC '12 Matt Heiman, CC '09 Isaac Lara, CC '11 Michael Marion, CC '09 Kate Redburn, CC '10 According to Krebs's weekly CCSC email, "the senator must be voted for by two thirds of CCSC. &nbsp;We will hold interviews and conduct the deciding vote at our meeting this Sunday at 8PM in the Satow Room on Lerner 5 (which, like all CCSC meetings, is open to all. We will have a time set aside for students to comment and add their input)." Bwog will bring you the decision as soon as it is made. 
Everybody's commenting on this whole "new president" thing .&nbsp; Even Bwog couldn't filter through all of it.&nbsp; Here's a taste. She was displaced by a Katrina prequel, but then she got into Columbia.&nbsp; And all was well. He took the lessons of Columbia's on-campus activism and fought for causes in the real world. This columnist takes a different view.&nbsp; Columbia isn't a pluralist institution- it's a radical, anarchist, racist cesspool.&nbsp; But Eisenhower was pretty cool. Researchers find that "motor skill" learning can be "enhanced" by "stimulation."&nbsp; And sometimes we can predict what's going on up there. We find out that everyone else's mood affects our own mood.&nbsp; Following logically, Facebook is making us bipolar. 
The powers that be are determined to confine us to our rooms.&nbsp; A smattering of events around campus, served with the usual levity. Monday Israel.&nbsp; Gaza.&nbsp; Their supports, all in once place: showdown on the steps.&nbsp; We'll have more details later today. Lunchtimeish @ Alma Mater's house. Tuesday Columbia's resident string quartets are back.&nbsp; Haydn, for free, at lunch.&nbsp; 12:30 PM @ Philosophy Lounge. Wednesday Take a nap.&nbsp; This is the last chance you'll get this semester. Thursday Community Impact presents Earl Jam the Third.&nbsp; In other words, an open mic with a side of grilled cheese.&nbsp; Check the Bwog sidebar for more information, including signups.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Party Space. Friday Public stargazing from the top of Pupin begins this week, and will continue every second Friday.&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ Pupin. Bwog almost passed over this event, but was stopped by the subtitle: "The Lives of Cross-Dressed Male Sex Workers in Early Postwar Japan."&nbsp; For kicks, 12:00 PM @ 918 IAB. 
 Welcome to SocketHop, in which we bring you free (but useful) mini-apps and major (but relevant) headlines from the world of technology, hopefully demystifying the subject along the way.&nbsp; Flood our inbox (bwog@columbia.edu) and tell us what you think and what you want to see.&nbsp; Be not afraid of technology! Snazz Up Your Desktop: Expos&eacute; for Windows Columbia is an Apple-happy campus.&nbsp; Mac OS X (pronounced "oh ess ten", Apple's operating system) dominates in lecture and in lab, but let us not forget those of us who have stuck with Windows. One of Mac's spiffier features is Expos&eacute;.&nbsp; Expos&eacute; presents miniaturized versions of all your open windows at once, allowing you to click on the one you want.&nbsp; If you're like Bwog and have twenty applications open at any given time, this saves you a lot of cycling through windows searching for your thesis draft.&nbsp; A video of all Expos&eacute; features in action is on Youtube (skip to 1:15 for the "show all windows" feature). Expos&eacute; on OS X Windows' most similar feature is in Vista (but not XP), called Windows Flip3D (Microsoft once again displaying its naming prowess).&nbsp; It doesn't simultaneously show you all open windows, but it allows you to visually cycle through them- not a good option if you have too many open. A quick fix, after the jump. But be not afraid: there are free applications available, one for Vista and one for XP, that imitate Expos&eacute;'s functionality.&nbsp; For Vista, a small application called My Expos&eacute; allows you to assign a hotkey (simply put, a key combination you choose) or a screen corner to launch.&nbsp; It looks and feels very much like the OS X version. &nbsp;My Expos&eacute; on Vista XP, on the other hand, has a less-sophisticated graphics engine than Vista.&nbsp; In Vista and OS X, the operating system draws each open element (application windows, the desktop, dialog boxes, etc) and then layers them in presentation.&nbsp; In XP, however, what you see on the screen is treated as a single image, so when you move windows around, the operating system has to constantly redraw the entire screen. In terms of an Expos&eacute; replacement, this just means that the effect is less pretty, as it is more difficult to quickly redraw mini versions of all open windows.&nbsp; Bwog recommends Exposer, which does show you all windows, but without the eye candy.&nbsp; If you're satisfied with alt-tabbing your way around in XP, try the semi-official app called Alt-Tab Replacement, which shows you screenshots of each of the windows you're tabbing through. Next time: What do you want to see in this column?&nbsp; Email us or leave a comment below. 
 Prospective Bwoggers - just a reminder that applications for our daily editorships are due tonight at midnight. Send the following (and any questions) to bwog@columbia.edu: 1. Five (5) QuickSpec headlines for any issue from this week. 2. One (1) previous Bwog post you liked and why. 3. One (1) previous Bwog post you didn't like and why. 4. A list of five (5) ideas for future posts and/or consistent features. 5. A mock Bwog post on any topic of your choice, not to exceed three hundred (300) words. Happy applying!&nbsp; 
 After presentations, questions, and discussion (all in just over an hour!), CCSC chose Billy Freeland, CC '09, as the new CCSC senator, replacing Tiffany Dockery. Freeland, a former Senate candidate who missed out in last spring's Senate elections by eight votes, won in a runoff over Alex Frouman, a freshman who's spent his first semester on the CCSC policy committee. The other three candidates were Dov Friedman CC '09, Michael Marion CC '09, and Matt Heiman CC '09 (another two candidates withdrew their names from nomination before the meeting). UPDATE: Those curious about the selection process, and the rest of the CCSC meeting, can check out the meeting notes. 
Bwog was playing a little pre-semester Donkey Kong and noticed that the freshman bastion of ice not-really-cream had disappeared, vamoosed, vanished from Lernerland.&nbsp; Jaded, and not surprised, H&amp;D's response suggested that Pinkberry had taken all their business.&nbsp; We were saddened by the loss of the place that had played home to our fondest memories, by the comments that were filled with people chanting the names of other establishments, and by the revelation that Columbia didn't put running water in the Tasti Lounge.&nbsp; They put it in Butler's basement instead, a nasty limitation for potential replacements to deal with. Columbia, though hurting, probably won't notice the missing revenue stream.&nbsp; It was too busy locating the $3 Million Missing with Madoff, courtesy of the law school.&nbsp; They're also readying their lawyers for another Manhattanville-related lawsuit.&nbsp; At least the change will dribble in from the transaction fees at Campo, now accepting "Flex."&nbsp; Hopefully, Columbians who get record labels, Oscars, and Sundance viewership will find themselves better off. As was expected, everyone yelled a lot about the inauguration.&nbsp; Bwog opted to take photos of the masses.&nbsp; After a senator resigned last year, CCSC released a list of potential replacements.&nbsp; Lots of mildly-uninterested debate took place around campus, and just a few hours ago, her replacement was selected. Finally, the new year's first potential shitstorm was announced.&nbsp; Students and groups supporting Palestine and/or Gaza and/or Israel will be holding events in and around the steps tomorrow.&nbsp; Stay tuned.
 Morningside Heights &lt; pretty much everywhere else &nbsp;Lots of candidates for USenate -- all of them except for one = Billy Freeland &nbsp;Sometimes, grad students &gt; real professors, and PrezBo needs to know about it! Photographer Leonid Lubianitsky + the Harriman Institute = the meaning of life Get out your calculators for this doozy: politics = "a cockroach", "the costume in which fear disguises itself", an interest in politics = a "neurosis" 
 A quick note for all those planning to enjoy the spectacle on Low Plaza at lunchtime today: the pro-Gaza rally has been canceled. Event organizers told Bwog that the rally, originally planned to take place on Low Plaza, had to be canceled due to "scheduling conflicts." The opposing "Rally of Solidarity and Peace for Israel" is still scheduled for noon at the Sundial. The other events in the series, including evening vigils during the week and a speakout tomorrow, all at the Sundial, will still take place. 
 Bwog paid a visit to Low Steps this frigid Monday morning to see the Solidarity with Israel Rally at the Sundial. As reported earlier, the official pro-Gaza rally has been canceled due to the fact that the group never had Low secured as a venue for a demonstration. Head of LionPAC Jacob Shapiro began the Israel rally by thanking those who made the event possible as campus security mulled about and group of Palestinian supporters grew across from the sundial at the bottom of the Steps.Those in the crowd of Israel-supporters held signs reading "Hamas is a terrorist organization" and "we support a sustainable ceasefire" while the group of Palestinian-flag-waving Columbians stood quietly on the Steps. The rally seemed like "the fight of the flags," as a fellow Bwogger put it - the 80-member group of Israel supporters, all supplied with flags being passed out by event coordinators, while the 30-ish group of Palestine supporters unfurled large flags and held them over their heads. A group in the middle of the two rallies held a huge cardboard sign, and a member told us of their hope for a "constructive dialogue." Still, the scene could be best summed up by a young man trotting down Low Steps, who took it all in and muttered to his friend: "this is awkward."&nbsp; 
 We at Bwog are always on the lookout for useful websites. Bwog daily editor Eliza Shapiro brings us the backstory on GlovesIFound.com. On one chilly day in early December, Brian Donahoe, CC ’12, was walking from John Jay to Hamilton when he happened upon a glove on the ground. He contemplated it for a moment, and decided not to pick it up, but then he got to thinking. “I thought about how it would never be reunited with its other half and I thought…I can make this better,” Donahoe tells Bwog triumphantly. Donahoe launched GlovesIFound shortly after with one simple goal: to reunite gloves found around Columbia’s campus and the greater metropolitan area with their owners. Since December, Donahoe and a motley crew of uber-observant freshmen have snatched up abandoned gloves all over the place. They then post a picture of the glove and where it was found. This same group has also plastered the John Jay lobby with homemade posters. One depicts a drunk glove, a stoned glove, and two gloves having sex, reading: “its 11:47, do you know where your gloves are?” Another promotes the site as "the new Facebook." So keep your eyes peeled for gloves, Bwog readers, Donahoe tells us they’re everywhere “if you just look for them.” Oh, the possibilities!&nbsp; 
 Gather round, Morningside denizens, and hear the tale of the 47th Upper West Side food revolution! If you've ever opened New York Magazine, you'll know that, yeah, 20 years ago there was nowhere good to eat around here, and now, yeah, there are some good places to eat. We're at Columbia; we know we don't live in Tribeca and that the 3 train doesn't even go there on weekends anymore. Bwog recommends, then, that on the Sunday night your parents are in town, you make the trek down to 77th and Columbus (right next to Shake Shack, you have nothing to lose) and take advantage of what Bwog believes to be the only 3-star restaurant above 72nd Street, Dovetail. The restaurant, barely a year old, offers a "Sunday Suppa" dinner special each week, pricing an appetizer, entree and dessert at a reasonable (for your parents) $38 per person. Plus, this is the kind of place that brings you free stuff in between your courses. Bwog was there last night to investigate what the foodies are so excited about. Bwog dined with a large party of fanatically picky eaters old and young, and was shocked to find everyone wholly satisfied by the end of our nearly three-hour meal.&nbsp; Our group had three servings each of the white cheddar corn bread and slurped up our salmon and horseradish amuse bouches before even consulting our menus. For our starter, Bwog had the chilled shrimp with oranges and tzatziki and sampled the mushroom risotto and lamb's tongue, all of which were delicious. In between the appetizer and main course, we surveyed our surroundings. 77th and Columbus is not a corner known for its charm, much of the block is taken up by a white brick charter school, but the interior of the small restaurant is warm and comfortable, though unspectacular. Even our noise-obsessed dining cohorts were impressed by the ability of the partly carpeted wood plank and exposed brick walls to absorb the chatter of our fellow guests, a well-dressed set who all looked distinctly Upper West Side (crocs! cords! children!) or Upper East Side (pearls! cardigans! this place must be good if they crossed the park!) The entrees were similarily wonderful; the lamb meatloaf with couscous and duck goulash with hen egg were everyones' favorites. It must be said that Dovetail truly embodies the slow food movement as we waited a good 20 minutes between our entrees and desserts. All was forgiven when they arrived however, our baked chocolate souffles, blood orange sorbet scoops and brioche french toasts were gone in mere moments. We left happy, bellies full and with a restored sense of foodie pride in our neighborhood. Viva la revolution! 
 A reminder to all writers, editors, artists, poets and friends -- both old and new (especially new) -- tonight is the first Blue and White meeting of the new semester. 9:30 PM in the catacombs of St. Paul's Chapel.&nbsp; We'll be discussing story ideas for upcoming issues, so if you've ever wanted to get involved with the magazine or with Bwog, please stop on by. 
 Less than 24 hours after CCSC filled one vacant seat, another spot has opened up. This time, it's CC '09 Class Council vice-president Mallory Carr, who resigned earlier today. Carr won election this past year as part of Mark Johnson's Fusion Party, after running the year before as VP for Policy on Natali Segovia's Voice Party ticket. She has also been involved in the Multicultural Recruitment Committee and the Undergraduate Recruitment Committee. UPDATE (9:55 PM): Carr told Bwog in an email, "I know that with my many other commitments this semester, I would not be able to continue in my role as VP to the best of my ability." She continued: "However, I have the utmost faith in the rest of our council to continue to fulfill our promises to the senior class." Sources also confirm to Bwog that CC '09 President Mark Johnson has appointed class rep Heather Oh as the new VP and Brandon Shulman to fill Oh's representative position, as per the council's constitution. UPDATE (11:18 PM): Seems ESC has the resignation bug as well - VP for Alumni Affairs and Professional Development Pradeep Bandaru resigned over winter break. ESC will hear speeches from interested candidates and vote on a new VP next week. 
 The violence in Gaza sparks tense but ultimately peaceful peace rallies.&nbsp; Everyone&nbsp;wants to converse, but nobody has yet. Campo is to decamp to the space between Furnald and the Journalism Building. But until then, you can decamp to our very own nearly-on-campus Greenmarket for produce.&nbsp; Even though it's winter. And, of course, everyone's still excited and awed by our most notable Columbian who's working, oh, somewhere else for a while. 
 Yes, subways may always be cheaper than cabs. And sure, you may not venture south of 108th again until after exams (you Philistine, etc.). Nevertheless, for Columbia students' (and their relatives') future transportation emergencies, Bwog applauds the Bloomberg administration's proposal for a permanent cabsharing system.&nbsp; The proposal, first mentioned in Bloomberg's state of the city address, is obviously still very much in the planning stages, but would set up formal cabsharing system at airports, train stations, and a few other locations in the city. Cabsharing was temporarily implemented during the 2005 transportation strike, with drivers charging flat fees, though it's unknown what form the new system would take. The Bloomberg public relations people might deny this, but Bwog likes to think the real inspiration was Carsplit. 
 Bwog returned to the sundial for its second lunch of activism in two days. The speakout began promptly at 12:00 PM activist time (aka "12:13").&nbsp; A wan student (to the accompaniment of a bongo drum, vital in any event requiring "atmosphere") listed the names and ages of the victims of conflict. He was surrounded by pairs of shoes - a setup clearly designed to commemorate the thousands of men, women and children who've lost their lives in Gaza. Among the guest speakers was Phyllis Bennis of the Institute for Policy Studies, who gave a rousing damnation of the general state of world affairs,&nbsp;asserting that the war was "made possible by the US's tax dollars," and also on the soapbox were slightly less vocal but nonetheless sincere representatives of the various student organizations ("I'm really nervous," practically mumbled one of them). Yet excepting the occasional flyer-thrusting and poster-hoisting that was involved, the event maintained its solemn disposition. Yet the solemnity eventually gave way to mulling about. Busy non-participants shuffled their way through the middle of the crowd. Two participants seemed more concerned with talking about their law school applications than the event at hand. Then someone thrust a flag into their hands and they perked up, renewed with&nbsp;idealistic zeal.&nbsp; - LPM, with photos by LPM and additional reporting by JYH&nbsp; 
 For everyone whose mouth waters at the thought of Indian cuisine, today is a lucky day.&nbsp; The Bhakti Club is holding its first free Indian vegetarian cooking class of the semester tonight at 7pm in the Broadway Room in Lerner.&nbsp; And, as the product of the class is a delicious, vegetarian, Indian meal, there will naturally be plenty of free food to follow -- guests have even been told to "bring tupperware."&nbsp; And, in case further motivation is necessary, Bwog has been reminded that "Hare Krishna monks with New Jersey accents never fail to delight." 
 Credit where it's due: ever since Bwog noted the strange existence of next winter's Study Day, the student councils have been working to make the best of a bad calendaring situation (the academic calendar that spawned study day was set into place back in the 90s). And now according to CC 2010 VP Sue Yang, a solution could be but a month away.&nbsp; Last night, ESC joined CCSC in passing a resolution (authored by multiple representatives, including Yang and ESC President Peter Valeiras) that offered two possible solutions: either canceling classes on the Monday before exams, or holding exams on the Sunday of exam period in order to start them on Thursday rather than Wednesday. The resolution has been sent to the school deans, and will be presented to the Committee on Instruction on February 4th. By mid-February, "a solution will hopefully be confirmed and implemented." As for other ESC business, last night's meeting saw the '09 class council announce that graduating seniors in ABET-accredited majors can join the "Order of the Engineer" (Bwog wants the regalia to include water buffalo hats). Also,&nbsp;ESC Student Services Representative Emma Lebwohl is currently working with the management of Dodge Fitness Center to move the signup for cardio training machines online. 
 In case you don't haunt the Times' website like Bwog does, a quick (sad) note. &nbsp;&nbsp; John Updike, American author (and frequent New Yorker contributor), died today at 76.&nbsp; In light of this tragedy, Bwog provides an original, Smugopedia-style talking point:&nbsp; "while some consider Updike's everyday subjects unworthy of his characteristically intricate prose, his novels--the most famous of which are four centering on unremarkable protagonist Henry "Rabbit" Angstrom--and numerous short stories and poems reveal a remarkably delicate and catholic eye for beauty."&nbsp; Not to mention that Updike, who presided over the Harvard Lampoon as a college student, was very, very funny.&nbsp; Check out the essay Packed Dirt, Churchgoing, A Dying Cat, A Traded Car for its singular blend of humor and glumness. 
 And here Bwog thought that Barack Obama's victory would satiate campus liberalism for at least a month. Instead, the College Dems are already out to hold him to account, and this year they have a new weapon: LARGER POSTERS! Bwog mostly loves them for being put in blatantly no-poster&nbsp;zones.&nbsp; Dems Lead Activist Kate O'Gorman told Bwog that the posters, which cover issues ranging from education to the economy, show "the issues that we want to push, and we want students to join us in being concerned about them. A lot of students on this campus, including the 132 that went with us on the campaign trip, spent a lot of time and effort on electing Barack Obama and we want to keep that spirit alive." Perhaps most importantly, though, the first Dems meeting/Wednesday night free food opportunity of the year is tomorrow night in 511 Hamilton. 
 Bwog's Presidential speechwriting expert David Berke reports on a lecture from JFK speechwriter Ted Sorensen. Ted Sorensen, chief speechwriter and head counsel to JFK during his presidency, stopped by Earl Hall Auditorium yesterday evening to muse on the Obama transition. The octogenarian Sorensen was almost completely blinded by a stroke a few years ago, but his age and handicap did not keep him from captivating the audience with his wry humor. "Up until eight days ago," he said after being walked to the podium, "I had more vision than the President of the United States." Though quick to joke, Sorensen was serious in his unstinting critique of Bush, hammering the departed 43rd for his greed, foreign policy failures and violations of international law. Sorensen insinuated that Bush's abuses of the Geneva Conventions were so egregious that if the President left the States, another signatory of the treaty could arrest him. "He might be grabbed the same way Pinochet was grabbed," added Sorenson (completely straight-faced, mind you). And the Bush-bashing did not end there. When discussing the now innocuous impeachment chatter of the past few years, Sorensen took a similarly excoriate position. "I believe history will impeach President Bush," he said. Though scathing about the past, Sorensen looked forward with bright optimism. Having endorsed Obama in March 2007, well before he became the frontrunner, much less the President, Sorensen happily extolled his favored candidate throughout the evening. "We have an outstandingly qualified progressive President who has shown qualities of leadership…He will be one of the best Presidents in the history of our country," Sorensen said. Sorensen even called the inauguration speech "better than any in the last 25 years," high praise from one of the all-time best Presidential speechwriters (though 25 years does not include Kennedy's inaugural address). Sorensen noted, however, that "Mr. Obama is a great president, but not a miracle worker." He urged students to engage in community service to help get the country back on track and, echoing the new President, asserted that everyone will have to sacrifice for the good of the country. Sorensen went on to discuss the importance of the transition period from the election to the swearing in. According to Sorensen, the team of advisors the President chooses during this period "is the most important set of decisions a President has to make in his four years in office." The Kennedy scribe was pleased with the Obama transition and heartened by the executive orders Obama has signed in recent days, saying, if Obama continues on his current path, we can "look forward to a much better country and a much better world." He semi-sarcastically predicted an Obama 2012 victory over Sarah Palin. Sorensen was also willing to recount his own time in the White House, offering his take on the Bay of Pigs (failure was CIA's fault) and the Cuban missile crisis (diffusion was Kennedy's success). The best joke of the evening came when Sorensen discussed Kennedy's address to the nation during the missile crisis. He said that men who were teenagers at the time of the speech always thank him, saying the speech was so frightening that they "were able to convince their college girlfriends that it was their last night on earth." The lecture was rounded out with more time on Obama and Bush as well as Sorensen discussing his own path to speechwriting. The liberal stalwart even included a compliment to Bush's speechwriters. They did a great job, he said, "considering what they had to work with." 
As traditional good old-fashioned print media declines, we face another tragedy&#65533; wait, you mean Steve Jobs is alive? Before you advise your parents to sell their Apple stock, go to class and hear about how bad the economy is already. Then thank your lucky stars that, though you&#65533;ll enter the job market earlier, you won&#65533;t have to suffer through &#65533;Frontiers of Humanities&#65533; with the class of &#65533;13. The end - no more profs saying the darndest things! Now they email them instead.
If your lunch plans depress you or stress you out, get out of John Jay and 212 and head to the Graduate Student Lounge in Philosophy for a change of pace &#65533; excellent classical music for free! The renowned Chiara Quartet will perform the &#65533;Haydn&#65533; string quartets by Mozart for the last time this year from 12:30-1:30. Today marks the end of a series of lunchtime performances of the &#65533;Haydn&#65533; quartets &#65533; a set of pieces Mozart dedicated to friend and fellow composer Joseph Haydn. Just in case you were confused. Check out the Lunchtime Concerts event page for info on the next lunchtime concert series, featuring the Pacifica Quartet playing Mendelssohn. 
 Earlier today Housing Services sent out an email detailing new procedures for fire drills. Apparently, "during these fire drills and any other fire alarm, all students are required by law to exit the building." Seems straightforward enough. But, in a Dean Wormer-like attempt to put a stop to shenanigans, soon a combination force of people from Public Safety, Housing Services and Residential Programs will also be SWAT-teaming your rooms! The valiant bureaucratic coalition &#65533;may begin to implement random room inspections during all fire alarms&#65533; sometime this semester, all to prevent that heinous habit of realizing that you'd rather do something else than practice your stair-descending skills. So if your habit is to stand your ground and turn on your iPod during fire alarms, you may need to reconsider, or face Dean&#65533;s Discipline. But let's be honest: you can always pretend you slept through said alarm. The more pressing concern for some of us might be the accidental discovery of any, er, not-law-abiding items you leave behind. That&#65533;s everything from halogen lamps to things that are against state and federal law. Find a list of other items Columbia prohibits below. What kind of trouble you will get in for having a halogen lamp, Bwog isn&#65533;t sure. Just hide it in your closet before leaving your room. Since the SWAT teams are just checking to make sure you&#65533;ve left, they won&#65533;t be searching through your things to screw you over. They're not thaaaat evil. Things Columbia prohibits: Your own space heater Any gigantic container of alcohol (no matter how old you are) All alcohol if you are a wee lad or lass (i.e. under 21) Halogen lamps Airconditioners Grills, other than those cute little George Foreman ones Steam vaporizers Waterbeds (though Bwog'll give you points for sex-ayness) Any cooking appliance being used in your room (just turn it off and you&#65533;re good) Your own microwave (not ok under any circumstances. Well, except for all non-fire drill circumstances) Pets other than fish and your registered friendly seeing-eye dog Gigantic fridges (over 2.5 cubic feet) Smoking devices such as a hookah, pipe, or bong that one uses for tobacco Weapons of any kind (including martial arts, which is silly) Evidence that you are running a business of any kind out of your room If you&#65533;ve painted your wall or cabinet or anything, even if you intend to repaint it, watch out. Illegal substances (Wait, when did this get added?) &nbsp; Original Housing Services Email Dear Students, Throughout the Spring semester, please be advised that staff members from Housing Services, Public Safety, and Residential Programs will partner together to conduct a random number of room inspections during the pre-scheduled fire drills that are mandated by New York City law.&nbsp; During these fire drills and any other fire alarm, all students are required by law to exit the building.&nbsp; As the welfare and safety of our students are our utmost concern, our objective is to ensure that students are, in fact, evacuating their rooms and buildings in a quick and orderly fashion.&nbsp; Any student found in their room will be subject to Dean's Discipline and must attend an educational program.&nbsp; At some point in the Spring semester, we may begin to implement random room inspections during all fire alarms. Thank you for your cooperation with these fire safety procedures. Sincerely, Joyce Jackson, Executive Director, Housing Services Jose Rosado, Director of Morningside Operations, Public Safety Cristen Kromm, Assistant Dean of Community Development and Residential Programs 
The 9th annual Dance Marathon will be shaking down this weekend, from Saturday at noon to Sunday at 4pm. That&#65533;s 28 hours of straight dancing for charity &#65533; to benefit the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. The event has become Columbia&#65533;s biggest annual fundraiser, having raised $338,000 for the Foundation throughout the years. There will be boogie, twist, waltz&#65533; well maybe not waltz, but there will be almost everything else. From line dancing to prepared hip-hop routines to DDR, dancing events will occupy the registered dancers for the entire 28 hours, and they are meant to be on their feet the entire time. Too much for you? It&#65533;s late to officially register to be a &#65533;moraler,&#65533; who for at least 2 hours cheers the participants on and maybe dances a little. But unregistered moralers, dancers, and spectators are welcome at this festival of boogie-down ($10 tickets can be purchased in Lerner during the marathon). You could even make a small donation, your parents could make a small donation, or if you&#65533;re interested in getting a little more involved, check out the marathon&#65533;s current homepage. You can also attend their date auction at 9 p.m. in Roone Arledge Auditorium, or the Senior Night at Village PourHouse at 11. If you aren&#65533;t as excited as Bwog is about this incredible display of caffeinated willpower put to music, check out clips of the Dance Marathon from a few years ago, and remember that there will be few other opportunities to do the community service President Obama expects of us all while dancing to ABBA.
 Three distinct opportunities to eat for free and check out ways to serve little kids, the world, or just, you know, the community. Read to kids at Project Sunshine, save the world at Amnesty International, or impact your community at &#65533; Community Impact! All three organizations are holding interest meetings tonight. Community Impact&#65533;s open house is going on right now in the Earl Hall Auditorium, and will last until about 9pm. Amnesty International&#65533;s interest meeting will start at 9:15 in Earl Hall&#65533;s Dodge room. Both of these organizations will provide generally &#65533;free food,&#65533; which obviously could be anything. If you&#65533;re peckish though, check out FREE MAGNOLIA BAKERY CUPCAKES at Project Sunshine&#65533;s interest meeting going on right now in Room 404 of the Kraft Center. If you&#65533;ve never been there, it&#65533;s on 115th between Broadway and Riverside, south side of the street. 
 Another month, another depressing e-mail about the state of Columbia finances: earlier this evening, President Bollinger sent an email to the Columbia community (which may or may not have reached your inbox at this point) about the state of the endowment, and this time he included actual figures! After spending a paragraph on why "Columbia has maintained its impressive momentum as one of the world's great research universities," PrezBo announced that "during the six-month period ending December 31st, the total return of the University's investment portfolio declined by approximately 15%."&nbsp; The decline, while still significant, is not as bad as it could have been. Last month, Barnard announced a six-month decline (of the entire endowment, as opposed to its investments portfolio) of around 25%, while Harvard and Yale lost 22% and 25% on their investments, respectively, through the end of October (at that point, according to Bollinger's email, Columbia's own decline was only 11.8%). Bollinger closes the dispatch with a summary of the budget cuts ahead. "Although certain parts of the University (such as the central administration) are significantly dependent on endowment for operating revenue..." he writes, "the University as a whole counts on its endowment for only 13% of operating budget." Even though this number is lower than Columbia's peers, Bollinger says, "to facilitate a smooth transition to these new financial realities, we are asking all budget units to model an 8% decline in endowment funds available for operations next year." Bwog would like to suggest a 100% cut in the War on Fun. Full email after the jump. Dear fellow members of the Columbia community, I write because we are now entering the University's season for preparing next year's operating budgets, and it is therefore an appropriate time to provide an update on the economic environment we face and the context in which next year's budgets will be crafted. We are all aware that the global capital markets and the nation's economy continue to experience significant problems, with resulting financial challenges for businesses, governments and universities across the country. At Columbia, it is difficult to give a general picture of the impact of the current conditions because each of our schools and administrative units has a different set of revenue sources and expenses. This fiscal diversity means that our schools must identify their own ways of achieving a sound financial equilibrium. To the extent I can, however, I want to offer some general observations and specific information about our university-wide experience and the future we will face together. In the last six months, Columbia has maintained its impressive momentum as one of the world's great research universities. Across our schools, applications for admissions for the coming year are extremely strong, reflecting the competitiveness of both our undergraduate and graduate programs. Our physicians remain the doctors of choice for patients who need the best health care, and patient care revenues have grown significantly in the first half of this year. Columbia's research community is competing successfully for grants even in a time of a decline in real federal funding. Sponsored research has substantially outpaced the prior year's performance for the same period. The bonds with our alumni and friends have never been stronger, nor has their generosity been greater. For the first six months of this fiscal year, gifts and pledges exceed last year's record pace, and The Columbia Campaign passed the $3 billion milestone -- ahead of schedule. Yet encouraging as all this is, it tells only part of the story. The nation, New York State and the City are all confronting serious financial challenges, and the consensus is that matters will not improve in the short term. We must, therefore, plan with the assumption that the rapid pace of gifts to the University may slow and that the financial health of our students and their families may necessitate an increase in financial support from Columbia. Columbia's greatness is built on our tradition of attracting remarkable students regardless of their financial situation, a commitment that is unqualified. Furthermore, Columbia's endowment, like most investment portfolios, has declined, although we believe that we have fared reasonably well under extremely difficult market conditions. For a variety of reasons, October 31st has become a date when some other universities have offered reports on their investment performance. Our performance in that period was a decline of 11.8%. Using the most current information available, and in the normal form of tracking investment performance, during the six-month period ending December 31st, the total return of the University's investment portfolio declined by approximately 15%. Given the volatility of capital markets, one cannot accurately project what will unfold in the spring. It is important to recognize that although certain parts of the University (such as the central administration) are significantly dependent on endowment for operating revenue -- and will therefore have to meaningfully constrain spending -- the University as a whole counts on its endowment for only 13% of operating budget. Our relatively small collective dependence on endowment means that the current market downturn hurts less than it does for some of our peers. But let there be no doubt, we still have to face hard choices in the months ahead. To facilitate a smooth transition to these new financial realities, we are asking all budget units to model an 8% decline in endowment funds available for operations next year. Hopefully, by accepting and planning for this new reality, we will be in a position to move forward in strength. Let me conclude by saying that we enter this new environment after a strong period of rapid growth in both resources and enhancement of our academic mission. &nbsp;Without doubt, the global economic scene is forcing us to pull back in our personal and professional lives. I am completely confident, however, that by addressing our challenges in a forthright manner and by focusing our resources on sustaining the core of our intellectual life we will emerge even stronger in the years to come. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger President &nbsp; 
 We all complain about food. And who hasn't quibbled over Frontiers? Everyone is focused on Columbia and the economy. &nbsp;More help for graduate-level French engineers, thank God! &nbsp; 
 After PrezBo's announcement about the state of the endowment, Bwog decided to see how Columbia's finances are doing relative to other Ivies. The results offer great opportunities for schadenfreude since Columbia's predicted loss may be the lowest in the League. As posted last night, Columbia has far out-performed Harvard and Yale, which lost 22 percent and 25 percent respectively, as well as Princeton, which also has an expected loss of 25 percent. Worse off is Cornell with a whopping 27 percent loss that is leading to major budget cuts and tuition increases. UPenn has only reported for the 2008 fiscal year, which ended last June. Their loss up until June was 6.1 percent, the largest drop among the nation's top twenty university endowments for that fiscal year. Its current numbers are unknown. See more losses after the jump. Dartmouth has admitted to an 18 percent loss and has signaled that staff layoffs are inevitable. Brown, being Brown, seems to be the biggest loser with a 28 percent loss. How will tuitions and services be affected? That remains to be seen, although Princeton, despite its heavy losses, is raising its tuition by the lowest amount since 1966, hoping to assauge the strain on cash-strapped families. 
If your learning style is more graphs than paragraphs, Bwog daily editor Jon Hill has created a highly scientific chart of the decline of Ivy endowments. As you can see, the true cause of our nation's problems was the pernicious combination of bad Eddie Murphy movies and poorly designed ketchup bottles. Damn you, Heinz. &nbsp; 
 Columbia economist and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz recently spoke at the annual World Economic Forum in Davos Switzerland. In interviews at the week-long summit, Stiglitz has called for more government action, labelling current public economic stimulus "totally inadequate." He advocates a less taxcut-based stimulus plan in the United States. He also predicted a global trend toward social welfare states common in Europe. “There will be more emphasis on the welfare state," he said. "But there will also be more emphasis on incentives within the welfare state.” The conference is normally an opportunity for business titans and world leaders to pat themselves on the back for successful free market growth, but in this year's gloomy climate, Stiglitz is sure to garner attention.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Patrons of Avery Cafe are now being treated to a striking new cup-holder featuring Dirty Dancing star Patrick Swayze. The holders are advertising Swayze's new cop show The Beast. Reports say the new holders were selected because they are cheaper. Bwog has decided that the cafe staff is just indulging their love for Ghost. 
 The Eye Web site is undergoing reconstruction, but Bwog still recommends these articles from the PDF, which will lead you to answer deep questions far too quickly. Soul-searching for a major? Just read these interviews and you will know your path! (Pg. 8-12) Is there going to be an apocalypse? No. (Pg. 4) Do all 3-D movies suck? Yes. (Pg. 11) 
 We're one month closer to spring!&nbsp; Celebrate the waning winter season with these fun and entertaining tips: Friday Naeem Mohaiemen: Young Man was No Longer A... Friday 7pm, New Museum of Contemporary Art 235 Bowery (212.219.1222) Artist, activist, and all around flower child Naeem Mohaiemen delivers a multimedia talk on failed activism during the 1970s and its contemporary implications.&nbsp; Warrantless wiretapping, anyone?&nbsp; &nbsp; Price: $8 Curumin with Money Mark Friday 10:30pm, Mercury Lounge 217 E Houston St (212.260.4700) This Brazilian band livens up the Mercury Lounge's dance floor with a distinctly modern South American sound. &nbsp; Price: $14, $12 in advance Saturday Idiotarod 2009 Saturday 9am, various locations New York's infamous spin on the Iditarod puts New Yorkers overcoming obstacles in our own city.&nbsp; It's an engaging and entertaining day. BYOSC (Bring Your Own Shopping Cart). Price: $25 Cheech &amp; Chong Saturday 8pm, Radio City Music Hall 1260 6th Ave (212.307.7171) The duo “lights up” Radio City for a one-night-only appearance. &nbsp; Price: $39.50-79.50 Sunday The 1939 Project: American Arts at a Turning Point February 1st-26th daily, see website for times. Symphony Space 2537 Broadway (212.864.1414) Big bands, classic movies, and iconic novels of 1939 will all be explored during this month-long festival.&nbsp; 2009 and 1939 have a lot of in common; this series aims to bring out those cultural continuities. Price: See website, varies by date&nbsp; 
 Mere minutes ago, Bwog received photographic evidence that widely-acclaimed cover artist (oh, and Carman public safety officer-in-chief) Sir Mike brought down the house at Earl Jam tonight. Sir Mike, informally known as Michael Layne, is widely perceived among first-years to be the only friendly adult on campus.&nbsp; Tip for freshmen: he has been known to sell you his self-made CD of cover songs if you stay on his good side for long enough, which you will most definitely "enjoy" listening to. Bigger photo after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Photo by Jason Patinkin 
 Just grin and eBear it. She has her cupcake and eats it, too. Every cloud has a silver line of scrimmage. You can lead a horse to Tokyo Pop, but you can't make him drink. Spec hops on the bandwagon.
 Today marks the end of the "Change of Program" period, which means it's the last day you can add and drop classes with no fee, paperwork, or generalized anxiety involved. But, should you not realize until next month that your 9 a.m. lecture class in Pupin really isn't working for you, don't worry. You still have until Feb. 24 to drop a class -- don't expect your money back, though -- and a little under two months left (March 26) to switch courses to pass/fail. More information is on the Registrar's Web site, or you can try your luck with an adviser. (Walk-in hours were yesterday, by the way.) 
 It’s been a couple of months since Ricky’s shuttered its doors for remodeling, but the store-formerly-known-as-Kim’s appears to have completed its metamorphosis into fabulousness. Signs posted on the shop’s door this morning inform passers-by that the new (and questionably improved) incarnation of Ricky’s opens today at 2:30 p.m. Workers were laying the finishing touches on the exterior around 11 a.m., and empty boxes by the curb indicate that inventory was delivered sometime earlier in the week. Updates will be posted if warranted, but for now, Bwog will go ahead and start lining up for first dibs on body glitter. 
The semester just started, but summer internship application deadlines are fast approaching. To that end, the Center for Career Education is helping sponsor an internship fair this afternoon at 5 o’clock in Earl Hall Auditorium designed to get you on track for your summer plans. Expect a panel discussion by major city employers and a workshop on internship hunting led by career development author Lindsey Pollak. (Yeah, Bwog hasn’t heard of her either, but she does have Facebook.) Even more importantly, the event has free food. “Especially cupcakes,” according to CCSC 2011 President Learned Foote. 
 Men's Basketball: Despite a season-high 24 points from freshman Noruwa Agho (who won his second Ivy League player of the week award), Columbia fell again to Cornell, 83-72. Agho and sophomore Asenso Ampim were the only two Columbia players in double figures, despite neither starting the game, while all five of Cornell's starters scored 10 points or more. The Lions look to rebound from the tough conference start with two home games this weekend, tonight against Yale (7-9 overall, 2-0 in conference play) and tomorrow against Brown (6-10, 0-2). Both are at 7 p.m. in the Levien Gym. Women's Basketball: The women's team were unable to continue their winning streak over the weekend, falling 58-53 to Cornell. Despite leading 29-21 at the half, Columbia let the Big Red storm right back at the start of the second half, letting them take the lead for good with eight minutes to go.&nbsp; Judie Lomax had yet another double-double (12 points, 10 rebounds) in the loss. The women's team goes on another road trip this weekend, playing Yale (8-8, 1-1) tonight in New Haven, and Brown (3-13, 1-1) tomorrow night in Providence. Fencing: As mentioned last week, the fencing teams faced very tough competition last weekend at the NYU and St. John's Invitationals, and both teams performed well under the circumstances. The men's team, without several starters, went 2-6 over the weekend, but the 6 losses came against Ohio State, St. John's and Notre Dame, who finished 1st, 2nd, and 5th in last year's NCAA competition, and the men's team easily dispatched Wayne State and Stevens Tech. The women's team did even better, defeating Ohio State twice, and splitting with defending runners-up Notre Dame. Junior Daria Schneider, who had taken a year off to train for the Olympics after winning the NCAA women's sabre title, won 20 of her 22 bouts over the weekend. The teams have the weekend off, before participating in the first part of the Ivy League championships on February 8th. Wrestling: The wrestling team split their meets last Sunday, losing 28-16 to American University, but defeating George Mason 21-16. On Sunday, the team wrestles at Bucknell, before returning home the week after for four straight home matches. Swimming &amp; Diving: While the men's team lost to Cornell 167-122 on Saturday, the women's team posted two more strong results last weekend, 189-111 over Cornell on Saturday and 119-87 over Wagner on Sunday. Tomorrow, both teams take on Brown at home in the swimming homecoming. Track: Yesterday, the track teams competed in the Metropolitan Championships, with the men finishing 6th while the women finished 4th, both out of 14 teams. Next up is the New Balance College Invitational, next Friday and Saturday at the NYC Armory. Tennis: The men's and women's tennis teams begin their spring seasons this weekend - the men are at Army today, while the women play at Florida Atlantic on Sunday. 
 Now that Netflix streaming movies are available to Mac users, far greater numbers of Columbia students have begun exploring the wonderful “Watch Instantly!” world. They’re also probably learning -- as PC users did months ago -- that Netflix’s catalog of streaming content is largely a grab-bag of B-movies and obscure television series sprinkled with the occasional big-budget film. That’s fine if you’re into Ballykissangel marathons, of course, but it’s hardly a replacement for Kim’s or even Blockbuster. So then what is worth watching on Netflix streaming? Well, some quality films are actually tucked away in the catalog, but you’ll have to spend some time searching them out. Bwog knows you have a busy weekend, though, so after the jump are three film picks just waiting for you to press the blue “Play” button. THE CAINE MUTINY Humphrey Bogart delivers what may be his career’s best performance in this 1954 World War II drama. Bogart plays the iconic Captain Phillip Francis Queeg, a respected-but-stern Navy officer tasked with the job of restoring the U.S.S. Caine and its sailors to peak condition. When Queeg’s command style ventures into the cruel and unusual, a mutiny is staged to remove the captain from power. The uprising results in the courts-martial of two Caine officers for their parts in the mutiny, and the ensuing courtroom battle explores the limits of duty in time of war. This film may be older than your parents, but don’t pass it over for that reason. It’s a must-see for its influence on popular culture, in particular by Bogart’s brooding portrayal of the paranoid Queeg. (On a tangential note, actor Maurice Mickelwhite took his stage name from the film’s title to become Michael Caine, later of Dark Knight and Cider House Rules fame.) 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY Two astronauts on a mission to Jupiter must confront their ship’s on-board, intelligent computer when it threatens to murder them. It’s more than race for survival, however, as the winner of this battle between humans and their technology stands to achieve the next step in evolution. A science fiction masterpiece, Stanley Kubrick’s interpretation of an Arthur C. Clarke short story easily ranks among the best films ever made. Its hallmarks on pop culture are everywhere: think of how many times you’ve heard the film’s “Thus Spake Zarathustra” theme, for instance. But, for all its impact, surprisingly few can say they have watched the whole thing – it’s one of those movies that everyone knows about but has never actually seen. Increase your cultural literacy and see 2001: A Space Odyssey, but do be prepared to brave a few dull stretches of plot and a rather abstract, trippy ending. WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT? Animation blends with film noir in this 1988 Spielberg-produced comedy starring the greatest characters from the golden age of Hollywood cartoons. After Roger Rabbit is falsely accused of murdering of the owner of the Acme Corporations, private investigator Eddie Valiant reluctantly agrees to help clear Roger’s name. The case takes the pair into the underbelly of Toontown as they search for the real murderer, who may also be plotting to commit cartoon genocide. Who cares if the plot isn’t especially deep in this film? The twist of seeing classic cartoons thrust into the sultry film noir genre is what makes this movie fun, and the groundbreaking feat of combining animation with live action is what makes this movie worth watching. Its artistry and technological innovation inspired later mixtures of real and imagined in films like the WALL-E and Sin City, and without Roger Rabbit, there would be no Jar Jar Binks, Dobby, or Gollum. For a film from the pre-digital days of 1988, Who Framed Roger Rabbit? and its visuals hold up amazingly. 
 "Demon Squirrel Feasts Upon Peanuts"&nbsp;is one of many new campus wildlife photos on the Hawkmadinebwog&nbsp;this month. &nbsp;In which we check in on the happenings of the Hawkmadinebwog and its editor, Courtney Dowds, as they start up the new semester. Welcome back to the neighbirdhood, everyone. Revisting a grade-school favorite in My Side of the Mountain. A throng of starlings greets the return of their favorite naturalist. And she’s back: Hawkma puts in one of her first appearances of the new year. 
 The Columbia men's basketball team defeated Yale 53-42 Friday night, ending the Bulldog's five-game winning streak that had them tied for the lead in Ivy League play. It wasn't a graceful win, but after whittling away a 9-point halftime deficit, the Lions surged late in the second half on a 14-3 run to keep the Bulldogs at bay. Defense was the key factor in giving the Lions an edge, and combined with a strong presence at the free throw line, Columbia turned Yale's 23% second-half field goal percentage into the opening it needed to take the win. Senior Jason Miller led the Lions with 16 points and 11 rebounds, followed by junior Patrick Foley's 12 points and freshman Noruwa Agho's 10. The Lions are now 1-2 in the Ivy League and host Brown tonight at 7:00 in Levien Gym. 
The Columbia University Dance Marathon is already 3/14 (or 21.4%) done!&nbsp; Bwog suggests you go on and Electric Slide your way down to Lerner soon, because there are only twenty-two more hours to see all your favorite people shakin' that thang for the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation.&nbsp; In fact, 30 Rock aficionados should hustle a little more, even, because Bwog's heard a rumor that "actor Judah Friedlander will be appearing around 11 p.m." Public Service Announcement:&nbsp; people unfamiliar with 30 Rock and Mr. Friedlander (are there such people?) may want to absent themselves from CUDM at that hour. 
As you may or may not know, our&nbsp; Fearless Leader recently spent some time at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, and while he was there, he said several clever things to his fellow delegates.&nbsp; The Financial Times Blog found his comments punchy enough to post.&nbsp; Some of PrezBo's sagacity: "All of the discussions over the last several years of an assumed “decoupling” of the rest of the world from the US economy today sound about as quaint as the purring of praise for unmediated free markets. We are in a global recession, and we are all inter-connected in ways that we barely understand or can imagine. Clearly, we need to know much, much more than we do about what is happening in the world, so that we can better act to avert dangers and build successfully on what has been achieved.&nbsp; That is the basic role of journalism and the press." 
Tragic news tonight: according to an email from Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger, "a first year SEAS student passed away earlier today in Hartley Hall." "Efforts are underway to contact the family, as well as offer support and condolences.  I am sure you understand that we are not releasing the name of the student or more information until the family has been officially notified...Please contact the RA on-call in your building if you need additional support this evening.  There are on-call staff available tonight, and throughout the weekend, from both Residential Programs and Counseling and Psychological Services. " Bwog will bring updates on the situation as they come in, but, most importantly, our thoughts -- as we're sure many of yours are too -- are with the student's family.  Full email after the jump. UPDATE (11:23 AM): Bwog can now confirm that the death was a suicide. Dean Shollenberger told Bwog, "We are working to support the family now.  I will have something to release publicly hopefully in the next hour." UPDATE (1:45 PM): In light of a number of comments made in the thread, we've had to suspend commenting until further notice. Dear Students, It is with much regret and sadness that I share with you that a first year SEAS student passed away earlier today in Hartley Hall. Efforts are underway to contact the family, as well as offer support and condolences.  I am sure you understand that we are not releasing the name of the student or more information until the family has been officially notified. Members of Residential Programs have been available to suite members and friends to provide support.  Please contact the RA on-call in your building if you need additional support this evening.  There are on-call staff available tonight, and throughout the weekend, from both Residential Programs and Counseling and Psychological Services.  Tomorrow, members of the Counseling and Psychological Services staff will be available from 2 pm to 6 pm in Alfred Lerner Hall 8th floor, 212-854-2878 I will be in contact with you shortly with additional information and join you in the sadness we all feel at the loss of a precious member of the community. Sincerely Kevin G. Shollenberger Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College/Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Student Life Arts and Sciences Columbia University Alfred Lerner Hall, Room 405 2920 Broadway, MC 2607 New York, NY 10027 212-854-2961 212-854-2906 (fax) ks693@columbia.edu
Editor's Note: Although news is still coming in about the death of a SEAS freshman, we will continue to be running the blog as normal. With that, here's this week's AltSpec. Columbia researchers give pointed advice. If you're not happy with your weight, stop looking in the mirror. If the years are getting to you, circuit training might be your friend. If you're a professor, listen to the experts. If your code name is "ELP24," watch out: the neurologists are coming. If ye be an investment banker, Coffee's got it in for you. If you nest in a natural gas field, frack you. 
Editor's Note: Bwog will continue to update on the death of SEAS student yesterday, but we will also keep our regular posts going.&nbsp; Bwog is told there's some kind of day of national celebration going on today, something about "football."&nbsp; We're not entirely sure about the sports end of it, but here's a sampling of the oft-associated carousal. Local establishments have a few specials going on: The Heights: 60-cent wings, $4 pints 1020: $3 beers Havana Central: $39.95 buffet, including all-you-can-eat drink domestic drafts and sangria Village Pour House: $30 all-you-can-drink Bud Light (marvelous choice, no?) from kick-off to the end of the game. Those hoping to patronize La Negrita or O'Connells, you're out of luck.&nbsp; Elsewhere in the city: SideBar (15th and Irving Place), owned by the Village Pour House folks, has offerings that are somewhat more sumptuous: a $50 "premium" open bar Leisure Time Bowl (8th and 42nd) boasts 30 flat-screens and is giving a free beer tower if you rent a lane for two hours, for something non-traditional. Kyotofu (9th and 48th) is giving away free cupcakes having a half-off sake sale for their Super Bowl haters party.&nbsp; There will be a screening of the Japanese film Tampopo. Bwog can only find one campus group that's hosing a public viewing.&nbsp;&nbsp; Hillel offers free pizza, vague "snacks," and adjective-less "TV" on the 5th floor of the Kraft Center tonight at 6. Update, 3:27 PM: A commenter tells us that there's a widescreen TV set up in the Broadway Sky Lounge, hosted by ResLife, Bwog assumes. If you know of any other groups or want to invite the bwogosphere into your home, comment or email us at bwog@columbia.edu. And if none of that suits you, you could hide in Butler and shout out the scores as the game progresses.&nbsp; Bwog cannot guarantee your safety in this event.
According to another email just sent by Interim SEAS Dean Gerard Navratil, the SEAS student who passed away yesterday has been identified as Eric Harms, age 19, SEAS '12. According to Navratil, "Eric was doing very well academically, a team leader in the Fall section of the Gateway Living and Learning Center, and a Class of 2012 ESC representative. He will be greatly missed. I've met with Eric's parents and the School will plan with them and his classmates how to honor Eric's life." Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger also sent out an email identifying the student, saying "Eric's family wanted us all to know that Eric loved Columbia and they were comforted to know how mutual those feelings were among his friends and classmates here. Our deepest condolences go out to the Harms family for this terrible loss." UPDATE (3:15 PM): The New York Post's Police Blotter has reported that Harms hanged himself in an eighth floor bathroom. His body was discovered by security guards around 3 p.m. yesterday. 
For those interested, the InterVarsity Christian Fellowship will be hosting a prayer service for Eric Harms' family and friends at 4:30 p.m. today in the Hartley lounge.
Editor's Note: Bwog will continue to update on the death of SEAS student yesterday, but we will also keep our regular posts going.&nbsp; Get your real-world education outside of classes this week. Monday China and Green Energy Technology: There's a speaker from JUCCCE (best acronym ever), but it's also about summer internships.&nbsp; 6:00 PM @ Carleton Cafe, Mudd. Tuesday The Beak of the Finch: Part 3 of a series on Darwin and ethics with Prof. Jonathan Weiner, from the School of Journalism.&nbsp; 6:30 PM @ Lifelines Center, All Souls Church, 1157 Lexington Ave (80th St.) Wednesday "Columbia Revolt" Film Screening: The Grassroots Policy Network presents a throwback to our favorite year, featuring a panel with "original participants."&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ 1302 IAB. Thursday Evolution of the Solar System: A colloquium with Prof. Paul Olsen for the budding scientists at Columbia.&nbsp; 2:45 @ 214 Mudd. 
 The CU Dance Marathon finally wrapped up at 4:00 PM today after 28 hours of the "Cha-Cha Slide," a bhangra lesson, and pretty much every Top 40 dance hit since 1985.&nbsp; Sadly, Bwog missed the rumored Judah Friedlander appearance. But the good news is the grand total raised: $50,020 by over 80 dancers for the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. They may all be asleep now, but Bwog definitely gives each and every one a hearty congratulations. 
Congratulations to Pittsburgh locals, your Steelers have won the Super Bowl! Two additional winners tonight: MVP Santonio Holmes (below), and of course halftime act Bruce Springsteen, who hilariously assaulted a camera with the inseam of his pants. Bravissimo, all! Photo via NYT 
 M.I.T introduces the revolutionary concept of holding smaller science classes with more TA's, Columbia science profs think it just might work For one young Spec columnist, "godless is cool" at Columbia, and, worse still, the "street" is College Walk! A lot of Jewish people go to Columbia, and live in the greater metropolitan area Spec A&amp;E reports: "dating dilemmas plague us all at some point in our lives"&nbsp; And, oh yeah, Columbia basketball wins two Ivy League games&nbsp;in a row 
This morning, ESC President Peter Valerias issued a statement to the SEAS community in response to the death of SEAS freshman Eric Harms on Saturday. Valerias wrote that Harms was "involved in so many aspects of campus life and always willing to help others out when they had a task to complete.&nbsp; He was a First-Year Representative on the Engineering Student Council, dedicated to his position and finding new ways to be involved on campus from serving on a multitude of the ESC committees to being an avid participant in the performing arts around campus...I will always remember his desire to take on more initiatives and his asking me for additional projects that he could participate in." Last night, the ESC 2012 class council also sent out a statement, saying, "As a council, we all came to know Eric as an outstanding member – unprecedented in his creativity and desire to instill change and inspire. As a family, we all came to know Eric as a remarkable person and friend and all came to love his presence, his attitude, and his outlook. More so he warmed our hearts with his smile and laughter." The full emails can be found after the jump. Students and administrators will be using today to discuss events, with a planning meeting at 8 p.m. in the Low Library Visitor's Center. Valeiras also invited all concerned SEAS students to the ESC meeting at 9:45 p.m. in the Satow Room. Finally, as of this post, we will be reopening the comment threads on this topic, in the hopes of keeping them open as a place for those who do wish to discuss the situation with their fellow students. We will keep the comments open for as long as possible. Comment policy will remain unchanged; explicit trolling will be deleted. Statement from ESC President Peter Valeiras Dear SEAS Community, As many of you have heard a fellow engineer, Eric Harms, passed away this weekend.&nbsp; Many of you know how remarkable of a person Eric was, involved in so many aspects of campus life and always willing to help others out when they had a task to complete.&nbsp; He was a First-Year Representative on the Engineering Student Council, dedicated to his position and finding new ways to be involved on campus from serving on a multitude of the ESC committees to being an avid participant in the performing arts around campus.&nbsp; He showed up to every meeting eager to participate and willing to take on tasks that were not his responsibility.&nbsp; I will always remember his desire to take on more initiatives and his asking me for additional projects that he could participate in. I want to reach out to every member of our community and invite you to our Engineering Student Council meeting tonight at 9:45pm in the Satow Room of Lerner.&nbsp; This will be a time for you to talk and express your feelings, as well as meet a few administrators who are available for support.&nbsp; Eric's family welcomes your thoughts and the ESC is working with Student Affairs to have students express these feelings and pass them onto the family.&nbsp; An additional email will be sent out to inform you on how to be involved with remembering Eric. I also want to echo what Dean Shollenberger said and encourage you to seek out support from each other and University offices during this difficult time. The Office of Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS), your Advising Dean, the Office of the University Chaplain and the Office of Residential Programs continue to be available to you for support and counseling.&nbsp; All of these offices are available for you and want to make sure that each and every student on campus has the support they need.&nbsp; I urge you to seek out their services if you need them.&nbsp; Additionally, you can also contact the ESC at esc@columbia.edu and we will help you as well. Finally, I want to pass on the Engineering Student Council's deepest condolences to Eric's family and friends.&nbsp; We know how special he was to our community and will always remember all that he did for everyone around him. &nbsp;Statement from ESC 2012 Council The Engineering Student Council of the Class of 2012 would like to extend its deepest condolences to Eric's family and close friends. As his classmates, each and every one of us had the privilege of meeting Eric at some point over the course of the past semester – moments we know we will never forget. As a council, we all came to know Eric as an outstanding member – unprecedented in his creativity and desire to instill change and inspire. As a family, we all came to know Eric as a remarkable person and friend and all came to love his presence, his attitude, and his outlook. More so he warmed our hearts with his smile and laughter. No one will ever make an afro joke quite like Eric. No one will ever set off a dance party at an ESC 2012 meeting to the beats of Bon Jovi quite like Eric. No one will ever make a room light up with laughter quite like Eric. The pain we feel, as his friends, is inexplicable but we will continue to live on his memory anywhere and everywhere we go, in anything and everything we do. ESC 2012 will always miss, remember, and love Eric Harms. Our lives are truly better because of him and we thank him with our warmest hearts.
 As the revelries in Pittsburgh died down last night, a crowd of 13,000 gathered 65 miles northeast of the Super Bowl champions' city to wait for the groundhog Punxsutawney Phil to predict how longer the winter will last. If the groundhog does not see its shadow, myth has it that spring will come early, an event that has only taken place 15 times since 1887. Sadly, the massive rodent cast a shadow and thus unknowingly predicted that winter will last another six weeks. Bwog is wary of daring to question Phil's prediction, but for the optimists out there, today's weather would suggest that perhaps there's been a fluke. See for yourself and join your squinting classmates on Low Steps as they wander outside into the sun for the first time since October. 
Bwogger Sean Zimmerman sent along these pictures of a John Jay 13 room completely stuffed with newspapers. Why? Because, uh...why not? The room belongs to Billy, pictured below in the center with his hands on his hand. His partners in crime are, from left to right, David, Alex, Hefei, Jess and Gautam. Bwog would pay good money to see this room's random inspection. More pictures of print-smudgy fun (and a spirited newspaper-hurling battle) after the jump.   
 Today, as you sit in your lecture and scour the internet for something, anything, to distract you, Bwog suggests browsing the treasure trove of old time-y Morningside Heights and Columbia campus photographs here. Aside from the terrifying image on the right, one can find dozens of pictures of a Columbia your blessed legacy-bearing great-grandparents told you about, including South Field as football field, Low rising from some sort of forest-y marshland, and, more recently, Philip Petit on the high wire above St. John the Divine. Harken back to the days where you could park on College Walk, and marvel at the 1990 plans for East Campus Towers and the never-built Riverside Park Stadium. The website was created by West 112th Street Block Association in 1996 and is maintained by Barbara Hohol, Jack Arbo and Ian Fletcher, who have collected and taken many of the site's pictures. If class still drags on and Facebook hasn't provided a status update for minutes, look at the list of the Heights' famous residents. Like, Dustin Hoffman lived on 109th Street! That's, like, the same street as Obama! 
 As the doldrums of February kick in and we all begin to forget our New Year's resolutions, Bwog encourages you to skip the gym (not like you weren't going to anyway, right?) and hustle instead to one of the over 250 restaurants participating in a time-honored New York culinary tradition, Restaurant Week. This year, the week of gastronomic revelry has been extended several weeks until February 27th. Now you have plenty of time to get your $24.07 lunches and $35 dinners for three-course prix-fixe meals at restaurants no college student could otherwise afford.You can peruse a list of restaurants, menus and even recipes at NYC Go and make your reservations at their website or at Open Table. Take a field trip and try (if you dare!) the blowfish at BONDST, the pancetta-wrapped monkfish at i Trulli, and if you've made it this far into your Columbia career without making it to Queens, go to Water's Edge and marvel at our lovely skyline. Stuff your faces well, temporary gourmands!
Faithful Bwog reader Laura Gabriele sent us a photo she took of the infamous trucker hat-toting ironic eyeglass-wearing celebrity Judah Friedlander paying a visit to the Dance Marathon this past weekend. Friedlander is pictured in Roone with Kamal Yechoor, lucky Dance Marathon-er and SEAS Student Council 2011 president.
ESC President Peter Valeiras tells Bwog that there are two meetings tonight for students: first, at 8 p.m., Associate Dean of Student Affairs Eleanor Daugherty will be leading a meeting in Low Library Visitors Center about planning "ways to commemorate Eric." Then, at 9:45 p.m. in the Satow Room, there will be a meeting for all SEAS students with the ESC and representatives from CPS, the Chaplain's Office, ResLife, SDA, and Student Affairs. In addition, several students have expressed to Bwog their interest in sharing their memories of Eric. The parents have asked that all memories be sent to Daugherty's email address: ejd2002@columbia.edu. 
 Reading will make you poor. Was there ever any doubt that some hellacious barbecue would thrive? A thing called eminent domain appears to be causing some sort of dispute. Men's basketball gets all philosophical. &nbsp; 
 Bwog loves soccer, so we were happy to see popular Econ professor (and president of the US Soccer Federation) Sunil Gulati announcing the United States's bid for the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cups on Monday. Gulati, who was also involved in the first World Cup in the United States in 1994, will be leading the US bid against bids from Japan, Mexico, Russia, and England. FIFA will make its decision on both cups in December 2010.&nbsp; And the Columbia connections don't stop there -- if "the beautiful game" returns to this nation's shores, Gulati (who received his graduate degrees at Columbia) may have to credit a fellow Columbia alumnus. "Given everything that, frankly, President Obama has said, everything he stands for, everything he's talked about in terms of reaching out to the world," he told the press "trying to bring the global game to the United States and opening our borders up for a festival of 32 countries and hundreds of thousands of people from all corners of the world would be viewed in a very positive way." Man, that Obama guy really is everywhere... 
 After a semester on hiatus, the campus overheards have returned! Send anything silly, stupid, or downright strange (whether text or photos) to bwgossip@columbia.edu. A father and his two young sons are walking along Broadway past Ricky's. Father: Do you remember when that used to be a costume shop? Boy 1 and 2: Yes! Father: And do you remember when it was a video store before that? Boy 1 and 2: Uh huh! Father: What is it now? It looks like they sell cosmetics. Boy 1: What's "cosmetics"? Father: Not as fun as DVDs, that's for sure. 
 As if the first African-American Attorney General - confirmed yesterday! - and the new FCC Chairman weren't enough, a commenter has tipped Bwog off to Columbia's latest alumnus to join the Obama administration. New Hampshire Senator Judd Gregg, CC '69, has accepted Obama's nomiation&nbsp; to be Secretary of Commerce. He is the third Republican to join the administration. The fiscally conservative Gregg's nomination has been greeted as an indication that Obama wasn't fooling around about that "bipartisanship" thing. The president has praised Gregg's negotiation skills, particularly his work as chairman of the Senate Budget Committee during the Wall Street bailout. Unfortunately for the College Dems, however, Gregg did make it clear that he wouldn't accept the position unless his Senate seat was filled by another GOP member. Gregg takes over from Obama's initial choice for commerce secretary, Bill Richardson, who started a trend last month when he withdrew his name from consideration. But Bwog applauds the addition of yet another Columbian, and hopes he can use his new powers to possibly help fix this. 
 Oh sure, there may be budget cuts aplenty on the way, but the Medical Center isn't about to let the economy stop its discoveries. This time, a team led by Columbia University Medical Center researchers has linked a gene called ELP4 to Rolandic epilepsy, the most common form of epilepsy. Rolandic epilepsy's best-known symptom is a seizure beginning just after waking up in the morning, though scientists are looking into other problems associated&nbsp;with the disorder, including learning and motor coordination difficulties. Researchers think ELP4, the first gene linked to Rolandic epilepsy, may affect connections between the brain's neurons during development. Recently, there has been an increasing interest in what the organization of neurons has to do with all types of epilepsy. Identifying ELP4 may go a long way toward producing more effective epilepsy treatments and perhaps discovering the causes of ADHD, speech dyspraxia, and developmental coordination disorder. At right is Deb Pal, Columbia University research scientist and&nbsp;senior author of the study. Bwog congratulates Pal and his team and reminds you to continue taking 15-minute breaks every few Halo battles. 
 Today 111th and Riverside witnessed the triumphant return of Cupid, the ABC series starring Bobby Cannavale, a man of many faces known for co-starring roles in both&nbsp;The Station Agent and Paul Blart: Mall Cop. The show is actually a remake of a 1990s Cupid starring Jeremy Piven, who pulled out of the original series to pursue a lucrative Broadway career.&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 And 2009 has officially begun. The snow penis is back, complete with a heart in time for Valentine's Day. Thanks to Jason Patinkin for the photo, and thanks to Columbia for the memories. UPDATE: Apparently there's another message in EC Courtyard - a message of love to Fruit Pauncher/Ferris Reel VP/all-around Bwog favorite Colin Drummond (picture after the jump). Colin asks us, "Who made the original message? I need a date to Winter Gala..." Bwog doesn't know either, but it's your move, ladies. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Ivy League thieves can no longer hide behind the brain! Want to bring joy to the world? Now you can, with Raise a Lotta Money Boot Camp! Homesick students rejoice. Your new living room is the old Radio Perfecto. Need to get away from campus and Morningside? Oh, thank god for vibrators! 
 What&#65533;s better than free food? Free Red Bull! And Sugar Free Red Bull, and new Red Bull Cola. Well, possibly not that last thing, because, well, gross. Anyway, the drinks will be available from 11am-2pm today on the ramps in Lerner. Early in the semester though it is, your Sunday (or perhaps even Wednesday) night will thank you for it. It's also probably a good idea to get there closer to 11 than to 2 if missing out on free caffeine would truly crush your sleep-deprived spirit. Red Bull generously donated the drinks to the Chinese Students Club for this year&#65533;s Lunar Gala. 
 For those of you who were wondering why Gmail looks a little funky, fear not. The change will cut down on the amount of time you can possibly spend organizing your email. Don't worry, you'll find other ways to procrastinate. If you do use "Labels" in Gmail (like folders, except that messages can belong to multiple labels instead of just one folder) you'll probably be jumping for joy at this development. You'll remember with a grimace how involved the whole process used to be. You had to click Labels, select the one you want, and then click &#65533;Archive.&#65533; Oh, the wasted time of our young lives. No more archiving! One fewer clicks! Just select the label and you&#65533;re done. And shortcuts (L for Labels, M for Move to &#65533; make sure you have Keyboard shortcuts enabled) reduce the necessary clicks one further. Keystrokes minimized by the auto-complete feature &#65533; meaning you type R-I and it knows you mean to assign the label &#65533;Richard Bulliet and his curse words.&#65533; Hyper-organizers should find this helpful &#65533; god knows how many keystrokes and clicks it actually takes to organize every piece of email you receive. The rest of you should consider labeling more. The shock of the new-fangled-looking menu bar will wear off. Check out Gmail's blog for some help navigating these changes. And if you're still using Cubmail, it's time to leave the 90s already. 
 Two years ago, we at Bwog lost the U.S. News and World Report's "Paper Trail" blog's Best Alternative Media Outlet poll to Wesleyan after some crotchety commenters lampooned their granola-eating ways and they retaliated en masse. We lost last year, too. This year, we have another foe: Yale. That's right, now you have the chance to reject them. What makes this battle even more worth fighting is that the Yale blog is based out of one single residential college. That's like a blog for Wien (albeit a beautiful, wonderful Wien with its own library and cafeteria) winning this whole contest. Egregious. And while we lower our lances at Yale, we also set our sights at Penn State. You may have an undergrad population of six million, but we have the fervor to best you. Vote now, vote on multiple computers, whatever it takes. You have until midnight on February 17th. Do it for Bwog, because we'd do it for you. 
Stressed out? Had too much Red Bull this morning? Head to Wien&#65533;s first floor lounge for "Wind Down Wednesday," a.k.a. free backrubs! The backrubs are provided by the beneficent campus group Stressbusters, who obviously specialize in all things anti-stress. So if you&#65533;re on the lookout for a completely new outlook on life or some deep breathing exercises to do in Butler, or you&#65533;re so completely overcome by the backrub experience that you decide to join the noble cause, more info about busting your stress will be available on site. 
Not that the above was ever a good excuse for, well, anything. But now logging (and hopefully finding) the stuff you lost in the subway or left on that bus bound for god-knows- where is as easy as checking Bwog's own Lost and Found box (below Events). Behold, the MTA's all new online Lost and Found. The MTA has actually had a Lost and Found for several years now, complete with very odd signs advertising the various things one might lose on the subway &#65533; a computer mouse&#65533; a fake limb&#65533; a snake&#65533; and your teeth?! Bwog&#65533;s incredulity must be excused; barely a few years old, we have yet to discover the wonders and perils of having dentures. But Bwog does appreciate the MTA&#65533;s new way of doing things. It used to be that you had to call, email, or physically go down to the MTA&#65533;s Lost and Found to inquire about the glove you lost. Now, no human interaction even via email is required &#65533; you can post your lost item and search through found items, and you can even get your item delivered to your door! So if the lack of a computer screen between you and the crowds of the subway frightens you, or you tend to lose things, rejoice! 
It&#65533;s coming. Young love, sappiness, stuffed animals, adorable couples, flowers, and pink. And (mercifully) lots of chocolate. Yes, Valentine's Day is around the corner. Are you one of those adorable couples who sincerely enjoy the festivities because you blend in with the sickening adorable-ness of it all? Do you want the world to benefit from your love? Do you want a free iPod? No, PDA does not, in fact, help the rest of us feel as happy as you do. But participating in the Asian American Alliance&#65533;s &#65533;Game of Love&#65533; event will benefit the Asian Women&#65533;s Self Help Association, and might even win you an iPod shuffle! Or, much more importantly, the title of Best Columbia Couple Ever. This event will not, as the advertisements above imply, be a make-out-in-front-of-a-lot-of-people contest. It will be run game show style; Bwog assumes that it might involve answering questions about your significant other. You can also participate with a best friend. Hopefully that means questions will generally stay PG-13. Let the magic happen at from 8-11pm, Friday February 13th in the Broadway room in Lerner. Check out the Facebook event for more info and to sign yourself and your other half up for this festive exercise in self-humiliation for charity. Service, friends, comes in many forms.
 Sure, seniors may be looking at the worst job market in decades, but at least they have some of Columbia's fun senior traditions to look forward to! Or, you know, not. The administration's "War on Fun" campaign looks to be well on its way to destroying a proud senior pastime, as sources tell Bwog that Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger and SDA Director Robert Taylor have ordered the student councils to come up with a replacement for the once-loved tradition of 40s on 40. Up until two years ago, seniors would drink 40s on Low Steps to celebrate 40 days before graduation. The public drinking made for some actual class unity, and hilarious scenes of tour guides assuring parents "no, we only get this way once a year." But, like any evil dictatorship, Columbia soon tired of the civil disobedience, and forced the class councils to put on a poorly-run picnic instead. Both years of cheap imitation saw nothing but frustrated students in long lines for little beer.&nbsp; What's the new excuse? Apparently, Shollenberger and Taylor told the councils that the university is "no longer comfortable" hosting an event whose primary draw is alcohol. Aside from the lack of any incidents to support this new crackdown, of course, the university's quick to drop such quibbles when donors are involved: for example, the official Columbia University Club of New York, which has an open bar, or almost every single cocktail party that the university throws for potential donors. But if the War on Fun's been any guide, justification is not the University's strong suit. 
 The State government smacks down landlords, trying to keep city housing affordable. &nbsp;The head of Urban Studies will soon not have a home at Columbia. Aspiring academics won't have a home anywhere. TV about a new home. 
 Because the Internet has been suffering a drought of useless video clips, CCSC has started its own YouTube channel. "We expect to use our YouTube channel...to open the doors of our council, to update you on our projects, and to elicit your response," wrote President George Krebs. As CCSC has realized, the best possible way to discuss campus policy is through ever-erudite YouTube comments. Thankfully, this channel, which will be updated weekly, is not just for cerebral politics. In its description, CCSC informs us that "this channel aims to provide not only information, but also entertainment." &nbsp;Our student government has some compeition for Columbia-based video entertainment. In one of the few instances when filming in a public restroom is completely acceptable, some intrepid students posted a video of the loud faucets in a Butler men's room. Sounds like some weird whale mating call. 
 As Bwog reported, Columbia Alum Judd Gregg is Obama's pick for Commerce Secretary. The New Hampshire Senator has kept a relationship with Columbia, a connection that may have motivated some ethically-questionable legislative maneuvering. In 2000, Gregg attached an amendment to an agriculture bill extending a patent for a biomedical process owned by Columbia. The patent was originally issued in 1983 and was bringing in around $100 million in annual revenue for the University. After a slew of pharmaceutical industry lawsuits, Columbia eventually relinquished its claims to royalties. However, if confirmed, Gregg will control the patent office, so maybe he can throw Columbia an extra $100 million per year.&nbsp; 
 And there was much rejoicing in frats and sororities across America: anonymous gossip forum JuicyCampus has gone out of business. JuicyCampus is best (and only) remembered on Columbia's campus for briefly surging in popularity after former CCSC president Michelle Diamond explored banning the site. When opposed on the grounds that this was "a university, not communist China,"&nbsp; (not to mention that it would be nearly impossible to block) Diamond quickly backed off, and the site returned to obscurity. In the end, though, the recession killed JuicyCampus. "In these historically difficult economic times, online ad revenue has plummeted and venture capital funding has dissolved," wrote JuicyCampus "founder and CEO" Matt Ivester in a press release. "JuicyCampus' exponential growth outpaced our ability to muster the resources needed to survive this economic downturn." Every cloud really does have a silver lining. 
 Proving that even middle grounds can be staked forcefully, the Campus Democrats released a statement lambasting the recent Gaza protests on campus, accusing both camps of harmful divisiveness. They urged dialogue instead of separate protests and unveiled their plan to cosponsor, along with CIRCA, the College Republicans, Hillel, Turath, and the Chaplain's Office, a "community conversation on the recent conflict" on February 10th. The Dems emphasized that "all perspectives are welcome" at the event. Although underlining the openness of their upcoming conversation, the Democrats showed little restraint in criticizing the protest groups. They compared the quibbling in Morningside Heights to the battling in the Middle East. "If words possessed the force of rockets or the power of bombs," the press release says, "Columbia’s campus would be as devastated as Gaza City or Sderot." And that would no doubt suck. The Dems concluded by declaring it "is time for us to beat our polemics into plowshares." No word on whether the Dems apply that to their own press releases. Full statement after the jump. Columbia University College Democrats STATEMENT ON CONFLICT IN GAZA/SOUTHERN ISRAEL&nbsp; Peacefire Five thousand miles away, a thin green line separates two goods from two evils, two oppressors from their oppressed, two rights from two wrongs. Five thousand miles away a night without death is merely a temporary blessing. Five thousand miles away two great religions have abandoned the power of faith that connects them through a common god and instead put their faith in power: the power to annihilate, the power to live without compassion. Five thousand miles away the Hebrew and Arabic words for peace differ by just a few phonemes, but the concept seems totally untranslatable. &nbsp; And in Morningside Heights, we are no better. &nbsp; If words possessed the force of rockets or the power of bombs, Columbia’s campus would be as devastated as Gaza City or Sderot. On Monday two student factions faced off on College Walk. They stood in solidarity with Gaza. They stood in solidarity with Israel. But they did not stand in solidarity with peace. They did not stand in solidarity with dialogue. They did not stand in solidarity with compassion. &nbsp; How can we expect our world leaders to negotiate for peace when college students can’t even critically engage with each other? We are so often told that we are the best and the brightest, the leaders of tomorrow. It’s time we started acting like it. &nbsp; The Columbia University College Democrats call for a new era of pragmatic campus activism, activism that seeks to channel the emotional importance that this issue holds for so many of us into a meaningful exchange of ideas. We demand that the two sides of this conflict in academia take a higher moral position than the two sides have taken in the Middle East. &nbsp; We issue this call not with an idealism blind to centuries of strife, but with the firm conviction that there are political steps to be taken in the United States in the interest of peace, steps that all sides, if they cannot agree upon, should at least discuss. The wedge-issues over patches of land and notions of history have long been used to break negotiations; we as students need not let these deal-breakers prevent us from uniting, at least in conversation, behind our common desire for peace.&nbsp;&nbsp; We hope to see the same passion that went into planning separate rallies channeled into good-faith attempts to launch community-wide discussion. We hope that those who have been vocal and those who have not on all sides of this conflict can join together to explore their convictions, achieve a greater understanding, and maybe even find common ground. As an organization, we are committed to fostering those opportunities, and are proudly cosponsoring “Perspectives on Conflict, Perspectives on Peace,” a community dialogue event, with the Columbia International Relations Council and Association, the College Republicans, Hillel, Turath, the Office of the University Chaplain, and others. The event, which will take place in Earl Hall on Tuesday, February 10 at 8:30 pm, will be a facilitated conversation to begin to react to the recent crisis in Gaza and southern Israel and think together about where to go from here. The College Democrats hope it will serve merely as a starting point that will grow into continuing dialogue and collective action. &nbsp; Let’s replace opposing rallies with joint endeavors that seek not only to display our grief in a time of chaos, but also to unite to bring political pressure to those who have the power to end it. Let’s see renewed calls for a two-state solution, a US government critical of excessive force on both sides, and an effective negotiating process in which leaders are ready to make sacrifices in order to ensure a lasting peace. &nbsp; Peace will only happen when we accept that it is possible. It is time for us to beat our polemics into plowshares. It is time to move forward. 
 Graphic artist Christoph Niemann posted these LEGO sculptures of New York artifacts and features, immediately recognizable to any City dweller. The pictures have attracted a lot of attention and give little credit to Madison Square Garden, which is represented by a tire. In other arcane urban news, the strange sweet smell that has visited Manhattan on occasion since 2005 - and has always been particularly strong in Morningside Heights - was explained today. As the New York Times reported, the culprit is a processing plant in New Jersey that uses an herb called fenugreek (pictured right). The business running the plant seems to be in line with all health and environmental standards, so it will not be shut down. Thus, the sweet fragrance will probably continue to invade New York in the future. &nbsp; 
 The Society of Physics Students will have Koronets at their meeting tonight at 7:00PM in 831 Pupin. Despite the food, the physics of creating gigantic pizzas will not be discussed. Bwog has been advised that, if you get out fast enough after grabbing pizza, you probably won't have to stay for the research talk (no guarantees). 
 The Eye website is still under construction, but you can still access a PDF of the latest issue, which details fights of small consequence. The feature wrangles with Morningside's meager dining options (Pg.6). The battle over stunt TV casting still rages (Pg. 11). The rumble between art and the economy goes on and on (Pg. 14) The fight to figure out what the hell we're saying is in full swing (Pg. 5) 
 Glass House Rocks, the one event of the year during which all the diagonal walkways in Lerner have a purpose, starts in three hours. The theme is "time machine." Make sure to go over and take advantage of the oodles of free food and t-shirts. While you're waiting, check out this dance battle video from a previous rocking of the glass house. Update (10:38pm): Bwog received pictures of the party in Lerner. It looks like Glass House is well attended. Picture after the jump. &nbsp; 
ESC and CCSC Presidents Peter Valeiras and George Krebs announced an event honoring the life of Eric Harms, the Columbia student who recently passed away. The remembrance of Harms' life will be on Monday, February 9th in Low Plaza and is open to the Columbia Community. Full email after the jump.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Dear Columbia Community, Eric Harms was a great person and friend who touched many of our lives in different ways. Whether it was through his acting, his work with student organizations, or his music, he made each and every person around him feel comfortable.&nbsp; Eric put smiles on the faces of those who were lucky enough to come in contact with him. We want to invite you to remember Eric's life with the Columbia community on Monday, February 9 at 7:45 p.m. on Low Plaza . Together, we will celebrate Eric's life through pictures, music, and personal reflections.&nbsp; Columbia blue ribbons will be distributed to represent Eric's love for Columbia and the impact he made during his short time here.&nbsp; Our remembrance will conclude with a candlelight vigil and a moment of silence to honor Eric's life and our memories of him. This is an opportunity for members of the Columbia family to come together and share in the celebration of a fellow student and friend.&nbsp; All are welcome.&nbsp; We hope you will join us. Peter Valeiras and George Krebs ESC and CCSC Presidents 
We’ve got six more weeks of this dark and drafty season, but New York makes the best of it! Don your warmest winter gear for the city’s most exciting celebrations of the season. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday New York Comic Con Friday 1-7pm, Saturday 10am-7pm, Sunday 10am-5pm Jacob K. Javits Center 655 W 34 St. It’s time to bust out the cape - the comic convention has come to town! Panels, film screenings, discussions, and all the latest industry news promises to deliver for a fun weekend of alternate reality. Price: $30-65 Friday Skating Under the Stars in Prospect Park 9:30pm-midnight, Wollman Rink in Prospect Park (718) 965-6992 Spiked (and virgin) hot cocoa, retro candy, Brooklyn Lager, and other rink snacks available on the ice as you skate. Southpaw provides the soundtrack, and board games will be available inside for when you get cold. Think cozy. Very cozy.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Price: $40, groups of four $125 2009 Arsenal Gallery Exhibit: The African-American Experience Monday-Friday until March 5th 9am-5pm, 64th Street and Fifth Avenue inside Central Park, Third Floor of the Arsenal Building A collection of art in honor of African-American History Month. Price: Free! Saturday and Sunday International Polar Weekend Saturday and Sunday 12pm-5pm American Museum of Natural History, 79th Street and Central Park West CU and BC (amongst others) sponsor this event that celebrates all things polar!&nbsp; Check out the website for details and specific activities, but Bwog promises “joik” and throatsinging! Price: Free with museum admission Saturday Winter Jam NYC 2009 The list of activities speaks for itself: a 70-foot long snow flume will be available for sledding, there will be a professional snowboarding competition, and you can try snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, enter a snow sculpture contest, and eat free samples from NY State farmers and producers in a Warming Hut! Oh, and live music. It will be worth the subway ride! Price: Free!&nbsp; All winter fun equipment will be provided! &nbsp; Film Series: Eyes on the Prize Saturday 4pm, American Negro Theater Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Malcolm X Boulevard Another Black History Month event that will explore the turbulent civil rights movement of the 1960s; it promises to educate and enthrall. Price: Free! Sunday The Chili Takedown Sunday 4:30pm, Union Pool 484 Union Ave (718.609.0484) Oh. Yes. It’s chili time, and there promises to be tons of it at this city-wide event.&nbsp; They’re still taking entries, so if you’d like to whip up your own bowl, check out the website. Bring the Pepto, because this promises to be a doozy! Price: Free to enter, $10 to eat &amp; judge 
 Since federal subsidies have already led to horrors like Constitution Day, one wonders what silly conditions will be extracted now that Barnard will be issuing more loans directly through the federal government.&nbsp; Yes, Barnard has now joined the Federal Direct Loan program, which is already used by schools such as Harvard, Brown, Amherst, Williams, Cornell and MIT. According to an email from Dean Dorothy Denburg (reproduced after the jump), the loan program will eliminate "the middle man,"&nbsp; actually forgive debt after 10 years in "key public service professions," and will even have a (relatively) lower interest rate. Unfortunately, Denburg's email did not include the fine print with the inevitable catch. No word on whether Columbia will be changing participating in the program anytime soon. Dear Students, Barnard College is happy to announce that we will be participating in the Federal Direct Loan program beginning in the 2009-10 academic year. &nbsp;We recently researched and compared two student loan programs for our students, the Federal Family Educational Loan program (FFELP) and the Federal Direct Loan program. &nbsp;During our research it became evident that the direct loan program was the better loan program for our students and parents for a number of reasons. -The direct loan program is funded directly by the Federal Government, thereby eliminating the middle man (private lenders) and some of the confusion involved in borrowing from third parties. -Direct loans are never sold by the Federal Government so student borrowers always know who holds their loan and what the repayment terms are. Students will only have to track their loans with one lender instead of multiple lenders. -Direct lending offers the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program that will forgive remaining debt after 10 years of eligible employment in key public service professions such as teaching, social work and law enforcement. -The Direct PLUS Loan interest rate is 7.9%. The interest rate for the FFELP PLUS loan is 8.5%. &nbsp;This is a considerable cost savings for our many parents who are currently borrowing PLUS loans through private lenders. The Financial Aid Office will be sending out more information when award letters are sent in late June. &nbsp;The Office's website will be updated shortly to provide additional information regarding this new loan process. &nbsp;We believe that this is a wonderful opportunity to simplify the process of applying for federal loans. Some other schools who are currently participating in direct lending are Amherst College, Brown University, Cornell University, Harvard College, MIT, Mt. Holyoke College, and Williams College. I would like to thank the members of the group whose work enabled us to become a part of the Direct Lending Program. &nbsp;They are Greg Brown, Vice-President for Finance and Planning; Denis Riker, Bursar; Eileen DiBenedetto, Controller; Nanette DiLauro, Director of Financial Aid; Janet Landis-Frye, Senior Manager, Financial Aid Office; and Ivan Santiago, Loan Officer, Financial Aid Office. Dorothy Denburg Dean of the College 
 Fewer jobs, but more internships. Major business, but minor interest. No longer mediocre, but still quite peculiar. The vacancy is filled, but the hole in our hearts remains. Escaping the present, but stuck in the past. 
LectureHopper Mark Hay sat in on Thursday's presentation by noted sociologist Bruno Latour at the Heyman Center for the Humanities. He sends Bwog this dispatch from the event, a lively discussion of identity, ideology, and globalization. For those who have never hunkered down for an event in the Kraft Center’s Rennert Hall, a few words may be in order on the venue chosen for the Heyman Center lecture. Relatively new and just off the main campus, Rennert is pristine, sterile, brisk, and matter-of-fact. The hall is too big to be cozy but below the threshold of massive; it carries a spirit of inclusion, but it ultimately limits itself to rabid specialization. Such was the venue and such was the lecture: Bruno Latour, the acclaimed French sociologist, anthropologist, and theorist, attracted a mass of bushy-bearded, bespectacled, and blustery-haired social scientists of all ages. Despite the crowd’s rather homogeneous composition, Latour clearly intended to present his ideas to as wide an array as possible. His train of thought was clear and his theories were relevant, concise, and informative. Indeed, the ease with which Latour could communicate his ideas even to an ignoramus of my stature may be behind his ascendency to a professorship and vice presidency at the Paris Institute of Political Studies. Of course, his stature in the field lends him great credibility as well: Latour helped in the 1980s to develop actor-network theory, an approach to sociology that now dominates the field. After an introduction by Columbia sociology professor David Stark, Latour began his lecture with a reference to Sloterdijk’s paradox, a proposition that argues recent globalization has actually narrowed the average person’s perspective. This paradox was the subject of a 2004 sociological conference organized by Latour in Venice, where he and several top sociological theorists tried to hammer out new ways of viewing the globe realistically and practically. Ultimately, Latour and his peers reached a brief and elegant conclusion. The view of the Western world in recent history, Latour proposes, has revolved around a modernization theory. This theory posits the existence of an arrow of time that moves society toward an ideal, true nature and away from multiple cultural values and vantages. This in turn leads to the concept of archaic “them” societies and the progressive, Western “us.” Eventually all societies will muddle forward and converge on a Western modernization path. The problem as Latour sees it, though, is that the West has never been modern, and that this is interpretation of history lies opposite to the truth. He fears the West’s intertwining of values and facts will increase with each year, creating a sociological connection between man, artifact and idea. Latour phrased his solution casually: the West should blast away its classifications of fact versus value since fact encompasses certainty, uncertainty, values, and hierarchy. Moreover, Latour proposes that we shift scientists, politicians and economists away from camps of either pure fact or pure value and into a new system that incorporates both fact and value. This new system should acknowledge the complex bonks between scientists and society, multiple paths towards modernization, and multiple forms of nature and fact. The theory also calls for the trashing of the “them-us” duality and the increase of diplomacy. Certain elements of this rhetoric do not sound as extreme as they must have when Latour in 1991 claimed “we have never been modern,” or even when he proclaimed his new model in 2004 against the backdrop of a Bush administration leading the world in denial of environmental damage and the advance of the “them-us” duality. Certainly Latour has felt the stress; he quips lightly about his critics and looks visibly worn, perhaps the result of his tireless crusade to have his theories acknowledged within both academic and popular circles. Whatever the case, I am happy to have stumbled down into the den of social sciences for one evening. I can only hope that I have not done injustice in conveying the brunt of Latour’s powerful lecture on observation, critique, and, possibly, acceptance. 
Bwog daily editor Chloe Eichler toured last night's Glass House Rocks so you didn't have to. After the fire alarms were shut off and the festivities ended, she filed this report. The theme of this year's Glass House Rocks was "The Time Machine," and the first sight to behold upon entering Lerner was a table of sex toys under scrutiny from two gentlemen in robot costumes -- a clock-stopping experience indeed. But, the pounding of techno and jostling crowds made it impossible to linger, which was good. There was a lot to see. Cultural clubs and student government took up the bulk of the first few floors, including a karaoke room and the ingenious transformation of the piano lounge into an all-purpose ancient cultures playground, where students lounged in togas&nbsp;and wrapped themselves in mummy bandages. Roone Arledge housed inflatable delights: an obstacle course, rock climbing, and a ring for stickfighting to the death. Glow sticks and cheese cubes were the night's secondary themes, with bonus inexplicable cowboy decals. (Time travel to ... Texas?) The one low note was the sad pub stuffed into the furthest, darkest corner of the basement. Battle your way past the cotton candy line spanning multiple stories and your reward was full-body finger painting, a mysterious science experiment, and what may have been the entire production quota of Hershey's Kisses for Morningside Heights. If you were savvy, you bypassed Ferris Booth in favor of Room 568, where the real dancing was kept well-hidden. On the top floor, visitors&nbsp;faced a difficult choice between drawing vaginas on themselves -- a task that seemed to attract a surprising number of males -- and playing a gigantic, passionate game of Rock Band projected onto a wall. Of course, the real spectacle came at the end of the night with the dance performances on the ramps. Executing choreography on sloped glass&nbsp;is impressive enough, but doing it while hordes of fellow students try to blind you with flash photography is a downright miracle. No group can be faulted for a lack of enthusiasm, especially the maniacal mass of energy that was CU Bhangra. A fittingly loud, hot, crowded end to Glass House Rocks 2009. 
 Barnard religion professor Randall Balmer just guaranteed himself best-selling author status. Appearing on The Daily Show&nbsp;last night to plug his latest book, God in the White House, Balmer talked with host Jon Stewart (and his well-heeled audience of 2 million) about how religion has shaped the modern American presidency. Balmer argues that voters have become much more concerned than they used to be about their presidents' religious views and,&nbsp;in particular, how public those views are made. "For many Americans, most Americans, religion is a proxy for morality," Balmer told Stewart. "What we really want to know is are they moral, are they good people, and the only way we can frame the question is, 'Do you go to church?'" Stewart also asked about the possibility of electing an athiest president: "What will come first, black, woman, Hispanic, gay, Jew, atheist?" "I think pretty much in that order," Balmer quipped. The full video of the interview can be found on The Daily Show site. &nbsp; 
 Men's Basketball: The men's basketball team had one of its most successful weekends of the season, sweeping&nbsp;Yale and Brown&nbsp;on consecutive nights at home. Against Yale, Jason Miller's 16 points and 10 rebounds led the Lions' comeback from a nine point halftime deficit to win 53-42, while against Brown the team shot 52% in the second half to pull away and win 67-60. Another piece of good news for the Lions was the return of guard Pat Foley, who scored 12 and 10 points in the two games. This weekend, the men's team hits the road to play at Penn on Friday night and at Princeton on Saturday. Both games can be heard at 7 p.m. on WKCR and 970AM. Women's Basketball: The women's team split their two games, falling 63-61 to Yale on Friday, before bouncing back to beat Brown 76-51. Against Yale, forward Judie Lomax had 14 points and 18 rebounds, but the Lions were unable to pull out a game that was tied 13 times. The night after against Brown, guard Sara Yee scored 20 points, and Lomax again added 18 points and 15 rebounds, as the Lions romped to 25 point victory. This weekend, the team comes back home for games against Penn tonight and Princeton tomorrow night, both at 7 p.m. in the Levien Gym. Swimming &amp; Diving: The men's team beat Brown 186-112 last weekend, before facing off against Navy earlier this afternoon (no result in yet). The women's team joined in the sweep over Brown, 157-143, to improve to 4-1 against Ivy League foes, and they face Princeton tomorrow at noon in the Uris Pool. Wrestling: After a tough loss at Bucknell last Sunday, the Lions face off against #3-ranked Cornell at home on Sunday (12 p.m. in the University Gym) Fencing: After a weekend off, the fencing team hosts the first half of the Ivy League Fencing Championships this Sunday, starting at 11 a.m. in the Levien Gym. Track &amp; Field: This weekend, the track team competes in the University of Virginia Invitational, held at the NYC Armory. - JCD 
 School’s back in session and the economy’s in the tank. These are two simple truths. Now, plunged back into our workloads and faced with the utter futility of our studies, the lack of a bright tomorrow (though maybe a bright next-decade), it’s easy to despair. Well, despair not, because this week Bwog presents three films to put some old-fashioned religion into ya. Or at least to keep you anesthetized and away from your word processor for a few hours. Enjoy. The Last Temptation of Jesus Christ (1988): Sandwiched between Raging Bull and Goodfellas is one of the oft forgotten gems of director Martin Scorsese. When Scorsese set out to fashion his vision, he pursued a line of thought that was utterly beautiful, vital, and thematically rich, but utterly blasphemous, persecuted, and ultimately rejected en masse. The resultant product was The Last Temptation of Jesus Christ, a stunning realization of Nikos Kazantzakis’ 1951 novel of the same name. The masterful Willem Dafoe portrays Jesus Christ with a human element beyond that which earned Kazantzakis a place on the Vatican’s index of banned books. Alongside him, Scorsese veteran Harvey Keitel plays the re-imagined Judas Iscariot, here the knowing and dedicated counterpart to a torn, but strong Christ. These depictions, in bulk, earned the hatred of the nascent Pat Robinson Christian right. Temptation is not just a finger thrust high against traditional depictions of Christ and the burgeoning evangelical movement, though. Central to the movie is the duality of Christ as man and divinity and the rift that creates in the world around him. Dafoe (an actor not as blatantly attractive as Johnny Depp, but just as perfect a chameleon) creates a Christ so human, so schizophrenic and at times detached from his miraculous deeds, that the viewer is forced to become as Christ, to realize the fullest implications of a man-god existence. Meanwhile, Jesus struggles between the rage of the zealots and the love in his heart and against the human will to live (exacerbated by the temptations of Satan including visions of Jesus escaping the cross, marrying Mary Magdalene, and living a full and happy life) and the masochistic compulsion to die. Judas and Jesus form a bond so complete and organic, so exclusive, as to make the betrayal of Judas more potent and wrenching than the canonical tradition. The work of Keitel and Dafoe blends myth with form and in form the myth begins to touch us in a most unexpectedly personal way. Not to mention the sheer beauty of the harsh Moroccan backdrop and the chillingly spot-on soundtrack by Peter Gabriel. One of the greatest treatments of the Christ paradox, Temptation is ultimately a religious opus, a work of such weight and introspection that any spiritual seeker must consider it. The Mission (1986): In The Mission, director Roland Joffe eschews the delicate embroidery of Temptation and its spiritual introspection, replacing it with sheer, unadorned beauty. The film opens with a dead priest in the jungle being nailed to a cross by natives and then let loose on a river. Crowned with thorns, the Jesuit flows down the river until he reaches a waterfall and plummets over the edge, falling as a twig against the massive and untamed nature around him. This is The Mission, the discussion of the beauty of honest faith and the conflict of confusing faith and the mortal world as conveyed by images alone. Each shot in the film is so breathtaking, so stunningly complex and choreographed into an emotive waltz of religion and state that I cannot believe a person could watch it passively. That being said, I must disclaim that those viewers concerned with plot and continuity will not fall as madly in love with this work as I have. The simple energy of the film and the absolute power of the mural it paints, flowing across reels, makes The Mission what it is: a powerful image of purity and contamination and an image that begs to be viewed, despite slight imperfections. Monty Python’s Life of Brian (1979): What’s religion without a spot of humor? The Buddha told jokes and even Christ may have been a kidder by some accounts. Granted, Monty Python’s Life of Brian conjures up more humor and social critique than it does religion, but nonetheless, after The Mission&nbsp;and Temptation, I’m sure the Python is a welcome zinger/respite. Oddly enough for its levity, Life of Brian faced a level of criticism similar to Scorsese’s Temptation. Granted, the threats never reached the same level, but the film was likewise panned with protest and snubbed at the box office. Yet similarly, as tempers have cooled, Life of Brian has arisen (as Jesus did, but Brian did not) after three decades (awe shucks, not days?) to a place of stature among comedies and British cinema in general. The beauty of Life of Brian lies in its characteristic Python humor (being, after all, a product of the writing, acting and directing of the Python team) as well as its plot’s graceful parallels to standard depictions of the life of Christ. Admittedly, Chapman is not my favorite Python boy, nor do I find the bulk of the humor particularly inspired or sophisticated (as was, one might argue, Monty Python and the Holy Grail), but the punch-lines are delivered with impeccable timing and just the right dash of over-accent for a blatant farce. Something as juvenile as the name Biggus Dickus becomes a well-spun running joke and Pontius Pilate’s lisp doesn’t wear out its welcome either. And all the while, the absurdity and farce Brian’s Judea is accented by the two appearances of Christ in the film (in the manger and on the mount)--the ultimate foil of grave and high against bumbling and groveling. But Brian as a character is not really the foil. Brian is compelling and enduring--capable of being Christ, but without the parentage or message to realize his ability. Instead, this absence of divinity in an otherwise reverence-worthy man and the farcical fate it creates, this is the foil element between Jesus and Brian. At times the parallels to the modern conflict in the middle east and the low-blows at religious orthodoxy become trite and overstated, but Python’s Brian is irresistibly watchable, whether he likes it or not. 
 New York City is at a disadvantage&nbsp; when it comes to winter sports, and the Department of Parks and Recreation (with its splendidly-named Commissioner, Adrian Benepe) is seeking to put this inadequacy to rights.&nbsp; Today is Winter Jam!&nbsp; Finally everyone can enjoy the 70-foot-long "Snow Flume" of which the City is otherwise deprived.&nbsp; Cross-country skiing and snowshoeing enthusiasts can take advantage of the "winter snowfield"; artists can ooh and aah at the snow sculpture contest (registration for which, unfortunately, has already filled); less athletic and more material winter lovers can explore the "Winter Market." Winter Jam also features the "Future of Snowboarding International, a professional snowboarding competition on a 90-foot tall Snowscraper structure," as well as ice climbing, trampoline performances and live music. &nbsp;Since the event is F-R-E-E free and the City's providing all the necessary sports equipment (you are also welcome to bring your own), it's sure to be an absolute mob scene.&nbsp; Don't let that deter you (you came to school here because you like crowds, right?) from heading down to the East River Snow Park (FDR Drive &amp; Houston) from 11am-4pm today to watch New Yorkers try wilderness sports in the comfort of their native urban habitat. 
 B&amp;W Features Editor Lydia DePillis sends in this artistic and moving plea discovered in the Woodbridge elevator.&nbsp; Poor Isla has lost her mother Elaine's iPod, and she's offerring a reward ("and hug!") to the kind soul who can help her find it.&nbsp; Consider a lost iPod as an analogue to Cinderella's glass slipper (not like that, Marla) and give Isla a hand.&nbsp; If her excellent poster's anything to go on, she's probably awesome. 
 Not content with two wins in a row, the Columbia men's basketball team made it three in a row last night, winning 74-63 at Penn in Philadelphia. It was the first win at Penn in seven years, and the first double digit win at Penn in two decades. Key contributions came from guards K.J. Matsui (three first-half threes) and Pat Foley (ten second-half points), but the star was forward Jason Miller, who had an absolutely brilliant game with 21 points and 10 rebounds. Much of the game was a see-saw battle, until the Lions defense stepped up about halfway through the 2nd half and gave the team a 8 point cushion. Down the stretch, the Lions also made 12 of their last 14 free throws to ensure the win. In other Ivy League games, Dartmouth squeaked by Brown, 63-61 in overtime, Yale beat Harvard 87-66 in Cambridge, and, tonight, Columbia (now 3-2 in the league) heads to Princeton to take on a Tigers team that just beat Cornell 61-41. Tip-off is at 6 p.m., and can be heard on WKCR or 970AM. 
 Bwog's Julia Mix Barrington checked in with the double feature at Postcrypt Coffeehouse and Postcrypt Art Gallery. What's that you say?&nbsp; You didn't find your way down the winding stone steps of St. Paul's Chapel to check out the Postcrypt LOVE show last night?&nbsp; Well, here's what you missed. Anthony da Costa serenaded full tables of discerning Coffeehouse-goers with his guitar, harmonica, and twangy vocal stylings.&nbsp; Not surprisingly, he wore plaid, and, despite the cramped space (attractive exposed brick!), his audience seemed to be enjoying him quite a bit. When he asked how much time he had left, one female admirer piped up "Oh for us you have HOURS!" Two rooms over, the gallery held the artwork, all riffing on the theme of (you guessed it) love; there were paintings, photographs, drawings, sculptures, and even a quasi-interactive "FREE LOVE" box by Lego-obsessed New York artist Rick Anthony Diaz.&nbsp; A pack of markers and a large piece of yellow paper tacked to the wall invited gallery-goers to post the things they loved; eccentrically dressed artsy types wrote things like "insects," "Boulder," and "Perez." Bwog won't pretend to be an art critic, but instead invites you to take a look at some of the pieces for yourself. UPDATE: A commenter points out that Postcrypt Coffeehouse now has a YouTube channel, where you can watch scenes from last night's set. The cast of The Vagina Monologues provided these drawings of their vaginas. Sculptor Zane Hart created this piece, entitled Lavinia. Yael Degany's small and intricate paintings filled nearly a whole wall of the gallery. This sweet photo by Spec A&amp;E contributor Yvan Rosa was one of a series of five. Matt Hamilton's photographs dealt straightforwardly with the LOVE theme. Rick Anthony Diaz's Lego heart cards sat in a box titled "FREE LOVE," and were available for anyone to take. Postcrypt's next show, "Skeletons in the Closet" opens Friday, March 6. 
 The campus hosted its fair share of emergency responders late Saturday night after two incidents at about 1 a.m. sent ambulances and police scurrying. A car accident involving a Columbia student pedestrian on 114th Street brought the first wave of flashing lights and sirens.&nbsp; The student was crossing near the Carman gates when he was struck by a car being driven in reverse. Eyewitnesses tell Bwog that the student was thrown by the collision, landing nearby but still conscious. Luckily, help arrived almost immediately from an EMS officer who happened to be in a cab heading down 114th Street at the time of the accident. Ambulances soon arrived to treat the student -- who was not seriously injured, Bwog is told -- and police were able to question the driver of the car. But, the night was young: within minutes, trouble began brewing a few yards away outside of Roone Arledge auditorium as the Senior Formal wrapped up. Students were unable to retrieve their coats from the coat check for a period of time after the event ended, a delay that caused agitation and anger in the crowd. A public disturbance quickly erupted and one student suffered a medical problem in the midst of the confusion, requiring a CAVA unit. Eyewitnesses also tell Bwog about a dozen Public Safety security guards were directing students to leave the area once the situation became tense. "It was mayhem," writes one tipster. 
 They mean one thing but they say another: it's this week's AltSpec. They tried to provide us with health insurance, but they forgot to pay up. This Columbia grad likes what Obama has done for affirmative action, but he ends up pushing assimilation instead. It was built for the people, but might have done more harm than good. Eating meat can exacerbate heart problems, except in the one case where it prevents them. She spent a lot of time in Vietnam, but she was better known as an Ivy librarian. 
 Compiling the best of the meta lists since 2006. Monday Paul Muldoon: The Pulitzer Prize-winning poet will read selections of his poetry, followed by an interview.&nbsp; 501 Schermerhorn @ 8:00 PM. Tuesday Adam Kirsch : The senior editor of The New Republic will discuss the lives of Allen Ginsberg and Lionel Trilling.&nbsp; 501 Schermerhorn @ 8:00 PM. Wednesday Greenhouse Gases: They're bad, yes, but how do we reduce emissions?&nbsp; A focus group and panel.&nbsp; David Aud. (CEPSR) @ 5:00 PM. Thursday Traditional Japanese Music:&nbsp; Traditional instruments along with help from the CU Gagaku Instrumental Ensemble.&nbsp; Followed by a reception.&nbsp; Low Rotunda @ 6:00 PM. 
 Shaky snowboarders After all the hubub, nothing made more sense than to check out Winter Jam NYC yesterday.&nbsp; The city government promised such exciting things as "The Future of Snowboarding Invitational" (original caps), an ice climbing wall, and trampoline entertainment, the last of which has no connection to winter as far as we can tell. Upon arriving at the park, we were greeted by city park officials' awkward grammatical constructions ("People who don't–not–have kids with them can't go through here") meant to guide us through narrow gaps in the cement walls.&nbsp; The park was covered in turf and topped with a layer of rather melty, muddy man-made snow.&nbsp; Bored parents shepherded their children, many of whom were confounded by the complex social construction that is the Snowball Fight. Bwog found exactly four things to do.&nbsp; The Skyriders were entertaining enough, albeit for five minutes–somersaults don't hold your attention for very long– Mayor Michael Bloomberg and the Winter Market was really a transplanted, miniaturized Union Square Market.&nbsp; The advertised ice-climbing was really three rock-climbing pillars with long lines, but at least they were blasting Katy Perry. Everything in the park had long lines, not the least of which was the line for sledding.&nbsp; It was a not-so-breathtaking "plunge" down a 150-foot sheet of ice into haystacks at the bottom.&nbsp; Bwog prefers the steeper, longer, more dangerous slopes of Central Park.&nbsp; The halfpipe was empty, probably because it was more like a quarter-pipe, making sustained snowboard tricks difficult. Sledding, somewhat The artificial ski slope was on the far end of the field, and was indeed very high and very steep.&nbsp; Once snowboarders started going down, however, they quickly realized that the slope was far too steep, narrow, and icy to afford any style.&nbsp; One by one they skidded down, as if desperately trying to stop. The highlight of the event (sponsored by Red Bull) was the appearance of Michael Bloomberg, who noted that 20,000 people had come by in the first two hours.&nbsp; He asked, "Do we want to come back next year?", to which barely any of the grumpy crowd mumbled "Yeah!" as they slipped and slid their way towards the exit. If you still want to get in on the fun, a toned-down version of the event will be held next week.&nbsp; Next week also happens to be a public school holiday.&nbsp; Don't say we didn't warn you. --AB Photos by Jon Hill 
Caroline Robertson, CC '09, has been named a Gates Scholar this year. The Gates Cambridge Scholarship, funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, offers full rides to non-UK students for graduate work at the University of Cambridge. The scholarship is awarded based on "intellectual ability, leadership capacity and desire to use their knowledge to contribute to society."&nbsp; Past winners include four other Columbia undergraduates. Caroline says, "I'll be doing a PhD on the neuroscience of autism in Simon Baron-Cohen's lab."&nbsp; If the name sounds familiar, his first cousin is Sacha Baron-Cohen. If you're looking for the official word online, the announcement hasn't been posted just yet just yet.&nbsp; Caroline is a resident of Potluck House and a neuroscience/religion double major.&nbsp; She is also an accomplished oboist and a well-known Tibet activist. Congratulations, Caroline!
Bwog contributor Allison Grossman brings us an eyewitness account from the 4th Annual Egg and Peacock, which took place in the Lerner Black Box last night. If you missed yesterday’s caffeine-fueled theatrical marathon, known as the Egg and Peacock festival, you missed two and a half hours of delightful snuggie references (sleeved blankets, Oprah-style), famous particle colliders, and talking statues. Starting at midnight on Saturday, eight short pieces were written, rehearsed and produced by an 8:00 PM curtain in the Lerner Black Box. The resulting pieces ran the gamut from the hilariously absurd to the eerily dramatic with common threads and themes running throughout. The night’s highlights are as follows: Waiting for Godot to Shut the Fuck Up, like its namesake, consisted of people sitting around talking about life. The pessimistic Steven, played by Stewart Partin Jon Kaplan, has just finished composing his living will. He mulls over various aspects of life and death, including death by Dunkin Donuts coffee, with friends in his apartment. As their conversation proceeds, snarky pop culture references abound. Although he relies heavily on cultural absurdities for laughs, Adam Nover’s sharp script is delivered with great comedic timing, causing hysterical laughter. It is difficult to forget Sam Klug’s deadpan delivery of, “I’m a cervix man,” or the absurd pantomime of a Lassie-Hellen Keller crossover TV show. Their banter is cut short when Steven chokes on a popcorn kernel and is visited by Death, who informs him that it is not yet his time, and tells him that the true cause of his death will be, as previously suspected, burns from a Dunkin Donuts coffee cup. In On the Unsustainable Height of Certain Celestial Bodies, Henry tries to cheer up his friend, Sam, whose girlfriend of two weeks has just broken up with him because she didn’t want to “have sex upside-down like Batman.” Sam has been trying to heal his pain through sculpture, painting, and plagiarism of Langston Hughes. Henry tries to convince Sam of the insignificance of his problems by telling him about the opening of the Large Hadron Collider that could spell imminent doom. Dan Aprahamiam and Aaron Rotenberg give amusing and convincing performances as Sam and Henry, both plausible characters. Rosalind walks into Sam’s apartment looking for her earrings. After hearing about the LHC and Sam’s pleas, the two of them reconcile with Rosalind agreeing to give Batman-style a try. Patrick Barrett’s script is short and sweet giving the audience a piece that is fun and easy to watch. The sixth piece, entitled Everything He Could Steal, can only be described as hilariously absurd. It follows Edmund (Stewart Patin) through what is probably the worst day of his life. He gives brash answers, makes bold accusations against his boss, so his boss subsequently fires him for insubordination. In retaliation, he sniffs paint and returns to confront his boss. Events take a turn for the bizarre when Edmund’s boss turns into the Joker, gives him a lecture about entropy, challenges him to a duel and then machine guns him to death. The agile script by David Iscoe, talented actors, and inventive directing by Justin Grace combined to make this show ridiculously entertaining and the crowd rewarded them by erupted at the end of the play. The festival ended on a serious note, with a drama, Serving Time, written by KCST President Dan Blank. Archie Jones moves into a new prison cell with an old man who has been at the prison for twenty-four years. The old man claims he knows when each inmate will die. Archie begs the old man to tell him his date, and the old man reluctantly complies, revealing that Archie should have died the day before. The old man angrily tells Archie that he messed up the space-time continuum. He solves the problem by strangling Archie, but is killed shortly thereafter by his boss. Serving Time succeeded in delivering the creepy factor. The 4th Annual Egg and Peacock delivered on its promise of caffeinated crazy. If you missed out on last night’s festivities, there’s always next year, although I can’t guarantee that the next batch of playwrights will incorporate leprechauns, Dunkin Donuts, and snuggies quite as skillfully. 
 Oh noes! Bwog tipster Rachael McMillan just let us know, horrified, that Tomo is going to close -- permanently -- next Sunday. A quick call to the hostess on duty revealed that their lease is up, and so is rent. The rent increase is "like, a lot" and they will not be able to continue doing business. After Swish closed a month ago, they recommended that sushi seekers go to Tomo to fulfill their rolled fish cravings.Just recently, they changed their sign to indicate that they would be reopening with an all-new Japanese menu. Perhaps they knew before the rest of us. If Swish doesn't reopen soon, Morningside will be struck with a sushi shortage. Destruction and famine is likely to follow; Bwog will keep you posted. 
 It's truly a tragedy of convenience that, apart from class and free food, the sole reason we leave our rooms is to find out what's happening on campus.&nbsp; And what better way to indulge our laziness than to eliminate the flyers that clutter campus walls and move them online? PostATime.com, the first branch of a site with national ambitions, attempts to do just that. Its mission is to "replace those useless and wasteful posters" with what the site terms "event based social networking," say its Columbia caretakers, Michael Vitrano and RJ Assaly, CC and SEAS '12 respectively. (Vitrano and Assaly also say they weren't aware of the existence of the strikingly similar CampusPlaybook--or the short-lived CampusBoxOffice--before launching PostATime). Upon creating an account, Bwog found that the site was quite easy to use.&nbsp; Plus, the interface is quite intuitive for users of CubMail or MySpace. Actually, the site looks strangely similar to CubMail and MySpace.&nbsp; A comparison and further discussion, after the jump. Apart from the (uncredited?) use of the Columbia homepage logo, the home page looks very familiar: &nbsp; Compared to MySpace: And, for the sake of comparison, here's Bwog's (unused) Cubmail:&nbsp; Although perhaps it's just something generically Columbian:&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Want to know more about how Morningside managed to trade a DVD store for a makeup establishment? While the Columbia location of Kim's may have closed at the start of the school year, the East Village location closed up shop January 17th, and on Thursday, The New York Times ran an article about that location's rise and fall.&nbsp;&nbsp; By 2008, according to the article, Kim's had 55,000 films in its collections, many of them were quite rare. But without the benefit of Netflix or other rental facilities, the DVDs went without customers. At its peak in the nineties, 200,000 people were in the Kim's database.&nbsp; In 2008, roughly 1,500 were still active members. What will happen to the East Village's location's collection? Last year, Mr. Kim promised to donate his entire collection to anyone who would maintain and make available the entire collection. However, he failed to find anyone in the United States who would do so. Instead, collectors in Salemi, Italy offered to take the collection, where it will arrive later this month. As we're stuck with Netflix now, check out our post on good things to watch instead of doing homework. 
 A condo rises in Morningside Park, some people freak out, some people don't PrezBo makes a joke! Columbia loses to Princeton in basketball: cant we just stop competing with them at everything? Some English majors spend a lot of time on the internet searching for books by tone, tense, and action categories. Justice: "a porcupine with a foot fetish". Thanks Spec! 
 Today, in the Philosophy Hall Graduate Student Lounge, Columbia offers you an event advertised as "casual, fun, and delightful." Sound like something you might be interested in? Sure it does! Take an hour from 12:30-1:30 to take in another viewing of the Lunchtime Concerts series as the Chiara String Quartet performs K. 458 of Mozart's "Haydn" Quartets. K. 464 and 465 will be performed on Tuesday and Wednesday. Lunchtime Concerts won't return till April, so get your Mozart while it's hot. 
 Our heartiest congratulations to Emily Rose Jordan, CC '09, on becoming the second Columbian in two days to win the Gates Cambridge Scholarship. Jordan, who is also a member of Phi Beta Kappa, will pursue a PhD in Experimental Psychology at Cambridge next year. A Chicago native, Jordan studied psychology and anthropology (see, it is practical!) at Columbia and plans on becoming a professor of neuroscience. Her honor thesis project showed how "social enrichment can impact the brain and behavior of mice so that animals with enriched experiences exhibit more appropriate social behaviors." Jordan will be taking a step up in the rodent world next year, focusing on the development of impulsive behavior of rats, a species we at Columbia are far too acquainted with in a non-laboratory setting. Huzzah, Emily!&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Looks like the dining options at Ferris Booth continue to change - Bwog tipsters report that the Ferris pizza station has been replaced with a burger grill! Bwog's not sure yet whether it's only a lunch thing, but there are three options available - veggie, turkey, and regular - along with a variety of condiments. A Bwog daily editor also reports that they're "delicious." As a burger fan, Bwog wholeheartedly endorses the change. Oh, and as for that rumor that John Jay no longer has takeout? Bwog's been told the dining hall was merely out of containers. 
 Because Butler doesnt weigh you down enough when you're actually there: get the brand new LibX toolbar Firefox extension and you'll never have to leave. Basically, LibX allows you to access CLIO while you're innocently perusing any other website. You can also look for the Columbia crown logo when youre on Amazon or Barnes&amp;Noble to see if CLIO has the books you're looking for. The toolbar offers a wealth of browsing options, including options to switch from CLIO to various databases and e-journals, Google Scholar, Metalib and the Libraries website. The Library Widgets website (don't you wish you had known about this semesters ago?!) has a video tutorial on using LibX and all sorts of tricks and tips for using it, including full access from off-campus, something called an "embedded cue" and something Bwog can understand a little better: a highlight and drag feature. &nbsp; 
 Our semi-regular In Defense Of... feature returns today with Bwog daily editor Eliza Shapiro's look at a New Yorker's favorite guilty pleasure and a subject of much debate amongst college students with limited funds: the taxi ride.&nbsp; Yeah, we know cabs are more expensive than the subway and we know there's a recession. We read the paper, too. But&nbsp; cab-users don't like being chastised for their choices. If we decide to bite the bullet and take a taxi, there was probably a good reason for it. Yes, occasionally, taking a taxi is a truly defensible endeavor. Learn to cab smart and semi-economically. Here's how. &nbsp;First of all, let's not assume that cabs are always the preferred means of transportation around New York City. Some -- mostly the claustrophobic and the elderly -- prefer the bus for its views and the fact that you will never get off a bus more than two blocks away from where you want to go. The train is fast, indeed sometimes faster than a taxi, and you get to stare at a lot of interesting people and have some people stare at you. Also, nothing will ever compare to that wonderful little thrill you get when the train goes above ground. And, of course, walking is always nice. Keep your New Year's resolution and walk off those love handles, Columbia. Truly, there are many ways to get around our fair city, and none more controversial than the taxi ride. Basically, if you want to avoid ridicule, don't take a cab if it's the middle of the day and you have no where to be urgently. Don't take a cab if you're a little bit lost. Subway maps exist. If, however, it's the weekend and the 2 train you're on somehow ends up in Queens because the conductor failed to tell you that it's suddenly becoming the F for a few hours, you can throw up your hands and take a cab. The New York City subway system on the weekend has a devilish mind of its own and, if it's the beginning of the month and there are a few extra bucks in your bank account, go for it. If you are trying to decide when it's truly worth it to take a cab, it's better to go for the extremes. First of all, have three pals with you at all times. If there are four of you and you're going a very short distance and it's really cold outside or you're really late, a ten or fifteen-block taxi ride split among friends really won't be much more than a Metrocard swipe. It can also be truly worth it to take a cab back from an evening downtown. This can also be a legitimate safety issue-- it never hurts to keep an emergency $20 in your wallet when you're stranded at Washington Square at 4 in the morning. Also, from most places in Manhattan, your share of a four-person ride won't be more than the overpriced Brooklyn Lager you probably paid for while you were scoping out NYU kids. Skip the last beer and enjoy your ride back to campus, as long as you turn off the seizure-inducing Eyewitness News TV first. 
 Tonight: Blue and White meeting, 9:30 PM, catacombs of St. Paul's Chapel. We'll be opening the floor to pitches for our upcoming April issue, meaning there will be many opportunities to claim and suggest article ideas. The meeting will, of course, also include the time-honored traditions of finger-jousting (pictured at left right) and cookies. Writers, editors, artists, poets, and designers old and new (especially new) are encouraged to attend. Looking forward to the pleasure of your company. 
 Columbians can take pleasure in the fact that unlike those who reside outside our hallowed gates, our handy CUIDs allows us a wealth of free culture -- terrible economy be damned.&nbsp; MoMA is anticipating that many locals will not be as keen as they may have been before to fork over $20 for a few hours of Sunday afternoon wandering and has launched several new initiatives to attract natives to the museum. Starting tonight at midnight, MoMA will open a satellite collection in at the massive Atlantic Avenue subway/PATH hub in Brooklyn. The collection will remain available for viewing 24/7 for the entire month it is up and, according to Crain's New York Business, will include reproductions of 58 of the musueum's most famous piecees, including Monet's Water Lillies and van Gogh's Starry Night. MoMA is also re-vamping its "Modern Mondays" event: tonight, if you wish, you can hang out the museum until 8:45 PM and take advantage of their Valentine's-Day themed cocktail bar and photographer hired to take pictures of couples. So take advantage of free stuff before your CUID becomes a plastic relic of your glory days.&nbsp; 
 Yes, this Saturday is Valentine's Day, with all its chocolate boxes, schlocky promises, renewed vows, and phlegm-filled PDAs. Oh, and single people get to feel just that extra bit lonelier (sure, some singles may feel a bit happier to be "free," but isn't that just too cynical, even for Columbia?). Fear not - your single friends out there have one more chance to enjoy Valentine's Day with a (potentially) special someone, as we're announcing a Valentine's Day edition of Bwog Personals. Nominate your friends (or yourself!) for a personal by emailing bwog@columbia.edu and we'll send you a list of questions, which you'll fill out and send back to us with your most flattering photo. We'll post your stuff on Friday morning, and interested dates will be instructed to contact us so that we can shell out the $10 for your ultra romantic date night on the 14th. Though keep in mind sometimes the most romantic dates in Morningside are priceless. 
Tonight marked the memorial for Eric Harms -- officially, it began at 8:07 pm (his birthday was August 7th.) As students had begun to congregate, a slideshow created by his classmates played on a screen, and jazz, his favorite type of music, played in the background.&nbsp; Two of Harms's fellow class council members approached the microphone, explaining that this was an "impromptu sort of thing," and anyone who wanted to could get up and share their thoughts. Two more ESC members spoke next, reading a passage by Cicero (one of his favorite authors) both in Latin and in translation. They also announced that a new version of the ESC class shirt would be printed, featuring quotes from Cicero in Harms's memory. After the Cicero tribute, a series of Eric's friends, classmates, suitemates, and CUE partners proceeded to the microphone. Many repeated how "comforting" he was, how "he would always go out of his way to make someone feel better." Others talked about his red hair, and how he was impossible to lose in the crowd. The Harms family was the next to take the microphone, his two older sisters first, then his parents. Harms' mother was the first to actually address his suicide, noting that "suicide is not the answer. Don't even let that word get into your head because it becomes like a disease. If you ever think about it make sure to call someone, call someone close by." She did not think that "Eric ever really intended to be gone that night." His father took off his coat to give his eulogy, a gesture he called "very Eric." He admitted he would miss "all the little things about Eric: the hair, the smile, the jokes, the way he slept." He ended by remembering that when Eric fell asleep late at night, "I would kiss him on the forehead and whisper 'sleep well, Eric.' And now you are." Photos and reporting by ESN, additional writing by JCD 
 Oh, let them smoke what they want in the off-season. The end to violence in the Middle East begins in Earl Hall. CCSC vows to become more relevant by telling you what classes to avoid, nearly one month after the start of classes. Quit being so awkward and talk to us, Columbia. &nbsp; 
 I am looking for the bird that was in the tree by Avery during the snow we had on Wednesday, January 28. You looked so magnificent in the stormy weather, I wanted to take your picture. But I did not have my camera with me. You had your feathers fluffed and looked cold, but your tail was the prettiest russet I had ever seen, and the elegant hook of your beak let me know that you were an independent bird that could take care of itself. You may not have even seen me from your lofty perch, but I would spot you anywhere on campus if only you would come back. I know you are wild and free. You are probably busy hunting elsewhere, and I should not be worried over a few days of your absence, but if I could see you again, my heart would soar as high as you in a spring thermal. Wherever you are, I hope you are happy and healthy, well fed on all the rats, pigeons, and squirrels your crop can hold. In other words, we have not seen our darling Hawkmadinejad for about two weeks. If you have seen her, or any time you do, let us know in the comments or send an email or pictures to our Hawkmadinebwog editor at cmd2148@columbia.edu. 
 Bwog's Anna Kelner hung out in Schermerhorn last night to see the famous poet. “I suppose he doesn’t need any introduction,” English professor C&oacute;il&iacute;n Parsons joked in lieu of a formal opening for Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Paul Muldoon.&nbsp; Although Parsons rightfully exalted the Irish poet as a “man of many jobs” and “a man of many accolades" -- Muldoon is the Howard G.B Clark ’21 Professor at Princeton University and the Poetry Editor of The New Yorker, among other things -- the sparsely populated Schermerhorn lecture room suggested that an introduction might have been in order. The under-publicized event, the relatively small lecture space, and the introduction by a junior faculty member all seemed hardly appropriate for a man both Parsons and The Times Literary Supplement deemed “the most significant English language poet born since the Second World War.” Muldoon’s accolades are endless. Parsons’ introduction, though, touched on a more human side of the great writer: first poem at twelve, first published at nineteen, and a passion beyond the superlatives. Muldoon conveyed that energy while reading several of his poems. Since Muldoon taught at Columbia in the 1980s, he offered several jokes aimed at a New York audience. To wit, as he described a poem about a slithering eel skin bag bound for the East River, he simultaneously characterized his experience traveling from the Upper East Side to Columbia: “It was covered with eel skin,” he quipped, “which if one wants to blend in on the Upper East Side, is just the thing to carry.” After his brief homage to the university, he delivered a series of poems about his home nation. Although Muldoon has lived in the United States since 1987, he remains deeply tied to Ireland’s fraught past and famed literary tradition. During the question and answer session that followed, when an audience member asked him if he missed Ireland, Muldoon replied, “Not really. I don’t feel as though I’ve ever left it.” Later, Muldoon reminisced on writing his first poem, remembering that his teacher critiqued his incidental use of American English.&nbsp; “I was already entranced with American English, if only via the television westerns." Enamored with both the English of the writers he reveres and the Gaelic of his home nation, he remains committed to the two tongues.&nbsp; Parsons concluded his questions with a strange comparison between Muldoon’s rhymes and Bob Dylan’s and a discussion of the former’s latest opera, one that apparently stars a Frank Lloyd Wright character. He then opened the floor up to the audience. The listeners asked about his writing process, his relationship to Ireland, and his professed love of Robert Frost. Muldoon then concluded with a whimsical description of his relationship to the mythology of Treasure Island: a meandering end to a meandering evening. 
 Uh oh: Dodge's pool is filled with chemicals today, and not just the chemicals it's filled with every day (a combination of hair gel, chlorine, and school spirit, according to Bwog's Underwater Scientific Inquiry Bureau). The contamination, though, is a one-day thing, and the pool will reopen tomorrow.&nbsp; 
 Finally, documented proof that Columbia can turn out attractive people. Page Six Magazine has named Vampire Weekend singer Ezra Koenig one of New York's 50 Hottest Bachelors. Koenig beat out another Columbia affiliate, Keith Gessen, by several spots, but ranks lower than Devendra Banhart, presumably for failing to meet some sort of facial hair quota. Regardless, you now have something to brag about besides the same old alum in the Oval Office, etc. Mail a copy to everyone you knew in high school! 
 “How many engineers does it take to change a light bulb?” Perhaps a better question is how many engineers does it take to find a dimmer. This week’s ESC meeting started off on a humorous note as Chris Elizondo attempted to readjust one of the lights in Satow with a crutch, and failed miserably.&nbsp; The council, in their first traditional meeting since January 26th, filled the Professional Development and Alumni Affairs election vacated by Pradeep Bandaru. After the council voted to prohibit members from holding multiple offices (as it would give members more than one vote), none of the council members wanted to run, leaving the one non-council member, Eric Hirani. Unsurprisingly, Hirani won.&nbsp; In 40s on 40 news, the 2009 class council explained that the administration had&nbsp; said that seniors should “start a new tradition.” Apparently, The senior class student council is working with the young alumni council to see if they would be able to sponsor the event. &nbsp;The council also continued reviewing a service that would enable student to purchase all or part of a textbook (in pdf form) for $0.12/page. The night before, their CC counterparts congratulated themselves on "basically putting on the weekend" (according to one executive board member), after putting on Glass House Rocks and the Winter Gala.&nbsp; After alluding to, but not describing -- "because of our friends in the back of the room" (that's yours truly) -- the contentious debate last week over a Black Heritage Month resolution, the council passed a broader "Resolution to Support Columbia’s Heritage and Awareness Months," covering any "heritage months" put on by the Office of Multicultural Affairs. Other intiatives discussed included support for putting course evaluation results online (because CULPA only attracts the most favorable or unfavorable students) and revamping the Columbia 311 service to synchronize it with the "Ask Us" website. 
 Bwog's Laura Mills sat in SIPA yesterday afternoon to hear about an under-reported scourge. In the upper echelons of IAB on Monday, author Siddharth Kara began his talk about his new book, Sex Trafficking: Inside the Business of Modern Slavery, with a slideshow.&nbsp; Said slideshow was succinct; Kara lucidly outlined the factors that motivate the supply and demand sides of the sex trafficking industry, which now ranks only second to narcotics trafficking in terms of globally profitable illicit trade. He also highlighted the need to up the ante and punish the false advertising campaigns, the family members, the former slaves, the abducters, and all others who facilitated this virtually risk-free and incredibly profitable business, in which a slave bought for approximately $1,000 could yield up to 29 times that in returns. In his travels Kara met all sorts of men and women who experienced the horrors of slavery, some of whom had been sold again and again as to traffickers by family members and former slaves. One slave told him her family treated her "like a slot machine," and once, as he was leaving a child brothel, a desperate brothel madame offered him "two children for the price of one."&nbsp; When an attendee asked Kara how he had gotten into the non-profit industry, he answered that he spent some of his undergraduate summers in refugee camps in the former Yugoslavia. He was halfway through earning his MBA when he changed his mind midstream and went into the non-profit sector. Words of inspiration for would-be Wall Streeters looking for post-graduation plans, perhaps? 
 Two free food opportunities tonight, with free discussion thrown in! For the history-inclined, the Undergraduate History Journal is hosting a conference at 7:30 in 310 Fayerweather for the winners of the Herbert Aptheker Undergraduate History Prize, who will be joined by Professors Blackmar, Matsumoto, and Foner. More importantly, "free food and refreshments will be provided," and the organizers say "it should be a pretty good spread." Those of you who like a little heated discussion with your food can wait an hour before heading over to Earl Hall Auditorium&nbsp;at 8:30 for the "Perspectives on Conflict, Perspectives on Peace" forum being put together by CIRCA, CU College Democrats, Hillel Israel Committee, Office of the University Chaplain, CU College Republicans, and Turath. There'll be mostly snack food, including Kosher and Halal options (though event organizers ask attendees to stick around, and say that the doors will be closing a half hour after it starts). 
 It's Bid Day 2009 - the conclusion of spring sorority recruitment and&nbsp;the much-anticipated culmination of several days' worth of events with names like the Philanthropy Brunch, Development Night, and Preference Night. Such titles might sound mysterious, but recruitment more closely resembles a harmless enough string of parties and social networking, with a little bit of&nbsp;traditional Greek ritual thrown in. Until the end. That brings us to tonight's public service announcement: If you're outside, get in.&nbsp; Right this very moment, wide-eyed hopefuls are finding out if they've made it or not. Until sunrise, the rest of the Columbia population is under threat of brand-new sister celebrations gone awry. Stay away from College Walk, where according to the Sigma Delta Tau website, "festivities" will occur at 9:00. And&nbsp;close your windows - those screams&nbsp;may not be from&nbsp;an&nbsp;exorcism, but your eardrums are still vulnerable. 
Watch out. That Metrocard machine wants your money, and it&#65533;s gonna get rough The tough swim away, or hibernate Public schools beg Uncle Sam for money And he gives it to Columbia instead. 
 The venerated MTV/online (see, it&#65533;s like the internet, but on television) phenomenon CollegeHumor recently posted a music video titled &#65533;If I Were a Bro.&#65533; Think now -- what&#65533;s the least likely college or university to appear in such a film? And yet there Columbia is! When a girlfriend imagines what it would be like to be a bro (sadly forgetting about bro rape), her dreamscape mostly features scenes that could be found in any college environment -- frat house, dorm rooms, disgusting couches, etc. But then, at 2 minutes and 5 seconds into the video, some unmistakable gates and a hideous modern red brick building come into view behind the tailgating brofest. Yes, Carman apparently represents typical collegeness, or at least the sort of collegeness appropriate for a video about an unemployed, unwashed, drunkenly bromantic bro. Carman also seems to be the only recognizable bit of Columbia in the video. Perhaps as you reminisce about your youthful days stumbling through those hallowed and low-ceilinged halls, you&#65533;ll understand why Carman, and no other building, could receive this brotastic cameo. 
 Free cupcakes and oreos are available right now the Broadway lobby. They're apparently for the Senior Fund, but everyone's allowed to indulge their sweet tooth. Hurry! UPDATE: Commenters report that there's also a free chocolate fountain in the EC Lobby! Oh, happy days... 
 Are you in the mood... for some free food and Valentine's related fun? And not just pink, cutesy, couples-only Valentine's fun. We're talking raunchy, sexy Valentine's Day, thanks to Club Zamana. Tonight at 8pm in the Satow Room in Lerner, there'll be condom races (whatever those are), a special sex edition of Taboo, and best of all - the ultimate sexual tension game (in your childhood, you may have known it as Twister)! So take a study break and indulge in the giggles, and what should be a wondrous assortment of Valentine's related goodies. 
The official Bwog weather indicator currently reads 59 degrees, and students have certainly been taking advantage of the temperature spike. The forecast says New York's back into the 40s after today, so enjoy the sun now! - Photo by LBD 
 Several students have told Bwog about seeing a big police truck and an "undercover taxi" on campus earlier this morning, with others reporting that they had seen someone arrested. University officials tell Bwog that "a person was arrested for trepassing on campus today." No other details were confirmed. 
 Dear readers, We've spent the last month or so road-testing the new design, while combing through your feedback, and today we're unveiling the new New Bwog. We've done our best to listen to your comments, bringing back the centered scroll and serif type that many of you favored. We've also revamped the logo (that's Low Library in the background).The Hawk, City, Arts, Events, and Lost and Found sections remain the same, and we look forward to using them more and more. We're always looking for feedback, of course, so sound off in the comments and/or send your suggestions to bwog@columbia.edu. Thanks for reading, James Downie Bwog Editor 
 You may recall that the students at the New School staged an awesome building takeover last December (building takeovers are just so hip and new, aren't they?). Along with a no-confidence vote from the faculty, the takeover reflected deep dissatisfaction with the administration, and particularly the school's president, former Nebraska Senator Bob Kerrey.&nbsp; But two months after the original protests, little has changed: according to the New York Times, Kerrey remains unpopular, yet his supporters on the board of trustees refuse to impeach him. And the building takeovers may not be finished, as at least one New School student representative has decided that the solution to the problem was to have the students out-cool Columbia for ever. In a faculty meeting this past Monday, she said that if Kerrey has not resigned by April 1st,&nbsp; the students would take over and shut down the entire university. "We will bring it to a halt," she said, as the tenured teachers gasped and dramatic music played. Ok, there was probably no music.&nbsp; Retired building take-over-ers like this school would probably advise them to use Washington Sq. Park for hippie songs about redemption. Otherwise, the "takeover" looks like kids who forgot class was done. 
 Pro-Lifers have left the Columbia Catholics in the dust. A twentysomething's messy breakup with reality was on public display. The Senate is still estranged from its own power. 'It's Complicated' between Journalists and Print. &nbsp; 
 Harvard rejects can always feel bad that Ted Kaczynski was accepted, and now Columbia has its very own esteemed criminal alumni. Esther Reed, a Montana woman who attended Columbia for two years under an assumed identity, was sentenced yesterday to four years in prison for identity theft. Starting in 2004, Reed spent two years studying in New York under the assumed name Brooke Henson. Reed is pictured on the right, and Henson is on the left. Henson, a South Carolina woman, went missing in 1999. Though police still have a missing persons webpage for her that's still soliciting leads on her whereabouts, the lead detective believes the real Henson was murdered (Reed was not involved in her disappearance). The working theory is that she stole Henson's identity after seeing a news story about her. More after the jump According to the Huffington Post, Reed took courses in "intro-developmental psychology, organizational psychology, social cognition, emotion and gender in Muslim studies, sociology of the US economy, introduction to psychology, introduction to political thought, origins of humanity, criminology, algebra, human rights and social justice, university writing, and astrology." Her reported grade point average was a 3.2.&nbsp; Most news agencies have called her a graduate student, but, upon her apprehension last year, the Spectator reported she was in General Studies. During her time at Columbia, Reed defrauded the University out of almost $100,000 in financial aid. Perhaps not surprisingly, Jon Campbell, the lead detective on the case, has repeatedly insisted that the Columbia administration was very unhelpful during the investigation. HuffPo claims that Campbell contacted "Kim Finnergan," Columbia's Head of Security (Bwog has yet to find record of Campus Secuity employing someone named Kim Finnergan, but there is Ken Finnegan, Columba's Director of Investigations). His Columbia contact was initially helpful but then refused to assist him until he got a federal subpoena. "It was like pulling teeth," he said to HuffPo. Welcome to Columbia, Mr. Campbell! His comments to the Spectator in 2007 were even more abrasive:&nbsp; "They got caught with their pants down on this one, and they seem to be very embarrassed by it," he said. "And they should be, because they really aided her in this whole thing. They didn't check anything." Bwog has contacted the Office of Public Affairs and is awaiting a response. Columbia has declined to comment on its role in the investigation. If anyone knew Brooke Henson or Kim Finnergan, send in a tip to bwog@columbia.edu. 
 The Wall Street Journal reports that Columbia's Economics department, along with Econ departments across the country, is hiring no new economists this year. Last year, Columbia made nine new hires, eight of whom were snagged from other schools. Economists can generally make more working for the government or the private sector, but, for obvious reasons, jobs in those areas are not quite as plentiful as they used to be. On the well-employed side of the economist equation, Columbia econ prof Jagdish Bhagwati weighed in on protectionism in the federal bailout package, arguing against a 'Buy American' provision in the bill. Sadly, the stimulus has no provision aiding ailing econ PhDs.&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Seems that Hillary Clinton can't get enough of Barnard: Barnard President Debora Spar just announced via email that the new Secretary of State (and former Senator, presidential candidate, and first lady) has agreed to give the commencement address at Barnard this spring. Clinton will also receive the Barnard Medal of Distinction - past recipients include Toni Morrison, Mario Cuomo, Madeline Albright, and Doris Kearns Goodwin. Now it's your move, CC, GS, and SEAS. Full email after the jump (photo via Flickr). Dear Seniors, It is my great pleasure to join Barnard Board Chair Anna Quindlen in announcing that Hillary Rodham Clinton has accepted our invitation to be this year's Commencement speaker and to receive the Barnard Medal of Distinction. As you all know, Hillary Clinton is now serving as the 67th United States Secretary of State, after having served two terms as Senator from the State of New York and having run an extraordinary and history-making campaign for President. She won more primaries and delegates than any other female candidate in American history and changed the political landscape for generations of women yet to come. This past September, we were honored to welcome then-Senator Clinton to Barnard to address the persistence of a wage gap between women and men in New York and around the country. It will be a tremendous honor and a true thrill to welcome her back to campus for Commencement 2009 this May. Debora Spar 
 The Eye website is still under construction, but you can access a pdf of this week's issue to find out about hot air powering everything from balloons to cartoon boys. Columbia Grad students are charting the universe…with hot air balloons? (Pg. 4) The Columbia boys are powered by hot air, at least in this cartoon. According to the drawing, Columbia boys also apparently descend from the Coneheads. (Pg. 5) Our parents are full of it (I mean hot air, of course). Also worth reading for the reference to Will Smith as an “august bard.” (Pg. 7) Hot, sweaty air pervades Cuban cinema. (Pg. 11) 
 Welcome to Off-Beat, Bwog's column for jazz both on and off campus.&nbsp; Our jazz correspondent Justin Vlasits will be focusing primarily on events that are “off the beaten path,” trying to give a picture of the New York jazz scene without talking about the big names playing at expensive clubs like the Blue Note, Iridium and the Village Vanguard.&nbsp; Since my first column has fallen so close to Valentine's Day, here are three great little clubs for your special evening. All are on the 1 line, have no cover, but at the same time have great music and food.&nbsp; Arthur's Tavern – 57 Grove Street (1 to Christopher St.) Arthur's has been a continuously running club since 1937 and is one of the few places in the West Village that has maintained its integrity despite the waves of gentrification in the area (read: gay pride and Texas flags hang side-by-side above the bar). Like most of the smaller clubs in the city, you will be hearing primarily small combos - seasoned New York musicians playing standards. The space is small, but you will always find a seat next to the regulars. This is a great spot for an intimate, yet unpretentious evening. Garage – 99 Seventh Avenue South (1 to Christopher St.) Right across from Arthur's Tavern, but the polar opposite in terms of ambiance, Garage is a big, trendy restaurant/bar that features live music every night. The musicians here tend to be younger, with many recent Julliard and MSM graduates, and there is a little bit more of a sense of humor about the place. You will be sharing the bar with suits and ties, and their seafood is fantastic (although not cheap). Come here if you like chrome, ultra-modern decorating as opposed to Arthur's wood paneling. Both play great music and make for a delightful night.&nbsp; Cleopatra's Needle – 2485 Broadway/92nd Street (1 to 96th St.) If you are looking for a place that's a little bit closer to home, you might want to try this Upper West Side restaurant. They try to do it all: with a pretty solid variety of Mediterranean food (although the baba ghanoush is a little suspect), a tiny sports bar in the corner (with requisite big-screen TV), and a hot jazz band filling up the space. Don't be fooled by the candles; this Cleopatra's Needle puts on none of the guises of a fancy restaurant - they just don't have any overhead lighting. Come here for a more family restaurant feel and you will be impressed with the post-bop and modern jazz that fills your evening.&nbsp; 
 Bwog's David Berke ventured into the PrezBo abode for the latest fireside chat. President Bollinger hosted another fireside (though there is no fireplace) chat this evening, bringing undergraduates to his mansion for an hour-long discussion of campus concerns. The catered event, with ornate hors d'oeuvres and apple cider poured from stylish silver dispensers by black-tied staff, showed no signs of budgetary cutbacks. After fifteen minutes of hobnobbing in the wood-paneled parlor, students were ushered to their seats. Bollinger stood in a confident contrapposto pose, a hand on his hip. He kicked off the evening with a sweeping statement about the state of the world. “It’s an interesting time,” he began. “In one sense, there’s a profound crisis…on the other hand, there’s a new wonderful administration bringing hope.” More after the jump. He related the current economic downturn to student’s own lives and job prospects, noting the increased interest in public service produced by the unforgiving job market. For the question and answer portion of the chat, concerns about financial aid and tuition dominated the discussion. The first questioner asked if PrezBo foresaw any student loan forgiving programs to help graduates cope with the dire economic climate. “So far, we are not in the crisis deeply enough to rethink policies at the level,” he responded, adding that University coffers are already strained to the limit. At times, PrezBo was starkly candid about financial issues. Responding to why the University pockets the extra money it makes when students study abroad, he responded, “It’s because we have become dependent on your money, and we don’t want to give it up.” The crowd appreciated the candor, laughing at the remark. He gave similarly well received but bleak answers to questions about freezing tuition and upping General Studies financial aid. Since most questions were monetary, the chat became repeated variations on the study abroad answer. Intermixed were inane queries about the difficulties of founding a club baseball team and if the administration wanted to squash Greek life (The answer was no, but, even if they were planning to decimate Greek life, do you think they would say it?). The two most interesting questions were about selecting Commencement speakers and Ivy leaguers’ roles in fomenting the credit crunch. Bollinger hinted quite heavily that the University, as well as alumni within the administration, is lobbying to persuade Obama to give Columbia’s Commencement address. In response to the question of Ivy League culpability for the financial crisis, Bollinger’s tortuous answer evaded a strong stance, instead emphasizing that the situation “is everybody’s fault.” During the course of the hour, Bollinger also promised a dramatic improvement in academic advising and expressed contentment with progress of the athletics program. As during the last talk, Bollinger seized on a nebulous question about his “goals for the University” to kvell over the Manhatttanville expansion. The chat ended early with many unanswered questions: “My wife and I are going out,” Bollinger explained. Apparently Thursday is not only a weekend night for students. Before he left, Bollinger brought down one of his new puppies to trot for the crowd, which cooed over the peppy dog. He only displayed the dog for a couple of minutes, quickly departing for his night on the town. 
 Two restaurants, over easy, with a side of conflict Flip-flop flap jacks Student-roasted turkey with in-the-red peppers Huevos desnudos, comes with no dressing Game Day chili made with bacon. Mmm, bacon... 
 Picking out a date movie can be tough, and with Valentine's Day weekend here already, you don't have too much time left to select something the two of you will both enjoy. Bwog knows as well as you do that the right movie can make all the difference, and since she has no date this year, there's been plenty of time for Bwog to comb through the Netflix "Watch Instantly" catalog&nbsp;hunting for titles to help you out. The following&nbsp;three films are&nbsp;tested and approved for couples' movie-watching, and perhaps best of all, they're free to watch if you're&nbsp;a Netflix subscriber.&nbsp;(Save your money for that expensive&nbsp;candlelight dinner -- speaking of which, did&nbsp;we mention it's still&nbsp;Restaurant Week?)&nbsp; SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE Single father and widower Sam Baldwin finds himself lonely after moving cross-country to bury the painful memories of his beloved wife. After telling his story on a national radio show, Sam receives a letter from Annie Reed, a Baltimore journalist who sympathizes with Sam and regrets the lack of true love in her own life. This glimmer of hope inspires Sam’s son Jonah to play matchmaker -- he does his best to get his dad and Annie to meet, no matter the obstacles. A quintessential romantic comedy in the mode of those 1950s Doris Day flicks, Sleepless in Seattle hits all the emotional high notes. Much of that is due to fellow Upper West Side resident Nora Ephron’s smart, slick script -- it was nominated for an Academy Award -- which culminates in a grand, dramatic reunion that is sure to stir tears. Be prepared to suspend your disbelief early and often, though, for this is one film that does not score its points through believability. &nbsp; WEST SIDE STORY Tony loves Maria but can never have her. He’s a member of the Jets, a white gang on New York’s West Side, and she’s sister to a member of the Sharks, a rival Puerto Rican gang. Their romance blooms in secret, but when gang warfare shatters the neighborhood peace, Tony and Maria may have to put their love on hold. West Side Story is one of the better film adaptations ever made of a Broadway musical. Director Robert Wise expands the story to a grander scale than possible on stage, adding lavish costumes, unforgettable dance numbers, and sweeping views of Manhattan. Although the leading actor Richard Beymer comes off a little insipid as Tony, it’s the music, of course, that truly sets West Side Story apart as a masterpiece. Only Bernstein and Sondheim could start with Shakespeare and yet still manage to top him. &nbsp; ROXANNE Roxanne Kowalski thinks she’s in love with Chris McConnell, a brawny fireman with the good looks of a model. The problem is, he has brains like one, too. Chris turns to his boss and friend C. D. Bales to help him woo Roxanne, but the witty and utterly romantic love letters C. D. pens are actually the product of his own infatuation with Roxanne. Soon, C.D. realizes he must overcome his own sense of personal inadequacy if he can ever express his true feelings to the woman he loves. Like West Side Story, Roxanne draws its source material from a much older play, in this case, Edmund Rostand’s Cyrano de Bergerac. Comedian Steve Martin, who also stars in the film as C.D., does a bang-up job of adapting the Neo-Romanticist drama to a modernized movie form, showcasing his many talents as both charming on-screen performer and gifted screenwriter. The hilarious “Big Nose jokes” scene alone is almost enough to merit watching this film, but it’s the old theme of unrequited love that gives Roxanne its real emotional lift. 
 We asked you. You nominated them. They bothered to reply. And just like that, the first round of Bwog Personals is here. All interested parties should contact Bwog via e-mail and we'll provide $10.54 for the date. (That's right -- in light of these tough economic times, we've begun adjusting for inflation. Just try not to blow the extra 54 cents all at once.) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Guy for Girl: DHRUV VASISHTHA Year: 2011 School: CC Major: Economics Hometown: Roslyn, NY Best class taken:&nbsp; Physics 1400, where everyone could mouth "fail" to their neighbors during tests. Three&nbsp;most-played songs on your iTunes: Machine Gun Funk (Notorious B.I.G.) All Along the Watchtower (Jimi Hendrix) Doin’ Time (Sublime) Three&nbsp;songs you wished were most played on your iTunes: Butterfly (Crazy Town) What Would You Do (City High) Bad Touch (Bloodhound Gang) Dream date in&nbsp;seven words or less: Take-out from Koronet What's the best way to spend $20?: Microfinance loans for other impoverished, needy econ majors. Favorite dead language (or favorite programming language): Pig Latin Favorite Morningside meal: Spicy Specials from the crack deli Favorite ’90s cartoon: Hey Arnold, especially the episode when Arnold and Gerald dress up as an apple and banana and vaguely seem to get drug money. When I first came to Columbia, I thought...: “These fields are pretty awesome, I'm gonna chill here a lot...” Do you fancy yourself a Don Juan, a Don Quixote, a Don Corleone, or a Don King?: Don King, without the hair Historical figure you have a crush on: Teddy Roosevelt Girl for Guy: LAUREN WEISS Year: 2011 School: CC Majors: Creative Writing and English Hometown: St. James, NY&nbsp;-- suburbia. Best or worst class taken: The worst was University Writing, which made me hate writing twice a week at 9:10 a.m. It's very difficult to make me hate writing. (See “Majors.”) Three most-played songs on your iTunes: What is Happening? (Alphabeat) Face to Face (Daft Punk) If She Wants Me (Belle &amp; Sebastian) Three songs you wished were most played on your iTunes: Something Beatles, something Ella Fitzgerald, and something Death Cab for Cutie. Dream date in&nbsp;seven words or less: Something with a private jet or yacht. What's the best way to spend $20?: Spend $3 of it on a Dan Deacon show in some sketchy part of Brooklyn, then spend the remaining $17 on Chinese food after the show. Favorite dead language (or favorite programming language): Is German dead yet? Favorite Morningside meal: Cheeseburger and fries from Tom's Favorite ’90s cartoon: The Simpsons When I first came to Columbia, I thought...: “Thank God, I never have to take math again.” Do you fancy yourself a Don Juan, a Don Quixote, a Don Corleone, or a Don King?: Definitely Don Quixote. Historical figure you have a crush on: E. E. Cummings. I even have a poster of him in my room. 
 For perhaps the most coincidental calendar arrangement all year, accord it due celebration with these weekend tips:&nbsp; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday&nbsp; Barney's Warehouse Sale Weekends 10am-7pm, Barney's Co-op 255 W. 17th Street btw 7th and 8th Aves. Save 50-75% off on all Barney's designer merchandise.&nbsp; The sale runs through Sunday March 1st - get there soon, because the good stuff goes quick!&nbsp; Art and Love in Renaissance Italy 1000 Fifth Ave. at 82nd St. (212-879-5500) A good opportunity to revel in the artistic possibilities of love.&nbsp; This exhibit closes on the 16th, so don't delay!&nbsp; Price: Free with CUID Friday and Saturday&nbsp; The Audience and the Eavesdropper Friday and Saturday, 10am-5pm Phillips de Pury &amp; Company 450 W. 15th St. nr. Tenth Ave. (212-940-1301) Ten of the most influential contemporary artists in India and Pakistan display their work at this special weekend-only exhibit. Price: Free Friday&nbsp; Love Signs Friday 7:45 &amp; 9:45pm, East West Bookstore – Gallery West 78 Fifth Ave. at 14th St. (212-243-5995) Astrologer Gahl Sasson explains the mystics and mysteries of V-Day—learn to manipulate and read the signs to foster a happy and healthy relationship. &nbsp; Price: $20&nbsp; Saturday&nbsp; Valentine's Day Personal Media Mixer and Confessional Culture Variety Show Saturday 8pm, Housing Works Bookstore 126 Crosby St (212.334.3324) PostSecret, among others, sponsor this event to sooth the lovelorn with wine and break-up stories that are bound to make even the most unfortunate amongst us feel loved.&nbsp; Admission will include a free book. Price: $15 regular/$50 VIP&nbsp; 'Rejected' Valentine's Day Heartbreak Haven Saturday 10:30pm, 307 W. 26th St. nr. Eighth Ave. (212-366-9176) This annual comedy show expounds upon all things rejection-related.&nbsp; To pick up the mood, the show will also include live music, free beer, and an after-party (presumably with lots and sexy singles with nothing better to do on Valentine's... just saying.) Price: $10&nbsp; Ex-orcism at the Village Pourhouse Saturday 8pm, 64 Third Avenue at 11th Street (212-253-6955) Free Bud Light for everyone that brings a picture of their ex—if you pin the picture up on the dartboard and hit a bullseye, you get a free hour of beer.&nbsp; Nothing pink or heartshaped, promise. Price: Free!&nbsp; Cupid is Stupid at the Town Tavern Saturday 9pm 134 West Third Street between Sixth Avenue and McDougal Street (212-253-6955) A party framed around drink specials: $3 cosmos, $2 Stoli cocktails, and $3 shots of Love Potion.&nbsp; Bail yourself out of the lovesick blues (or have a crazy night on the town with your honey)--either way, alcohol at this price is difficult to pass up.&nbsp; Sunday&nbsp; Baby Loves Disco Valentine's Ball Sunday 12-3pm, (Le) Poisson Rouge 158 Bleecker St. nr. Thompson St. (212-505-3474) Hula-hooping, a healthy snack spread, and a free photo in a take-home frame with not-too-sappy love songs being mixed in the background promise a refreshing post-Valentine's afternoon. Price: $15 advance/$18 at the door &nbsp;
 Men's Basketball: The men's basketball team (8-12, 3-3 Ivy League) looked to be riding high last Friday, as they beat Penn in Philly, 74-63. Jason Miller had a stellar 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Lions as they pulled away in the 2nd half. The next night, though, saw the Lions suffer their worst loss of the season, 63-35 at Ivy League leaders Princeton. The Lions shot poorly from the field, missing their first 14 shots, and no Columbia player scored more than 5 points (although no Princeton player scored more than 11). This weekend, the team returns home for Homecoming Weekend to take on basement dwellers Dartmouth (game in progress already on WKCR) and then Harvard tomorrow night. Both games start at 7 p.m. in the Levien Gym. Women's Basketball: The women (10-10, 3-3 Ivy League) had a split weekend as well, defeating Penn 77-57 on Friday before falling 69-59 to Princeton on Saturday. Sophomore Judie Lomax was once again the star of both games, netting her 13th and 14 double-doubles of the year. Up next: roadtrips to Dartmouth tonight and Harvard on Saturday. Fencing: The fencing teams hosted the first half of the Ivy League championships last weekend, and both teams go into the second half in second place with a 3-1 record - the men having lost to Penn, and the women losing to Harvard. Junior saber Jeff Spear posted an 11-1 record in the first half. On Wednesday, the women swept a four-team meet at NYU, while the men, with several regulars competing in Europe, finished 3-1. Wrestling: Wrestling against the third-ranked team in the country, Cornell, the Columbia wrestling team lost 39-6, but sophomore heavyweight Ryan Flores, ranked 14th in the country, defeated Cornell's twelfth-ranked Zach Hammond, improving his record to 22-3 on the year. This weekend is your last chance to see the team in action at home, as the men have 3 dual meets, against Penn at 1 p.m. on Saturday, Princeton at 1 p.m. on Sunday, and Drexel at 5 p.m. on Sunday (all in the University Gym) Swimming and Diving: After losing 162-133 to Navy last Friday, the men's swimming team lost in their last home meet of the year, 178-119, to fall to 2-4 in the Ivy League. They travel to Dartmouth tomorrow. The women's team was defeated by defending Ivy champs Princeton, 156-123, last Saturday, and also heads to Dartmouth tomorrow. Track and Field: The men's 4x800 team won its event at the New Balance Collegiate Invitational, the only Columbians to do so. Tomorrow, the teams take part in the University of Virginia Invitational. 
 While tripping on home tonight, Bwog noticed a curious sight: a small woman in a puffy coat unloading a plastic bag full of apples onto the bales of recycling outside Morton Williams. What's more, she was being filmed, by people with professional-looking cameras and everything. Her name is Janet Kalish, and she's a freegan, and the crew was there to make her famous.&nbsp; Well, at least to watchers of WeTV, where she's being featured on the show "Secret Lives of Women." Kalish says she gets as much of her food from what grocery stores throw away as possible; tonight, her trash tour will also include Absolute Bagels and Garden of Eden. The apples she had piled up looked positively edible--if slightly bruised--and Bwog took a bag full. ""The reason they're not selling is that we've become a society that wants perfection," Kalish said. The grocery stores, she explained, were guilty of over-ordering. "We're used to this abundance, and it's a myth." Want to learn more? There's a tour on Monday, beginning at 9:30 p.m. at Bel Canto Public Space, 1991 Broadway between 67th and 68th. - LBD 
 A tipster informs us that Law &amp; Order (or possibly one of its spinoffs) is once again shooting around Union Theological Seminary, at the corner of 120th and Claremont. Unfortunately, the brilliant floodlights that are apparently completely necessary for filming have stymied attempts at a photo. Some things never change. Ever. 
 Spending your parents' money just got a little harder. Local greengrocer-cum-discotheque Westside Market has stopped accepting Off-Campus Flex for purchases made between 4 p.m. and 9 p.m., the hours of the store's highest traffic volume. The announcement this weekend came in the form of a delightfully terse sign posted at Westside registers (see right). Like Amir's and Samad's, problems at the heart of the Flex system appear to have forced Westside to curtail its use. The long-term impact of the new "blackout dates" for Westside Flex aren't immediately clear, but if you're going shopping, bring more than your CUID next time or risk having a prix-free dinner of puffed rice cake shards&nbsp;and tiny jiggers of soup. 
 Bwog's Comestible Correspondent Julia Mix Barrington brings you some last minute ideas for Valentine's Day. So you’ve managed to wrangle yourself a hot date for tonight, and, naturally, you’re longing to gaze into his/her eyes over tasty food and decent wine.&nbsp; But you didn’t plan ahead, and you have no idea where to do this wining, dining and gazing!&nbsp; There are, no doubt, some of you who have been trying to remedy your lack of forethought by ambushing strangers in the Butler stacks to ask them for restaurant recs.&nbsp; Leave those poor people alone--the stacks are terrifying enough already--and rely on your trusty wing-blog for Valentine’s Day restaurant suggestions! 1.&nbsp; Shake Shack (Columbus &amp; 77th) Everyone has heard of Shake Shack, Danny Meyer’s foray into gourmet fast-food.&nbsp; Heard of, yes, but if you haven’t been (and many, inexplicably, haven’t) you should go.&nbsp; The most wonderful thing about Shake Shack is the way it plays with your mind:&nbsp; Inside, the warm air is loaded with the beautiful smell of fried food, and you get to smell it for a long, long time, since the infamous line moves fairly slowly.&nbsp; Once you finally get your burger and fries, they look disappointing.&nbsp; They look, frankly, exactly like what you’d find in a bag passed through a drive-thru window at a highway rest stop.&nbsp; But they taste like the very first hamburger and fries ever roller-skated out to a car-full of sock hoppers, way before McDonald’s, before tomatoes bred for durability instead of taste, before high fructose corn syrup.&nbsp; American food served the way America fell in love with it. 2.&nbsp; Massawa (121st &amp; Amsterdam) Massawa touts itself as "the Horn of New York," and its supply of delicious and exciting dishes is definitely cornucopian.&nbsp; Every plate is served with injera (a piquant flatbread made from Teff, "the smallest wheat grain in the world") and designed to be eaten with the hands; conversation and merriment spring naturally from watching inexpert tablemates fumble with bread and entree.&nbsp; Waitstaff will bring you silverware if you ask for it, but don't.&nbsp; Massawa's intricate stews (they offer a wide vegetarian selection as well as many meat dishes) taste better when eaten the way they were meant to be. 3.&nbsp; Flex Mussels (174 E 82nd) Flex Mussels is a short walk from the Metropolitan Museum, and a tour around the art world is a perfect way to prepare yourself for the culinary trip the restaurant offers.&nbsp; One pound of Prince Edward Island mussels become slick bombs of flavor via steaming with assorted accessories from sake to star anise.&nbsp; Flex’s mussel concoctions produce a strange internal conflict:&nbsp; a selfish need to keep them for yourself combined with a powerful compulsion to share.&nbsp; A warning:&nbsp; you may arrive determined to be dignified and classy in front of your date, but you will end the night oblivious to all your surroundings, sucking mussel broth out of hunks of bread like the world is ending.&nbsp; Perhaps this doesn’t sound romantic, but, from a sensory perspective, it is. &nbsp;4.&nbsp; S'mac (345 E 12th) Dates are about talking and, if you’re lucky, laughing over food; if you choose S’mac for the food, the time it will take you to digest the first half of your cast-iron skillet of macaroni and cheese will provide you ample time to discuss anything you like; the cozy and, for the most part, quiet tables will provide you the space and ambiance.&nbsp; And the meal?&nbsp; S’mac macaroni is comfort food to the nth degree:&nbsp; the cast iron keeps it warm for hours, and ingredients like roasted figs, kalamata olives, and fresh fennel add sparkle to a flavor you’d think couldn’t be improved.&nbsp; Confessions bubble to the surface when confronted with childhood food, so check out S’mac if you’re suffering from a love that’s just got to speak its name. 5.&nbsp; Pintaile's (26 E 91st) If you’re sick to death of the flatbread pizza in Hewitt and you want a legitimate slice, Pintaile’s is the place for you.&nbsp; Space is at a premium there, and tables are in short supply (not to mention that the proximity to Sacred Heart and Spence mean you’ll have to elbow your way through an afterschool crowd of next-generation Chucks and Blairs), but the crust is as crisp and thin as you could want, and their creative and eclectic toppings could make you rethink your delivery “usual.”&nbsp; The dough is whole wheat and the mozarella is made in-house; pizzas come with fresh plum tomatoes, so if you want sauce, you'll have to ask.&nbsp; Thin-crusters wooing deep-dish devotees should go to Pintaile’s and enjoy watching their Valentines switch camps. --JPMB 
It was three years ago today (and a short time after Bwog's birth) that an intrepid photographer captured the mythical Snow Baby Starfish on film for the first (and, tragically, only) time while the creature posed on College Walk in the newly fallen snow.&nbsp; We'd like to take this opportunity to share the pink-cheeked love with a whole new crop of readers.&nbsp; Enjoy!
We asked you. You nominated them. They bothered to reply.&nbsp; Now Bwog Personals returns for round two, presenting two more eligible Columbians.&nbsp; All interested parties should contact Bwog via e-mail and we'll provide $10.54 for the date.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Guy for Girl: CLEMENT HUYGHEBAERT Year: 2010 School: CC Major: Computer Science Hometown: Brussels, Belgium Favorite class taken: Freedom of Speech and Data Structures Least favorite class taken: University Writing Three most-played songs on your iTunes: The Boy in the Bubble (Paul Simon) Crazy Love, Vol. II (Paul Simon) One (Vampire Weekend) Three songs you wished were most played on your iTunes: Before You Accuse Me (Eric Clapton) Start Me Up (The Rolling Stones) St. Thomas (Sonny Rollins) Dream date in seven words or less: Attractive, goofy, interesting, listener, mature, tasteful, simple Wha's the best way to spend $20?: Opera ticket Favorite dead language (or favorite programming language): Greek Favorite Morningside meal: Mushroom Ravioli at Le Monde Favorite '90s cartoon: Dragonball Z When I first came to Columbia, I thought...: in French Do you fancy yourself a Don Juan, a Don Quixote, a Don Corleone, or a Don King?: Don Quixote Historical figure you have a crush on: Goya Girl for Guy:&nbsp; BECKY DAVIES Year: 2010 School: CC Major: Urban Studies Hometown:&nbsp; Hillsboro, Oregon ("Or-eh-gin") Best class taken: History of the South Three most-played songs on your iTunes: Hey Eugene! (Pink Martini) Look at them Beans (Johnny Cash) Got to Get You into My Life (The Beatles) Three songs you wished were most played on your iTunes: Tonight We Mean It (Dismemberment Plan) Wichita Vortex Sutra (Philip Glass) Like This Anna (J-Live) Dream date in seven words or less:&nbsp; Urban trekking, anywhere but Manhattan. Food included. What's the best way to spend $20?: Microlend (ex. kiva.org) Favorite dead language (or favorite programming language): Welsh. It's not dead yet, but it's on its way out and I'll miss all those consonants. Favorite Morningside meal:&nbsp; Kow Soy at Thai Market Favorite 90s cartoon:&nbsp; Hanna Barbara's Wacky Races When I first came to Columbia, I thought...: "What core curriculum?" Do you fancy yourself a Don Juan, a Don Quixote, a Don Corleone, or a Don King?: Don Quixote. I'm often told pop culture and subtleties are not my forte. Historical figure you have a crush on: Amelia Earhart 
We asked you. You nominated them. They bothered to reply. We are pleased to offer up the final two beguiling Bwog Personals.&nbsp; All interested parties should contact Bwog via e-mail and we'll provide $10.54 for the date. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Guy for Girl ("of my dreams"): VIKRUM THIMMAPPA Year: 2009 School: SEAS Major: Biomedical Engineering Hometown: New Jersey.&nbsp; Our motto is "liberty and prosperity." Best class taken: Intermediate/Advanced Indoor Soccer (emphasis added on "Advanced," ladies.) Three most-played songs on your iTunes: Monkey Island Theme Song I Want a Hot Girl (Hot Boys) Man, I Feel Like a Woman (Shania Twain) Three songs you wished were most played on your iTunes: I wouldn't have it any other way. Dream date in 7 words or less: Zvi Galil, London Eye, chocolate-covered strawberries.&nbsp; What's the best way to spend $20?: You can take the bus! Favorite dead language (or favorite programming language): Serbo-Croatian. Favorite Morningside meal: Mac and Cheese as prepared by the culinary prowess of Doris Elizabeth Carrion.&nbsp;&nbsp; Favorite 90s cartoon: Justice League.&nbsp; My favorite character is Hawkgirl. When I first came to Columbia, I thought...: with great longing about the day I would make my first Bwog appearance.&nbsp; This personal is the culmination of four years of diligent effort.&nbsp;&nbsp; Do you fancy yourself a Don Juan, a Don Quixote, a Don Corleone, or a Don King?: Don King in style, Don Juan in seduction. Historical figure you have a crush on: Benedict Arnold, The American Hero. Girl for Guy: ASHLEY NIEVES Year: 2010 School: CC Major: EBHS Hometown: Oxnard, CA Best class taken: Tie between Origins of Human Society with Sev Fowles and Human Species with Jill Shapiro. Three most-played songs on your iTunes: Song for a Friend (Jason Mraz) If You Seek Amy (Britney Spears) Poker Face (Lady GaGa) Three songs you wished were most played on your iTunes: Paranoid Android (Radiohead) Mediocrity (Millie Manning) The Way You Make Me Feel (Michael Jackson) Dream date in 7 words or less: food, drinks, fun, laughing, dancing What's the best way to spend $20?: 16 beers plus tip on a Wednesday night at Lion's Head Favorite dead language (or favorite programming language): Pig Latin Favorite Morningside meal: BBQ sandwich with extra crispy french fries and wine from Toast Favorite 90s cartoon: Doug hands down When I first came to Columbia, I thought...: "wow, I'll never be as smart as these people, but that gives me a reason to have more fun!" Do you fancy yourself a Don Juan, a Don Quixote, a Don Corleone, or a Don King?: A Don-na Juan-a Historical figure you have a crush on: Darwin! Happy 200th Birthday! 
 The men's basketball team won again last night, dominating Dartmouth in the second half on their way to a 65-52 victory. K.J. Matsui's 3-pointer at the end of the first half gave the Lions a two-point lead heading into the half, and they opened the 2nd with a 17-2 run in the first seven minutes. Freshman guard Noruwa Agho had 20 points and 9 rebounds, while senior forward Jason Miller had 19 points, 8 rebounds, and 4 assists.&nbsp; The win took the men to a 4-3 Ivy League record. Tonight, Columbia takes on Harvard in the Levien Gym at 7 p.m. The game can also be heard on WKCR and on Sirius Satellite Radio. (Photo: Columbia University Athletics) - JCD 
 Have you ever been to a ballet and thought, "Wouldn't it be great if Siegfried and von Rothbart could just talk out their problems instead of resorting to dance?" Then you were probably happy to see one of several thousand posters for&nbsp;May I Please Speak?, a spoken-word ballet going on tonight and tomorrow in the Lerner Black Box. In addition to satiating your desire for genre-breaking works, for the meager price of $3 with your CUID, you get poetry, dance, and free hot cocoa.&nbsp; No word on whether the cocoa's "free" if you don't pay $3. At any rate, save the semantic debates for intermission -- the show begins at 11 p.m, so&nbsp;hurry. 
 Bwogger-about-town James Downie finally thawed his hands enough to type a report from 125th and Broadway. "Two options: Cuban sandwich or chicken with rice and beans." More than 70 Columbia students made that critical lunchtime choice earlier today, as they joined the Student Committee on Gentrification and Expansion and Black Heritage Month at Floridita to show support for the owner, Ramon Diaz, in his on-going fight with Columbia University. As students tucked into their free cuisine, a parade of speakers (both student and non-student) expressed their continued opposition to Columbia's Manhattanville tactics (one feels sorry for any families who showed up for a quiet Saturday lunch). Diaz spoke first, thanking everyone for showing up, and declaring that "at stake here, more than any personal issue, is the issue of eminent domain." Because Floridita has been declared "blighted" by the city, Floridita's lease (scheduled to end in 2015) can be summarily terminated as a result of the eminent domain ruling.&nbsp; After the plates had been cleaned, and a grateful-looking Diaz had thanked the attendees, the students left for the latest in a series of walking tours given by Dr. Vicky Gholson of Community Board 9 and Nellie Bailey of the Harlem Tenants Council. Gholson and Bailey took students around several Manhattanvile locations, sharing more stories of specious "blighted" claims, and the effects of the Manhattanville expansion upon the current residents. At the end of the tour, their greatest enemy appeared to be the cold - only 1/3rd of the students that had begun the tour finished it. Back at Floridita, though, the heavy hand of Columbia PR re-established itself as the foe. The event had attracted news channel NY1, who had an interview ready to go with Diaz, before the university (specifically, Manhattanville PR chief La-Verna Fountain) intervened with NY1 and told them that Diaz and the students were "misrepresenting" the situation, leading NY1 to kill the story. SCEG organizer Andrew Lyubarsky sent back an email to NY1, as well as Bwog and the Spec, saying "We are sorry to say this, but Ms. Fountain's statements have no basis in truth. They are simply lies , and should not prevent this story from getting out to the broader New York community." No matter the subject, wars of words at Columbia never seem to end. Lyubarsky's full email follows. Dear Jessica/NY1 Newsdesk, My name is Andrew Lyubarsky, and I am a senior undergraduate at Columbia University who was one of the organizers of today's event at Floridita Restaurant on 3219 Broadway, at which NY1 cameras were present, documenting the presence of approximately 125 students of diverse backgrounds representing many of the student groups on campus. We organized this event in order to publicize the duplicity of the university administration, which after so many years of verbally promising to accomodate this family-owned community institution that has served the West Harlem community since 1965, has broken off negotiations while Mr. Diaz gets notices from the Empire State Development Corporation informing him that his lease, legally valid until 2015, may be summarily terminated by that body as a result of the eminent domain finding in favor of Columbia University. We are informed that Ms. Laverna Fountain, a university spokesperson, has contacted you to inform you that the University is currently in negotiations with the restaurant and that we, the organizers, are misinformed about the situation and that Mr. Diaz is misrepresenting reality. We are sorry to say this, but Ms. Fountain's statements have no basis in truth. They are simply lies, and should not prevent this story from getting out to the broader New York community. Statements from Ms. Fountain, and other spokespeople such as Ms. Victoria Benitez that the university "is committed to working with commercial tenants in good standing" mean nothing in the light of the actual conduct the administration has engaged in. One does not know what definition of "productive and ongoing" negotiations Ms. Fountain is using, but Mr. Diaz has not had a single meeting with Columbia University officials since October 2008 and has received no explanation from the university regarding the fate of his restaurant after receiving the ESDC letter. The administration has shown Mr. Diaz numerous potential relocation sites, asked him to select one, and then informed him that they were unavailable. It is especially galling that he is receiving this treatment in comparison with the other major restaurant in the area, Dinosaur BBQ, which after being labeled a "destination restaurant" was immediately given a site by the university, despite the fact that its owner is not from the area, and that it has only been there for several years. We think this is very indicative of the type of community the university wants to generate and consider this to be discrimination. We know that Mr. Diaz has sent you documentation of his case- the letter from ESDC, in particular. Mr. Diaz and our student group would be glad to send you any more information you would need to document this story properly. We feel this is an important story and was a compelling and broadly-supported event, and we do not believe the misleading words of a university official should deter it from receiving the coverage it is due. This case is also independently documented in the Columbia Spectator, with the most recent story found here - http://www.columbiaspectator.com/2009/02/03/esdc-prepares-acquire-cu-properties. I look forward to hearing from you. ]. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. Diaz and Columbia students have worked very hard to put this event on and we hope that we can work together on this extremely important issue. Andrew Lyubarsky Columbia College Class of 2009 
A mixture of the genius and the obvious–it's AltSpec. &nbsp;Image via Blogger.com The state created another commission, then forgot about it. Guys: you only have so long to make babies.&nbsp; Have at it. We prefer not to remember embarassing moments in our past. Vaginal gel: "it's preventative." CUIT wants to charge us for wireless?&nbsp; (Our connections say otherwise.) 
 &nbsp;Image via insidesocal.com E-Week 2009 kicks off tonight at 8:00 PM in Roone.&nbsp; This is the yearly event that the SEAS student life committee puts on for the sake of "good food and lots of engineering pride!" (ORIGINAL CAPS REMOVED). &nbsp; Of course, that's not why Bwog cares.&nbsp; According to Peter Valeiras' multi-colored electronic mail message, there will be free tshirts!&nbsp; And the Facebook event promises free dinner!&nbsp; That's right kids, not just cupcakes, but a full meal. Take advantage of SEAS's generosity tonight and stay tuned for something exciting called "SEAS Pageant 2009."&nbsp; Now that should be a show. 
 Against the predictions of the preseason pundits, the men's basketball team continues to rack up the Ivy League victories, defeating Harvard 60-59 on Kevin Bulger's last-second jumper.&nbsp; The Lions again used a K.J. Matsui three-pointer (one of five in the first half) to take a one-point lead into the half. Harvard, though, led for almost the entire second half, until freshman guard Noruwa Agho hit two free throws to give Columbia a 58-57 lead with 50 seconds left. After Harvard retook the lead, Bulger missed an open jumper with nine seconds left, but Columbia got the ball back, and Bulger made up for the miss to give the Lions their 5th win in 6 conference games. The team now has a 5-3 Ivy record, good for 3rd in the conference. In other news, meteorologists expressed fear over the changing temperatures in hell. - JCD (photo by Columbia University Athletics) 
 &nbsp;Image via plasticless.com Just as you're feeling comfortable with this new semester, you feel a sudden wetness.&nbsp; Yes, CU Assassins is back, launching with E-Week 2009.&nbsp; ESC has more information in a blog post thing, awkwardly titled "Oh Snaps."&nbsp; Clearly, this is going to be a killer event, as it involves multiple snaps "from behind."&nbsp; We've already shared tips on being merciless in this competition, so hurry and sign up all this week at any E-Week event before hearing about the rules and regulations; the explanatory meeting is on Friday. 
We're forced to venture off-campus on Wednesday, but it's good for you.&nbsp; Bwog presents a list of things to do next week. &nbsp;Photo via xlibs.xl.funpic.de Monday Global Development and Human (In)security: Technology, the Internet, and a form of Islam. 2:00 PM @ 918 IAB Tuesday Bach and Hasse: The Columbia Classical Performers and The Collegium Musicum.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ St. Paul's Chapel Wednesday Paris &amp; NYC Fashion Culture: The origins of modern fashion aesthetics, from film to architecture.&nbsp; MCNY until 2/22 Thursday Open Science: It's a good thing.&nbsp; A panel hosted by CUL and the Scholarly Communication Program to conclude that sharing information is better than not sharing information.&nbsp; 3:00 PM @ Davis Aud, CEPSR Friday Charles L. Mee's "Big Love": A discussion with the playwright followed by a performance.&nbsp; 6:30 PM discussion @ Dodge Hall, 8:00 PM performance @ Riverside Theatre, 91 Claremont Ave. 
 Welcome back to SocketHop, a newish, occasional feature in which we seek to help you with your technology.&nbsp; This week, we take Gmail and make it even better. &nbsp;A horrifying example of an outdated electronic mail message client. Just say no.&nbsp; To drugs, unless it's Adderol; to sex, unless you paid for it; to Cubmail, unless Gmail is down.&nbsp; And even then it's a tough decision to make. We at Bwog recieve hundreds of emails every week and we would drown if it weren't for the geniuses in Mountain View. If you haven't already, fetch all your Columbia email through Gmail.&nbsp; It's quite easy to do; here's a nifty tutorial.&nbsp; Benefits include threaded conversations, simple and powerful organization, and the constant distraction of Gchat. Using the incredible tools found in Gmail Labs, we're going to show you some ways to make Gmail even more powerful and effective for managing all those emails from the CCE.&nbsp; Offline emailing, multiple inboxes, and automated organization after the jump. Gmail Labs is found in your Gmail "Settings" tab in the upper-right corner.&nbsp; There, you will find a plethora of useful features you can enable.&nbsp; These are all things that Gmail developers have created to enhance functionality but that aren't stable (or mainstream) enough to be used full-time. Bwog's current favorite is the recently-released "Offline" feature, now at version 0.2.&nbsp; This feature solves the frustrating&nbsp; problem of finding wireless in places like Fayerweather.&nbsp; You can download all your messages before you head to class and respond to them using the same Gmail interface through your web browser as if you were connected to the Internet.&nbsp; Next time your laptop connects, Gmail Offline will upload all the changes you've made, such as replying and archiving.&nbsp; There's also a "Flaky Connection Mode" (specifically designed for our campus, it seems) that syncs your mail every few minutes while you're connected, but silently saves changes when you're not, uploading them when connected again. Another of Labs' newer features is "Multiple inboxes."&nbsp; It shows you several virtual inboxes on one page, each with its own set of search terms.&nbsp; This means, for example, you could have an additional pane showing just your starred email directly below your main inbox without any extra clicks.&nbsp; Advanced Gmailers can use any combination of search terms, for example: "from:Mom -recipes label:useful" will show you emails matching all three criteria.&nbsp; Be warned, however: there's a few interface problems if you're using side-by-side inboxes and your screen isn't wide enough. Labels example Image via iandexter.com Last, a little-known but incredibly useful feature that has been with Gmail from the beginning: filters.&nbsp; They're not part of Labs, but are available in the "Settings" tab.&nbsp; Use them to sort your email with labels automatically.&nbsp; For example, all of your email related to that crazy blog you write for could get its own label with the search term "from:crazyblogthing@columbia.edu".&nbsp; While you're organizing, don't forget to use Archiving, which lets you remove email from your main inbox without deleting it. This summary just scratched the surface of the incredible power of The Google.&nbsp; Check out the other Labs features for even more ways to ease the pain of that first email check of the morning.&nbsp; For Firefox users, there's an extension called "Better Gmail 2" which provides many handy tweaks, such as row highlighting –AB 
 Bwog-rover James Downie hunkered down in the Satow Room to follow the latest CCSC meeting: The meeting began with a vote on cosponsorship requests: while most of the groups received their requested amounts, the Vagina Monologues did not get money for dildos for the audience (or maybe "dildoes for the audience"--Bwog and Demetri Martin aren't sure). CCSC President George Krebs then updated the councils about Flex. The Dining people are looking for more non-restaurant options, with a particular eye towards Duane Reade and Pinkberry. To make this work, though, Krebs said that the two venues have to know students are interested, "so everytime you go in, ask if they have Flex!" As for Westside's chronologically-based rejection of Flex, no solution is yet available for the slowness of the system, and it looks like the hours will stay in place. In other dining news, the Business school now accepts Dining Dollars again, because of lost business when it terminated the agreement. Again, the business school had a bad business plan. CC '10 president A.J. Pascua also complained about the Fairway shuttle, saying that it didn't stop close enough to Fairway, and that walking the distance in between at night was "scary." The councils' alcohol plans after the jump. Krebs began the discussion of alcohol policy with a rather rousing speech: "a lot of students are concerned about this, and see us as an organ to take it on, and we should do a good job." After saying that the university is looking at the issue as a blight on "a purely academic institution," Krebs admitted that at times "student council has laid down for the administration, but it's time again for us to take the torch." CC 09 Prez Mark Johnson again stressed the clashing visions of the council and the administration, and class reps Brandon Shulman and Colin Felsman declared that they are working with the administration on a compromise. They expressed confidence "that there is a way to hold the event in an appropriate fashion without completely canceling it," and promised the event would happen. Krebs thanked them, and said that he wanted to pursue a more overarching policy that will affect all parts of campus social life. Noting that peer institutions like Harvard allow registered parties to go on as long as they don't violate local laws, while Columbia places extra restrictions on those seeking to register, Krebs also suggested a mini-townhall on the "War on Fun," to demonstrate to the administration the importance of the issue. Several council members took the chance to bring up more&nbsp; specific complaints: one noted that the university currently pours out all the leftover alcohol, "which just seems like a waste," while another noted that posters cannot explictly advertise alcohol. Yes, believe it or not, your president is a 1st Amendment scholar. The meeting closed with an appeal from Krebs to publicize the elections filing deadline (this Friday, the 20th). For aspiring, yet procrastinating politicos, there's one more info session as well, on Wednesday night in the SGO, so get crackin'! 
 Spec doesn't have much for us this chilly February morning, but we'll be adding more later as the site is updated throughout the day. Bwog can attribute this lack to the rather loud murmurs we've been hearing about an online Spec redesign, which we'll be filling you in on later. In the meantime, here's all the news that's fit to print for today: Sophomore housing could suck slightly less next year Here's a TV show you wouldn't watch even if you did watch TV: a show called "The Big Bang Theory" that has nothing to do with physics Columbia Basketball is really good, Men's Tennis is really good, go tell your friends at other schools you came here for the school spirit Saltines and Ramen: the rich man's regular Ramen 
 Today, a group of faculty members sent a letter with 120 professor signatures regarding PrezBo's "silence regarding academic freedom in Palestine." While the last Israel/Palestine student rally may not have exactly been of 1968-proportions (ah, but what is these days), the faculty list has many well-known professors, including Lila Abu-Lughod, Gil Anidjar, Richard Bulliet, Yinon Cohen, Victoria de Grazia, Rashid Khalidi, Philip Kitcher, Mark Mazower, Bruce Robbins, Gayatri Spivak, and Michael Taussig.&nbsp; Several campus groups, including Students for a Democratic Society, have also been forwarding the email to several political and activist groups on campus with the hope that they can accumulate a "sizable list of student signatures" to add to their 107-person-and-growing Student, Alumni and Community Support list. The student list will not, however, be presented to Bollinger. The full letter and faculty list can be found after the jump. UPDATE: Our post originally reported that the letter had been made public by SDS. In fact, according to SDS members, the letter was created by "faculty have passed it on to students, who have forwarded it around." (Photo by LPM) Dear President Bollinger, On a number of occasions since becoming president of Columbia University you have expressed your views in public on questions of academic freedom in the Middle East. Yet you have remained silent on the actions by Israel that deny that freedom to Palestinians. These actions include Israel's continuing blockade of Gaza, the imposing of barriers, checkpoints, and closures around and within the West Bank that make academic life unworkable, the denial of exit visas to Palestinian scholars offered fellowships abroad or invited to international conferences, including scholars invited to Columbia, and the recent three-week war against Gaza that included not only the bombing of Palestinian schools and colleges, with great loss of life, but the widespread destruction of the material and social fabric on which academic life depends. We, as Columbia and Barnard faculty, ask you now to make public your opposition to these actions and your support for the academic freedom of Palestinians. Faculty Signatures 1. Lila Abu-Lughod, Anthropology and IRWaG 2. Bashir Abu-Manneh, English 3. Nadia Abuelhaj, Anthropology 4. Qais Al-Awqati, Medicine and Physiology &amp; Cellular Biophysics 5. David Z Albert, Philosophy 6. Alexander Alland, Jr., Anthropology 7. Paul Anderer, East Asian Languages and Cultures 8. Gil Anidjar, MEALAC / Religion 9. Zainab Bahrani, Art History and Archaeology 10. Peter Bearman, Sociology 11. Robert Beauregard, Urban Planning 12. Lee Anne Bell, Education 13. Elizabeth Bernstein, Sociology 14. Akeel Bilgrami, Philosophy 15. Brian Boyd, Anthropology 16. Richard W. Bulliet, History 17. Allison Busch, MEALAC 18. Partha Chatterjee, Anthropology and MEALAC 19. Yinon Cohen, Sociology 20. John Collins, Philosophy 21. M. Elaine Combs-Schilling, Anthropology 22. Susan Crane, English and Comparative Literature 23. Jonathan Crary, Art History 24. Louis Cristillo, International and Transcultural Studies 25. Zoe Crossland, Anthropology 26. Ayca Cubukcu, Postdoctoral Scholar, Committee on Global Thought 27. Hamid Dabashi, MEALAC 28. E. Valentine Daniel, Anthropology 29. Mamadou Diouf, MEALAC and History 30. Madeleine Dobie, French 31. Karen Van Dyck, Classics 32. Brent Edwards, English and Comparative Literature 33. Mona El-Ghobashy, Political Science 34. Marwa Elshakry, History 35. Oguz Erdur, Anthropology 36. Elizabeth Esch, History 37. Gil Eyal, Sociology 38. Bernard Faure, Religion; EALAC 39. Kenneth Frampton, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 40. Katherine Franke, Law School 41. Shawn-Marie Garrett, Theatre 42. Stathis Gourgouris, English and Comparative Literature 43. Victoria de Grazia, History 44. Patricia E. Grieve, Spanish and Portuguese 45. Kim F. Hall, Africana Studies Program 46. Saskia Hamilton, English 47. Ross Hamilton, English 48. Saidiya Hartman, English and Comparative Literature and IRWAG 49. John Stratton Hawley, Religion 50. Angie Heo, Anthropology 51. Anne Higonnet, Art History 52. Marianne Hirsch, English and Comparative Literature, IRWaG 53. Martha Howell, History 54. Andreas Huyssen, Germanic Languages 55. Maire Jaanus, English &amp; Comparative Literature 56. Janet Jakobsen, Women's Studies 57. Natalie Kampen, Women's Studies 58. Ousmane Kane, Department of International and Public Affairs 59. Joel Kaye, Barnard History 60. Nanor Kenderian, MEALAC 61. Rashid I. Khalidi, History 62. Philip Kitcher, Philosophy 63. Brian Larkin, Anthropology 64. Lydia Liu, East Asian Languages and Cultures 65. Sylvere Lotringer, French Literature 66. Mahmood Mamdani, Anthropology, Political Science, MEALAC 67. Gregory Mann, History 68. Sharon Marcus, English 69. Peter Marcuse, Urban Planning 70. J. Paul Martin, Human Rights Studies 71. Joseph Massad, MEALAC 72. Mark Mazower, History 73. Mary McLeod, Architecture 74. Christia Mercer, Philosophy 75. Brinkley Messick, Anthropology 76. Marc Van De Mieroop, History 77. Peter B. Milburn, MD, Dermatology 78. Monica Miller, English 79. Timothy Mitchell, MEALAC 80. D. Max Moerman, Asian and Middle Eastern Cultures 81. Rosalind Morris, Anthropology 82. Mahmut Mutman, ICLS, Visiting Scholar 83. Mira Nair, Graduate Film School 84. Mae Ngai, History 85. Richard Pena, Film Division, School of the Arts 86. Pablo Piccato, History 87. Peter G. Platt, English 88. Sheldon Pollock, MEALAC 89. Elizabeth A. Povinelli, Anthropology &amp; Gender Studies 90. Wayne Proudfoot, Religion 91. Noha Radwan, MEALAC 92. Anupama Rao, History 93. Sanjay Reddy, Economics 94. Bruce Robbins, English 95. Nan Rothschild, Anthropology 96. Carol Rovane, Philosophy 97. George Saliba, MEALAC 98. James Schamus, Film Division 99. David Scott, Anthropology 100. Karen Seeley, Anthropology 101. Joseph Slaughter, English 102. Herbert Sloan, History 103. Alisa Solomon, Journalism 104. Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, English 105. David Stark, Sociology and SIPA 106. Anders Stephanson, History 107. Paul Strohm, English 108. Timea K. Szell, English 109. Neferti Tadiar, Women's Studies 110. Michael T Taussig, Anthropology 111. Mark C. Taylor, Religion 112. Kendall Thomas, Law 113. J. Blake Turner, Child Psychiatry 114. Nadia Urbinati, Political Science 115. Deborah Valenze, History 116. Achille Varzi, Philosophy 117. Paige West, Anthropology 118. Meyda Yegenoglu, ICLS 119. Rebecca M. Young, Women's Studies 120. Zeena Zakharia, Teachers College 
 A young woman and man meet outside Ferris and engage in a ferocious round of small talk. Girl: I only had one class today! So, yeah, I'm not too busy today. Guy: Oh man, awesome! Wow! You could do anything today. You could even go to Brooklyn! But only if she flies "second to the right, and straight on 'til morning." 
 A crop of books are due back at Columbia's libraries today, and if you don't give them back or renew them, you pay a quarter a day. That's a Snickers bar you lose every three days your books sit collecting dust in your room. Oh, and if you lost what you need to give back, be prepared to shell out at least $100 (or, if you're lucky, ask Mommy and Daddy to do so). On the bright side, Columbia's bizarre obsession with flatscreens has reached its pinnacle: they have so many, they're giving them away: Columbia Libraries' 2009 Online Survey, with the promise of "Give us 10 minutes and we'll give you a flatscreen TV -- and a better library!" Sound pretty sweet? All you to have to do to be entered into a drawing for a flatscreen or for one of ten $25 Amazon gift cards is to fill out a survey about library services, collections and spaces. And everyone who enters a lottery wins, right? 
 As the effects of the recession sink in, your dollars become even more valuable. "The Market Basket" will save you the time of remembering where to get the best bang for your buck. We start with a simple question: Morton or Westside? Ah, the perennial question: convenience or Neil Diamond? Today, we take another look at a debate that may never end: which supermarket should you frequent? Instead of rehashing the obvious (Westside has the cheerful employees and iffy Flex, and Morton has the across-the-street-ness and no Flex). Well kids, why not take a page from Lit Hum and go back to the source text: how much stuff costs. Desperate to get to the bottom of which supermarket sucks more/less, we picked six items you probably buy at one of the two stores: beer, cereal, coffee, instant soup, milk, and ice cream and compared prices. See the results after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp;Morton Williams &nbsp;Westside Market &nbsp;Six-pack of Corona Extra &nbsp;$10.99 &nbsp;$9.99 &nbsp;Pint of Ben &amp; Jerry's &nbsp;$5.19 &nbsp;$4.49 &nbsp;Box of Special K &nbsp;$5.49 &nbsp;$5.09 &nbsp;Half-gallon of Organic Valley 1% milk &nbsp;$5.39 &nbsp;$4.99 &nbsp;Cup Noodles &nbsp;69 cents &nbsp;89 cents &nbsp;Chock Full O' Nuts Coffee &nbsp;$6.29 &nbsp;$4.69 And there you have it: score 5-1 to Westside, winning on every count except, ironically, the cheapest item we compared: instant soup. So if you're in a pinch like we all are, best to head to 110th, where the Jackson 5 will be waiting to welcome you home. -ECS 
 As Spec has noted, Barnard students have received an email advisory warning about a meningicoccal meningitis outbreak at UPenn in the past few days. "If you attended an event on the University of Pennsylvania campus between February 2, 2009 and February 13, 2009," wrote Barnard Health Services Director Brenda Slade, "please contact Barnard Health Services for a medical consultation." Barnard students were not the first to get a warning, though: the Ivy League Fencing Championships were held at Columbia two weekends ago, and after several Penn participants were diagnosed with meningitis, the Athletics Department advised fencers earlier this morning to get vaccinated, even setting up special clinic times for the fencers this evening, although the risk of infection "is very low."&nbsp; No email has been sent out to the larger Columbia community. UPDATE (5:25 PM): Columbia students have received an email from Columbia Health Services Associate Medical Director Marcy Ferdschneider. For the hypochondriacs, no need to worry: "the risk of infection with meningococcal meningitis is limited to those who have been in direct contact with infected individuals through household or intimate contact," so unless you've been talking to or hanging out with Penn students in the last two weeks (and who'd want to?), you're fine. All three emails after the jump. Dear Members of the Barnard Community: Barnard College's Health Services wanted to make you aware of the recent announcement regarding meningococcal meningitis infection at the University of Pennsylvania. We first wish to stress that the risk to Barnard students is minimal and limited to a small number of individuals who had direct contact with University of Pennsylvania students between 2/2 and 2/13/2009. These individuals from Barnard have already been contacted and notified and actions are being taken to ensure their continued good health. The risk of infection with meningococcal meningitis is limited to those who have been in direct contact with infected individuals through household or intimate contact. If you attended an event on the University of Pennsylvania campus between February 2, 2009 and February 13, 2009, please contact Barnard Health Services for a medical consultation. While the risk of infection is low we are always concerned about our students' health and well-being. If you are unsure if you are at risk, health care providers are available for consultation at Barnard Health Services. Barnard students can contact Health Services at 212 854-2091 or by going to the Walk-In service at Lower Level Brooks Hall between 9am and 4:30pm. For more information about the University of Pennsylvania's announcement on meningitis, please visit their Web site - http://www.vpul.upenn.edu/shs Sincerely, Brenda Slade, NP, MA Director Barnard College Student Health Service Dear Members of the Columbia Community: Columbia University’s Health Services wanted to make you aware of the recent announcement regarding meningococcal meningitis infection at the University of Pennsylvania. We want to stress that the risk to Columbia students is minimal and limited to a small number of individuals who had direct contact with University of Pennsylvania students between Feb. 2 and Feb. 13, 2009. Known individuals from Columbia who might have been exposed have already been contacted and notified, and actions are being taken to ensure their continued good health.&nbsp; The risk of infection with meningococcal meningitis is limited to those who have been in direct contact with infected individuals through household or intimate contact. If you were on the University of Pennsylvania campus between Feb. 2 and Feb. 13, and you attended a social event, such as a party in a residence hall, or a fraternity or sorority event, or participated as an athlete in an athletic event, contact Health Services for a medical consultation. Also note that subsequent contact with someone who may have been in the presence of an infected person is not a risk factor.&nbsp; Although the risk of infection is low, we are always concerned about our students’ health and well-being. If you are unsure if you are at risk, health care providers are available for consultation at Health Services. While many of you may have already received a meningitis vaccine, it is unfortunately not effective against this strain of the bacterium. If you would like to speak with Health Services medical staff, please call 212.854.7426. For more information about the University of Pennsylvania’s announcement on meningitis, please visit their Web site . Sincerely, Marcy Ferdschneider, D.O. Associate Medical Director, Primary Care Medical Services Health Services at Columbia To the members of the Columbia University Fencing team: There were participants in last week's Ivy League Fencing tournament that have been diagnosed with a serious illness, meningococcal meningitis. &nbsp; Those who are at the highest risk of contracting this contagious illness are close contacts of those infected; this typically includes household contacts and intimate contacts. &nbsp;The risk to any of the competitors at last Sunday's event is low; however, after consultation with the New York City Department of Health, we have decided to offer a medication to all participants that will prevent the disease. &nbsp;We recommend that anyone who participated in the tournament take the precaution of being medicated. &nbsp;Since meningitis is spread by respiratory droplets (coughing and sneezing), there needs to be close contact in order to catch it. &nbsp;Anyone who did not participate or was not in close contact with the other competitors does not need to be medicated as there is no risk of contracting the illness. While many of you may have already received the Meningitis vaccine, it is unfortunately not protective against this particular strain of the bacteria, and we would still recommend that you receive the antibiotic to protect yourselves. We have arranged to provide you all with one dose of an antibiotic, which is the recommended prophylaxis against meningococcal meningitis, at Primary Care Medical Services in John Jay Hall or at the Barnard Health Services for those of you who are Barnard students. At Columbia, we have set up a special clinic for you tonight between the hours of 4-7pm in the Broadway Practice Group on the 4th floor of John Jay, so you can receive the medication. &nbsp;If you are unsure if you are at risk, please come by during the designated hours to speak with a health care provider. &nbsp;If you are unable to make it to Primary Care during those hours, please let your coach know and we will make other arrangements for you to be seen today. &nbsp;This is a time sensitive issue, so it is imperative that we see all those who participated in last Sunday's event today. For those of you who are Barnard students please go to the Barnard Health Service Urgent Care between 10am and 5pm today. &nbsp;If you are unable to make it to the Health Service during those hours, please let your coach know and alternative arrangements will be made. Again, I want to reiterate that the risk to anyone involved in the Ivy League Fencing tournament is very low but we are taking every precaution to ensure your health and safety. &nbsp;I would also like to assure you that all of the other schools that participated have been notified. Sincerely, Marcy Ferdschneider, D.O. Associate Medical Director, Primary Care Medical Services Brenda Slade, N.P. Director, Barnard Health Services &nbsp; 
 Tonight: Blue and White meeting, 9:30 PM, catacombs of St. Paul's Chapel. We'll be opening the floor to pitches for our upcoming April issue, meaning there will be many opportunities to claim and suggest article ideas. The meeting will, of course, also include the time-honored traditions of finger-jousting (pictured at right) and cookies. Writers, editors, artists, poets, and designers old and new (especially new) are encouraged to attend. Looking forward to the pleasure of your company. 
Hark! Bwog stumbled upon something new outside of everyone's favorite place to wait online on Sunday mornings, Community Food &amp; Juice: a new "stroller parking" section, which can be found outside the entrance along a metal bar of scaffolding. That's right, here in New York City's more family-friendly crevices, we don't have parking for cars, but toddlers. Will Community provide meters to make a little extra cash as the brunch crowd waits for its blueberry pancakes? Only time will tell. In the meantime, be careful not to trip over the line of BabyBjorns outside next weekend on your way in. 
 Barnard shutterbugs: if you have a good feel for your school's intrinsic spirit, take some pictures of campus life for the chance to win an iTunes gift certificate and eternal glory. BC's Admission Office asks that you snap some "candid (real!)" photos of your life at Barnard -- just in case you don't know what candid means -- that capture its essence. Carolyn Middleton, Senior Associate Director of Admissions, wants to see evidence of "community, diversity, spirit, fun" to lure next year's batch of strong, beautiful high school seniors to Morningside Heights. All submissions should include digital photos and a short description of why the photos encapsulate all that you love about Banard. The full email is after the jump. Go get 'em, girls! Dear Barnard Student, Here's a chance for you to be a part of Barnard history and get a photo of your own published! As you may know, the Office of Admissions is redesigning and rewriting our publications for 2009. In the new viewbook, mailed to prospective students this spring, we'd like to include some candid (real!) shots of life at Barnard. That's where you come in. We welcome you to submit digital photo(s) you think best capture life at Barnard. We will be looking for evidence of community, diversity, spirit, fun --- all the things that make Barnard the place you chose as your home. And, of course, quality is a factor in the contest, so whether you are a serious photographer or someone who dabbles, we want to see your best work. We'll print the selected photos in the viewbook; plus, the winners will be given a gift card for iTunes. Here are the specifics: Submit digital photos at the highest possible resolution to Carolyn Middleton at&nbsp;cmiddleton@barnard.edu. Include a brief written description (no more than 200 words) of what's happening in the photo-and how it captures Barnard's spirit. Deadline to submit your photo is February 27, 2009. Questions? Contact Carolyn Middleton at&nbsp;cmiddleton@barnard.edu. We can't wait to see how you've captured Barnard life in pixels. Thanks so much for helping us share the Barnard story with prospective students. Carolyn Middleton Senior Associate Director of Admissions 
 After months of anticipation, today's QuickSpec&nbsp;comes to&nbsp;you from the uncharted territories of the Spectator's brand new website, featuring bigger text, grayer pages, and the niftiest headline crawl this side of CNN. Spec EIC Melissa Repko and managing editor Elizabeth Simins told Bwog, "We expect that it will take a week or two to tweak the Web site's new design and functionality, and we hope to receive a great deal of constructive feedback." Your phone charger hails from the land of the undead,&nbsp;kind of&nbsp;like Kim's. Crime pays, provided it's aesthetically pleasing and you are in Queens. Are you billions in debt? Try outsourcing it! To New Jersey. Cambridge inspires joy, devastation, and hoarse-voiced passion. 
 Everyone's favorite lottery process, also known as "Housing," has begun, and the housing office announced two new SICs opening up next year. That's Special Interest Communities, for you rising sophomores who haven't looked them up during your desperate search for a single. On top of the seven others that will roll over from 2008 (there are eight on the webpage, but, fittingly, the economics house is shutting down after this year), 114 Rue de Fleurus, a creative writing house/pretentious name pioneer, and GreenBurough, a house that's--well--Green, are joining the fray. Rue de Fleurus will be on the second floor of Wien and plans to host writing workshops and lectures. Residents will also relish the only time in their lives that creative writing will get them a house. GreenBurough will be in a townhouse on 114th next to Potluck house, and coordinator Liz Allocco says the house will require members to do things "like using drying racks instead of dryers and timing our showers." In other words, whatever your parents made you do for a day after seeing An Inconvienient Truth. G-Burough also plans to try composting their waste in worm bins, which, if the wind is blowing the wrong way, may cause Potluck to lose its appetite. For the rest of Columbia, the housing hunt will continue... &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -DJB 
 A concerned member of&nbsp;the&nbsp;Columbia Fashion Police (also known as the Oxymoron Squad) has alerted Bwog to&nbsp;Alexander Hamilton's new accessory. It's certainly fetching,&nbsp;but is it&nbsp;a political statement? That depends on whether it's meant to be an army patrol cap, a newsboy cap, or (the likeliest candidate) a brimmed tam o'shanter.&nbsp; This also might&nbsp;just be&nbsp;the latest way of getting rid of your unwanted clothing, in which case you can expect to see&nbsp;Alma Mater swathed in a different down coat every day once the weather turns. (Photo by CEE) 
 &nbsp;- Photo via The Earth Institute It's not uncommon to see Columbia's celebrity economist in the news, but three times in one day? First, "the noted economist" tell the Press Trust of India (India's AP) that India needs to spend more money stimulating the economy to ensure a quick recovery. Sounds kinda like what a Columbia alum just signed. Not content to merely be interviewed, Sachs also has his own essay on Fortune's website, detailing his plan on how to fix the Big 3 auto companies. "The Big 3 are not just another industry segment," he writes, "they are world-leading organizations that can reassume that role in technology and markets with an appropriate public-private partnership over the coming decade." And because writing isn't enough, he's also headlining the launch of a new Earth Institute project, GlobalSoilMap.net, today at Casa Italiana. According to the event description, "this initiative, which will map most of the ice-free land surface of the globe over the next five years, will help scientists and policy makers tackle pressing issues like food security, climate change and water scarcity." Next up: leaping tall buildings in a single bound. Hey, it's easier than saving the Dow. 
Bwog Sewage Specialist Jon Hill sends this picture from a gutter on 113th Street, where dreams find their final resting place. The Off-Campus Flex Affair has been one long and painful breakup between Columbia students and every eating establishment for miles, but this sort of cruelty to Ms. Card is uncalled for. Note the broken bottle lying next to her. Crushed like our spirits. 
 What do you do&nbsp;when there's an&nbsp;economic catastrophe? Your answer may determine where you get your free food tonight. For&nbsp;tips from the eye of the storm, try the "Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation" panel at&nbsp;6:30 on Lerner Ramp West. They'll be offering refreshments to distract you from the horror stories you're hearing, but free food is free food. If you seek answers on a higher plane, there will be an interfaith Bible study in Earl Hall Auditorium at 8:00. It's billed as "Muffins and the Meaning of Life," so if you don't want to eat and run, why not give the ultimate question a try? What's the worst that could happen? 
 &nbsp;- Photo by MEQ And Famiglia is once again without a neighbor. A few days ago, Bwogger Mariela Quintana noticed that Empanada Joe's had papered over their windows, but had left all of its furniture in place. At first, Bwog was unsure whether the store had departed or was merely remodeling. However, tech-savvy Bwoggers noticed earlier today that the Morningside Heights location is no longer on the locations page, even though Google Cache shows it having been there in the past. It appears, then, that Empanada Joe's has joined the growing list of culinary casualties in Morningside since the new semester began. Judging from the comments on our review, though, there will be much rejoicing. And who knows - maybe its replacement will be something useful? 
 Empty shops on Broadway are like my empty soul. If only I could still crawl into a dessert empanada and close the crust forever.&nbsp; &nbsp; Successes of some other school in sports. But resist burning your room full of Columbia sports fan paraphernalia, the messiah will save us from ruin! And look, I&#65533;ve got a new idol for my former A-rod shrine. Oh and Uncle Sam, you&#65533;re the worst therapist ever. 
Carved into the marble outside Butler Library: "The bicycle is a mysterious organism!"&nbsp; Although COBOP leader applications are due today, as of yet no evidence has come to light implicating the freshman orientation program in this or any other acts of bicycle worship. 
 Procrastinating student politicos might have been surprised to discover that, until last night, the deadline for CCSC elections registration was this Friday. So little time! Now, though, in order to increase the number of candidates, CC's Elections Board has pushed the filing deadline back to Friday, March 6th, a full two weeks later. According to CCSC President George Krebs, "all other dates will remain the same," including the elections themselves, still scheduled for April 21st and 22nd. The Board "will also try to have three interest meetings in that time," in addition to one tonight at 8 p.m. in the SGO (fifth floor Lerner). Another two weeks, then, until the fun starts. And, candidates, remember to be careful with the emails. - JCD 
 - Photo via AllPosters.com Apparently, James Franco was hanging out Butler 209 last night. From some onlookers: Football Player: "Is that James Franco over there?" Girl: "Yeah, why?" Football Player: "I wanna fight him!" Careful now, Mr. Jock: young Franco has experience. 
 &nbsp;- Photo via New York Former UWriting teacher Reif Larsen has escaped the Core's clutches and gone on to greater things, as publishers absolutely lost their minds over his debut The Selected Works of T.S. Spivet, which is about a 12 year old boy who obsessively draws everything he sees. Larsen's book is a collage of drawings, text, sidebars, and tidbits, all woven together on the page.&nbsp; It is Larsen's first book, and, as Larsen told New York, it's a culmination of years being nurtured by his artistic parents and by teachers at "one of those progressive schools where they don't correct your spelling." Though the image of a 5th grade future UWriting teacher confidently spelling yellow with three l's is entertaining, perhaps just as important for Larsen is that he won't be living the impoverished life of most of the talented teachers, writers, and artists out there. New York also reports that the publisher, Penguin Books, has paid a "near-million-dollar advance" for the debut. Looks like the rest of us took all those spelling tests for nothing. 
 &nbsp;- movies.yahoo.com Just before the end of another awards season, Columbia College will be honoring five of its most esteemed graduates with John Jay awards on March 10. The recipients range in fame, fortune, and occupation: actress Maggie Gyllenhaal '99, NAACP president Benjamin Jealous '94, CEO and scientist Dr. Paul Maddon '81, businessman (and Obama classmate) Thomas Francis Marano '83, and St. John's sculptor Gregory Wyatt '71.&nbsp; So go forth and prosper, seniors, and maybe one day you will get a black-tie dinner in Low just for you, too. Find the full news briefing after the jump. On Tuesday, March 10, the College will honor five alumni for distinguished professional achievement by presenting each with a John Jay Award. Low Library will be the setting for a black-tie dinner honoring Maggie Gyllenhaal '99, Benjamin Jealous '94, Dr. Paul Maddon '81, Thomas Francis Marano '83 and Gregory Wyatt '71. Gyllenhaal, a stage and screen actress, made her theatrical debut in 2000 as "Alice" in Patrick Marber's award-winning Closer at the Berkeley Repertory Theatre, which played later at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles. Her other stage performances include Tony Kushner '78's play Homebody/Kabul, in which she starred in 2004 and which ran in Los Angeles and at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Gyllenhaal has starred in a wide range of films, from quirky dramas (Stranger Than Fiction) to action blockbusters (The Dark Knight). Her recent projects include Trust the Man with Julianne Moore, Billy Crudup and David Duchovny, and Oliver Stone's World Trade Center, with Maria Bello and Nicolas Cage. Gyllenhaal's next project is the dramatic film Crazy Heart, in which she will star alongside Jeff Bridges. She also starred in Happy Endings, opposite Lisa Kudrow and Tom Arnold. A multiple Golden Globe nominee, Gyllenhaal also has been honored with an Independent Spirit Award nomination for "Best Actress," a Chicago Film Critics' Award for "Most Promising Performer," a Boston Film Critics' Award for "Best Actress," a National Board of Review award for "Breakthrough Performance" and an IFP/Gotham "Breakthrough Performance" Award, for her role in Secretary. Jealous is the 17th president and CEO of the NAACP, as well as the youngest person to hold the position in the organization's 100-year history. Previously he was president of the Rosenberg Foundation, director of the U.S. Human Rights Program at Amnesty International and executive director of the National Newspaper Publishers Association. During his time at NNPA, Jealous rebuilt its 90-year old national news service and launched a Web-based initiative that doubled the number of black newspapers publishing online. While an undergraduate, Jealous worked in Harlem as a community organizer for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. On campus, he led boycotts and pickets for homeless rights, protested to help save full-need financial and need-blind admissions and was engaged an environmental justice battle with the University, leading to a suspension. Jealous returned to Columbia and completed his degree in political science. He later attended Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, where he earned a master's in comparative social research. Maddon is CEO, CSO and director of Progenics Pharmaceuticals, a biopharmaceutical company that specializes in medicines pertaining to gastroenterology, oncology and virology. He earned his M.D. in 1988 from P&amp;S and a Ph.D. in biochemistry and molecular biophysics the same year from GSAS. Maddon founded Progenics in 1986 while an M.D./Ph.D. student. He has made major contributions to the understanding of viral entry and infection, for example, he isolated the gene encoding CD4 and discovered that a second receptor, CCR5, is required for HIV entry. In recent years, Maddon's primary focus has been on developing innovative therapies for prostate cancer and hepatitis C virus infection. Maddon has served on the editorial board of the Journal of Virology and chaired and served on numerous scientific review committees of the National Institutes of Health and Department of Defense. He received Columbia's Dr. Alfred Steiner Award for Biomedical Research and the Dr. Harold Lamport Biomedical Research Prize. Along with high school science teachers in Westchester County, N.Y., Maddon founded the Westchester Science and Engineering Fair and coordinates a science research mentoring program. He also is on the advisory committees of Columbia's Science Honors Program. Marano is chairman and CEO of Residential Capital and a chairman on the ResCap Board of Directors. Before joining ResCap, he was managing director for Cerberus Capital Management and senior managing director and global head of mortgage and asset-backed securities at Bear, Stearns. While at Bear, Stearns, Marano oversaw the expansion of mortgage and asset-backed activities in the United States, Europe and Asia and was on the company's Board of Directors. His tenure at Bear, Stearns spanned more than 25 years; for much of that time, he was instrumental in creating the firm's top-ranked mortgage department. Marano priced the first agency Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit for Fannie Mae in 1987 and the first tranched commercial mortgage-backed security in 1994. He was involved in Bear, Stearns' acquisition of assets in several MBS originators and became head of the department in 2001. Marano is on the boards of Covenant House and the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund, and is a member of the College's Board of Visitors. Wyatt, sculptor-in-residence at The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, studied art history at the College and later classical sculpture, for three years, at the National Academy of Design's School of Fine Arts under renowned sculptor EvAngelos W. Frudakis, N.A. He earned his M.A. at Teachers College in ceramic arts in 1974 and completed his doctoral coursework in art education in 1976. Nurtured in the artistic tradition of his native Hudson River Valley at an early age by his father, William Stanley Wyatt '43, '47 GSAS, a painter and fine arts professor at Columbia and City College, Wyatt has chosen cast bronze as his primary medium. His works have appeared in numerous exhibits, from the United States Consulate General in Florence, Italy (Adam and Eve) to the Shakespeare Centre in Stratford-upon-Avon in England (bronze models from The Tempest, King Lear and more). His extensive collection of sculptures includes his 2004 gift to the University, Scholars' Lion, exhibited near the entrance to Dodge Fitness Center. Wyatt has been president of the Fantasy Fountain Fund. 
 Neither has Bwog. But if you want to check out the Vietnamese Students Association, head to their study break in the Lerner west ramp lounge.&nbsp; Starting RIGHT NOW. If you're not into green tea, or crepes, or both, other yummy things will also be provided.&nbsp; 
 The deadline may have been pushed back, but candidates have already started to fall into place for CCSC elections, plotting the best ways to invade your life with posters.&nbsp; As usual, only some of the major tickets have received challengers (so far). The most competitive race looks to be for senior class president, with many tipping former VP for Campus Life candidate Cliff Massey to take on incumbent A.J. Pascua. Rumors had also been circulating that current CQA president Jeanette Clark was considering a run, but sources close to Clark say she has decided against running. And, like many freshman incumbents, the 2012 class council is apparently being challenged by at least one of the parties it defeated in the fall. The other two major races, though, look to be uncompetitive: CC '11 President Learned Foote looks to be unopposed for a third year as class president, though current VP Sara Partridge is departing to study abroad (replaced by class rep Sean Udell). Finally, in the race to replace George Krebs, current CC '10 VP (and Study Day solver) Sue Yang is closer to cruising in unopposed, with CCSC sources saying that current VP for Campus Life Robyn Burgess is less and less likely to challenge her. A lot could change between now and March 6th, but, on the bright side, the more uncompetitive the races, the earlier you can tune out. 
 &nbsp;Photo courtesy of NYU Local Radical student group Take Back NYU (TCBY, no wait, TBNYU) has barricaded itself inside a dining hall at Kimmel Center, NYU's non-diagonal equivalent of Lerner. TBNYU had publicly planned to boogie tonight at their second annual "Study Breakdown," but plans quickly went 1968 earlier this evening when several dozen students began barricading doors, hanging slogan-bearing signs in windows, and announcing their agenda via loudspeakers. Among the group's demands are more affordable tuition, public accounting of all university expenditures, more financial aid, and, in particular, financial aid for 13 Palestinian students. Signs at the center show the group has an international flair, as well, sporting slogans like, "Solidarity With Gaza." (No explanation as to how the situation in Palestine relates to pricey East Village studio apartments, but maybe it's an "everyone who wants to protest, do it here"-type of thing.) NYU Local has been liveblogging the goings-on since around 9 and in the last hour has reported "Tons of cops outside!" Take Back NYU also has a live stream broadcasting on the Web. UPDATE (12:17 a.m.): Our NYU correspondents tell Bwog that students outside the center are "happy and cheering." Meanwhile on the streaming video, a TBNYU member describes their group: "It is a Marxist communist organization, but there's no kind of --&nbsp;no, like, we don't screen our members. There's a little Trotsky in there. Maybe. We're, like, a strong-minded group. But, yeah, no,&nbsp;absolutely. We're democratic." UPDATE (1:02 a.m.): Bwog has been told that there is one Barnard student there and "a lot of Columbia students came here but either left for int'l student visa fears or couldn't get in because they stopped letting people in at some point." There will be a "support rally" in front of Kimmel tommorow at 12:15 p.m. for any students who feel strongly enough to make the "trek." 
 Another article about high hopes for a sports season. Spec publishes the second article in a week about a campus group that has seven members. Because we haven't heard enough about Israel/Palestine... This column includes every Columbia complaint ever written on the Opinion page in 850 words. 
 Â&nbsp; Â&nbsp;Photo Courtesy of NYU Local The Columbia Students for a Democratic Society, who used to know a thing or two about campus protest, just sent out a press release from Take Back NYU, the pro-Gaza-ish, Marxist-y group that took over Kimmel Hall last night. Their first demand? They request, "full legal and disciplinary amnesty for all parties involved in the occupation." Style tip for radical, leftist protests: Don't mention yourself until the end. According to the New York Times and NYU Local, the protest started with around 70 students and has dwindled to less than fifty. The Times posited that only half the students are native NYUers and many New School students, apparently addicted to building occupation, are among the crowd. Full press release after the jump. -DJB ****FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE****** DEMANDS We, the students of NYU, declare an occupation of this space. This occupation is the culmination of a two-year campaign by the Take Back NYU! coalition, and of campaigns from years past, in whose footsteps we follow. In order to create a more accountable, democratic and socially responsible university, we demand the following: 1.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; Full legal and disciplinary amnesty for all parties involved in the occupation. 2.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; Full compensation for all employees whose jobs were disrupted during the course of the occupation. 3.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; Public release of NYU's annual operating budget, including a full list of university expenditures, salaries for all employees compensated on a semester or annual basis, funds allocated for staff wages, contracts to non-university organizations for university construction and services, financial aid data for each college, and money allocated to each college, department, and administrative unit of the university. Furthermore, this should include a full disclosure of the amount and sources of the university's funding. 4.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; Disclosure of NYU's endowment holdings, investment strategy, projected endowment growth, and persons, corporations and firms involved in the investment of the university's endowment funds. Additionally, we demand an endowment oversight body of students, faculty and staff who exercise shareholder proxy voting power for the university's investments. 5.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That the NYU Administration agrees to resume negotiations with GSOC/UAW Local 2110 ï¿½ the union for NYU graduate assistants, teaching assistants, and research assistants. That NYU publically affirm its commitment to respect all its workers, including student employees, by recognizing their right to form unions and to bargain collectively. That NYU publically affirm that it will recognize workers' unions through majority card verification. 6.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That NYU signs a contract guaranteeing fair labor practices for all NYU employees at home and abroad. This contract will extend to subcontracted workers, including bus drivers, food service employees and anyone involved in the construction, operation and maintenance at any of NYU's non-U.S. sites. 7.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; The establishment of a student elected Socially Responsible Finance Committee. This Committee will have full power to vote on proxies, draft shareholder resolutions, screen all university investments, establish new programs that encourage social and environmental responsibility and override all financial decisions the committee deems socially irresponsible, including investment decisions. The committee will be composed of two subcommittees: one to assess the operating budget and one to assess the endowment holdings. Each committee will be composed of ten students democratically elected from the graduate and under-graduate student bodies. All committee decisions will be made a strict majority vote, and will be upheld by the university. All members of the Socially Responsible Finance Committee will sit on the board of trustees, and will have equal voting rights. All Socially Responsible Finance Committee and Trustee meetings shall be open to the public, and their minutes made accessible electronically through NYU's website. Elections will be held the second Tuesday of every March beginning March 10th 2009, and meetings will be held biweekly beginning the week of March 30th 2009. 8.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That the first two orders of business of the Socially Responsible Finance committee will be: a) An in depth investigation of all investments in war and genocide profiteers, as well as companies profiting from the occupation of Palestinian territories. b) A reassessment of the recently lifted of the ban on Coca Cola products. 9.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That annual scholarships be provided for thirteen Palestinian students, starting with the 2009/2010 academic year. These scholarships will include funding for books, housing, meals and travel expenses. 10.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That the university donate all excess supplies and materials in an effort to rebuild the University of Gaza. 11.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; Tuition stabilization for all students, beginning with the class of 2012. All students will pay their initial tuition rate throughout the course of their education at New York University.Â&nbsp; Tuition rates for each successive year will not exceed the rate of inflation, nor shall they exceed one percent. The university shall meet 100% of government-calculated student financial need. 12.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That student groups have priority when reserving space in the buildings owned or leased by New York University, including, and especially, the Kimmel Center. 13.Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp;Â&nbsp; That the general public have access to Bobst Library. Along with this, students have issued a SOLIDARITY STATEMENT We, the students of Take Back NYU! declare our solidarity with the student in Greece, Italy, and the United Kingdom, as well as those of the University of Rochester, the New School for Social Research, and with future to come in the name of democracy and student power. We stand in solidarity with the University of Gaza, and with the people of Palestine. 
For freshmen who may be well on their way to the freshman 15, Bwog Culinary Charter Jon Hill has created helpful charts on why to avoid Cafe 212. &nbsp; You're welcome. &nbsp; 
 &nbsp;- Photo via Columbia College Today As the calendar hits the end of Februrary, Columbia's favorite early spring ritual approaches. No, not actaully using the lawns - it's Housing Lottery time! According to this year's calendar, Greek rosters and LLC registration are next week, while room selection registration runs from March 7-11. For those of you trying to decide what dorms to target and what groups to form, Bwog's archive has numerous housing reviews, including Claremont, Nussbaum, EC, Wien, Ruggles, and Woodbridge. There's even a debate about just giving up and living off campus. However, some dorms had specific floors renovated, so it will be worth gunning for those as the housing process progresses. The full list of changes is on the housing website, and most are rather minor and/or cosmetic.&nbsp; Michael Novielli of Student Auxillary and Business Services told Bwog that “While the language is in the future tense since was written last year, all of this work has already been completed." Regardless, it's a lottery: most are bound to be disappointed. -DJB 
 The Eye website is still under construction, but you can access this week's issue here. For this issue, stick with the arts articles. An article about vampires that doesn't mention Vampire Weekend (Pg. 11) A defense of films that have already been deemed the year's best (Pg. 12-13) Been wondering what an eight year-old thinks about Botticelli? (Pg. 14) 
 We at Bwog might not be able to get you into the Fashion Week after-parties or exclusive show-biz Oscar viewings, but we do have these suggestions for this awards-heavy weekend. Friday Sizzling South America Saturday 6:30-10:30pm, begins at Praxis International Gallery25 East 73rd Street, 4th Fl. (212-772-9478) This night out on the town begins with a South American art exhibit, including a meet-and-greet with the artist and a tasting of wines from the continent. The fiesta then moves to Chelsea for tango lessons and instructions in Brazilian bartending.&nbsp; It'll be hot, hot, hot! Price: $50 (from an original $150 value) Dub War Fiday 10pm Love 179 MacDougal St (212.477.5683) D.J.s (including a contender from the Netherlands) duke it out for dubstep dance supremacy. Price: $10 in advance or before midnight/$15 after American Composers Orchestra Friday 7:30pm, Carnegie Hall 881 Seventh Ave. nr. 56th St (212-903-9600) Emerging composers strut their stuff at this one-night-only event for contemporary classical music. Price: $38-48 (though Bwog recommends checking out Student Rush options or CUArt discounts) More after the jump. Saturday New Amsterdam Market Fundraiser Saturday 5-8pm, f/ocus Rental Gallery 599 Eleventh Ave., at 45th St. It's not exactly a discount option, but it will be full of tasty seafood treats, lots of beer, chowder, fancy bread, pickled things, music, and (in good fundraising tradition) an auction. Price: $50 The Awesome 80s Prom Ongoing Saturdays 8pm, 125 E. 11th St. nr. Third Ave.&nbsp; An interactive theater event, this show/dance takes place during a Prom in 1989—audience members dance to the tunes, and even get to cast their vote for Prom King and Queen.&nbsp; Luckily, all Off-Broadway theater tickets are two-for-one until March 1st if you use the promotional code HOUSE to buy online (sponsored by nycgo.com, NYC's official tourism website).&nbsp; Price: $49-89 Brooklyn Brewery Tour Every Saturday with tours every hour from 1-4pm, 79 N. 11th Street nr. Wythe Ave. (718-486-7422) If you've ever wondered where the tasty textures of your 1020 favorite comes from, this is a perfect opportunity for some vat-side chats with the experts. Price: Free tour (does not include cost of beer) Sunday Murray Hill's Oscar Party Sunday 7pm, Joe's Pub 425 Lafayette St (212.539.8500) NYC's favorite drag king spruces up your Oscar experience with his hilarious commentary on Academy standards. Price: $15 in advance/$20 at the door Washington's Birthday Ball Sunday 1pm, Mount Vernon Museum and Gardens 421 East 61st Street between First and York Avenues (212-838-6878) Happy Birthday, Mr. Washington!&nbsp; It's a 19th Century-throwdown, complete with traditional English country dance lessons in case you need to brush up on your waltz.&nbsp; Refreshments will be served, and the museum will be open for tours. Price: $15 Dark Chocolate Tasting Sunday 7-9pm, 92nd Street Y Lexington Avenue and East 92nd Street Take a tour of the world's fanciest (and, we imagine, tastiest) dark chocolate, complete with a chocolate-centered lecture so that you'll know what you're putting in your mouth. Again, not an especially cheap price tag, but worth it when you consider the expense of each individual piece you'll be able to try. Price: $45 
 &nbsp;- Image via NYULocal.com Things are heating up 100+ blocks to the south, as the NYU student occupation moves into its second night. Major highlights of the day include the long negotiations over food (strangely, the university's dining staff is feeding the protesters), the annoyance of many fellow students (to be expected when you demand a ban on Coke), and (if you go for this sort of thing) topless protesters. Link NSFW. For up-to-the-minute coverage, check out NYULocal's liveblogging, which has become even awsomer as its correspondent has become more sleep-deprived. Style note #2 to protestors: don't moan to the person live-blogging your occupation about how he sucks. Not cool. All the fun, though, could be over shortly, as the university administration has set a a deadline of 1 a.m. for the students to leave, after which "there will be consequences." Oh, and if you do agree with their demands, there's a support rally planned for around midnight. Enjoy. UPDATE (1:15 PM): Just after noon, NYU security guards raided the occupied space, and rounded up all but 4 of the occupying students. Bwog'll have a summary of the day once everything calms down, but in the meantime keep with NYULocal's coverage.&nbsp; - JCD 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo courtesy of The Metropolitan Museum of Art I sing of warfare and a man at war. Exiled by fate from the Eastern shore, He came to Israel by destiny. A fugitive, buffeted by land, sea, and fluid, Cruel funding losses were his lot in life, Till he could found a team and bring them home to win. 
 Bwog Print Devotee Chloe Eichler was in the audience when Joanna Coles, editor-in-chief of Marie Claire and straight-faced Tilda Swinton doppelganger, visited the Journalism School on Thursday to offer thoughts on her chosen medium. Despite calling print media “an absolutely terrible market to get into,” Coles was confident that newspapers and magazines would stay alive. She began by describing her&nbsp;years as a&nbsp;reporter in London and New York, starting&nbsp;at her local newspaper at age ten. Coles recommended every paper have a children’s section to galvanize the next generation of reporters, noting that “in England, we grow up on a very rigorous diet of newspapers” that inspires a “tremendous interest in the news.” She praised blogs for giving young writers exposure (and doubling readership of Marie Claire through artful networking). Coles&nbsp;labeled journalism “an isolating job” that requires access to people inaccessible to everyone, including other reporters.&nbsp;An enormous amount of travel, language,&nbsp;and diplomacy&nbsp;can be&nbsp;necessary. Coles stressed the unpredictability of a journalist’s career path; her own big break came when she filled in on The Late Show for a writer who had died of a heart attack&nbsp;that day. That's profiting from someone else's misfortune. But unpredictable does not mean uncontrollable: “Mostly old, male journalists” say being in the right place at the right time is crucial, Coles said dismissively. Instead of&nbsp;letting information to come to her, she found taking out “people you wouldn’t expect” for drinks to be a great way of getting stories. She then declared the point moot altogether in the Cellular Era: if your editor calls your cell phone, simply always say you’re already at the scene of the story. Again, Coles really seemed to be embracing technology (and alcohol and fibs). Coles was especially sunny when discussing the future of the woman’s magazine.&nbsp;As for&nbsp;Marie Claire, Coles celebrated its mix of “high and low interests,” declaring that “we are in tune with a new demographic of young women who come out of college and leapfrog the men in the workplace.” She claimed “all editors dream of not needing a celebrity on the cover” to sell magazines because of costly photo shoots and oily publicists, but confessed to seeing no end to that particular national obsession. She ended the night by collecting resumes from about half the audience, a fantastic act of encouragement in itself.
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of IMDB.com Watch The Kitchen Cabinet tonight take on Congress. The band, that is. It’s the closing night of E-Week, and four Colombian Columbian music groups will be fighting for campus supremacy in a heart-wrenching, fretboard-splintering “Battle of the Bands” competition in Roone Arledge. E-Week guests tonight may also stay for the 2009 SEAS Pageant. Contestants from that bastion of beauty they call the Fu Foundation include Vikrum Thimmappa, formerly of Bwog Personals, and 2008 pageant winner Austin Brauser, formerly of Bwog comments. Tonight also marks your last chance to sign up a CUAssassins team, plus, there will be free food for all!&nbsp;
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of BestDirect.tv A few days ago, Columbia was kindly informed about an outbreak of meningitis at our beloved weekend trip destination, UPenn. Well, the week has ambled onwards, and still the dirge of meningitis hums over us. Meanwhile, a graduate student at the UPenn petri dish has reportedly contracted measles and our campus continues to slick itself in snot with one collective fit of the sniffles. Right now, Bwog believes the best thing for all of us is for you to huddle down with a Snuggie and a bowl of chicken noodle soup, flick on the nearest video screen, and get down with the sickness. &nbsp; 12 Monkeys (1995) Doused in gritty pools of light and overlaid with a looping and raving plot, slowly descending into a decadent, kicking and screaming madness, 12 Monkeys is the realization of the ultimate fever dream. The brainchild of Monty Python animator Terry Gilliam, 12 Monkeys broke a decade’s silence by the twisted and fanciful mind that brought us 1985’s Brazil. Gilliam’s film, like his Python animation, is enchanting and captivating, but a prolonged dosage to any not thoroughly invested in two hours of deranged revelry will cause one to feel led about in circles of red herrings and shivering hallucinations culminating in a grand mental rape. For those in the heat of fever and the haze of sickness, though, I propose 12 Monkeys to be an opportunistic and self-indulgent journey tantamount to a pseudo-philosophical acid trip. Night of the Living Dead (1968) Director George A. Romero’s film is more than just a piece of outmoded horror, more than just a movie about a radiation disease reanimating the dead; Night of the Living Dead is itself a disease. Before 1968, horror movies were weak, predictable and archetypal pieces of matinee dreck. Save for the thrillers of Hitchcock, since Nosferatu (1922) they involved light and dark, good and bad, and quite possibly crab men from Mars – an utterly predictable and absurd array of villains and outcomes. Sure, there was the occasional death, the occasional city destroyed, but the scope, the sideways portrayals, and overacting usually made the genre fodder for small children to shriek with delight or for teenage couples to snog each other senseless and protectively clench each other in the soft and squishy bits. Romero changed it all and let loose a disease of terror, of honest fear mingled and amplified by human emotions, by the urge to survive, by blind rage, by the mirror image of our deepest hidden desires and motives. We cannot stymie the spread – Romero made monster horror horrifying forever. Children of Men (2006) When I first saw the previews for Children of Men, I was rather nonplused with the concept. A pandemic ailment rendering humanity infertile – it just seemed to simplistic, too open to debauchery and blind wailing, too much like a porn film I once caught my friend watching. Yet director Alfonso Cuarón somehow avoids the potential silliness of the plot, once more exemplifying the magical ability of the medium of film to transform even a kitschy pulp novel like P.D. James’ 1992 Children of Men into a monumental, chillingly introspective achievement. The film draws a great deal of power from its consideration of an atypical doom – in most scenarios, the death of humanity comes swiftly and kills us all within days, if not years, but the disease of Children of Men works slowly, cutting us off and numbering our days. Humanity is left to monitor the actions of the world’s youngest man, to lament their condition, and to slowly fall into decay, apathy, hatred, and the throws of a passive suicide. Cuaron asks us how we would react if our days, not just as a man, but as a species, were numbered. Could we believe? Could we hope? Could we live? He never answers the petty questions as to the origin or possibility of curing the ailments of humanity, but the questions of spirit and of humanity he answers most clearly and prophetically: yes we can. ---MEH Images courtesy of IMDB.com 
 &nbsp;- W.M. Akers According to NYULocal: "The third floor of Kimmel has been cleared and no arrests made. None of the 13 demands of TBNYU! have been met and there were never any extensive meetings with the administration about meeting them." Earlier today, our old NYU correspondent W.M. Akers, now with&nbsp;the Washington Square News, filed a dispatch from outside the Kimmel Center. Like democracy itself, last night's carnival outside of the occupied Kimmel center was little but an anticlimax. All day, 1 a.m. had been the unbreakable deadline, the moment when negotiations would go through or the brave little protestors would be dragged out by the black clad riot gurus of the NYPD. At midnight the protestors&nbsp; held a rally, drawing a few hundred sympathetic students, a quartet of surly ninja-looking anarchists, a marching band, and a couple dozen embittered conservatives. Some of the students in front of Kimmel had come in support, but most were just there to see something happen. Their voices hoarse after twenty-eight hours' bloviation, the occupiers led the crowd in chants, while the rest of us waited for a massacre. &nbsp; The little siege had already had drama, but the swarms of police -- who gradually replaced all the NYU guards -- were, from outside our bubble, a nod from the administration saying, "Yes. Somebody you know did something worth taking notice of." Nobody actually wanted anyone to get hurt, but, with the same evil thrill that one feels whenever breaking news bulletins appear on CNN, the students looked hopefully for riot police. I wonder if the occupying students had the same itch. By yesterday morning the words of the people inside had taken on a uniform hopeful tone, as the administration's stonewalling congealed them into a solid, inseperable mass, like a vegan muffin. It's clear that their fear of the University is outweighed by a fear of missing out, of backing down and becoming the cowards that, for now, they are not. A nightstick scar on the elbow would be the ultimate souveneir. &nbsp;- W.M. Akers Just after the deadline passed, NYU Local's Charlie Eisenhood - who, for all his blog's sniping at the newspaper I work for, did an incredible job - reported "violence in the streets. People are actively fighting cops...ACTUAL riot in the street." He posted a video of people surging towards the barricades just west of the Kimmel doors, and from his vantage on the third floor balcony it looked like October, 1917. From where I was, a few feet behind the charging crowd, it was nothing but a little shouting and a shuffle of feet. I understand why he wanted something to happen. After all, we all wanted to see history last night - something memorable to take away from four expensive years - and it's not history until somebody gets hurt. By this morning their power and internet had been cut off, and nobody - not even press - was being allowed inside the building. By noon the barricades were down, and by one most of the protesters were out on the street, facing suspension twelve hours after the first deadline (Ed. note: around eighteen or so students are facing suspensions and loss of university housing). For all our desire to see something historic, only one question remains: is the dining hall open, and when can I have my white pizza? - W.M. Akers 
 &nbsp;- Columbia University Athletics Looking better each weekend, the Columbia men's basketball team won its third game in a row (and sixth in seven), holding off Brown 70-57. Junior guard Pat Foley scored a career-high 21 points, and freshman guard Noruwa Agho added 17 more, including 14 in the second half, to lead the team to an important victory at the start of a four-game, two-weekend road trip. Even more impressively, the Lions remain in strong contention for the Ivy League title. Tonight's win, combined with Cornell's loss at Yale, puts the Lions (6-3) only one game behind Cornell (7-2)&nbsp; in the standings, with five games left in the season. Although Cornell holds the tiebreaker by virtue of having beaten Columbia twice to start the year, the Big Red have lost two of their last three away games, and could easily stumble down the stretch. &nbsp; For the Lions, tomorrow night's game at Yale (5-4) will be critical; last time, at home, Columbia won 53-42 behind strong 2nd half defense and a double-double from forward Jason Miller. You can watch (yes, watch!) the action on the YES network tomorrow night at 7. - JCD 
 The cast of the 115th Varsity Show entered to raucous applause from the crowd of 100 packed into the back room of the West End (as it will forever remain, at least for V-Show purposes). Our host for the evening was this year's narrative patriarch, retiring Dean Austin Quigley, caught up in reading his own interview in Columbia College Today. After announcing that he would still be teaching, as well as being "Supreme Chancellor to the Committee on Tree Lightings" ("I can light a Yule log like nobody else") Dean Quigley (a delightfully posh Adam May Patrick Blute) took us to the first scene -- a SEAS sophomore (sophomore Nina Pedrad) in Butler on a Friday being annoyed by fellow "studiers." After getting snappy, she received the first Barnard joke of the night: "Do you need a hug? At Barnard, we hug." In Preview form, it wouldn't be the last. Fed up, the SEAS student returned to her dorm, only to have her floormates, expelled from broken-up parties, make her the subject of an exorcism. This not only led to the truest line of the night ("But we don't know how to have an exorcism." "We're Columbia students; we can bullshit anything!"), but also the most complex choreography, including a SEAS student being raised up Jesus Christ&nbsp;Superstar-style, and all the performers "doing the devil." The second storyline also had two numbers -- the first was&nbsp;a nostalgic duet between two frat brothers (Kendale Winbush and Adam May) over video games. The song had some good lines ("Talk is overrated, but what we've got is understated") and some fantastic dancing, but some of the jazzy harmonies may have been beyond the pair's vocal facility, and Bwog couldn't help feeling it was a Columbia version of "Guy Love." The second song and final number, though, might have been the show stopper: meet a P-Diddified Vincent Stephanzo (Yonatan Gebeyehu), throwing a party at Campo. There were economy jokes (Vincent: "You know how I know it's a recession? People say I look like a million! Dammit, I was worth 2 million yesterday!"), Barnard jokes (A Barnard cocktail -- "Goes down easy, but you'll regret it in the morning"), Core jokes ("Is your name Dante? Because it's an inferno in here") and that time-honored college classic -- the freshman joke, about three first-years who wander into the party promising themselves only one drink. Their "grande vermouth" drinks had them spinning in the kind of sloppy mess familiar to anyone who's stopped by Carman on a Friday night. A diminutive but dynamite Giselle Gastell, the cast's only '09 representative, played the ditzy first-year like only a senior can. Sure, the show milked familiar stereotypes -- Barnard bimbo, SEAS screamer, Brit prof, Frat Bro -- dulling our hopes for much in the way of a fresh new plot for this year's Varsity show. But the young cast beams talent, and they've got a few months to smooth out the rough edges. Until May then! - Review by JCD, LBD, and JYH, photos by LBD 
 &nbsp;Image courtesy of the Fed The latest issue of the Fed has found its way onto this, our World Wide Web. Everybody's still infatuated with Obama, satirists included.&nbsp; Following up on having found lust last issue, how to lose lust. One Fedster explains that love can be damaging. Another, that love can save your life. And, Columbia girls' worst date nightmare. 
 Good news for everyone feeling the&nbsp;dearth of sit-down Japanese:&nbsp; Tomo, is set to defy death and open, as originally postulated, in Swish's old spot at 2955 Broadway "in the next two weeks," according to that lovably-unpronounceable foodie zeitgeist, the Zagat Survey. The phones of both Tomo and Swish rang on ad infinitum, so Bwog can't confirm, and, therefore, is trying not to get its hopes up.&nbsp; Nevertheless, we can't help but wonder, could there be light at the end of this culinary tunnel? 
Bwog scavenger Eliza Shapiro spotted an interesting pair of discarded packets outside of John Jay last night: That makes three warning labels ignored.&nbsp; 
 Perhaps you've noticed the upsurge in&nbsp;would-be future Columbians on campus this past week; it's been difficult not to, since they seem to outnumber pigeons (if only Hawkma could provide us so simple a solution).&nbsp; Hordes of hopeful 2013s (and beyond!) are using their spring breaks to get acquainted with Alma, and Bwog has had reports of groups commiting gross human rights violations.&nbsp; "A tour guide opened my door without asking or knocking and then a good 40 people looked inside my room like I was some sort of zoo animal," reports freshman Rachel Allen.&nbsp; The silver lining?&nbsp; At least These Economic Times don't seem to have deterred high schoolers from considering Columbia.&nbsp; Go Lions! 
 Look out, sea turtles: scores of purple balloons are dotting campus to advertise tonight's Lunar Gala in Lerner. The airway-obstructing rubber orbs, scattered about like&nbsp;eggs from Alien, are inviting the curiosity of students, and those balloons that have not been popped (preferred method: a quick thrust of a mechanical pencil tip) bear the insignia of "Can't Stop Won't Stop," the theme selected by the Chinese Students Club for this year's Gala. Dinner, starting at 6 p.m., costs $10 (for $15 you can be a V.I.P.), and the "professional dance crew" Rhythmology begins their show at 7. Whether you're planning on attending or not, at least stick your head out your window to watch all the purple bobbing on the (nearly) warm breeze.&nbsp; Spring is coming, soon, we promise. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of The New York Times Last Saturday, Boris "Bob" Yavitz, who served eight years as the dean of Columbia Business School, died of prostate cancer.&nbsp; He was 85. After moving to the United States at 23, Yavitz earned two graduate degrees (in engineering and business) from Columbia and, after starting and managing his own development company, eventually became the dean of the Business School in 1975.&nbsp; Yavitz's leadership revamped the school, returning both its spirit and its prestige; after retiring from the position, he remained a beloved professor.&nbsp; In addition, he served as the director and deputy chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 1976 to 1982. 
 On Wednesday, our first batch of piping hot CCSC gossip stated that CQA head honcho Jeanette Clark had decided against running for senior class president. Now, insiders tell Bwog that Clark is running for a position, but it's not president. Instead, Clark has apparently accepted the VP slot on the ticket of musician/comedy writer/cartoonist Michael Molina. Molina's resume includes being a member of The Kitchen Cabinet, the first freshman to be in the Fruit Paunch as well as the Varsity Show, and a Spec cartoonist (in the interests of full disclosure, he's also been a Bwog "theater expert"). A small complication for the ticket: Molina is in London for the semester, and out-of-the-country tickets are not normally successful...at all. With Clark and Molina's powers combined, though, it could be the strongest outside challenge since that dude from Chicago. 
 Lunar Gala's show is still going on until 10, and the biggest acts are yet to come. But most importantly, if you needed an incentive to book it over to Lerner, they're handing out free Red Bull outside the entrance to Roone! Stock up now! Still, the culinary side hasn't been all fun and games - Bwog stumbled across a novel way to dump leftovers in the 5th floor bathroom. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; A second photo for those who aren't put off by Chinese food that looks like, but isn't vomit, after the jump. &nbsp; Now that's good eatin' - Photos by JYH and JNW 
 &nbsp;- Columbia University Athletics With a chance to make a real statement about contending for the Ivy League title, the men's basketball team stumbled in New Haven earlier tonight, falling 57-49 to Yale. Ahead by 9 early in the second half, the Lions immediately allowed a 20-4 run, and were unable to close the gap at the end. Junior guard Patrick Foley led the team in scoring for the second straight night, this time with 17 points. The loss drops the Lions (6-4) into a tie for second with Dartmouth (whom the Lions play next Saturday) and Yale. Cornell's win over Brown most likely puts the NCAA bid out of reach, though a stumbling Cornell could still lead to a joint league title (and an NIT berth). In addition to Dartmouth on the 28th, the Lions play Harvard next Friday, and then close out the season at home a week later against Penn and Princeton. 
 Columbians and their associates spent the last week expounding their well-honed opinions on everything.&nbsp; From the Core and finance we find ourselves traipsing across a vast field of subjects, much like Frontiers.&nbsp; Raised on words, we now present AltSpec: The Epic Narrative. &nbsp;Photo via phys.ufl.edu Bwog's favorite horn-rimmed glasses wearer Andrew Delbanco sounded off about pretty much everything in The Chronicle: The problem with Obama is the young people and their technical education, see (but Columbia has the Core!). Perhaps in protest, George Soros blamed "liberalization" for These Economic Times–at a private dinner at Columbia, fittingly.&nbsp; And, professors all over the country complained about us rotten kids getting survey course A's we don't deserve. They're all angry because finding parking around campus is near-impossible because of, you know, all those pesky students' imaginary cars everywhere&nbsp; But, fear not; Columbia is contracting out their parking services (yes, we have a valet) so Stephan can find a place for his Hummer. Parking that Hummer will reduce air pollution, that's for sure.&nbsp; But thanks to Columbia researchers, we now know that air pollution causes pre-natal genetic mutations.&nbsp; Blame your asthma on your pre-birth location. Hopefully your asthma won't lead you to take steroids.&nbsp; As a Columbian, your active sports life would be threatened, much like Barry Bonds'.&nbsp; Law professor Daniel Richman weighed in on the trial and all-or-nothing juries. It sounds like Bonds will need a new job one day. But, as a CU-sponsored panel decided, he won't find one in infrastructure–Obama's rural broadband plan may not work on the job creation front. However, rural broadband means more people can watch really new, shiny versions of classic cartoons.&nbsp; And if you can't handle all those videos, we've figured out a way to parse them all, too.&nbsp; Watch out, Youtube.&nbsp; (Right.) 
 &nbsp;Photo via Book of Face A capella groups are to college as semi-nude, older gentlemen are to Dodge on the weekends; they're unavoidable, ostentatious, and often unwelcome. Among the multitudinous a capella groups on campus, many are better known for their provocative recruitment posters than their performances.&nbsp; Every once in a while, however, a group makes us proud. Nonsequitur's website lists them as being known for, among other things, "looking generally attractive."&nbsp; Their hard work and natural charm paid off this weekend at Wellesley, where they took first place in the Northeast division quarterfinal in the International Championships of Collegiate A Capella (ICCA, and yes, that's a real organization).&nbsp; Not only that, but they earned the highest score of all twenty-four groups in the quarterfinals. Benjamin Velez, CC '10, won something extra special for his "outstanding arrangement" of a song for the group.&nbsp; In a month's time, they'll be visiting Boston again, but to meet our technically-enabled, differently-abled friends at MIT for the Northeast Semifinal, Capitalized for Importance. A tip of the hat to you, and good luck! 
 &nbsp;Image via gather.com Bwog Top Chef and Radiation Expert Jon Hill sauntered through Cafe 212 this morning to discover a new menu item: Stouffer's! No longer do you have to walk all the way to MoWi for your microwavable lasagna.&nbsp; Cafe 212 will buy it, microwave it, and serve it to you, all for the low, low price of $6.95.&nbsp; Mathematical wizards behind the scenes note that this is 43% more expensive than a grocery store if you consider raw ingredients alone, but around 90% cheaper if you include the cost of buying a microwave. If that's too expensive for your recession-drained budget, consider the following free food options.&nbsp; CQA and Club Zamana are hosting a live Oscar viewing party in Roone tonight at 8:00 PM and there will be snacks abound.&nbsp; If, after an hour of watching what seems like an endless loop of applause and bad music, you tire, consider Community Impact's "Blue Bash Study Break" in Carman tonight at 9:00 PM.&nbsp; Its "blue snacks" are for freshmen only, but you're clever enough to sneak in.&nbsp; Show your CI spirit and win stuff.&nbsp; We presume wearing your favorite CSI tshirt and covering up the "S" will suffice. 
 c. 1998 | Photo via CU Record Professor Emeritus Alfred Kahn passed away Friday before last in Hackensack at the age of 90.&nbsp; He taught at the School of Social Work for fifty-seven years, starting in 1947. He was the first to earn a doctorate in social welfare from the school in 1952 and spent his career monitoring the social programs of New York City and New York State. Kahn was particularly interested in child welfare and was frequently consulted by government agencies and non-profits.&nbsp; He later expanded his field of work to include poverty and its roots causes. He is survived by his daughter and two siblings. 
 Image via bittenandbound.com It's a sign of the times: parents have kids to figure our their technology for them. A student talking on a cell phone outside Roone earlier this week: "I don't think Rachael Ray sells microwaves. ... Just Google "Rachael Ray microwave" ... I don't think you understand- you can Google anything! ... There's no penalty for Google-ing stupid things." Actually, they do make a Rachael Ray microwave.&nbsp; Cooks everything in thirty minutes, whether you like it or not. 
Veritas is on campus this week; here's your list of things to do. &nbsp;Image via Earth Institute Monday Sachs Lecture: Entitled "Promoting Global Understanding of Sustainable Development," it's really just an opportunity to hear the man speak for two hours.&nbsp; 4:00 PM @ Journalism Lecture Hall. Affirmative Action: The CU Dems and Republicans face off.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Roone Cinema. Tuesday God and Morality: Eisenbach is back, this time with Dr. William Lane Craig from the Talbot School of Theology.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Roone Auditorium. Wednesday Stiglitz on Owning Science: Scientific, economic, and legal perspectives on the effect on global health of private ownereship.&nbsp; 6:30 PM @ Davis Aud, CEPSR. Friday CCSC Iron Chef: Teams of students battle it out in a competition to make the most college-friendly food.&nbsp; 5:00 PM @ Party Space. 
Bwog Daily Editor and Fervent Snazzy Attire Supporter Julia Mix Barrington stopped by the Spectator's Blue Pencil Dinner last night.&nbsp; The keynote speaker was Dean Baquet, former editor-in-chief of The Los Angeles Times, who currently works for The New York Times. &nbsp;Dean Baquet | Image via huffingtonpost.com The Blue Pencil Lecture -- an evening of opportunities for the Spectator to dress up nice and fancy&nbsp; -- held last night in Low was quite a ritzy affair.&nbsp; Walking into the lecture room, an energetic Spec photographer snapped a picture of me and my friends; alumni, some quite prominent indeed, abounded.&nbsp; The keynote speaker, Dean Baquet, currently works as the Washington Bureau Chief at the New York Times and has previously served as that paper's national editor and as the managing editor and editor of the Los Angeles Times.&nbsp; He spoke about the future, and charm, of journalism as a craft. Baquet repeatedly encouraged his audience -- the majority of which seemed to be bloodthirsty recent graduates seeking to make names for themselves at major papers (in Q&amp;A, they name dropped the Wall Street Journal, the Washington Post, New York Post, and the New York Times, to name a few) -- about the joy involved in covering and creating news.&nbsp; If you can steer away from careerism, Baquet said again and again, the job will bring you "loads of fun," "adventure," and "travel": in short, you'll "have a blast." If, however, he warned, you enter the field with burning ambition and a weak moral compass, journalism won't be any fun at all.&nbsp; He illustrated this point with an anecdote:&nbsp; while covering a rape trial for a small paper in his hometown of New Orleans, Baquet composed an "unfair" and untrue story about the defendant in order to see his name on the front page.&nbsp; He mentioned feeling "proud" of himself until, naturally, the man he'd slandered (and that man's lawyer) called him out and his conscience made him feel bad about it.&nbsp; From then on, he said, he has always tried to act with integrity and not simply for personal gain. Aside from encouraging budding newspaper men and women to write from their hearts, Baquet filled the lecture with personal and professional stories–everything from the Times Picayune's inspiring post-Katrina reporting to a time George Tenet tried to silence a story the L.A. Times was going to run because it would be "bad for the War on Terror."&nbsp; Baquet has really worked his way up the ladder, from dropping out of Columbia (where he clarified, he did not write for the Spec) to sweeping floors for his hometown newspaper (he "fell in love" with the field, he said) to sitting at the big desk in Los Angeles and New York; he suggested that aspiring reporters do the same.&nbsp; Baquet disparaged college kids who assert that there are only three papers (that is, I believe, the Journal, the Times or the Post) for whom it's worth it to do your first internship.&nbsp; Looking around the room, it seemed, though, that Baquet was unknowingly addressing a group of just that sort of kids, only these kids were a few years out of college and had already landed those cherished internships. It's unclear whether Baquet or the young alumni were right–whether in this day and age it's naive to assume you can work your way from, say, the Daily Hampshire Gazette to the Big Desk in the Big City–but his way certainly sounds like more fun than a high-heeled, high-stress, highly-competitive major-paper internship.&nbsp; With his lecture still on my mind, this morning I called up my local paper to ask how I could apply for one of their internships.&nbsp; Maybe if it worked for Dean Baquet, it will work for me, too. 
 The weekly CCSC meeting began with a rousing singing of Happy Birthday for the members with February birthdays, and the distribution of free M2M coconut wafers. In a textbook case of crossed wires, a birthday cake appeared five minutes later (with trick candles! Teehee!), and a second round of Happy Birthday singing ensued... On the "inky newsprint" front, Student Services Representative Aaron Edmonds talked about a possible program that would increase the number of free newspapers available on campus from one to three (though one would have to be USA Today). Currently, CCSC provides 600 copies of the New York Times, which cost $5280 for fall semester. The program would also potentially include swipe access for the papers so that only CC students (whose Student Life fees are supporting the papers) could take them. Apparently, many of the free copies in Lerner are currently snapped up by Lerner administrators (for whom tuition checks clearly aren't large enough). Elections Board Head James Bogner then presented an elections update, including a new website, two more interest meetings between now and March 6th (both Wednesdays at 8 p.m.), and, most importantly, changing the voting system to an instant-runoff system. The instant-runoff system would allow voters to rank candidates by preference, and then chooses a winner by eliminating the least preferred, and adding that candidate's votes to the voters' second choice. The system is currently used by many countries, including Australia ("I'm not sure why I chose Australia," said Bogner), and by many other universities, including Harvard, Dartmouth, and MIT. In alcohol news, CC 2009 President Mark Johnson stressed the importance of the council acting as a "mediator," and reminded everyone who had not already read the alcohol policy to do so. VP for Policy Adil Ahmed announced that CCSC would be collecting stories about broken-up parties, as a way of presenting a better case to the administration. As for the most pressing alcohol-related issue, Johnson told the council that a decision on 40s on 40 has been reached, but "it is still unofficial." He then declined to comment about it further, with a meaningful look at Bwog in the back of the room. - JCD 
 Take a kidney, leave a kidney You can't afford to live anywhere after graduation...except 10 blocks from campus? Men's basketball loses at Yale, women's basketball wins at Brown, but schools without Core Curricula always lose! It's great being a young intellectual and all, but sometimes it sucks when you Wikipedia your favorite authors and find out that they were racist pedophiles Meta alert! Without knowing it, Bwog asserted that "all intellectual discourse is essentially a repackaging of someone else's old ideas." Here at Bwog, we've always got something up our sleeve! 
 &nbsp;-Photo via NYULocal Ah, to think it was only a few days ago that TBNYU's tame "Study Breakdown" turned into a full-out riot(ous dance party in a cafeteria). Hey, we know about that student mutiny stuff around here, right? You can relive the 36 hours that changed everything, all liveblogged&nbsp;(except when the guy writing it all down went to sleep) by the dedicated team at NYULocal. The whole shabang was over by lunch on Friday, when everyone involved (except four revolutionary stragglers) had left Kimmel's 3rd floor, presumably for a Marlboro Light break. In the days since the quasi-revolution, no arrests have been made, some TBNYU-ers lost their housing, and everyone got made fun of a lot. And just when you thought it was done: there's a rally outside Kimmel today at noon for all those who feel inclined to support TBNYU members as they face possible disciplinary action at the hands of the Man. Also, they probably want their dorms back. Now that's something worth protesting. - ECS 
 A new year means a new session of CUAssassins. Assassins reports for those unlucky souls who have been "killed" since the game began on Saturday at midnight are beginning to filter in from the front (aka "everywhere"). Among the lessons learned from the first batch of kill reports: Agent "Cinnamon"&nbsp; learned "Never say, 'come in!!!'" and Agent "Potato" learned "CU democrats meetings arent so safe afterall..." But the best kill report (so far) is of course the most extensive: Agent "iPod" was tragically killed while eating at Ollie's, with his nameless assassin reporting that "Guilt, panic and utter shame warred on his increasingly suffused complexion. The realization of the irony of his own comments while eating, "I don't want to be the first to die..." His last words before departure were, "Thanks for ruining my entire second semester." A little bit dramatic, but it made me feel good." Keep 'em coming, would-be 47s. 
 Housing buzz began this afternoon in earnest when prospective Living-Learning Center residents were emailed acceptance and rejection letters from Scott Helfrich, the Associate Director of Residential Programs. Helfrich, the man who determines the fates of rising sophomores determined not to end up in the McBain shaft and a few juniors and seniors who presumably just like being close to Hamilton, sent out emails at 4 PM today. Congratulations to all those who have gained entrance to Hartley or Wallach a few days before everyone else has to apply for a lottery number. Online room selection begins on Thursday and lottery numbers are posted online on March 24. The full nerve-wracking housing calendar can be found here. The 2009 housing lottery: get ready to go back on all your promises! 
 Why didn't you think of this first?&nbsp; Six CC '09 gentlemen who met on their pre-Orientation COOP trip have started a blog from their EC townhouse. Designed with a bright red hue to echo their townhouse's decoration ("as if McDonald's built a ski chalet"). Casting reformed gender norms to the wind, the group has chosen the title of "The Mansuite," an epithet for the group that existed long before the blog. Updated often (for now, at least), the Mansuite blog boasts a photo album with rotating shots of recent parties the bro-consortium has hosted. One such photo, which depicts the archetypal scene of a frenzied and cramped college party, is the permanent bottom banner of the site. Previous posts have included documentation of the Mansuiters' $450 spending sprees treks at the 125th Street Fairway and of scooter rides down the Lerner ramps. It is unclear where the idea to start the blog came from, but in a short play one member (who would only go by the alias of "Colin Drummond") wrote for Bwog in an attempt to link Mansuite back to its roots, the member wrote of a fallen scooter, upturned risotto bowl, puddle of spilled wine and a freeze frame of Gossip Girl forming the letters B-L-O-G. If this description is any indication, the Mansuite is certainly worth a read. - ECS 
 &nbsp;- Image via Gothamist Last September, we reported that PrezBo made a cool $1.4 million in Fiscal Year 2007, and in November we learned that that number ranked him third among all university presidents in the country. Sounds respectable, right? Well, maybe not: it turns out that Fearless Leader still is not the highest paid university employee. No, that honor once again goes to dermatology professor Dr. David Silvers, who received $4.3 million in compensation in FY 2007, second in the country only to some dude who draws arrows on blackboard for a living (USC head football coach Pete Carroll, who received $4.4 million for winning two national championships and being on national TV way pretty much every Saturday in the fall). This is at least the fourth year in a row that Silvers has been Columbia's highest paid employee, and he's making it count: according to the Daily News, as of last year "he owns a $1.3 million Tribeca apartment, a Park Ave. home and a $1 million pad in Southampton." Three houses - why, that's more than Dr. Zizmor! Maybe he can spare a dime. - JCD 
 Intrepid Lecture Hopper Anna Kelner headed to Philosophy this blustery February evening to hear Joyce Carol Oates speak about the process of revision, a part of The Creative Writing Lecture Series at the School of the Arts.&nbsp; The cups of wine, the plaid, the audience taking notes on Moleskine journals: the School of Arts clearly hosted the Joyce Carol Oates: Revision lecture, a talk geared towards graduate students laboring over their Ulysses. As a second-year fiction student introduced Oates rattled off the author’s many accomplishments--she has published over fifty novels, plays, and collections of poetry and essays, is the Roger S. Berlind ’52 Professor in the Humanities with the Program in Creative Writing at Princeton, and has been nominated for the Pulitzer and the Nobel Prizes multiple times--a clear affinity between Oates and her literary listeners emerged. Oates acknowledged her specialized audience when she opened by admitting conspiratorially that, “being writers, we love to talk about craft.”&nbsp; Far from discussing her famed penchant for the modern Gothic novel, Oates spoke about her craft itself, stressing the importance of uninhibited writing.&nbsp; She works as quickly as possible to “get everything out” in longhand, preferably on an airplane.&nbsp; With her trademark humor, Oates led her audience through her mental process; “I’m looking out to see if the flames have started on the wings of the plane yet” she quips, “and they aren’t quite visible yet, and then I think, 'I’ll finish this chapter before the plane crashes.'” Oates also shared a chapter detailing Ernest Hemingway’s suicide from her collection Wild Nights, which features stories about the deaths of writers like Edgar Allen Poe and Emily Dickinson.&nbsp; The excerpt, fraught with descriptions that penetrate Hemingway’s ravished body and turbulent thoughts, demonstrated the benefits of Oates’ intuitive writing style.&nbsp; The author claimed that writing is “trying to express what is inexpressible”; by capturing Hemingway’s final, desperate moments, she “tried to express what he couldn’t." The audience demonstrated their literary know-how during the question and answer, when many students asked Oates to expand on the specifics of her loose writing process.&nbsp; Even after professing her admiration for Hemingway, the king of terse sentences and buried meaning, she encouraged students to abandon their self-conscious style and reveal their true selves on the page.&nbsp; Oates sounded as though she was lecturing a class of her own students when she cautioned, “the fear of being sentimental, the fear of being too obvious, is a fear writing students have.&nbsp; I say, be self-evident, be obvious, and we’ll tell you if you’re being too obvious.” &nbsp;&nbsp; Oates ended on the same intimate note by leaving her listeners with humor rather than further sage advice. “When I walked in and saw the full room, I was shocked,” she said.&nbsp; “I thought everyone would have the sense to stay home on such a cold night.” 
 Late-breaking news out of Satow tonight, as SEAS '09 president Kim Manis announced at the ESC weekly meeting that 40s on 40 could be replaced with a senior barbeque. Details will not be finalized until another meeting between adminstrators and students tomorrow night, but Manis reported that "although details are still being worked out, alcohol would still be provided." CC '09 President Mark Johnson, who declined to go into specifics at last night's CCSC meeting, told Bwog that "after our final meeting tomorrow evening we should be able to provide reliable and confirmed information on any replacement event." If things hold, maybe seniors can still shout "hooray, beer!" - JCD, with reporting by SVZ 
 The Interdisciplinary Science Building: One big interdisciplinary lovefest. PrezBo cops to long-simmering desire to merge with Harlem. We chose Columbia for its passion. Then we read Herodotus. College Democrats and College Republicans debate affirmative action&nbsp;and get everybody all riled up. Does the ability to make babies preclude the ability to make a spaceship? (Spoiler: No.) 
 James Hansen spoke out against global warming twenty years ago. Now he's raising a (peaceful)&nbsp;army.&nbsp;Hansen, head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and an adjunct professor at Columbia's Earth and Environmental Sciences Department, has issued an invitation to "the largest mass civil disobedience for the climate in U.S. history."&nbsp;On Monday, March 2, Capitol Climate Action will&nbsp;stage a non-violent demonstration at "Washington D.C.'s Capitol Power Plant." The demand: stronger action on the climate crisis from the new president.&nbsp; The CCA's website doesn't give specifics, but it suggests participants carry at least $50 at all times. That's the minimum cost to bail yourself out of jail for activist-related civil disobedience in our capital city. Those who'd prefer not to demonstrate can attend the rally beforehand, or any one of the many events of Power Shift 09, the weekend-long youth climate conference preceding the march. Consider it the most civic-minded midterm-week study break you'll ever see. 
Jeffrey Sachs is everywhere lately, including in his own dreams. An anonymous Facebook-loving tipster has sent in this screenshot, in which Sachs says publicly what we've all been thinking: He's a fan! Good for him for being honest! It's&nbsp;nice to see that not all professors have been scared away from the internet. 
 Housing Lottery registration is only two days away, and yet, as several commenters and tipsters have noted, 2008-09 cutoff histories still have not been uploaded to Housing's website. What gives? Bwog phoned Housing and Dining, and was told to check the website "in the next few days." Then again, the lottery bulletin board has had a post marked "informative" since the 13th saying "Cutoff History for 2008-09 will be posted on the housing website soon." Furthermore, one Bwogger has been emailing Housing for a month, and "they kept emailing me back saying "check later this week."&nbsp; As of late they've just been ignoring my emails." So forgive us if we're skeptical of "the next few days," but we'll post as soon as your guide for your new housing groups becomes available. 
 As reported last night, the major story out of&nbsp;Monday night's&nbsp;ESC meeting was the potential replacement of 40s on 40 with a BBQ (albiet one with alcohol). But&nbsp;alcohol&nbsp;was not the only topic of the&nbsp;meeting, the last before ESC begins its annual constitutional review. The 2009 class council announced that the last SEAS fireside chat was canceled because not enough people registered for the lottery. The dean's office is working with the council to make the chats more appealing: one suggestion (no doubt taken from&nbsp;months of reading Bwog)&nbsp;is to add free food to the equation by&nbsp;holding the events at local restaurants, and lowering the number of attendees to make the event more intimate.&nbsp;&nbsp; Happy news for 3-2 students, however: the council is investigating adding printing in Carlton Arms (the dorm for 4th year 3-2 students), or giving students access to nearby dorms to print there. As of now, students residing in Carlton Arms, located at 108th and Riverside, are required to come onto campus to print. In other booze news, the council is working with housing to enable students to register parties where alcohol will be served. This is Barnard's current policy, and lessens the consequences suffered by the host if the party is broken up.&nbsp; Finally, the most hilarious moment of the meeting came when it was mentioned that GSSC now has&nbsp;nine vacant positions. How this is possible went unexplained. - JCD and SVZ 
 &nbsp;- Photo via The Harlem Eye Ten days ago, student activists and the Columbia administration clashed over the 125th Street establishment Floridita, as the university intervened to kill a NY1 story about the restaurant's fight with Floridita owner Ramon Diaz. The university claimed to still be in negotiations with Diaz over the termination of his lease (thanks to eminent domain), while Diaz claimed that the university had not negotiated with him since the fall. After reviewing the evidence, it looks like NY1 isn't buying what Columbia's selling: according to SCEG organizer Andrew Lyubarsky, NY1 has decided to run a story after all, "tenatively scheduled for Thursday morning" about both the restaurant and the students defending it, including an interview with Diaz. SCEG activists, not to be outdone, presented a petition to the administration earlier this evening, asking "that Mr. Diaz’s current lease be honored until its legal expiration in 2015, regardless of whether or not the ESDC has the right to utilize eminent domain to terminate it prematurely, unless the termination is by mutual agreement with Mr. Diaz" and that you accommodate the Floridita restaurant either within the expansion footprint or in a neighborhood site agreeable to him under reasonably and mutually-agreed upon terms." Activism - it never ceases! Full petition (and the letter presenting it) after the jump. Dear Ms. Fountain, Please find enclosed to this email a formal written petition to the administration on behalf of the students who attended the event at Floridita Restaurant on Saturday, February 14th.&nbsp; These are only the student attendees from that event, and we have not circulated the petition widely. We plan to collect more signatures/undertake other actions if these concerns are not addressed. We believe this to be an important story, and, as you likely know, Mr. Diaz and the students will be the subject of a NY1 story this week. It is our opinion that if Columbia wishes to resolve this conflict with Mr. Ramon Diaz quickly, there is a relatively simple solution. Mr. Diaz is obviously concerned that his receipt of the letter from ESDC informing him that Block 1995, Lot 31 (which is the property that contains Floridita restaurant) constitutes a threat that he will simply lose his lease if Columbia decides, for whatever reason of its own, that it does not suit its institutional interests to accommodate Floridita. As you can imagine, the university’s repeated refusal to comment publicly on the letter only aggravates such fears on his part. If the university is willing to send him an official letter or make an official statement to the effect that, provided Floridita remains a tenant in good standing, the university guarantees that it will not seek to terminate the business’s lease early except in the context of a mutually agreeable relocation deal within a reasonable distance from the expansion area, we are confident that this issue has been resolved. In fact, such a stance can be inferred from your public statements, but since none of them offer any kind of guarantee for Floridita, even if they remain a tenant in good standing, from our perspective they are tantamount to nothing. I would also like to reiterate SCEG’s position that you are misrepresenting reality when you and other university spokespeople claim that you have been meeting with Mr. Diaz regularly to address these issues. In the Spectator article on 02/16/09, Ms. Victoria Benitez claims that “We have met with Mr. Diaz on numerous occasions since October 2008. When the long-term plan for this former industrial area requires the space we will engage in discussions regarding relocations. ... That conversation seems premature at this stage, but we are certainly prepared to have that conversation in time as well.” We understand that you personally have made similar claims in emails to students and in conversations with NY1. Mr. Diaz informs us that the only Columbia officials he has met with since October 2008 are facilities employees concerned with repairs on his roof and an issue relating to an open construction permit – in other words, issues that are immaterial and unrelated to the concerns that students have been raising. While it is certainly the prerogative of the Office of Government and Community Affairs to continue to state otherwise, we will continue to tell the media that we believe this to be a lie. We do not necessarily demand a meeting on this issue as we believe that we have made our position clear and that the solution to this conflict is relatively simple. However, if there is a desire from the administration to meet about this issue, we certainly would be willing to put together a meeting at a mutually agreeable time. The text of the petition is below: Dear Mr. Phil Silverman and Ms. Laverna Fountain, We, the undersigned, as students of Columbia University, are extremely disappointed at the tactics employed by the university in its negotiations with Mr. Ramon Diaz, owner of Floridita restaurant, located on 3297 Broadway, in the expansion footprint for the planned Manhattanville campus. We are signing this to confirm attendance at an event on Saturday, February 14th, 2009 in support of Mr. Diaz. It is our understanding that you made verbal promises to accommodate Mr. Diaz in or around the expansion site and used his support to justify the university’s plans in West Harlem, only to turn around and begin claiming that the university has no responsibility to include his business. On your website, you claim that “we at Columbia University take pride in our community and embrace opportunities to give back to the neighborhood we call home.” Floridita is a community institution that has served this neighborhood since 1965, and your treatment of the restaurant is inconsistent with your stated ideals. As such, we demand: 1) That Mr. Diaz’s current lease be honored until its legal expiration in 2015, regardless of whether or not the ESDC has the right to utilize eminent domain to terminate it prematurely, unless the termination is by mutual agreement with Mr. Diaz 2) That you accommodate the Floridita restaurant either within the expansion footprint or in a neighborhood site agreeable to him under reasonably and mutually-agreed upon terms. &nbsp; 
 Ah, memories of when money grew on trees: a study by the Council for Aid to Education determined that Columbia raised $495.11 million in Fiscal Year 2008, an increase of 17% over FY 2007, good for third in the country. The only two schools to raise more money than Columbia? Stanford ($785.04 million) and Harvard ($650.63 million).&nbsp; Overall, the 1,052 institutions in the report raised $31.6 billion, an increase of 6.2%. However, that number may be the last increase for several years, as Ann Kaplan, the director of the study, told the Wall Street Journal that many institutions "hit a wall" at the start of the year. Kaplan also predicts that the new year could see the steepest year-to-year decline in decades. So if you see one of these people, consider giving them a hug. Seeing Manhattanville in your lifetime could depend on it. - JCD 
 Wow, this theatre is beautiful. It kind of reminds me of the Great Depression. Wow, you mean there are actually "recession specials" being offered at local stores and restaurants? In my day we had to hike 15 miles in the snow to the nearest Walmart for those special prices. Remember what your life was like before that incredibly flawed, uselessly HTML-ridden thing called Courseworks? Us neither. No, really - when I was your age, Shrek was a movie! 
 - Photo by LDP It seems that Nussbaum will not be accepting your CUID as payment for breakfast this morning, so best go start looking for that 5-spot in your other jeans.&nbsp; According to the nice people behind the counter, this was not an act of Flex-deserting a la everywhere else, but a simple case of a broken machine. Unfortunately, no information is available on when (or *gasp* whether) the machine will be fixed.&nbsp; Here's to a quick recovery, Nussbaum Flex, and to daddy paying for that bagel. 
 Just a few days after the start of the beloved ESC festival of waterguns, over one third of the agents have been officially as dead as Empanada Joe's, and CUAssassins is starting to get nasty.&nbsp; Less violent but just as serious as the war in the street is the competition between killers for the best kill report. Since our first look at them, the reports have only gotten more and more entertaining, sophisticated, and zing-y. One of Bwog's favorites is even quite lyrical: Deceased: rosestitos Time of Death: Tuesday, February 24 at 05:12 PM Location of Death: 114th between Broadway and Amsterdam Summary of Death: I saw da Raj I killed da Raj I put his dead body in ma garage Though few others attempted rhyme, also vying for the position of most poetic report is a more sophisticated stripe of snark Deceased: Eleanor Time of Death: Monday, February 23 at 09:34 PM Location of Death: Outside of Havemeyer Hall Summary of Death: We lay in wait for this great dame. We sent him to the Whitehouse in the sky. Close to half of the killers chose to make their report original and quirky by poking fun at their victim's agent name - some more colorfully than others Deceased: BAMF Time of Death: Monday, February 23 at 09:37 PM Location of Death: Broadway Summary of Death: When a BAMF gets PW3ND, does it make a sound? Also well represented was the classic secret-agent/cop show/Keifer Sutherland rendition of events Deceased: The Fisheater Time of Death: Sunday, February 22 at 10:17 PM Location of Death: 111th and Amsterdam Summary of Death: 7:37pm- Target found leaving Ruggles and going down Amsterdam. Recon sent and backup requested, immediately. 7:42pm- Recon reports on target's location: Mexican food place. between 108th and 107th. 7:44pm- Backup arrives; camps at 108th. Recon watches across the street. Squad leader camps at 107th. 8:03pm Target leaves food place. Recon alerts squad members. Target passes our locations and Squad leader and backup converge behind. 8:06 Target eliminated. Civilian casualty due to misidentification: 1 And the gangsta-rap variety Deceased: The Godfather Time of Death: Wednesday, February 25 at 03:49 AM Location of Death: Outside of Hartley Computer Lab Summary of Death: They shootin'! -- Aw made you look You a slave to a page in my rhyme book Gettin' Big/"big" money, playboy your time's up Where them gangstas? Where them dimes at? Many advised their victims to essentially be less stupid Deceased: the lead pipe Time of Death: Monday, February 23 at 05:10 PM Location of Death: outside John Jay Summary of Death: You shouldn't socialize with other team members in public... Then end. F&#237;n. And of course, the winner of the sweet-and-simple contest Deceased: Tangerine Time of Death: Monday, February 23 at 09:45 PM Location of Death: Broadway 5 Summary of Death: Easy For all the kill reports, statistics, and rules of the game, check out the ESC CUAssassins main page. 
 - Photo courtesy of Rob Stenson Even without any recent appearances from our dear avian friend, the Hawkmadinebwog soldiers on. Check out the latest posts. Pretty red cardinals snuggle in the nooks of St. Paul's chapel to stay warm. NYC bird guru Yojimbot and Hawk blog editor Courtney Doud see tons of cool birds in the neighborhood. In installment 2 of their adventures, Yojimbot reveals that our Hawkma(s?) may also go by the name "the cathedral pair," and we should hope for Hawkma-lings! And Walt Whitman on the ways of bird love, to impress that special someone. 
 &nbsp;- Photo by CEE Spotted outside of Carman: a flowering forsythia! The shrub, native to Asia, is known for its early flowering, considered a sign of spring. Even if the weather outside remains frightful, then, cheer up! Warmth may be just around the corner. 
 &nbsp;- Photo by CEE Bwog Theism Bureau Chief James Downie grabbed a stiff plastic chair in Roone Arledge for the first Veritas Forum event. The second event will be tonight at 8:00 PM in Miller Theater.&nbsp; The third event, which includes Matisyahu, will take place tomorrow at 7:00 PM in Miller Theater.&nbsp; The evening began on an odd note, after the moderator, Professor David Eisenbach, remembered that he had a new television show coming out. Called "Beltway Unbuckled," and appearing on the History Channel in March, Eisenbach asked the attendees to watch the pilot,&nbsp; promising that "you'll never look at Abraham Lincoln the same way again." The audience groaned at the image. The evening's question was "Is God Necessary for Morality?" and the first speaker, Yale philosophy professor Shelly Kagan, argued no. Kagan instead posited that a self-sufficient morality can be constructed from basic rational desires, such as helping rather than harming others. As to why the belief that evil is wrong is so strong, and where that strength comes from, he admitted that atheist philosophers disagree on answers. Some believe in social contracts between people, others suppose a veil of ignorance, but, more importantly, there is some rational basis under all of it - "the rules of morality are an objective fact, what philosophers refer to as categorical." Contemporary Civ references would only increase as the night went on. His opponent, Talbot School of Theology professor William Lane Craig, then took the floor, and began by defining morality: "if by morality you mean certain patterns of action, then no, but if you mean certain things are truly good and certain things are truly bad, then many atheists and theists agree that God is necessary." Craig argued that without God, then neither objective moral values, moral duties, nor moral accountability exist. Without God, there is no basis for objective values, and humans in fact have no moral worth. Morality under the atheist view, according to Craig, has only biological worth, and is effectively an illusion, "jerks of sensory perceptions, nothing truly moral. "If life ends at the grave," he declared, "then it makes no difference whether you live as a Stalin or as a Mother Teresa. There is no objective reason why man should do anything, save for the pleasure it affords him." One almost expected Epicurus to come out shouting, "SEE! I WAS RIGHT!" The Q&amp;A session broke down into two parts: the debaters asking each other questions, and audience questions read out by Eisenbach.&nbsp; Craig asked Kagan: what fundamentally separates human morality from animal morality if there is no larger, God-fueled significance. Kagan replied that "it's becuase we can appreciate and reflect upon the reasons why it's harming people," but Craig suggested that that meaning is self-created, and has no substantive value. Kagan, for his part, took issue with Craig's equation of ethics being illusory with deeper meaning being illusory. Craig said that, "on a naturalistic view, everything is destined to destruction, and in light of that end, it's hard to understand how our choices have any moral significance." But Kagan remained confused, saying "it does not matter to me whether my actions have larger significance; what matters is that they mean something to me!" The audience questions, though, saw two interesting points of agreement: first, when asked why humans so often fail, both agreed to a basic concept of sin and human fallibility. Kagan even suggested "more moral education" as a way of improving the social contract. Second, the pair agreed that some societies are more morally advanced than others, with Kagan comparing it to some societies being more scientifically advanced than others. But the evening concluded by once again demonstrating the debate's fundamental circularity, with Craig repeating that the removal of God removes any substantive value to human morality, and Kagan saying that such cosmic value is not necessary, and human rationality produces a true morality on its. Like so many debates, the answers were hung on interpreting a word in the question, and in this case the interpretation seemed only justified by the debaters' answers. Nevertheless, the 90 minutes saw a sharp, but never too heated conflict between the speakers, and the Roone audience certainly went home intellectually sated. Especially the Contemporary Civ buffs. 
 Two free food opportunities tonight, giving you the chance to both fill your stomach and get a job. In Earl Hall at 7, SGB, the Center for Career Education, and the Barnard Office of Career Development are hosting a "Civic Engagement Networking Night," with free food for attendees. Confirmed employers include Habitat for Humanity, the New York Attorney General's Office, and Teach for America, and Bwog's been told that there'll be alumni such as former CCSC and Dems head Seth Flaxman, CC '07. And speaking of CCSC, the first of two final info sessions for potential candidates will be held at 8 in the Lerner 5th Floor Club Space. For those with a different career path in mind, Club Zamana is hosting an "Alternative Career Fair" in the Satow Room, also at 7. Careers discussed include "Arts and Entertainment, Business Strategy and Development, Culinary Arts, and Advocacy and Non-Profit," and, more importantly, "refreshments will be served." 
 Earlier today when the entire senior class opened an email entitled &#65533;How to increase the value of your diploma and not spill your beer,&#65533; they found a link to a most ridiculous YouTube video produced by Senior Fund. The video chronicles the misfortunes of Mitch, the student full of excuses not to donate to Senior Fund. Mitch is followed by over-the-shoulder readers as he attempts to read the Iliad (as all students must in their senior year at Columbia) and can't get through the locked door to the Bulter stacks because (as the sign says) learning is for generous souls only. Mitch is even denied a frat boy beer to match is bro haircut and dirty t-shirt.&nbsp; In the last scene he pours (ahem, spills) a lot of beer on himself while a student who has donated pours herself a Natty Ice in a sophisticated tapered &#65533;Senior Fund 09&#65533; beer glass. Of course, all those who have donated to Senior Fund wear little printed tags to designate them as such. As if the original footage isn&#65533;t goofy and awkward enough, incredibly low-tech black and white &#65533;did you know&#65533;&#65533; fun-facts screens appear in between scenes. Of course, one reminds viewers that the 1$ you are encouraged to donate to Senior Fund will help offset the dip in Columbia&#65533;s endowment. Bwog would be fascinated to know how many of you are more likely to donate to Senior Fund now that you have been duly threatened with beer-spillage. - ECS 
 Yesterday, we noted that the 2008-09 housing cutoffs remained unposted, and shared our skepticism that they'd be up in time for the start of registration tomorrow. Credit where credit is due, though: Housing called our bluff, and the housing cutoffs are now posted.&nbsp; As for what the numbers say: Broadway exterior singles and Ruggles were more in demand (although the former has cycled from year to year), while River continued to dip in popularity. Of course, whether those trends continue is anybody's guess - that's why it's called a lottery. - JCD 
 Today's Spec is all about reliving the biggest hits of 2001-2002. For Morningside Heights and Mary J. Blige, it's still a family affair. It looks like seniors will need Pink's help to get the party started. Columbia professors say, when it comes to intellectual property rights, just push play. You should turn off the lights to see this movie. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo Via the New York Times Although Core-crunched Columbians may not realize it, collegiate study of the humanities has suffered through an acute downturn, with fewer and fewer undergrads opting for degrees in the liberal arts. In a recent Times article, Professor Andrew Delbanco, who has had a lot to say about education as of late, put in his two cents on the subject. “Although people in humanities have always lamented the state of the field, they have never felt quite as much of a panic that their field is becoming irrelevant,”&nbsp; he told the Times. But fear not, Delbanco adds, for the humanites have a savior: Barack Obama. “He does something academic humanists have not been doing well in recent years...He makes people feel there is some kind of a common enterprise, that history, with its tragedies and travesties, belongs to all of us.” Our newish President will have to add saving academia to his to-do list, right after staving off economic collapse. -DJB &nbsp; 
 &nbsp;- Via the Cornell Chronicle An hour ago, Spec was forwarded an email from Dean Kevin Shollenberger announcing that Cornell Vice-Provost for Undergraduate Education Michele Moody-Adams will be the next Dean of the College. Moody-Adams, who will replace the retiring Dean Austin Quigley, will be the first woman to hold the post. Moody-Adams (whose last name punsters will have a field day with) was also the founder of Cornell's Program on Ethics and Public Life, where her study included "moral relativism, moral objectivity, and moral psychology." Perhaps she'll be able to ethically justify raiding your room. On more controversial issues, Moody-Adams has not shied away from giving her opinions: just two weeks ago, she joined several other professors in "co-sponsoring" an Islamic Alliance for Justice protest consisting of signs and 1300 flags representing dead Palestinians and Israelis in the recent Gaza conflict. Eight years ago, she told the audience at a teach-in one week after the 9/11 attacks that "vengeance is not the answer," and suggested a multilateral approach to the response. She should fit right in in Morningside. UPDATE (1:20 p.m.): President Lee Bollinger has sent out an email announcing the decision, saying "in the breadth of her scholarship and interests, Professor Moody-Adams exemplifies Columbia's own tradition of great scholarship that is engaged in the public issues of our time." Full email after the jump. - JCD To the Columbia community: I am extremely pleased to announce the appointment of Michele Moody-Adams as the next Dean of Columbia College and Vice President for Undergraduate Education. &nbsp;She comes to Columbia from Cornell University where she is the Hutchinson Professor and Director of the Program on Ethics and Public Life, and has served for the past four years as Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. &nbsp;As an administrator, she has been responsible for ensuring the integrity and coherence of undergraduate curriculum and instruction at Cornell and overseeing a number of academic and residential initiatives. Professor Moody-Adams is an accomplished scholar and administrator who has taught at Cornell, Indiana University, the University of Rochester and Wellesley College. &nbsp;She has produced an extensive and exemplary body of work in moral philosophy and is the founder of Cornell's program in ethics and public policy. &nbsp;Her 1997 book, Fieldwork in Familiar Places: &nbsp;Morality, Culture, and Philosophy, has been widely praised as "a major contribution to moral philosophy." &nbsp;She has also written and lectured extensively throughout the United States and abroad on a wide range of timely issues, and her voice is a prominent one among publicly-minded philosophers. In the breadth of her scholarship and interests, Professor Moody-Adams exemplifies Columbia's own tradition of great scholarship that is engaged in the public issues of our time. &nbsp;Hers is the kind of approach to teaching and learning imagined by Columbians who have created and nurtured a Core Curriculum that has called on generations of undergraduates to reflect deeply on our shared intellectual traditions, to challenge their own preconceptions about the world, to remain open to the perspectives of others, and to grapple with the questions essential to active citizenship in a democracy. Professor Moody-Adams received BA degrees from both Wellesley College and Oxford University; and went on to earn her MA and PhD in Philosophy from Harvard. &nbsp;She has won numerous academic honors, including the "Last Lecturer" faculty award from Cornell in 2004 and Howard University's Alain Locke Award in Philosophy in 2003. I want to thank Vice President of Arts and Sciences Nick Dirks and all the students, faculty, staff and alumni members of the search committee for their hard work and enthusiastic recommendation of Professor Moody-Adams for this vital leadership role at Columbia. Professor Moody-Adams' extraordinary commitment to teaching, scholarship and public service, as well as her experience as an academic administrator, make her uniquely well suited to this role. &nbsp;I want to thank Dean Austin Quigley again for his 14 years of leadership at the College. &nbsp;With the appointment of Michele Moody-Adams, we know that Columbia College will continue to be in good hands in the years ahead. &nbsp;Please join me in welcoming her to the Columbia University community. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger
 &nbsp;Photo Via the Eye &nbsp; &nbsp; The new Eye website is now (finally) up and running! Just in time for the Eye to realize we live in New York City. So does city living affect our love lives? Didn't we already read about this? City life allows us to overhear funny things. Is ripping off part of City life too? Cramped spaces mean snooping on wireless networks. Oh yeah, cool things sometimes happen here, too. 
 It’s after midnight, and you’re tired. While Bwog can’t help you create your own individually tailored regimen of stimulants, we can provide your best nearby source of stimulating drinks to get you through that all-nighter: Morton, JJ's or Hamdel. The four drinks: Red Bull, generic coffee, Lipton tea, and Coke or Pepsi all of which have their Columbia constituencies. We’ve outlined below the price of a unit of these brain-enhancing beverages, and, for the caffeine-only stimulants, the bang for your buck in milligrams of caffeine per dollar). This comparison of course ignores other critical factors (steps from Butler, coolness of staff, availability of cookie products, etc.), but it still yields some surprising results. &nbsp; &nbsp;Morton JJs Hamdel Red Bull (8.4 oz) $2.59 $2.99 &nbsp;$2.99 &nbsp;Coffee &nbsp;$1.25 (12 oz.) 159.6 mg/$ $1.40 (16 oz) &nbsp; 190 mg/$&nbsp; $0.85 (10 oz) &nbsp; 195.6 mg/$&nbsp; Lipton Tea (one bag) $1.25 (one tea bag)&nbsp; 44 mg/$&nbsp; $1.40 (one tea bag)&nbsp; 39.3 mg/$&nbsp; $0.85 (one tea bag) 64 mg/$&nbsp; Coke/Pepsi (20 oz.) $1.49 (20 oz) 41.9 mg/$&nbsp; $1.50 (20 oz) &nbsp; 41.6 mg/$&nbsp; &nbsp;$1.50 (20 oz) 41.6 mg/$ For non-taurine fans, Hamdel is clearly the way to go, but, shockingly, Morton is actually your best source for Red Bull. Though The Market Basket’s official scoreboard says "Morton Williams: 0, Everyone else: 2," those whose special tastes for instant soup and taurine are, amazingly, best served right across Broadway. &nbsp; - ESN 
 &nbsp; Photo Via Doctorsimcha.com In anticipation of the Hebrew awesomeness slated to invade Miller tonight (tickets are available at the TIC), Bwog would like to officially welcome the Columbia/Barnard Hillel blog onto the internet scene. The blog seems like an aggregation of Jewish events in and around Morningside Heights as well as photos from said events. But, given the great introduction video, maybe the site will have some comedy as well (though they have stiff comedic competition and a lot of history).&nbsp; Anyhow, best of luck, Hillel blog. We add you to the lower right hand side of our site with pride. -DJB 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;-Photo Via PBS Chief Correspondent on legal bodies the United States doesn't care about Sean Zimmermann brought us this report on Connie--sorry, Christine Chung's international law lecture. Former prosecutor for the ICC Christine Chung stopped by Hamilton for a lecture on the Court's history that, despite some early technical glitches, was informative. Chung began by clarifying some common misconceptions about the Court, stating the it has a "modest" mission: "let's not commit genocide" (still working on it). The Court is fairly new, created by the 2002 Rome Statute treaty, and is not a United Nations body. It has very limited jurisdiction, which is fine since the US won't listen to anything it says, anyway. The ICC can only try genocides, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression. Aggression is yet to be defined (though I'm not sure what qualifies as a crime of passivity). Additionally, the crimes must have occurred before July 1st, 2002 and must have either been committed by nationals of or in countries that signed the treaty. More after the jump. The largest limiting factor to the Court's power is admissibility. For a case to come before the Court, the normal legal system within the involved country has to be "unwilling or unable to proceed." Some states will request the Court investigate charges within their boarders, but not all. After explaining how the Court works, Chung discussed some cases facing it today. The Court is actively investigating members of the Ugandan Lordï¿½s Resistance Army, which steals children from local villages and forces them to kill for food. In 2005, the Court issued its first arrest warrants for LRA leader Joseph Kony. Though the Court has yet to catch Kony, the move drew international attention to the crimes in Uganda and helped put pressure on Kony to begin peace talks. Ms. Chung also discussed one of her former cases, an investigation of Thomas Lubanga in the Democratic Republic of Congo. He was the first person to be arrested under an ICC-issued warrant for conscripting children under 15 years old for military service. He was arrested on March 16th 2006, and his trial began on January 26th of this year. This case has been a large victory for the Court--it has picked a war criminal out of the Congo to face justice. Even with the success, Chung said the real test for the Court is the situation in Sudan. The United Nations Security Council referred the Sudan genocide case to the ICC in 2005. Since then, the Court has issued arrest warrants for the current Sudanese Minister of "Humanitarian" Affairs, Ahmad Muhammad Harun, perhaps the most ironically titled perpetrator of genocide of all time. The Court is currently reviewing an arrest warrant for Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir. At the end of her talk, one student asked about America's involvement with the ICC. The United States is not a member of the Court, and former US Rep to the United Nations John Bolton wanted to terminate it. Now, she said the US has become a "silent partner," pressuring the Security Council to continue the ICC's investigations in Sudan. Chung doesn't expect the US to become a member for a long time because "the US doesn't sign treaties--we like our national sovereignty.' Damn straight. 
 &nbsp;-Photo via the Harlem Eye After a student protest and subsequent squabbling, the NY1 channel ran its story on the fate of Floridita restaurant, a locally-owned business that the Manhattanville expansion may displace. Both current CC student Andrew Lyubarsky and CU public affairs, who have been battling over the story for the past couple of weeks, made an appearance in the piece. Lyubarsky is demanding that Columbia either respect Floridita's lease or promise to forge a relocation deal that is approved by the restaurant's owner. CU public affairs claimed now is too early to start negotiating. -DJB&nbsp; 
Bwog fearless restaurant resuscitation expert James Downie sent in this picture of the restaurant replacing Caffe Swish: It looks like the new eatery is The Vine: Sushi and Sake. Given their chosen language for job notices, though, the authenticity of the cuisine remains to be seen. 
 Since Fat Tuesdays is inconveniently placed during the week, carry the festivities into this weekend with these helpful hints: &nbsp; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday&nbsp; New Voices of Blue Note: A 70th Anniversary Celebration Nightly 6:30pm-1am, 111 East 27th Street (212-576-2232) The youngest (and therefore hippest) of the jazz labels, Blue Note, come together to blow you away this weekend.&nbsp; It'll be that same, sexy jazz with a contemporary twist.&nbsp; It's supposed to appeal to us young'uns, so check it out! Price: $15-30&nbsp; Friday and Saturday&nbsp; New York Wine Expo Friday 6-10pm &amp; Saturday 2-6pm, Jacob K. Javits Center 655 W 34 St 600 different kinds of wine, and those are just the varieties available for tasting.&nbsp; Wine producers from all over the world will set up shop to answer your questions and tease your palate.&nbsp; Eat a big lunch before you go (or bringing along plenty of cheese to gnaw on). Price: $75-95 Friday&nbsp; The Murder at the Met Scavenger Hunt Friday 6pm, The Metropolitan Museum of Art 1000 Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street (877-9-GO-HUNT, ext 12) This adults-only scavenger hunt uses clues in the art work to piece together the mystery of a (fictional) murdered curator.&nbsp; Teams go up to 6 members, though if you don't have anyone to go with and you still want to participate, they'll match you up with other folks that lack adventurous friends. Price: $34.50 (it's supposed to include museum admission for students; call to see if there are special prices for CUID carriers)&nbsp; Midnight Yoga Friday 12am, 59 West 19th Street at 6th Ave, 3rd Floor (212.414.2903) Tired of the weekend midnight madness?&nbsp; Check out this midnight chill-ness.&nbsp; Live music and vinyasa flow will even you out as midterms approach.&nbsp; Price: $16 &nbsp; Saturday and Sunday&nbsp; The Orchid Show: Brazilian Modern Daily until April 12th 10am-6pm, 200th Street and Kazimiroff Boulevard (718.817.8700) This show celebrates one of nature's most elegant creations, showcasing some of the world's rarest specimens.&nbsp; It's a good excuse to find yourself a date (as if you needed one).&nbsp; Price: $18 (students with ID)&nbsp; Saturday&nbsp; Tiefschwarz and Jus-Ed Saturday 10pm-4am, Santos Party House 96 Lafayette St (212.584.5492) Two experienced German DJs collaborate to bring you the very best in dance tunes.&nbsp; These guys are like musical Siamese twins: friends that turn-table together, stay together! Price: $15 advance/$20 at the door&nbsp; 3-D Projection Show of World's Fairs Saturday 7:30pm, Gershwin Hotel 7 E 27th St between Fifth and Madison Aves (212-545-8000) 400 color images of the world's fairs will blow you away when they're popping out at you in craaazy 3D. Price: $10 (includes 3D glasses!)&nbsp; Sunday&nbsp; An Afternoon to Spread the Love Sunday 2-5pm, Home of Richard Marker and Mirele Goldsmith 174 E 74th St between Madison and Fifth Aves, Apt 14C Learn about organic cooking and fresh foodie living at this function for like-minded New Yorkers.&nbsp; Make sure to RSVP online! Price: $15 suggested&nbsp; 6th Annual Folk Feet Traditional Dance Showcase: Dancing the Dead Sunday 2-5pm, Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College 2900 Campus Road (at Hillel Pl (718-951-4600) Different cultures come together to showcase their cultural modes of mourning, incorporating storytelling and folk dancing. Price: Free! 
 &nbsp;-Photo from Ariel Moger For the final installment of this week's Veritas Forum,whose symbol looks bizarrely similar to the Mac Wireless sign, the group hosted a screening of Justin Dillon's film Call and Response and brought Matisyahu, the greatest Jewish reggae singer of all time, for a performance that can only be described as "kick-ass." Call and Response, an anti-slavery documentary/concert film, mixed its message about eradicating modern slavery with great performances, including one from Talib Kweli. Dillon spoke for a few minutes after the screening, urging the audience to join in his cause. The night really heated up, though,&nbsp; when Matisyahu took the stage. The concept of a Hasidic reggae star may seem strange, but the man is no one-hit wonder, especially with his beat-boxing. For his roughly hour-long set, Matis brought down the house, improvising almost his entire performance. During his dazzling beat-boxing, he would flick his finger through the air, conducting his otherworldly beats for himself. His set was interrupted when a microphone shorted out, but he won over the audience despite the technical glitch, and they ended the night on their feet, bowled over by the performance. - DJB 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of Parker Brothers You have been named Dean of the College. Pay each student $50. College Republicans are assembling to chat about Pennsylvania Avenue. Columbia takes a page out of Rich Uncle Pennybags' book and buys up two more properties. It's not quite Marvin Gardens, but it'll do. A sports column goes directly to jail. 
It's been said that everyone has a doppelganger, but up till now, that's just been a quaint piece of folklore. Startling administrator photos discovered by Bwog this week may force us to reconsider, though. Is this the product of mere coincidence or are our twins really out there? Take a look at the comparisons and decide for yourself. &nbsp; &nbsp;"Bollinger" and "Bridges" are only a few letters apart, you know.&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Some Lasik surgery and heavy eyeliner later, the Dean has stepped into the 23rd century.&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Bridges photo courtesy of Kavitha Davidson 
 Hugh Jackman hosting&nbsp;the Academy Awards The 81st Academy Awards last weekend sent home Slumdog Millionaire and Milk big winners, but they're only the latest in a long line of movies deemed Oscar-worthy by the Academy. Many of these classics are available on Netflix through its "Watch Instantly!" feature, although they're often hidden amid entire seasons of Hercules&nbsp;and Coach. Bwog knows you have midterms looming and papers piling up, so after the jump is a list of three Oscar-winning movies to help take your mind of classes. You probably won't find a better way to spend your time. (Other than, you know, actually doing those papers...) CASABLANCA – Best Picture Nightclub Rick’s Cafe Americain is the hotspot of Casablanca. Run by American Rick Blaine, the cafe draws Nazis, French, criminals, and finally, Ilsa, a former fling of Blaine’s. She needs Rick’s help to escape Morocco with her husband -- a Nazi fugitive -- but Rick must overcome his bitter memories of their past love before he can move forward, all while the Nazi occupiers are hot on the trail. A relic of Hollywood’s Golden Age, Casablanca easily stacks up as one of the best Best Pictures and certainly among the finest American movies ever made. You probably know this already, though, since it shows up elsewhere in excerpts or as parodies time and again. Practically every other line of dialogue is quotable; the cinematography is iconic; and the film’s defining song “As Time Goes By” has become part of the American standards songbook. But all this aside, the smoldering chemistry between the film’s leads -- Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman -- is enough to drive Casablanca on its own. NETWORK – Best Actor UBS News is suffering from low ratings and needs a boost. Corporate executives decide to fire longtime anchor Howard Beale in hopes of retooling the program to attract a larger audience, but Beale will not go quietly. Hijacking the telecast, Beale launches a tirade against TV journalism that suddenly catches the attention of Americans everywhere. The program’s ratings skyrocket as Beale transforms himself into the “Mad Prophet of the Airwaves,” a ranting, delusional figure whose messages rock the nation. Network’s star Peter Finch suffered a fatal heart attack only weeks before winning the Oscar for Best Actor, becoming the first -- and until Heath Ledger, the only -- performer to receive a posthumous Academy Award. Like Ledger’s rumored post-Joker decline, one must wonder while watching Network if Finch’s fierce intensity in the role also contributed to his death.&nbsp; His raving is so vivid and so savage that it’s frightening. Perhaps more frightening, though, is the accuracy with which Network pinpoints the flaws of journalism in the age of sound bites. The satire is as fierce as Finch and holds up more than ever today. RATATOUILLE – Best Animated Feature Becoming a gourmet chef is the dream of Remy, a rat living in a small French cottage near Paris. As a rat, though, Remy doesn’t stand a chance competing for a spot in the top Parisian kitchens nor does he have the support of his family. After a near-extermination forces Remy to flee the villa for the sewers, he eventually meets the hapless Linguini, a young janitor with kitchen access. The two pair up hoping for greater success in pursuing their dreams, no matter whether they involve Remy at the stove or Linguini with his coworker and crush, Colette. A fun film if not particularly deep, Ratatouille is a feast for the eyes in more ways than one. Food is gorgeously rendered via detailed Pixar animation and the kitchen cinematography manages to hold viewer interest despite being confined to a single, small space. Meanwhile, comedy ranging from slapstick to wordplay buoys the feel-good storyline, which easily appeals to adults without flying over the heads of kids. It’s an inspiring film for foodies -- Pixar outdid itself on Ratatouille, an arguably better film than this year’s animated winner, WALL-E. Images courtesy of IMDB.com 
 &nbsp;Image courtesy of NYTimes.com So much for animals not being allowed in the dorms. A New York Times article today reveals how two Manhattan exterminators have begun using trained dogs to sniff out bedbugs, and they tell the Times they've visited "a big, big university on the West Side." The dogs, named Pasha and Ruby, are typically hired by hotels, but some apartments and schools have requested their bedbug-hunting services, including apparently our own fine institution. The exterminators, Michael Morin and Donald Frey, say they keep the locations of the infestations confidential, but given how readily the pair let slip the Columbia tidbit to a major national newspaper, it's a wonder no one has entrusted them with any actually important secrets. 
 Housing and Dining officials now advise students paying by Off-Campus Flex to expect transactions to take "about 45 seconds from swipe to signature." You can thank technology straight out of 1996: dial-up modems. Merchants use them to connect to the Flex network, and in an e-mail to Bwog this week, Michael Novielli of Student Auxiliary and Business Services confirms that the wait-times are here to stay. He says the recent troubles at Nussbaum &amp; Wu and Westside are indeed the result of that dial-up network, and though CUIT is being consulted about faster alternatives, for now, "a faster solution does not exist." Until then,&nbsp;before you pay with Flex, you may want to have a&nbsp;few&nbsp;self-deprecating witticisms ready to avert the fury of exasperated customers waiting behind you in line at Westside. Novielli's full e-mail to Bwog is after the jump. I wanted to update you all briefly on some of the feedback we’ve received from students about Off-Campus Flex. Over the course of the past two weeks, some students have shared that they have experienced longer than usual wait times at Westside Market and other merchants. We also understand that system was down for short periods at Nussbaum &amp; Wu and other merchants. We have worked to resolve all of these issues. &nbsp; We do, however, want to be open about how long students should expect a transaction to take: Since all of the merchants currently use a dial-up modem to connect, students should expect a typical transaction to take about 45 seconds from swipe to signature. We understand that this is longer than students typically wait when making purchases using Flex &amp; Dining Dollars on campus, and we are sorry that is the case. At this time, a faster solution does not exist, but we will work with our colleagues in CUIT to determine if a faster alternative is possible in the future &nbsp; Our staff has tested Flex at several locations over the past two days, and the system is now fully operational. If you hear of any additional issues, please do not hesitate to bring them to our attention. We apologize for the inconvenience. &nbsp; All the best. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of FujiTV Find out in less than an hour whose cuisine reigns supreme. CCSC's Campus Life Committee is sponsoring an Iron Chef-style competition in Lerner Hall's Party Space for teams of three to four beginning at 5 p.m. The twist is that, instead of challenging the cooks with luxurious ingredients like cod roe or giant eel, this Iron Chef match will force teams to prepare the best possible meal on a college student's budget. Hopefully for the judges this won't mean a dozen versions of scrambled eggs and Kraft macaroni, but no matter the end result, it's still FREE FOOD. Free tickets are available at the TIC. Allez cuisine! 
 Men's Basketball: Let's face it - last Saturday's loss to Yale, after a huge win over Brown was a big blow to the team's title hopes. With 4 games left in the season, though, anything is possible, and the Lions (11-13, 6-4 in the Ivy League) are at least looking to finish a strong second. Tonight, they take on Harvard (whom they beat on a thrilling last-second shot two weeks ago), and on Saturday, they have a big game against Dartmouth, who are tied with the Lions at 6-4. Both games can be heard at 7 p.m. on 970AM and WKCR. Women's Basketball: This weekend is your last chance to catch the women's team (13-11, 6-4 Ivy League) and star forward Judie Lomax in action at home, as they take on the two teams ahead of them in the Ivy League standings: Harvard (7-2) tonight and Dartmouth (9-0) tomorrow night (both games at 7 p.m.). Behind Lomax, who won her fourth Ivy League player of the week award, the Lions won both games last weekend, defeating Brown 88-57 (Lomax had 16 points, 17 rebounds, guard Danielle Brown had 11 assists) and Yale 77-61 (Lomax had 20 points, 18 rebounds). The team's 13 wins is in fact their most ever in Division I. Baseball: The defending Ivy League champions are looking to come back even stronger this year, and open their season against Lamar tonight at 7:30. They'll be out in Texas, California, and other warmer locales for the next month; the first home game is not until Tuesday, March 24th against St. John's. Fencing: The fencing teams could not make up for their losses at the first half of the Ivy League championships, finishing second to the Penn men's and Harvard women's teams respectively. Six Columbia fencers, though, were named first team All-Ivy. Tomorrow, the teams compete in the Intercollegiate Fencing Association Championships at Brandeis University. Swimming &amp; Diving: The men's team handily defeated Dartmouth 182-117 to finish out the regular season with a record of 5-6 overall and 3-4 in the Ivy League. The women also defeated Dartmouth, by the even larger score of 205-95, to finish their regular season a stellar 9-2 overall and 5-2 in the Ivy League. This weekend, the women's team competes in the Ivy League championships, while the men compete in the ECAC championships. Wrestling: The wrestling team continues to struggle, losing to Harvard and Brown last weekend to fall to 1-4 in the Ivy League and 3-14 overall. However, two sophomores received All-Ivy honors: 165-pounder Eren Civan (15-9 individual record, including 4-1 in the league) was named to the second-team, while heavyweight Ryan Flores, who has a record of 27-3 and is ranked 9th in the country, was a unanimous first-team selection. Track &amp; Field: After two weeks off, the track teams compete this weekend in the Ivy League Heptagonal Championships. Women's Lacrosse: The women's lacrosse team got off to a winning start, 14-10 over Monmouth earlier today. Senior co-captain Holly Glynn led the way with six goals, as the Lions outshot Monmouth 16-5 in the first-half to take an 8-3 lead. On Sunday, Columbia takes on Lafayette, before heading to Staten Island on Wednesday to face Wagner. - JCD 
 Here’s a reason (the only reason?) to wish you’d committed your four years to the Bronx instead of Morningside Heights:&nbsp; a TOP SECRET U2 concert!&nbsp; The Irish quartet will be gracing Letterman for the first week of March, and Fordham indie radio station the Alternate Side strongly suspects that a Friday morning show (that’s the 6th of March) at the Jesuit university is also in the cards. &nbsp; “Professors have reportedly been told by administrators to cancel morning classes ‘for security reasons,’” announces the Alternate Side’s blog.&nbsp; Lions, feel free to take this opportunity to mock Fordham’s regular Friday classes, but don’t even think of making the convoluted trip to try to see Bono &amp; company--without a “Fordham ID in your name,” apparently you’ve next to no chance of even being allowed on campus that Friday, let alone near the concert. If this segregation makes you blue, take heart and tell yourself that it's possible that our favorite vampires will decide not to let Rams into their show if/when they come back on campus again.&nbsp; Maybe. 
 &nbsp;- Columbia University Athletics A tough night on Friday for Columbia's basketball teams: the men's team fell to Harvard 71-63, while the women lost as well to Harvard, 71-58. The men's team went into the night holding teams to a 41% field goal percentage, but Harvard shot 60% from the field in the second half, and at one point led by 15. 4 Harvard players were in double figures, including guard Jeremy Lin (14 points, 9 rebounds, and 5 assists). For Columbia, guard Nourwha Agho led the way with 13 points. The women's team lost in remarkably similar fashion, with Harvard again shooting 60% in the second half to pull away. Columbia's forwards did their best to keep the Lions in the game, though, with Lauren Dwyer providing 18 points and Judie Lomax providing yet another double-double (15 points, 16 rebounds). Both teams fall to 6-5 in the Ivy League, and take on their Dartmouth counterparts (the women at home, the men in Hanover) tonight at 7. - JCD 
 &nbsp; -&nbsp; Image by Joe Schumacher Want to sightsee, but worried about finishing that paper on time? Why not visit an alley? Well, more specifically, the alley where Barack Obama spent his first night in New York, as he mentioned in Dreams from My Father. Arriving at his new apartment only to find no one to let him in, Obama enjoyed the alley's fine hospitality, and in the morning availed himself of the local shower (a.k.a the hydrant). And it's not hard to access - Gothamist tipped us off yesterday to a Harlem blogger's fine photos of the locale. You can also check out his photos of Obama's various former residences on West 109th, East 94th, and West 114th Streets. Hurry, before they're commercialized! 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo by Jon Hill A Bwog tipster has sent in a report of dastardly doings in John Jay. Last Monday, unsavory characters entered the 10th floor lounge and made off with an 8-by-10-foot flokati rug.&nbsp; JJ10ers point out that "the carpet is extremely heavy," making it difficult to move very far or very fast, and considering the rug looks like a prop from a Liberace TV special, it's also rather conspicuous. Though the freshmen congratulate the Carpet Caper mastermind on the fiendishly filched furry fabric, they also really want their rug back. "We are not fucking around," reads one wanted poster in the dorm. This sounds serious, so please send any information regarding the rug or those holding it hostage to bps2112@columbia.edu or jac2255@columbia.edu or telephone (832)-366-4074 or (203)-285-4346.&nbsp; If you fear the wrath of 2012, you can also email tips@bwog.net; we don't bite. Photo by Jon Hill 
 Columbia's premier electrofunk group is taking a break from intramural collaborations and filling the Bowery Ballroom to provide a public service announcement to junior hipsters on the popular Nickelodeon show Yo Gabba Gabba!&nbsp; The topic?&nbsp; Personal hygiene, of course.&nbsp; Stereogum has a video of the band performing their catchy anthem, "Everybody Wash Your Hands (Lather Up)" in a giant sink while Mayan pyramids float in the background and blobby creatures dance for joy.&nbsp; Oh, childhood. 
 &nbsp;- Via Columbia University Athletics The weekend just gets worse for Columbia basketball, as men's and women's both lost their games against Dartmouth. The men's team once again was unable to hold off a second-half surge, being outscored 42-22 in the second half to fall 67-53. Despite the loss, guard K.J. Matsui and forward Jason Miller each had 19 points. The women's team led for much of the game, but were unable to hang on in the end, falling 63-61. Guard Danielle Brown led all scorers with 19 points. On the bright side for Columbia athletics, the fencing team had a successful Intercollegiate Fencing Association Championships, winning several individual gold medals. Junior Jeff Spear won in men's sabre, while sophomore Nicole Ross and first-year Neely Brandfield-Harvey won in women's foil epee, respectively. The women's team also had the most victories overall.&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;Image via blogspot.com Real estate is a steal: PrezBo's henchmen nabbed two new buildings this past week.&nbsp; One can reasonably assume that the Manhattanville location will be absorbed into our financially-delayed behemoth.&nbsp; But the 113th Street purchase?&nbsp; It'd make a killer residence hall. Impossible decisions are everywhere: Change we need, but probably not that we can believe in.&nbsp; Poor Barack wishes the Guantanamo detainees would just vanish like as Flex has. Stiglitz is, like, famous: And the economy is in such bad shape that he's reduced to name-dropping dead guys.&nbsp; Like this guy he knew at Yale, who didn't agree with him.&nbsp; But that was then. Celebrities also make mistakes: Hermione may not be gracing us with her presence in the fall, despite our hopes to see someone other than Franco that other crime-ridden city wants her. Correlation is causation: Marked by the disappearance of a certain feathered friend, the severity of heart attacks has been on the decline (for people who don't have midterms). Your money is gone: PrezBo won't be winning his money back any time soon, since in the effort to reduce meaningless securities lawsuits, they made it harder to file meaningful ones.&nbsp; A Columbia law professor has a possible workaround, but MrsBo will still be mad. 
 &nbsp;Photo via Wikipedia Starting in about fifteen minutes in Roone Auditorium is the Columbia Festival of Winds.&nbsp; It sounds like a Zelda game, but it's arguably more fun than that.&nbsp; Seven ensembles, including the Wycliffe Gordon Quartet, will be performing until 9:30 tonight. Tickets are $15, but that comes out to a mere $1.58 per hour.&nbsp; And all that benefits music education programs in New York City. The famed quartet will be making their appearance around 8:00 PM, but there'll be plenty of great music (and a few Powerpoints, we daresay) until then. 
 &nbsp;Image via terriemiller.com Waiting for lab computers to (eventually) log you on so you can print that rightfully-forgotten graduate Kant dissertation is a relic from days past.&nbsp; It's very easy to set up your own computer to print to lab printers.&nbsp; In fact, you can print to any printer on campus from any computer you like. CUIT's instructions are, like commencement speakers, thorough, longwinded, and a wee bit annoying.&nbsp; We've shortened and sweetened them for you, our dear readers.&nbsp; You can now enjoy the freedom to print from the roof of Mudd because, yes, the wireless reaches up there. Our version–in English–after the jump. Printing from a Mac These instructions are for Mac OS 10.5 "Leopard," the most recent version.&nbsp; It's very similar for earlier versions of OS X. Open System Preferences from Applications, System Preferences and click Print &amp; Fax. Click the + sign at the bottom of the list. Click on the IP tab at the top of the new window and select Line Printer Daemon for the protocol. The addresses of all the printers on campus can be found here (residential printers are under their own category called "Residence Halls"), and the queue is always called "public." Type in "HP LaserJet 9050" under Print Using.&nbsp; This tells your computer for which make of printer to format the instructions.&nbsp; If your system doesn't know the 9050, you can find PostScript drivers here. Printing from Windows XP Printing from Windows is slightly more complicated.&nbsp; Vista's configuration is very similar to XP's but more detailed instructions for a Vista setup can be found here. First, you need to make sure you can print to a Unix-based printer.&nbsp; Go to the Add/Remove Programs dialog, found in the Control Panel (which is in the Start menu). On the left, click Add/Remove Windows Components and in the new window, select Other Network File and Print Services and click Next. From the Control Panel, click Printers and Faxes and then Add a printer on the left.&nbsp; Select Local printer in the new window, but for expedience, you can disable Automatically detect. Select Create a new port and select LPR Port from the drop-down menu.&nbsp; Type in the appropriate name found in this list and set the queue to public. Select the HP LaserJet 9050 drivers, and if you can't find them, you can download them here.&nbsp; The rest is quite straightforward. Et voila!&nbsp; You can print to any printer on campus.&nbsp; You can even add multiple printers (say, every single one in Butler) and switch between them in the application you're trying to print from. For the tree-conscious, CUIT printers generally default to automatic double-sided wonderfulness.&nbsp; If that isn't the case for you, check the aforementioned CUIT instructions. Don't trust that all the printers are up and running?&nbsp; Check this CUIT page to see the status of every printer on campus.&nbsp; And if you want to be a creepster, there's a way to see the list of UNIs and print jobs that are queued at every NiNJA station. Now you can print out a detailed study of every PrezBo communique ever from the privacy of your room.&nbsp; It's like Christmas all over again. Update, 4:16 PM: A clarification: not all printers on campus are LaserJet 9050's; many of them are.&nbsp; Check to see what kind of printer you're adding on the CUIT location pages. –AB &amp; SVZ 
While you block it all out, they're giving lectures about keeping your life on track in this newly-disordered world. &nbsp;Photo by LBD Monday How to Think About the Financial Crisis: Famous Indian Economist Prabhat Patnaik and some guy named Stiglitz will be talking about dealing with the consequences of These Economic Times.&nbsp; 11:00 AM @ 301 Uris. Tuesday Globalization and Higher Education: Indian economist and professor Deepak Nayyar, whose improperly-capitalized Wikipedia page is more like a resume, will be lecturing.&nbsp; 4:00 PM @ 306 Russell Hall, TC. Wednesday Short Films, Re: Asia: The AAA, OPS, and others present a series of short films on the "Asian Diaspora."&nbsp; They're promising "light food and refreshments," which are always welcome.&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ Broadway Room, Lerner. Thursday CNN Correspondent on Leadership: Moderated by PrezBo, apparently the World Leaders Forum also includes broadcast news correspondents.&nbsp; 6:00 PM @ Casa Italiana. 
 &nbsp;Image courtesy of Chowdah Bwog Comic Curmudgeon Jon Hill caught Chowdah's fifth anniversary last night in Lerner. If you're reading this now and haven't seen Chowdah's fifth anniversary show, you're unfortunately too late. The show closed Saturday, so given the time constraints, this review won't be able to convince you whether to buy a ticket. Rather than call the whole thing off, though, perhaps instead this space can best be used to figure out where to go from here. Chowdah's show this weekend was by no means perfect, but the "best of" collection of 14 sketches did offer three valuable lessons on how to execute a successful comedy show. Other performance troupes on campus would do well to follow Chowdah's lead. Keep Scenes Short: Chowdah was smart to limit its sketches to lengths of fewer than 10 minutes. This way, even if the concept behind the sketch isn't resonating with audience, at least they won't be long suffering. Timing is crucial to short-form comedy, and though an editor's blue pencil might have been useful in tidying up a few of the sketches, the vast majority of the vignettes felt cozily concise. The emphasis should be on "felt," too -- no matter what the actual run-time is, if the audience perceives a sketch is dragging, the sketch is dragging. Sitting among the sold-out Black Box crowd, though, one never got the sense of a jaded audience. Chowdah's snappy pace kept everyone fresh. Emphasize Your Talent: All of Chowdah's performers seem capable of delivering a funny line, but two stood out in particular for their comic versatility and energy: Michael Grinspan and Reni Calister. Both came across as old pros in their respective roles, displaying effective mastery of timing and physicality that seemed almost not-ready-for-prime-time caliber. The audience didn't tire of the pair's frequent appearances in sketches, either, which is saying something -- Grinspan appeared in six of the 14 sketches and wrote two, while Calister had parts in five. They racked up an impressive share of stage time, but with good cause. It's not wrong to play to your strengths in comedy, and Chowdah certainly played to its. Pull It All Together: Comedy thrives on repetition, but a sketch comedy show's choppy, disconnected format can thwart development of that continuity. A show like Saturday Night Live skirts this problem by featuring a special guest host, who appears in most, if not all, sketches, or by creating recurring characters over the course of a few shows. Chowdah, of course, doesn't have either of those luxuries, yet this weekend's show still managed to tie down loose ends. One-liners sprinkled throughout the night's dialogue made clever reference to preceding skits while the final sketch's well-crafted culmination re-introduced a grand ensemble of the show's various sketch characters. It wasn't much, but that's all it took: the audience clearly enjoyed it. Of course, Chowdah's fifth anniversary show wasn't without its flaws. The sexual and scatological humor could certainly stand some sharpening and the dud joke did fall here and there, but on the whole, Chowdah demonstrated its respectable grasp of sketch comedy. If they and others like them can stick to the three lessons from this weekend's show and keep up the good work, then that tenth anniversary show is just right around the corner. 
 &nbsp;Photo by Kate Linthicum March is coming in like a Columbia lion, says Bwog's personal meteorologist, albeit more like a Lion that actually wins once in a while. Those sad suits at local TV stations are predicting one last whopper of a snowstorm for us in Manhattan.&nbsp; 8-12 inches of snow by 6:00 PM tomorrow, and perhaps a fair share of sleet, too. So enjoy that little bit of hope when, tomorrow morning, bright-eyed and shaggy-haired for your 9:00 AM seminar, you think, just for a moment, that classes are canceled. And since they won't be, you can tell your folks over spring break how you trudged through the snow while PrezBo rode a sleigh a block and a half. 
 &nbsp;Image via morningside-heights.net The poor, defenseless buildings of Morningside are under siege from the ravenous monster that is Columbia University. Or so local residents would have us believe.&nbsp; More than a decade ago, locals petitioned the Landmarks Preservation Commission to protect Morningside Heights (which includes a large number of older buildings with their original architectural styles) as a historical district; a "sustained, exuberant, cogent expression of the American Renaissance," they wrote, obviously for some kind of coursework. The New York Times has an update as to the status of that battle, fluffed with some fascinating local history.&nbsp; Somewhere in city offices, the 200-plus-page document is sitting in a dusty corner next to your thesis, a "Pending" stamp across the cover.&nbsp; The article begs for your pity with pictures of dilapidated, soon-to-be-demolished buildings labeled "threatened brownstones." Columbia of course did not respond to the heartstring tugs: though PrezBo declined to comment, spokesman Robert Hornsby said that a designation is "unnecessary" because Columbia has been a "steward" of preservation. Far more importantly, though, in Bwog's view, it might set back dorm renovations, and that just can't happen. 
 &nbsp;- Columbia University The Sunday CCSC meeting effectively consisted of one item, and one item only: questioning Senior Executive Vice President Robert Kasdin, Kasdin, who has been described to Bwog by council members as "the man holding the purse strings" and "the damage control guy," has been PrezBo's right-hand man going back to Michigan. In the presence of such power, CCSC acquitted themselves well, asking tough questions, and pressuring Kasdin in numerous areas. Whether Kasdin actually answered their questions, or even cared about answering them, was another matter. CCSC president George Krebs first asked Kasdin to talk about state of the university's finances, with Kasdin assuring the councils that ""We're relatively well-off compared to others. We're in pretty good shape overall, and we're making sure that the next few years' spending matches our priorities." As for any specifics on what "pretty good" meant, Kasdin did not provide any. The council then moved on to the two pre-agreed-upon discussion topics: a university web portal and student group space. Director of Technology Ali Raza and CC VP for Communications Ian Solsky asked about the progress and feasibility of a University web portal, which would include an improved Courseworks and other useful features for students.&nbsp; Kasdin begged off answering the question: ""I get that this website stuff is important to you, but I'm not really in a position to do anything about it, as it is not my area." He also said that reports on the cost of such a portal were conflicting. VP for Policy Adil Ahmed then talked about the space crunch for student groups on campus, noting that the ongoing construction on the Nexus, Faculty House, the 6th floor of Lerner, and the construction of additional e-classrooms (which are difficult to reserve for student groups) has hit at the same time that more student groups have needed more space. He also complained that graduate students are allowed to use student space, while the Business School and other schools prevent undergrads from using their premises. Kasdin this time obscured the blame, saying that the problem was the variety of space policies at different schools, and "Dean Shollenberger has no way to intervene in the law school." Who did have that power (PrezBo? Kasdin? A dinosaur in front of Hamdel?) went unexplained; Kasdin instead suggested that the problem would be fixed once new buildings went up, even though Ahmed had already explained that the rising number of student groups was the bigger problem. Asked what facilities would be available for undergraduates in Manhattanville, he finally gave a concrete answer - "We do not anticipate moving dorms up to Manhattanville, and we believe the center for gravity for undergraduates will still be here" - but then Kasdin turned the tables on the council: saying that "you would not believe how isolating Low Library can be at times," he asked the seniors to tell him "one good thing and one bad thing" about Columbia (he wanted to hear good things so "this doesn't sound like a gripe-fest"). A variety of "good things" were offered (New York City, the accessibility of teachers, etc.), turning the meeting temporarily into a Days on Campus mock-up. As for the "bad things," three main candidates split the votes: advising, the War on Fun and its damage to the sense of community (one CC '09 rep said that "the amount of complications and the inconsistent and untransparent decisions has really hampered my time here"), and Career Services. Student Services Rep Aaron Edmonds complained that "I'm not interested in finance; I'm interested in media and film, and I feel like CCE is not concerned with me." Kasdin did counter that, as far as he knew, Career Services has done a fine job. Then again, the Senior Executive Vice President did not know what CCE stood for. Krebs asked undergraduate council members if they had any questions. CC '11 rep Sean Udell complained about the standard of both housing and dining in comparison to peer institutions. Kasdin replied that "I don't know any particular reason that our dining should be at a different level than other schools. There's a certain amount of student griping inherent in any school dining service, but, you know, if there's an above-average level of that, you should push us on that." In other words, if you feel that this is an important question, you should question us! As for housing, Kasdin explained that "about 20-30 years ago, Columbia had a period of sustained financial difficulty, and fell far behind in the quality of undergraduate housing. We've been playing catchup ever since." Translation: housing sucked then, and we've sucked at making it not suck. Finally, CC '10 president A.J. Pascua asked what Kasdin's thoughts were on having Class Day speakers who were not Columbia alumni, to which he responded, "I really don't know. I don't want to kibitz on other people's responsibilities, but I also don't really have any thoughts on it." By this point, Bwog was not surprised. Apparently, Low really is that isolating. - JCD 
 Our very best mini cooks and pastry chefs spin culinary gold out of Iron Chef Columbia's themed ingredient We watch TV here, too! As long as the show is about our major. Is this gonna be on the midterm? Columbians like jokes, too. Here's one sparkling Spec set-up that never quite leaves the ground: "Three rabbis of different Jewish denominations walked into the Hillel Center Sunday evening." A good way to have fun is to go for a long walk in a cold and damp Scottish city and think about your life A not-so-good way to have fun is to talk about the University's budget cutbacks. 
 Hofstra and all NYC public schools are giving their students a snowday. Although Columbia is not joining in on the fun, there's no better way to pretend you're 7 and school's canceled than a healthy dose of neighborhood sledding. You definitely can't steal a dining hall tray and sled down a hill with your outdoors-y type chums, or whatever it is they do at New England schools, so just head to one of the several hills in Riverside Park.There's an especially steep hill at 116th Street, a few medium-sized ones at 107th and 108th Streets next to the dog runs, and another promising hill further down at 102nd. If you feel like traveling for your fun, Central Park sledding can be lovely if it's not crowded, and there is also especially good sledding on the East Side in the 80's and 90's. Squeeze into your snowpants and try to be as cute as Snow Baby Starfish. We triple dog dare you. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -ECS 
 Before many of us have taken our first midterm, SSOL throws us yet another curveball: finals schedules are up! You can now peruse your exam schedule online and start making plans for a quick escape from Morningside Heights into summer vacation. Finals go from May 8 to May 15. Although the weather may make you feel like nothing could be farther away, its never too early to start studying. To Butler! 
Just when you thought Winter might be over, snow seizes Morningside Heights. Bwog has witnessed more than a few tumbles down Low Steps and various Lerner ramps already this morning: easy does it on your way to class. &nbsp;Photo by ECS 
 - Photo via nycgo.com Its official: the state of New York will not rest until you eat a $35 dinner at a really expensive restaurant. Restaurant Week, which was supposed be over in late January, has now been extended until March 20. 130 restaurants are still on board for the $24.07 lunch and $35 dinner deals, further proof that New Yorkers aren't living like they used to these DOW-dismal days.&nbsp; Restaurant Week: the thrill is gone. 
 The Columbia Palestine Forum, a group of Columbians supporting "the rights of Palestinians to education and self-determination," launched today. The Forum is joining the ranks of similar organizations at University of Rochester, NYU (we know all about that one), Hampshire and various universities across the United Kingdom in demanding, among other things, that Columbia release a statement defending the "academic freedoms of Palestinians in the Occupied Territories."&nbsp; In its mission of intent, the Forum also demands that the University disclose its budget, have an open forum for dealing with its corporations and investments, partner with a Palestinian university in order to provide academic aid, grant a certain number of scholarships to allow Palestinian students to attend Columbia, and explicitly support the right for the self-determination and education of Palestinians. If these sound similar to the Take Back NYU! demands, that's because they are. The forum is holding a teach-in on Wednesday evening at 7 in Hamilton 516, featuring some of your favorite outspoken professors: Bruce Robbins, Mahmood Mamdani, Gil Anidjar, Brinkley Messick, speaking about the University's responsibility in terms of Palestinian support and academic freedom. - ECS 
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Photo via nytimes.com At the beginning of the semester, we posted a link about a missing schoolteacher from Hamilton Heights. The teacher, Hannah Emily Upp, was rescued in New York Harbor a few weeks later, but was profiled in the Times' City Section yesterday due to the unusual circumstances of her disappearance. Upp has a form of amnesia called dissociative fugue which causes people to forget their identities. As the Times article points out, most are familiar with dissociative fugue only because it is the condition that afflicted Matt Damon in "The Bourne Ultimatum." Upp cannot piece together the three weeks of her life when she was missing, but has declined to discuss her situation with the media thus far other than the Times. In Upp's words, "Maybe people I've never met and never will meet will think I'm crazy, but maybe it's better than going on Oprah, you know?" 
 After the sunsets on your snow-blanketed campus tonight, you can partake in a few winter wonderland-esque activities to celebrate the blizzard. Rachael McMillan cordially invites you to a "snow extravaganza" outside Butler tonight from 9-10, and we've been informed that the ski team is attempting to build a jump off of Low Steps at 10. Our ski team tipster tells us not to worry about the lack of snow currently on the Steps: they'll still be there with garbage bags and shovels. Photo by ECS 
 &nbsp; Public Safety Officer Joseph Feyjoo confronts&nbsp;ski team captain Raphael Graybill Campus Public Safety put an end to the Columbia ski team’s effort to build a ski jump on the Low Library steps tonight. Citing the jump’s potential danger to “small children,” two officers dispatched from Public Safety’s main office ordered the team to “cease and desist” its construction project, which had begun around 10 p.m. Club captain Raphael Graybill talked with the pair for about ten minutes trying to persuade them otherwise, but they refused to let the ski jump construction continue. “I would love to let you do this&nbsp;-- I would even love to do this with you&nbsp;-- but you cannot do this,” Officer Joseph Feyjoo told the group of about 30. Graybill explained that ski jumping on the Steps has been permitted before -- four years ago, the team constructed a similar jump on the Steps with approval from campus administration. Graybill also described how he had called both the Facilities department and Public Safety today requesting approval for the jump, but no response was given. “I’m just trying to stick to rules and precedents,” Graybill told the officers. “Are you a law student?” fired back a surly Feyjoo. When Graybill went on to point out that all ski team members have signed injury waivers that release Columbia of accident liability, Feyjoo ended the discussion. “I know you’re very intelligent and very clever, but this is not happening,” he said. “Is there anyone we can appeal this to?” Graybill asked the two officers. “You call up Bollinger and get him to tell me this is okay, then I’ll let you do it,” replied Feyjoo. Shut down by Public Safety, the ski team regrouped on the Steps for a rendition of “Roar, Lion, Roar” before departing for Riverside Park, where they will attempt to make a second ski jump. - JYH &amp; JCD 
 The Columbia creative writing community is alive, well, and living in Wien. Pedestrians fight for and&nbsp;are granted the worst intersection on the island. The Core and the Financial Aid Office continue to be gigantic obstacles during the summer, too. You may hold us down if it's part of some saucy choreography. Not even an inconveniently timed presentation can hold men's tennis down. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo via The New York Times Your light blue pride might still be smarting, but rise above it this morning to congratulate Dartmouth on its new president. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, chairman of the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School, will take over the job in July. Kim is the co-founder of Partners In Health, a nonprofit that makes health care accessible to some of the world’s poorest neighborhoods and specializes in fighting tuberculosis and H.I.V./AIDS. He also did a stint at the World Health Organization and received one of the MacArthur Foundation's fabled genius grants. That award, lest we forget, is $500,000 over five years, to be spent as you choose. This man has known responsibility. Kim, the Ivy League’s first Asian-American president, already has a nifty president elect’s page at the Dartmouth website, where you can hear his positively lovely speaking voice. Be warned, though: it’s 22 minutes into the video.
 When we last checked in with Columbia’s favorite hose, point, ’n’ laugh competition, the kill reports sounded like the best creative writing assignment you never turned in. This week, the killers lay on the literary as we hit notes of tragedy, romance, and Tupac. The following noir nugget wins Most Evocative for bringing together Tracer Bullet and John Jay dining: Time of Death: Sunday, March 01 at 10:42 PM Location of Death: John Jay Dining Hall Summary of Death: My cigarette smoke mixed with the smoke of my .38. If business was as good as my aim I'd be on easy street. Instead I've got an office on 49th street and a nasty relationship with a string of collection agents. It's a tough job but then I'm a tough guy. While fans of star-crossed love will sigh prettily over what might have been: Time of Death: Monday, March 02 at 09:55 PM Location of Death: Broadway Elevators Summary of Death: After spotting the most handsome stud walking out of the Broadway elevators, I turned to get another glimpse and realized that this man of steel is the enemy. One shot to the back didn't even phase him, but it got the job done. The tradition of getting shot while eating in public continues, although some reports leave us with more questions than answers: Time of Death: Monday, March 02 at 04:57 PM Location of Death: Cafe 212 Summary of Death: "Are you a cop?" Pause. "Yes." Her food was problematic. Getting killed is also one of the best reasons to brush up on your American literature (remember, it was a book before it was a movie): Time of Death: Sunday, March 01 at 06:49 PM Location of Death: 1st Floor John Jay Summary of Death: Poor fool was discussing assassins the whole elevator ride down from his floor. The first rule of assassins: never talk about assassins. Finally, the obligatory gangsta rap report of the week, because the only way to survive on the streets is with a water gun: Time of Death: Sunday, March 01 at 11:15 PM Location of Death: between his shoulder blades Summary of Death: Give the crack to the kids who the hell cares one less hungry mouth on the welfare First ship 'em dope &amp; let 'em deal the brothers give 'em guns step back watch 'em kill each other It's time to fight back that's what Huey said 2 shots in the dark now Huey's dead I got love for my brothers but we can never go nowhere unless we share with each other We gotta start makin' changes learn to see me as a brother instead of 2 distant strangers and that's how it's supposed to be How can the Devil take a brother if he's close to me? I'd love to go back to when we played as kids but things changed, and that's the way it is.... ..That's the sound of my tool you say it ain't cool my mama didn't raise no fool And as long as I stay black I gotta stay strapped &amp; I never get to lay back 'Cause I always got to worry 'bout the pay backs some buck that I roughed up way back comin' back after all these years rat-a-tat-tat-tat-tat that's the way it is All the kill reports are available for your reading pleasure at the ESC CUAssassins page. The agent names alone are worth a look. 
 &nbsp;- Photo by AB If you've ever wanted to assemble your own taco in a big glass student center for no money at all, run to the Lerner ramps right now before it's too late! 
The February/March issue of the Blue and White will be hitting newsstands, benches, and tables near you later this week, but until then, here's the issue's Conversation, in which Hannah Goldfield sits down with Minimalist/all-around chef Mark Bittman.&nbsp; Though best known for his column “The Minimalist” in the New York Times weekly Dining &amp; Wine section, Mark Bittman is also a blogger, a television personality, and the author of many books--including the modern classic, How to Cook Everything, and his most recent effort, Food Matters: A Guide to Conscious Eating, which has earned him the titles “food historian” and “philosopher.” Champion of oatmeal and other easy, savory breakfasts, he sat down with The Blue &amp; White for the first meal of the day, to talk about cooking, nature’s ironies, and what the new administration might do about the American food dilemma.&nbsp; The Blue and White: In your new book, Food Matters, you refer to yourself as a “decent cook.” Is that just modesty? Why are you not a great cook?&nbsp; Mark Bittman: Well, I think I’m a lazy cook, so I think I’m actually an exceptionally good lazy cook. The other night, some friends came over and I had this fabulous black cod that I brought back frozen from Canada, and I marinated it in the morning in miso and soy and sake and stuff, and I broiled it--it took eight minutes. Everybody thought I was a genius because the cod was so good. Yes, I knew what I was doing. I didn’t overcook the black cod, I didn’t undercook the black cod, I marinated it the right way, I didn’t use any recipes; I’m a good cook. But, I never make, for example, lasagna, because it’s too much work. I don't make croquettes.&nbsp; B&amp;W: Well, you’re The Minimalist.&nbsp; MB: But I was the minimalist before I was The Minimalist. I’m a guy whose wife worked, whose kids were growing up, and who had to have dinner on the table every night at a certain time and never started until it was too late, and so I learned how to cut corners. And that’s the kind of cook I am. My friends are very impressed, and people are afraid to cook for me, and blah, blah, blah, but I know my limitations. I also know more about food than almost anyone I know, so I more accurately assess my skill level than most people do. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Do you think that there’s value in talking about and writing about food without a sociopolitical overtone? Food as an art form? Like what do you think of the Food Network?&nbsp; MB: Well, but that’s not writing and talking about food as an art form. I think there’s huge value in writing good, clear recipes and encouraging people to use them. I think there’s enormous value in teaching people how to cook. I think that if everybody went to the supermarket, bought ordinary ingredients and cooked five times a week, the world would be a better place. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Why?&nbsp; MB: Because there’d be a better use of resources, you’d automatically be using less processed food, people would be eating much less in the way of poison--additives. They’d probably be eating less meat and chicken, they might be eating less dairy. They’d start exploring the world of vegetables and grains. If people just went to the supermarket and bought ordinary ingredients and cooked with them, not bought microwaveable budget gourmet and said I’m cooking dinner tonight, put the thing in there--&nbsp; B&amp;W: Beep, beep.&nbsp; MB: Right, yeah, but cooked, I think that would be tremendously valuable. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Why don’t people cook?&nbsp; MB: I don’t know. I could give you a sort of historical--. Does everyone do this and I don’t see them do it? I mean, there’s no point in even buying new clothes!&nbsp; It’s a long story: there was World War II, and there was a surplus of food. The food started getting frozen and the microwave was invented. People were told that food needed to be convenient, housewives were too busy. I think that this, to some extent, fed off what eventually became the women’s movement, because I don’t think they were really too busy, I think they were too bored. By the time the ‘70s came around, women started joining the workforce in great numbers; there was no one left to cook. So then you had this couple of blank decades where no one cooked. &nbsp; Now you can talk about the Food Network. The Food Network has a much bigger audience than the Dining Section of the New York Times, Gourmet magazine, Food &amp; Wine, etc., combined. Philosophically, I have problems with what they do, because they glorify weird ingredients and in some ways I think they discourage people from cooking because they make it look like it’s really tricky, you have to be able to chop like this: dutdutdutdutdut. I can’t do that stuff. &nbsp; On the plus side, they've brought a consciousness of cooking and of food--international food, especially--to the floor. So people could say, “Oh, look, there's this Thai restaurant, I really like Thai food,” then they might see some of it cooked on TV, and then they realize, “Oh, maybe I can do that.” Would I have rather that everybody have learned how to cook from reasonable people like me, who don't sensationalize things? Yeah, but, so what?&nbsp; B&amp;W: Who is your intended audience with Food Matters?&nbsp; MB: My intended audience is people who shop in Walmart. My intended audience is people who are not locavores, vegetarians, into organic food, because I went on book tour and those are the people who showed up and I said, look, with all due respect… I’m preaching to the choir here. I think I can say things that are useful to vegetarians, to people who are committed to organic food and local food. I have suggestions and ways that I think that I could help those people see things straighter. They probably think they can help me see things straighter, which is fine, I don’t mind the argument. But the statistics in my book are real. I need to reach the people who are eating only one serving of plants and vegetables a day. I don’t know anyone who eats that way because it’s not my circle of friends. &nbsp; B&amp;W: You probably don’t have a lot of obese friends.&nbsp; MB: Right. So how do I reach those people? A little bit in the column, a little bit in the book, but in the long run, how do I get out there? I need to figure out a way to reach more of the How to Cook Everything audience, which is a more mass-marketed audience, I think. I’d like to do television based on Food Matters. Starting in May, The Today Show, at least, is no longer going to position me as this guy who's a whiz in the kitchen and can show you all these cool things to do fast, but more as someone who can help you figure out the right way to eat.&nbsp; B&amp;W: Do you think that your plan is realistic for people like that? Can somebody follow it on food stamps, say?&nbsp; MB: Yes, absolutely, because rice, and beans, and lettuce, and stuff like that is all cheap. Frozen vegetables, which I have no problem with, are really cheap. There’s a lot of inexpensive, halfway-decent food out there. &nbsp; People on food stamps--and look, that’s a very small percentage of the population--I’m not saying write those people off, by any means, but they need a special kind of help. Those who’ve had elite upbringings and are very literate--we can figure this stuff out for ourselves. But then there’s like 80 percent of the population in the middle, people who drive cars, have jobs, have some money--what I want them to do is go cook a decent meal, based on this less-meat, less-processed-food, less-junk food, more-plants theory. And they don’t have to jump off a cliff, they don't have to go whole-hog, they could do it a little bit. I honestly believe that it would be self-reinforcing, that they’d lose weight or they’d feel better or they’d save money. &nbsp; B&amp;W: What should and can the Obama administration be doing about food?&nbsp; MB: That is really out of my league; I don’t want to be a fantasist. But I would like to see the beginning of very strict curbs on factory farming. I would like to see the environmental costs of raising food industrially paid by the producers. &nbsp; I would like to see the true costs of food reflected in the price of food, which would make some food cheaper, but most food more expensive, but I think that’s OK. I think that if the true cost of raising livestock were reflected in the price, you’d see a big increase in the price of fast food, which would encourage people to cook. &nbsp; I’d like to see food stamps be worth more or less depending on the food that you buy. For example, food stamps are worth zero if you want cigarettes. That’s a good thing. Food stamps should be worth zero if you want to buy Kraft macaroni and cheese, frozen food that you pop in the microwave, potato chips, soda--soda would be first on my list. Then I’d like to see food stamps worth something more than zero for dairy and meat and viable canned goods--canned beans, canned tomatoes--and more than that for fresh vegetables, dried beans, stuff like that. And then I’d like to see that pricing structure .&nbsp; B&amp;W: How high on the priority list should food be, relative to other things?&nbsp; MB: What matters more? I mean it’s everything, it’s agriculture, it’s health. It’s ridiculous to address whether there’s universal health insurance without addressing why this country is the world leader in so many lifestyle diseases--it’s diet. People ask the question, should smokers be penalized when it comes to universal health care, because if you smoke--and it is a choice even though it's an addiction--you're costing the rest of us money. If you get 90 percent of your calories from animal products and junk food, you’re more likely to get a lifestyle disease--should you be penalized for that? These are the questions that need to be addressed, and I don’t see them being addressed. B&amp;W: It seems like one of nature’s cruel ironies is that things that are bad for us taste so good.&nbsp; MB: I think some of that is actually marketing, because I have to say that since I changed my diet, I have a newfound appreciation--if you give me a good apple, I really like it, I really do. It’s not the same as it used to be. I can tell the difference between a good carrot and a bad carrot, I can tell the difference between good oatmeal and bad oatmeal. So it’s not just that. But fat does have a lot of flavor. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Frying something makes it taste better. &nbsp; MB: Well, and good meat contains a lot of fat and it's very, very complex, much more complex flavor than most apples, for example, and you tend to grill it, you cook it in a way that it browns it and then browning makes things even more complex. I think the lesson is that those things that you say are bad for you are only bad for you in large quantities. A lot of this stuff is a gift. And I’m not a religious person, but as it turns out, a lot of these gifts are things that need to be treated more respectfully and used sparingly. So, a really good apple is a gift, maple syrup is a gift--it’s very hard to make, very labor intensive, only available in a small part of the world, part of the year. &nbsp; A really properly raised animal, that someone took care of, treated well, and then killed and you’re eating--that is a serious gift. We raise 10 billion animals a year. You’ve taken the specialness out of that, you’ve ruined it. So, the way to get it back is to say, what’s the number of animals that can be raised in a principled manner on the amount of land that we have available to use in the U.S. with a just amount of resources? I would guess the number's a billion, that our animal production needs to fall by 90 percent to be the right number, so that we're eating, instead of 30 chickens a year per person--which is about what our number is, half a chicken a week--maybe each family of four eats a chicken a week. That would be an interesting start.&nbsp; B&amp;W: How do you suggest wading through this wealth of contradictory information we have about health? You have a lot of facts and statistics in your book and I read the New York Times Health section pretty regularly. I read once that sprouts can give you cancer, I read the other day that you shouldn’t blow your nose…&nbsp; I saw that, what was that about? Of course you’re gonna blow your nose, the stuff is coming out--what are you gonna do, leave it there? I don’t read that stuff. Don’t read it! I don’t think any food is bad for you except, there are proportional issues. “A guide to conscious eating” is what this book is. I can have bacon and eggs for breakfast, it’s not against my rules; I would then look very carefully at the way I ate for the rest of the day, and even for the rest of the week. But I have nothing against bacon and eggs, and I don’t think there are magic bullets. I went out to Portland, and all they were talking about was hemp. And I’m like, you guys are nuts: hemp is not the answer.&nbsp; B&amp;W: You don't believe in super foods, and antioxidants, and all that? &nbsp; MB: No! I don't believe in super foods and I don't believe in evil foods, either, it's just food. The question is how you balance it. So, I don't think people should be bombing McDonald's--not that anyone is. I think people should be eating there less, but I don't think people should be eating there never. &nbsp; B&amp;W: Do you eat there?&nbsp; MB: I haven't in awhile, but it doesn't mean I won't. You just can't make a steady diet of it because it's clearly, clearly not good for you. Especially since you don't know what's in that stuff.&nbsp; B&amp;W: I read in your book that sometimes cattle are fed cooked municipal garbage… God, that was the most horrifying thing. &nbsp; MB: I think feathers, when the chickens are fed feathers.&nbsp; B&amp;W: But cooked garbage…&nbsp; MB: Feathers.&nbsp; &nbsp; B&amp;W: Well, agree to disagree. &nbsp; —Hannah Goldfield 
 &nbsp;- Photo by JCD No, the crime franchise isn't adding a musical (although it now has a UK spinoff). Rather, trailers for Law &amp; Order SVU are outside Milano Market right now! Although neither Milano nor any of the other establishments along the block are closed for filming, fear not: parking notices indicate that the trailers will be there until 10 p.m.&nbsp;
 The administration has given the OK to a 40s on 40 replacement: as reported last Monday, its replacement will be "The Senior BBQ," held on April 7th from 12-2. How much this will differ from last year's incarnation remains to be seen, but no doubt last year's rural-farm-esque fence will be a key part of the humiliation. Also, side note to potential brownbaggers: our fine university thinks snow kills small children, so your beverage will probably be considered first-degree murder. Slake your thirst at your own risk. - JCD 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo&nbsp;courtesy of&nbsp;Teachers College Although the list-topper for Vh1’s 200 Greatest Pop Culture Icons needs no further accolades, your university casually handed over a Klingenstein Leadership Award to Oprah Winfrey last week in Chicago. The Klingenstein Center for Independent School Leadership, a Teachers College entity, recognized Oprah for her work towards improving education. The award specifically cites Oprah’s Book Club, and the two-year-old Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy For Girls, a posh boarding school in Johannesburg, South Africa. Also singled out for funding scholarships and new schools were three separate Winfrey-driven philanthropies: The Oprah Winfrey Foundation, The Oprah Winfrey Scholars Program, and Oprah’s Angel Network. Did a last-minute candidate for Class Day Speaker just enter the ring? Class of 2009, start hoping. Walking out of here with a free car would probably ease the pain of the current job market.
 It seems like just last week Vine: Sushi &amp; Sake&nbsp;was&nbsp;a mere creeper in our&nbsp;consciousness, but today it arrives in full verdant bloom. Go ahead and get excited-it's doing fine business during tonight's dinner hours, and it's already garnered one positive review. Plus,&nbsp;its location is perfectly accessible even when there are eight inches of freak March snow on the ground. For those of&nbsp;you who haven't picked up one of&nbsp;its ubiquitous takeout menus&nbsp;spread around&nbsp;your lobby, Vine offers seven tiny accordian pages' worth of sushi, sashimi, teriyaki, curry, and ramen. There's also a special Columbia lunch box that swaps out the normal box's vegetable tempura for a salad, no doubt because of college students' well-documented aversion to fatty foods. So get there before it becomes the next Pinkberry and you never want to hear its name again. Photo by CEE 
 &nbsp;- Image via The Associated Press A commenter alerted Bwog earlier tonight to the plight of UN official and CC and SIPA graduate John Solecki, who is being held hostage in Pakistan. Solecki, the head of U.N.'s refugee office in Quetta, Pakistan, was captured on February 2nd. On Monday, his captors said Solecki would be killed if their demands (which include the release of Pakistani political prisoners) are not met in four days. Solecki's father, Ralph, is a professor emeritus at Columbia. While at Columbia as both an undergraduate and as a SIPA grad student, Solecki studied under Richard Bulliet, who wrote a touching column about him when he was first kidnapped. In a ray of hope, an Iranian website quotes the Pakistani Interior Minister as saying that Pakistani security forces have discovered where Solecki is being held, and he will soon be released. Regardless, Bwog hopes for his safe return, and our thoughts are with his family. 
 You have a lot of reading? What a coincidence - me too! We could complain, complain some more, realize its worth, and then sit down and do it. But if we use up our print quota, we can always drop out and explore these alternative careers: Become an organic farmer (your education is useful, we swear). All you need is a computer and a little english - become the next YouTube American Idol! And remember, if you ever decide to go back to school, the internet will always be there for you. 
 Are your friends finally getting tired of hearing that same completely ridiculous story about last Saturday night? Desperately need someone new to listen to your drunkscapades? Never fear - CCSC is here!As promised at a recent CCSC meeting, an email to the senior class last night included an item called "CCSC Wants Your Stories." Unfortunately, only stories related to university policy on alcohol, parties, and noise.&nbsp; Nobody wants to listen to you talk about your awesome night downtown with your awesome NYU friends at their awesome dorm (even if it miraculously did not involve cigarettes). The reason they don't is that the "research" comprised of student stories will serve to bolster the council's appeals to the administration to give a little slack in the War on Fun. So when they say "Has your party been broken up?" they mean "Please tell us dramatic stories of obviously unwarranted actions by public safety," and when they say "Have you ever been disturbed by a party?" they mean "We expect no one to respond to this question but because we asked it we can assume that no one is bothered, so parties should never be shut down for noise." Sorry, sleepy-head, but sometimes the individual must sacrifice himself for the greater good. Blurb from the email after the jump. - ESN CCSC Wants Your Story CCSC is currently investigating the noise, party, and alcohol policies at Columbia. Has your party been broken up? Have you had issues accessing campus late at night? Have you ever been disturbed by a party? Help CCSC research this issue by sharing your thoughts, either through an anonymous e-mail or by attending our weekly meeting. You can email Council's policy group at policy@columbia.edu and we will maintain your privacy. We will discuss this issue on Sunday, March 9th, at 8 p.m. in Satow on the 5th floor of Lerner. Email: policy@columbia.edu 
 As of last month, Bwog has turned three years old, and is looking forward to a full set of teeth, complete sentences, counting, and eating as many Lucky Charms as possible. Mmm, tiny marshmallows. As such, you are pleasantly informed that the third anniversary of our birth will be celebrated on Friday at La Negrita (Columbus &amp; 109th Street), at 10 p.m (same as last year). Come one, come all, etc.! 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;- Barnard College Rosalind Rosenberg is this year's winner of the Emily Gregory Award for Excellence in Teaching. The award, named for Barnard's first female teacher, is bestowed annually by students on a member of the faculty. Rosenberg's popular courses include American Women in the 20th Century, and she holds "Silver Nugget" on her CULPA page. Her book Divided Lives: American Women in the 20th Century was published last spring in a new edition. It's also perhaps the most meta-award ever: the third result on a Google search of "Emily Gregory Award" is a biography of Emily Gregory - by Rosenberg! It's a small, small world. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;- Photo by JNW Spotted in Lerner: blogger and Entertainment Weekly creator/founding editor Jeff Jarvis (dim photo at right). Jarvis, who is also now the director of the interactive journalism program at CUNY's new journalism school, was part of a pre-lunch panel in the Business School's BRITE Conference, which is taking place during today and tomorrow in Roone Arledge Cinema. 
 College students have known for some time in the pit our of collective stomach that getting a job after graduation would be tough for the class of '09. But today Time confirmed our fears with a comprehensive survey of hiring changes in many industries and, as the author puts it, it's looking "grimmer than ever." &nbsp; According to the article, even grimmer than earlier this year; many companies surveyed reported a significant change in the number of hires now compared to October. But most just reported a plain, simple, and steep decline in the number of 2009 grads they would be hiring compared to last year. Big surprise - the loss of 71% of the expected job openings in the finance is the highest of any industry. High losses were also found in "professional services," including accounting and engineering. Shockingly, the government is hiring! And it's pretty much the only employer with an increase in job openings from previous years. Of course, schools are scrambling to find jobs for their graduates through alumni networking, widely seen as one of the only ways to beat the bear market. That's two reasons to send your resume to Washington, kids. If you need a third, Time predicts that many seniors who don't snag a job will end up working at Starbucks after graduation.&nbsp;People will always need caffeine. 
 Using sex references and bad words: an original spin on poetry, haikus, and The Odyssey.&nbsp; Drugs WILL make the sun come out.&nbsp; Of course you can spend no money, look like a fool, and still get girls to do you. You will never sleep with Snow White. Unless you have a tail. Hey! Bwog is offended. We are definitely more pretentious than the Varsity Show.&nbsp; But less pretentious than humor of the gilded age. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 &nbsp;Graphic used by Adalah New York speakers Bwog's Liz Naiden squeezed into Hamilton 517 early for the Columbia Palestine Forum. Eager throngs crowded closer to the door and looked longingly into a small Hamilton classroom where the Columbia Palestine Forum was about to commence (Columbia Palestine Forum being both the name of the event and the group that sponsored it). Quick background: the group demands (among other items) that Columbia issue a declaration of support for academic freedom in Palestine, "condemn the destructive actions of the Israeli state," and hold "an open forum detailing its investments in companies and corporations actively involved in or profiting from the Israeli occupation, to begin a conversation University-wide conversation about divestment."&nbsp; The four-professor panel (Gil Andijar, Bruce Robbins, Brinkley Messick, and Mahmood Mamdani) mainly addressed issues of academic freedom, how universities are involved in governmental and military policy, and the application of the term "apartheid" to the situation in Israel and Palestine. Anidjar opened with a discussion about the relationship between boycotting and freedom, ultimately agreeing with the US government&#65533;s view that boycotting is a legitimate way to promote and exercise freedom. Robbins followed by defining academic freedom as not being able to be fired for what one writes and says. Robbins argued that, using this definition, Israel restricts many Palestinians' academic freedom. He went on to add that the Israeli government&#65533;s actions are violations not of academic freedom but of human rights. Messick focused on protecting academic freedom, which he argues can be done by &#65533;protecting the space of the academy where free discourse can happen," and gave examples of the damage military connections can have on universities. Finally, Mamdani focused mostly on the use of the term apartheid, acknowledging that it does not fit perfectly with the situation in Israel. He provided instead the example of the oppression by freed African slaves returning to Liberia of the population they found there. The returning Liberians created a society of institutionalized discrimination that violated the human rights of the second class, who had never been &#65533;civilized&#65533; by living in America. Though he clarified that apartheid is specific to racial discrimination, Mamdani argued the distinction was immaterial, and that Israel is linked to South Africa by a similar systematization. After the professors spoke, two Columbia grads representing the Palestinian advocacy group Adalah New York gave a brief presentation about the history of Israel. Included in the presentation was a series of maps which compared the Jewish holdings in the early 20th century and those of today, a list of human rights violations of the Israeli government, and figures outlining the list of companies to boycott, including hummus producer Sabra, L'Oreal, Motorola, and Max Brenner Chocolate. During the presentation, one of the activists spoke passionately about her experience as a Palestinian. She said that her movement is restricted while at home, and showed us her required ID card. After Olivia Rosane, BC '09 and one of the founders of the Columbia Palestine Forum, outlined the demands of the group, the floor was opened for questions and comments. Some of the comments and questions were critical of the presenters, particularly questions that touched upon Hamas and questions concerning a two state solution. Mamdani clarified that he was not in favor of the dissolution of Israel, and that, for all he cared, &#65533;there can be ten states! It doesn&#65533;t matter how many states there are. I really don&#65533;t care how many states there are. I care about the quality of citizenship.&#65533; This opinion was echoed by the rest of the presenters, as were Mamdani&#65533;s feelings towards Hamas, which he characterized as seemingly shifting seamlessly between a terrorist organization and a liberation movement like the IRA. He also noted that Britain eventually had to negotiate with the IRA after spending years searching for a &#65533;good Irish organization." When the Q&amp;A was cut short due to time considerations, the moderator encouraged the audience to sign a petition and attend the speak-out tomorrow at noon on Low Plaza, where the Columbia Palestine Forum will face off with the administration on Columbia&#65533;s divestment and academic freedom policies. Get your popcorn ready. 
 &nbsp;-Photo via talking-heads.nl Prezbo chats with grad students (and welcomes your emails). English is overrated, anyway. If Christ could talk during an orchestra concert, what would he say? That Israel-Palestine conflict is one bad mother--shut yo' mouth--but I'm talkin' 'bout Gaza. 
 &nbsp;-Photo via thaindian.com Resident Columbia film star James Franco has reportedly signed a book deal to publish a collection of short stories. The newly minted bard, who already carries some weight in the publishing world, is also set to act in a film about ex-Columbia literary luminary Allen Ginsberg. The writerly impulse apparently runs in the family since Franco's mom is an author too, and he has read some of her audio books. No word yet if this literary turn will bring Franco to Wien.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;- Photo by JCD Jonesing for a good Gaza protest? About 20 members of the Columbia Palestine Forum are out on Low Steps for several hours today, calling for divestment from Israel and other non-contentious ideas. Those looking for more background can check out the LectureHop of last night's teach-in. If nothing else, they'd appreciate the audience - when Bwog stopped by, listener numbers were rather low (and included at least several Hillel board members, who probably were not there in support).&nbsp; - JCD 
Bwog Rectangular Object Specialist Anish Bramhandkar made a shocking discovery earlier today: the TV in the Empti Lounge has disappeared. The nefarious TV bandit left the cords dangling, remarkably similar to the hasty dismantlement of Empti's former froyo titan. Perhaps this thief is also responsible for the rushed disappearance of Columbia's endowment.&nbsp; UPDATE (4:56 PM): Housing and Dining emails Bwog to say that "actually, the TV was not stolen, but we removed it because the screen was cracked. We are working to get a replacement television in there as soon as possible. Sorry for the inconvenience." 
 &nbsp;-Photo via the Eye This edition of the Eye is all about depression and mental health, which makes Bwog feel guilty. Sorry that we were a little mean with last week's EyePoke, guys, but that's no reason to get upset. Want talk about it? Hug it out? Former Spec Editor-in-Chief Tom Faure writes on depression. Another piece on alcohol and psychiatric disorders. ...wait. Now the Eye is mocking its own depression. No more sympathy from us! 
 With all the other restaurant switching going on, several commenters have asked about Haakon's Hall, which was supposed to replaced Radio Perfecto last fall (including free wifi). Today, though, Bwog Viking Establishment Correspondent James Downie investigated, and found a notice saying that the opening has been delayed until April.&nbsp; Hang on, then, Valhalla aspirants - your cuisine will be here soon. 
 &nbsp;- Wikimedia Commons Spring break is just one more week away!&nbsp; Who can wait?&nbsp; Go out there now!&nbsp; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday&nbsp; The Armory Show Friday &amp; Saturday noon-8pm and Sunday noon-7pm, Piers 92 and 94 Twelfth Ave. at 55th St. (212-645-6440) It's the best that the above-ground art world has to offer, featuring both contemporary and modern art. For all you art history majors to show off. Price: $10 students &nbsp; Fountain Art Fair Daily 11am-7pm, Pier 66 12th Ave &amp; W 26th St If, like the Impressionists of yore, you're done with “establishment art,” this underground indie affair will tantalize your (color) palate.&nbsp; The city's best of the under-the-radar come together for one weekend only.&nbsp; Price: $5 suggested donation Friday and Saturday&nbsp; Eyebeam's Alternate World's Fair Nightly 9pm-2am, Eyebeam 540 W 21st St (212.937.6580) In all good Worlds' Fair tradition, this expo explores our modern concept of utopia with Juan Maclean and Tim Sweeney providing the background beats.&nbsp; Expect a plethora of intriguing multimedia pavilions, including surveillance balloons, a World of Warcraft-inspired living space, and even a computerized prayer booth with a direct line to the guy upstairs.&nbsp; Price: $15 in advance/$20 at door/$30 weekend pass&nbsp; Awaji Puppet Theater Company Friday 7:30pm and Saturday 2:30 &amp; 7:30pm, Japan Society 333 E. 47th St. nr. First Ave.&nbsp; A weekend-only celebration and performance of this ancient Japanese three-man puppet show.&nbsp; Before the evening performances, a “puppet expert” from Cornell will be on-hand to answer questions. Price: $42&nbsp; Friday&nbsp; Friday Night Dinner &nbsp; Friday 6:30pm, Natural Gourmet Institute for Food and Health 48 W. 21st St., 2nd fl (212-645-5170 ) Every Friday night, future grads of the Natural Gourmet Institute put together four-course vegetarian meals for members of the public.&nbsp; It's like a thesis presentation you can eat!&nbsp; And BYOB to, since they don't have a liquor license.&nbsp; Price: $34&nbsp; Saturday&nbsp; Chairlift Saturday 10pm, Santos' Party House 100 Lafayette St. nr. Walker St The heavily-advertised band plays downtown one night only.&nbsp; According to Apple's extensive ads, they're good enough to download, and must therefore be good enough to rock-out to in person. Price: $15-20&nbsp; Elegantly Wasted Saturdays with Velizar Saturday 9pm-4am, Element 225 E. Houston St. nr. Essex St. (212-254-2200) It's an electronic dance party, with weekly special guest DJs. Price: $10/$5 before midnight&nbsp; Memorizing Championships Saturday 9am-5pm, Con Edison Grand Auditorium, 4 Irving Pl., at 14th St. Memorization masters confront fifty-line poems, series of numbers (up to 500!), and recall the order of decks of cards.&nbsp; These people are for real.&nbsp; Price: Free to watch&nbsp; Sunday&nbsp; Girls Write Now Day Sunday 4-6pm, The New School, Theresa Lang Community and Student Center 55 West 13th St, 2nd floor Young girls participating in the program, Girls Write Now!, read from their work and garner your support.&nbsp; As young as they are, they're pretty good—it's a worthy celebration of International Women's Day. Price: $10-20 suggested&nbsp;
We can't keep seeing each other if you're going to let this imperialist racism continue. Ugh, great, so my boss is moving in next door. You should be ashamed of yourself for mocking those poor, downtrodden Kimmel occupiers. You'd better listen to me recount the trivial details of my life, or you're out of the fan club. Someone did something to tick off Fortune, because she is not smiling.&nbsp;
 &nbsp; &nbsp;At Bwog headquarters Event listings on Bwog now include images! This means all those hours you spent on Photoshop creating clever posters for your event won't go to waste -- instead of exiling your work to a dusty bulletin board somewhere in Wallach, you can have it posted on Bwog for thousands to see. Just send your image file as an attachment when you e-mail your event listing to events@bwog.net. Bwog's specially trained crew of HTML-coding monkeys (pictured above, right) will take care of the rest. In the meantime, peruse the events sidebar at left to see the new feature in action. Pretty swanky, huh? 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of OvationTV.com Remember Savion Glover? The tap dancer who brought in 'da funk and taught Snuffy to rap? Well, if you're a SEAS student, you can see him in person. Glover is one of more than a dozen performers, concerts, and musicals available this semester through the SEAS NY lottery. That lottery opens registration today at the "Kickoff" event in Carleton Lounge from 4 p.m. to 6. Organizers promise free food, Rock Band, and information about upcoming elections. Be sure to attend if you want to register for the lottery. Sure, that lab report is due soon, but you can spare 15 minutes for Savion.&nbsp;
 Basketball: Both the men's and women's teams look to bounce back from two weekend losses (and falling to .500 in the Ivy League), as they each face Princeton on Friday and Penn on Saturday (the men at home, the women away). All the games who are at 7 p.m., and the men can be heard on WKCR. Fencing: Building on a successful IFA championships, the fencing team goes to MIT this weekend for the NCAA Northeast Regionals. Baseball: After going 1-3 against #23 ranked Lamar last weekend, the Lions head south again, this time to play three games against UNC Charlotte. Wrestling: After a weekend off, the team heads to Philadelphia for the EIWA Championships, where they finished 7th out of 14 teams last year. Lacrosse: The women's lacrosse team has started the year on a roll, with three wins to open the season. Brittany Shannon and Holly Glynn have provided the firepower, with 24 of the team's 41 goals between them. This Saturday, they play Marist, before taking on American in the middle of the week and Ivy foe Cornell next Saturday. Archery: Yes, you can actually see the archery team in action this Sunday (for the only time this year), as they host an Ivy League tournament with Harvard and Cornell. - JCD 
Bwog may be celebrating its third birthday tonight, but don't expect Cheerios and apple juice. That's because the party's headed to La Negrita, at Columbus and 109th Street. Tipoff is officially set at 10 p.m., but Bwog recommends you arrive earlier to guarantee entrance. Besides welcoming in Bwog's novum annum, we'll also be rolling out the red carpet for the new February-March issue of the Blue &amp; White, fresh from the printers. Copies will be available for party-goers tonight. You're graciously invited -- see you soon! 
 On the night of the filing deadline, Sue Yang's "Action Potential Party" has announced their ticket. The other nominees: VP for Policy: Sarah Weiss, CC '10, head of Columbia Urban Experience, former Hillel board member, and a member of the search committee that selected Michele Moody-Adams VP for Communications: Sana Khalid, SGB rep, Intergroup Chair in Ahimsa, Project Health Mentor, MSA Events Coordinator, CC '11 VP for Funding: Nuriel Moghavem, CC '11, CIRCA treasurer, COHOP coordinator, ABC rep-at-large VP for Campus Life: Deysy Ordonez,&nbsp; CC '10, President of Sabor, Treasurer of Student Organization of Latinos, and Secretary of Organization of Pakistani Students, and treasurer of CU Bellydance As for the laptop in the middle - that's Weiss by webcam, as she's in Ecuador this semester. Let's just hope this action potential has no refractory period. UPDATE (9:53 PM): Yang's ticket is running unopposed, as is Learned Foote's ticket for 2011 class council. Of the council races, A.J. Pascua will run against Cliff Massey (the rumored Molina-Clark ticket did not materialize), while two new tickets will duke it out for 2012 rep: Access Columbia (Aki Terasaki for president, Sarah Chai for vice-president, and Jasmine Senior, Kenny Durell, and Brandon Christophe for class rep) and the Papageorge Party (Anthony Arias for president, Theo Papageorge for vice president, and Jiwoo Lee and Evan Johnston for class reps). A full list of all the candidates will be released later tonight. 
 &nbsp;Photo by JYH Please pardon the late start this morning (or afternoon); after Bwog's graciously-attended birthday party last night, we're a little sleepy.&nbsp; All that Pin the Tail on the Donkey, you know. But the news does not pause for hangovers, and Primate of the Bwogosphere Jon Hill has spotted an exciting opportunity to hear Archbishop Desmond Tutu and "bestselling historian" (and Columbia grad student of yore) Thomas Cahill "speak on the moral imperative to end the death penalty."&nbsp; The talk, free and open to the public, takes place this Wednesday at 7 PM at the Riverside Church. The discussion will focus on Cahill's new book, A Saint on Death Row: The Story of Dominque Green (no, not the Bond villain).&nbsp; Green spent twelve years on death row in Texas, during which both Cahill and Tutu advocated (unsuccessfully) for him. It promises to be a thoroughly moral evening.&nbsp; 
How else to explain the forty degree swing in five days? Yes, Bwog's weather meter currently reads 67 degrees out. But without much sun, the steps are sadly somewhat less than crowded. If you're still wavering on whether to venture out, just remember: it's back into the 40s after Sunday. - JCD 
 Besides the free popcorn at Postcrypt tonight, there's one other free food opportunity on campus today: at 4, SCEG and ROOTed are hosting a town forum in Lerner C555 on the Manhattanville expansion, with free pizza! It may not be restaurant quality, but it is a free meal, and that's the most important thing. UPDATE (5:40 PM): CCSC tells Bwog that the senior class is holding a Blockheads Burrito tailgate before tonight's Senior Night basketball game, from now until 6:30 in the Lou Gherig Lounge. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy of Florida State University Bwog's Official Cinephile Mark Hay uses the silver screen for some Spring Break pointers. This week's movie list could be about anything--intrigue, crisis, existential inertia, curb stomping. But, just like you, the only thing Bwog can concentrate on right now is the imminent salvation of spring break, and these films reflect our monomania. O Valhalla of rest, O promise of change, save us! O save us from the ruts into which we have fallen and from these God-damned midterms from which escape seems inconceivable! Proudly (and slightly prematurely) we present the answer to your prayers (if what you prayed for was a list of three movies relating to your spring break): &nbsp;there's one about what you wish you could do, one about what you should do, and one what you inevitably will do if (when!) you return home. What You Wish You Could Do The Graduate (1967) As evidenced by its continued popularity and the inability of modern-day imitators to supplant it, director Mike Nichols's opus is absolutely anthemic for our culture. Benjamin (Dustan Hoffman), upon returning home from college, is confronted with the incessant buzz and urgent pressure from family (and, even worse, family friends) to make something of himself--to continue his life as the all-American boy. Benjamin, however, just like you or me, wants nothing more than to sit for a while and adjust to the shock of being pitched from the educational bubble into the real, and really scary, world. &nbsp; His escapades encompass our deepest desires: to indulge in ourselves, to satisfy our ego and escape our destinies (in this case by gettin' some in an affair with the emblematic Mrs. Robinson), to escape and defy the pressures of our families and our obligations, to eschew sense for self and still somehow find everything in its right place in the end. Sure, over spring break you may not have an affair with a MILF, nor devote yourself to your libido, ego or any other Freudian force, nor find true love in the process of wild self-gratification, but you know you want to. And watching the innocent and relatable Benjamin wander through this meandering and searching farcical epic is possibly the most realistic and harmless way of realizing such a desire. &nbsp; What You Should Do American History X (1998) On the topic of director Tony Kaye's one flirtation with everlasting glory, many are too quick to attack the film for its shortcomings.&nbsp; Some have gone so far as to say the film feels too much like a loosely tied series of powerful scenes, focusing too much on the always somewhat undeveloped Derek (Edward Norton), an ex-neo-Nazi on the path to redemption. But that's exactly it: Derek doesn't fully click until his journey begins and never feels fully transformed until the very last scene of the film. Only the entire process of the movie, the fragmentation, the isolated moments of poignancy (often shown through a rich black and white filter, accenting contrasts and highlighting poignant features of the shot) can fully convey the power of the sudden thrusts of revelation that drive the slow process of change.&nbsp; Kaye's film revolves around this change, the catalyst for its clear and meaningful discussion of racism and violence. Peace and reconciliation, the realization of our ideals and all our idle talk: &nbsp;wouldn't life be so much better if we could just push ourselves to become that which we know we should be? The character of Derek is a promise that no matter how far we fall, no matter what we believe, we can always return to grace, though the price may be terrible. And at the very least, it is compelling to watch the journey in someone else; go ahead, watch the change.&nbsp; &nbsp; What You Most Likely Will Do American Graffiti (1973) Director George Lucas has taken us to many a strange and wonderful world, flown us around a galaxy (far far away) and back, but he has only once shown us something so strange and so fascinating as the innocence of home.&nbsp; &nbsp; Something about the simplicity of the world of Lucas's&nbsp;American Graffiti makes it understandable that the aimless drives along the main drag--the long night of&nbsp;wandering--is somehow more fascinating than the occasional breaks from the journey. Always, the characters are in search of something, of the elusive blonde in the T-bird, of Wolfman Jack, of the thrill of the race, but always they reach out for some beauty in their lives, some divinity, and fall back to the meandering drive. The big race, the monumental climax, ends as quickly as it begins, with a tire blow-out a few feet down the road, and even the extremity of the explosion of the car is muted by the focus on the people climbing out and falling right back into the normalcy of their lives. Though long and slow, the film has a gripping and profoundly reminiscent innocence, and the journey--its path and its conclusion--is ultimately cathartic. Just as, undoubtably, your trips home will also be.&nbsp; Images courtesy of IMDB.com&nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo by JPMB Fresh from signing a book deal, Columbia's most famous Butler denizen seems to have found another unharnessed niche--men's loungewear.&nbsp; A commenter's tip sent Bwog skipping down to the corner of 111th and Broadway, where a vendor has been (and still is) offering these gems. And since they're being offered by a street vendor, you know they're legit. 
 The Elections Board has released&nbsp; the full list of candidate for CCSC, and the competitive races are few and far between. In fact, only three races are contested this year - 2010 and 2012 class councils, and academic affairs representative. The races for Executive Board, 2011 class council, University Senate, and student services and pre-professional representatives all have just enough candidates to fill the positions. The race for 2012, though, could provide some entertainment, with five different sets of candidates for president and vice-president. Oh, and one student representative candidate? A Mr. Jose "Stephan" Perez. Perhaps the celebratory swig will become "Pregame LOL!" Full list below, with contested races first. UPDATE: Cliff Massey's ticket now includes a third candidate for representative, Lena Fan. According to Massey, "there was an issue with Lena's registration form" that has since been resolved. 2010 Class Council Clear Party:&nbsp; Cliff Massey (president), Evelyn Phan (VP), Asher Grodman, Ruqayyah Abdul-Karim, Lena Fan The Party: AJ Pascua (president), Valerie Sapozhnikova (VP), Joey Goldberg, Shirley Chen, Maximo Cubilette 2012 Class Council Access Columbia: Aki Terasaki (president), Sarah Chai (VP), Brandon Christophe, Jasmine Senior, Kenny Durell Action: Trenton Barnes (president), Narine Atamian (VP) B.A.M.: Michelle Kwak (president), Brandi Ripp (VP) Fianna Fail: William Prasifka (president), David Lynch (VP) The Papageorge Party: Anthony Arias (president), Theo Papageorge (VP), Jose Stephan Perez, Jiwoo Lee, Evan Johnston Independent Class Representative Candidates: Mary Shorey, Kayla Daly Academic Affairs Rep: Gilad Bendheim, Karen Woodin Executive Board: Sue Yang (president), Sarah Weiss (VP - Policy), Deysy Ordonez (VP - Campus Life), Sana Khalid (VP - Communications), Nuriel Moghavem (VP - Funding) 2011 Class Council: Learned Foote (president), Sean Udell (VP), Alexandra Coromilas, Sonya Chandra, Tom Amegadzie Pre-Professional Rep: Melissa Im University Senator (2 elected):Alex Frouman, Tim Lam Student Services Rep (2 elected): Priyanka Gumaste, Stephanie Wilhelm - JCD 
 &nbsp;- Columbia University Athletics Tough luck in Levien tonight, as Penn's Kevin Egee sank a three with time expired to down Columbia 51-50. The game was close the entire way through, with both teams shooting less than 40%, and neither team had a larger lead than 8. After taking 8-point lead with 6 minutes to go, though, the Lions failed to capitalize, and missed crucial free throws down the stretch. Kevin Bulger was the only Columbia player in double figures, while Jason Miller&nbsp; had 9 rebounds. Columbia finishes the season 12-16 overall, and 7-7 in the Ivy League, tied for fourth. This was also the last game for Miller and fellow seniors K.J. Matsui, Dan Trepanier, and Joe Bova. They leave Columbia with a record of 53-59 overall, and 25-31 in the Ivy League. 
 Determined to confuse young minds just before spring break, the folks over at NIST pushed all the clocks ahead by an hour last night in a semi-annual tradition known as Daylight Saving Time. We now know that the energy-saving aspirations of the March-November shift were bunk, but at least children now can trick-or-treat in daylight in the Fall. What does this mean for all of us too old to storm around the neighborhood as Pikachu?&nbsp; One less hour to study for midterms. Ready, set, panic. 
 &nbsp;Image via Photobucket Your romance woes are nothing to whine about.&nbsp; Daughters of almost-Presidents assure us that the dating scene gets even worse after college. The Times of India reflects their students' worries about getting in to college here.&nbsp; They translate PrezBo's assurances of financial aid stability into a harrowing tale of rejection and domestic TA's. Promising the inside scoop on the moon's demise, National Geographic, Google Images' predecessor, tell us that CU astrophysicist wants to know why the moon occasionally has bright patches.&nbsp; "Last Gasps"?&nbsp; Maybe.&nbsp; "Radon Blasts"?&nbsp; More likely. The flu virus is our very own Andromeda Strain.&nbsp; The awkwardly-named drug Tamiflu no longer works, say doctors, and it worries them.&nbsp; A CUMC professor of microbiology, however, calls it "amazing."&nbsp; Hooray, plague! Let alone save energy, DST furthering our depression, says a CU "biological rhythms expert."&nbsp; To fix that, buy a dawn simulator.&nbsp; Or, you know, turn on a light when you wake up. Litter, litter, everywhere.&nbsp; Local residents apparently have nothing to worry about except for an overabundance of shady movers' signs. 
 &nbsp;Photo via Yeshiva U. "White shoe impresario" Schuyler Chapin died at his home yesterday at the age of 86.&nbsp; He was dean of the School of Arts from 1975 to 1985. Chapin was known as a master political maneuverer in the arts and a powerful public and private figure, and he once told the Times, "Politics are at their worst in the arts world and the academic world." But he played the game well at Columbia: "on Mr. Chapin’s watch, enrollment doubled, and he raised $7 million and strengthened the fine-arts curriculum." Chapin's other jobs included general manager of the Metropolitan Opera from 1972-1975 and cultural affairs commissioner of New York City from 1994-2001. 
 Bwog's Associate Child Wrangler and Grassy Median Monitor Austin Brauser spotted a small person hiding in the brush on College Walk. Are the British back?&nbsp; Is he a CUAssassin?&nbsp; Don't be alarmed - he's probably just defending himself from stressed-out Columbians. After the jump: Young person threatens cameraman. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Rats, garbage, and the yells of Take Back the Night--they've heard about it all. Last year, the city surveyed 25,000 households and asked them to ponder what makes them happy.&nbsp; These poetic responses were boiled down into a series of categories about city services and quality of life in various neighborhoods. Using The New York Times' handy animated chart, Bwog found that sweet Morningside is in the middle of the pack for many categories, most of which are irrelevant to your average Columbian (students were not included in the survey, as they don't count as a "household,"). This area rated daytime subway safety and parks highly, as well as a variety of senior citizens', educational, and public health services. On the other hand, we had a huge problem with everything college-y: rat control, street noise, air quality, and crime, and we'd have to agree: rat control is just one of those things you can't do too well. 
 The CC'10 Class Council has something delicious in store this evening. It's free food and free massages.&nbsp; But wait--it's not pizza, it's Chipotle! Not only that, but the council members will be handing out vaguely-termed "spring break gear," which Bwog can only hope means sleeping pills and cake. The luxury begins at 9:00 PM on the ramps.&nbsp; You'd better hurry in before the burritos start rolling down the ramps. Update, 7:33 PM: Doughnut sensei Colin Felsman says: "The senior class has about 12 dozen doughnuts and 3 gallons of coffee to give away. And class rings to buy."&nbsp; On the ramps from now until Chipotle at 9:00, it's all yours. 
 According to Spec, Bwog was teased in grade school, and that's why we have so much snark now. We'll let that one sit.&nbsp; Help us, Columbia! We hate taking midterms! Environmental initiatives will make us hip. Even Teach for America isn't going to pay Columbia grads enough to eat next year. But now econ majors want to write books, too! &nbsp; 
 We know that, judging by the crowds at Butler far into Friday and Saturday evening this weekend, midterms week has been in earnest for many of you, and that some of you have been in midterm-induced struggles-ville since last week. The powers that be, familiar as always with the realities of undergraduate life, have scheduled the first "midterm date" for today.&nbsp; In that spirit, we'll direct to you to the libraries' website, which has links to all Columbia's study spots, and inform you that until Friday, 301 and 310 Butler will be open 24/7. Huzzah! Best of luck in all your mid-semester endeavors. Four days and counting until spring break.&nbsp; 
 Bwog got a tip yesterday that Vine, Swish's identical twin replacement, lacks the one thing that everyone seemed to like about Swish, may it rest in peace: bubble tea. Fortunately, as our tipster mentioned, 116th Street's bubble tea franchise is not gone forever, but merely transported two doors down to Ollie's. The bubble tea stand occupies a quaint corner, pictured at right, of the ever-frenzied Ollie's, but we were assured that all the same flavors and weird tapioca balls have all been transported safely and that nothing has changed from Swish's bubble tea selection. The reason for the move? Simply that Vine and Ollie's are owned by the same people.&nbsp; So bubble tea enthusiasts may now go about their days with the consolation that they'll never have to set foot in Cafe 212, filled to the brim with things that make you fat, for a healthy dose of boba. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -ECS 
 This weekend, the Times' ever-informative City Room Blog posted the answers to a street identification quiz they created to separate the true New Yorkers from the Long Islanders: the challenge was identify the origins of 20 NYC street names.&nbsp; Clue #7 struck our fancy: we pondered an image of a dapper young man in judge's robes. The clever NYT hint read "J. Well there. We just plain gave it away." After getting a hold on our chortles, we discovered that the portrait was of none other than our own John Jay, purveyor of soggy waffles and first chief justice of the United States Supreme Court. Turns out there are Jay Streets in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Staten Island, and the Bronx. There's also a Jay Place in the Bronx and a Jay Avenue in Queens. Columbia alumni, they run shit. 
 &nbsp;- Wikimedia Commons Make that two cabinet officials: sources confirm to Bwog that the Class Day speaker will be announced at midday tomorrow on Low Steps, and that discussions are underway with Attorney General Eric Holder, CC '73 and Law '76. Holder, the first African-American attorney general, has previously been Attorney General for the District of Columbia, Deputy Attorney General under President Bill Clinton, and one of three members of President Barack Obama's vice-presidential selection committee. The two alums were in the news together over the weekend, in fact, when Obama told the New York Times that he disagreed with Holder's characterization of America as a "nation of cowards" on racial issues. According to Columbia College Today, while in the College, Holder "majored in American history at the College and served as a mentor at a Harlem youth center." Unlike his boss, who has rarely talked about his time at Columbia, Holder has often returned to Morningside, and was at one point a member of Columbia's Board of Trustees.&nbsp; Any questions about the speaker can be addressed to ccsc09@columbia.edu. And, to help along the inevitable comparisons, here are some other schools' chosen speechifyers: Eric Schmidt (Penn), Katie Couric (Princeton), Howard Dean (University of Vermont), Christopher Buckley (Yale), Vice-President Joe Biden (Syracuse), and Oprah Winfrey (Duke). - JCD 
 &nbsp;-xkcd Just a heads-up that a mere five days after you return from spring break, programming god Larry Wall will be giving a talk on "The Art of Ballistic Programming." The Columbia University Association for Computing Machinery (CU ACM) is pretty stoked on this one, and you should be too. Wall created the Perl programming language, has won the International Obfuscated C Code Contest twice, and was the recipient of the first Free Software Foundation Award for the Advancement of Free Software in 1998. Event details to follow on our events sidebar. 
 Remember when you were in eighth grade and you were forced to read The Catcher in the Rye? Remember when Holden asks that taxi driver where all the ducks in Central Park go in the winter? Remember how you thought that was somehow a metaphor for imminent escape from your acne-ridden 13-year-old existence? Yeah, we do too. We can only imagine that resident Bwog Zoologist David Berke was thinking along the same lines when, on a stroll past St. John the Divine, and he wondered out loud where the Cathedral's most famous creatures, its peacocks, go when it gets cold out. Unable to procure an answer and eventually discovering that many Columbians don't even know about the existence of the peacocks at the Cathedral in the first place, we decided to investigate. The peacocks have been around since 1973, when they were presented as a gift from the Philadelphia Zoo, who had a few too many peachicks in that year's crop, to the Cathedral's then-dean, James Parks Morton. We strolled around the Cathedral grounds for a bit until we found a security guard who informed us that he didn't believe that there is a special wintertime procedure for dealing with peacocks but that "they have their own house out back." We followed the haunting squawks and found a peacock pen, much like what we imagine chicken coops look like, in a section of the Cathedral's parking lot. One white peacock was found resting in his "house" and a second, colorful tail feathers raised, walked back and forth in front of the coop before heading next door to the Cathedral's small Biblical garden. The peacock palace is large, but certainly would not be able to keep the birds warm in the winter. The rest of the Cathedral staff couldn't answer our query, so we perused morningside-heights.net, which informed us that the peacocks used to sleep on heat pipes in the garage, and now spend their time in a heated cage in that same garage during the wintry months, which has not been substantiated by the Cathedral's actual employees. Still, pay the peacocks a visit while you still can: several of the Cathedral's birds have been killed already, one by a dog, and another by an unknown and presumably very hungry peacock-thief during Thanksgiving weekend a few years ago. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -ECS 
 Those needing an escape tonight from the hellish hours of studying that await them tonight, tomorrow, the next day, and everyday after that until somehow spring break arrives, are in luck. Tonight, there will be free glowsticks, hot cider and, um, information about the CU Relay for Life, coming up on April 4th. There's also free food of some sort in Lerner's Satow Room for a panel event on the media until 9 PM. Update, 9:06 PM: Apparently there's free pizza in the Carman lounge right now and there will be a CC'10 study break in the McBain lounge at 10:00 PM, featuring cereal and milk.&nbsp; The Hillel Purim Bash is in Lerner Party Space right now as well.&nbsp; Free food galore! 
 The Spectator is on a midterm schedule this week, which means Columbia's favorite daily is temporarily an every-other-daily. Have no fear-New York's other publications are still going strong. The Times grapples with our jigsaw puzzle of a budget while crushing on Shakespeare the pinup. Citing the rising costs of both jet fuel and hamburger buns, the Wall Street Journal foretells the deaths of air travel and McDonalds. The Daily News cautions us to beware of Russian Sarah Palins and playing chicken with U.S. Navy ships. Which article mentions skivvies? New York Magazine chats with a Morningside Heights alum and names a Morningside Heights bar as one of the best. The Post doesn't want to hear about your poker-faced tranquility or your Yankees-Red Sox brewing bromance. 
 A concerned discount fancier has informed Bwog that Milano Market, Broadway’s finest supplier of Italian cheeses and window bread porn, is no longer offering buy-ten-get-one-free cards. Apparently it was a managerial decision, one that Hamilton Deli will hopefully never ever ever make. But don’t think of it as all bad. Yes, you’re losing a free sub or salad, but you’re gaining the peace of mind that comes with not having to worry about another damn card in your wallet. The recession: relieving stress every day. 
 Don't forget that this year's class day speaker will be announced today at 12:30 on Low Plaza. That's in one hour, folks. Place your final bets and cross your fingers. UPDATE (12:38 PM): As rumored yesterday, the CC Class Day speaker will be Attorney General Eric Holder, CC '73, Law '76. UPDATE (1:35 PM): We've got pictures of the momentous announcement and&nbsp;Columbia's press release. CC '09&nbsp;Student Council engages in a group huddle to prepare themselves for delivering the news. Lunch-eating passersby don't know what's about to hit them. &nbsp; The Announcement is made. Holder's achievement of becoming the first African-American attorney general receives praise. &nbsp; And then, with a brief "Thanks to all our adoring masses," it was over. But to be fair, Student Council has midterms, too. &nbsp; &nbsp; Columbia's press release: Attorney General Eric Holder Will Be Columbia College Class Day Speaker NEW YORK, March 10, 2009 - Columbia College has announced that U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, an alumnus of both Columbia College and Law School, will serve as its speaker for Class Day, the annual ceremony honoring graduating seniors. This year’s ceremony takes place on Tuesday, May 19, on the South Lawn of Columbia’s Morningside Heights campus. “Columbians are rightly proud to count both the President of the United States and his Attorney General among our graduates,” said Columbia President Lee C. Bollinger. “Eric Holder has been a loyal and active alumnus of both our College and Law School whose impressive career exemplifies the civic values and commitment to public service that we hope to nurture in our students across all professional fields and academic disciplines. We look forward to welcoming him back.” After being sworn in as attorney general last month, Holder (CC'73, Law'76) became the second consecutive Columbia graduate to serve in that cabinet post, succeeding Michael Mukasey (CC'63). He served as a Columbia University trustee from March 2007 until his confirmation. “Eric Holder has stayed closely connected to the College and to his classmates while building an outstanding career serving the public good,” said Dean Austin Quigley, dean of Columbia College. “He is a fine example to all of our students and his remarks at the 2009 Class Day will make the occasion especially memorable for our graduating seniors and their families.” After his graduation from Columbia College and Law School, Holder joined the Department of Justice’s newly-formed Public Integrity Section, where he investigated and prosecuted corruption involving officials in local, state and federal government. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan appointed Holder to serve as an associate judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, where he presided over hundreds of criminal and civil trials during his five years on the bench. In 1993, President Bill Clinton appointed Holder to serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia. In 1997, Clinton appointed Holder to serve as deputy attorney general of the United States, a position that he held until the end of the Clinton administration. Over the course of his career, Holder has earned a reputation as a staunch champion of civil rights. &nbsp; 
 As Columbia enters the last few days of the "midterm period," bunkering down in Butler may look more and more enticing. But, to help you hang on to that&nbsp;precious&nbsp;wireless signal,&nbsp;Bwog spent Monday night in the Milstein and Reference Rooms measuring signal strength. The key corresponds to the average readout out of four bars on a standard 13 inch MacBook. You'll never be more than a click away from procrastination! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 That snickering you hear coming out of 125 Wallach is the Housing Office enjoying its latest joke. You may think room registration for next year ends tomorrow at 5:00, since that's what it says on the calendar, but that's only for the lonely. If you're entering as a group, your deadline is 5:00 today 11:00 a.m. tomorrow, because of the waiting period to add a group member. Those housing people, how they like their chuckles! Pull your deadbeat friends out of their lectures, slap laptops in their hands, and submit your applications unless you want your dream suite in Ruggles to turn into eight strangers, each on a different floor&nbsp;of Wien. UPDATE: Housing has a special six-hour turnaround tomorrow, so that you only need to not forget your group application before 11:00 a.m. 
 If you need a little confidence boost in this tough midterm season, Barnard offers a mantra that can't be repeated enough: "don't forget you are beautiful!" This banner in a Sulzberger Hall elevator wants you to know that even though you haven't showered in a week, you're wearing the sweatshirt you found on the floor of your chem lab, and you're foaming at the mouth, you look good while you're doing it. Of course, it all depends on where you get your inspiration from. More photos from Dorm Detective Julia Mix Barrington&nbsp;after the jump, if you're holed up in a library and can't make it there yourself. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Spring break isn't here yet, but tonight we herald the arrival of that other kind of break-the kind&nbsp;with free food. The CCSC&nbsp;Campus Life Committee will be giving away "TONS of food" in JJ's Place tonight from 9-10, right around that time in the evening when you start to think about how much you like noshing on some nibbles. It being JJ's Place, there's no promise on the nutritional value of these particular nuggets, but rest assured that by the time you're done, you'll be too full either to&nbsp;resume studying or heave yourself out of your chair. Don't even think about trying to muster up enthusiasm for CCSC's planned unveiling of the College Days theme. Then from 10-11, the French Cultural Society will be on the Lerner ramps handing out Nutella and other treats with a hint of the exotic about them. Nutella is apparently Italian, but that's relatively close to France. Or at least closer than Butler. So go forth into this (pretty mild) night, and score some eats. 
 Bwog&nbsp;has been&nbsp;informed that the above treasure is the first thing that greets your eyes when you enter the EC lobby. Professor-in-residence Harrist discovered it on his deck. As everyone slogging towards the housing process finish line knows, East Campus is nice. Nice enough for professors to consent to live there, despite the social disadvantages of sharing a building with 700 undergrads and about half as many clean pairs of underwear at any given time. Don’t scare them away. And don’t leave your shoes on the windowsill. 
 Phew, glad that Trojan War is over. Time for the feminist movement. I have molecular biology. I can now turn your porridge into gold. Hey SEAS, Columbia hasn't actually won the Manhattanville suit yet. You seem to have overestimated the effects of electron bombardment -- again. Those fools? They pixed the box too early. Ahem, too late. Boxed the pix wrong. I win, see. 
 So you caught a break when Housing decided to give you until 11 this morning to get your group's proverbial shit together. But you didn't, and now that convoluted-as-hell deadline for putting together your ideal Room Selection group has officially passed.&nbsp; That means you are now procrastinating a trip to 125 Hartley 125 Wallach to sweet-talk the housing people into adding your group. And you know they WILL laugh at your idiocy. If you're not involved with messy group housing shenanigans, you have until 5 p.m. to submit your application for housing. Groups also have a little under 6 hours left to submit their final application, provided everyone's been added. 
Hawkmadinebwog is no prophet, but either Odysseus is getting ready to slaughter Penelope's suitors, or the red-tails are out for spring! Several people wrote in yesterday to tell us that a juvenile red-tail was hanging around Hamilton and Low until catching his meal and dropping feathers on the passers-by of College Walk. Hawkmadinebwog is not skilled enough in field identification to tell individual red-tails apart, but it is easy enough to know whether a bird is a juvenile or an adult. These hawks do not get their red tail until their second year, so a brown, striped tail means it is a juvy. The hawk we have been calling "Hawkmadinejad" is an adult, most likely one of the mates of St. John's. Hawkmadinebwog supports the continued use of the name Hawkmadinejad for any adult red-tail that dares to venture, like a controversial international speaker, onto our campus. But we should probably come up with another name for the babies. Baby Hawkma, perhaps? Post your own suggestions in the comments, and see more pictures of the hawk and its meal after the jump. The remains: Hawkmadinebwog's official position is that any raptor sighting is a good omen. For extra luck, draw some hawk doodles on your blue book. 
 The new issue of The Jester (up now in pdf) should hit your local Butler table sometime today or tomorrow. Don't be alarmed by the fire engine red, it's just The Jester's way of solving the age-old problem of how to catch your attention as effectively and obnoxiously as possible.&nbsp; Never been to career services? Maybe you have questions about resumes, or about oral sex? (22-23, Jester's pages) But you don't need a resume to cook meth in your dorm room (11). Alternatively, feed yourself using the newest form of Flex Dollars. Number of bicep, tricep, and shirtless full-shoulder muscle flexes per flex dollar have yet to be determined (16). Or make chicken wings disappear and reappear by a combination of inductive reasoning, deductive reasoning, and magic (5).&nbsp; There's no solution to Jay-Z's problems, except lip surgery (20-21). Hey, this isn't like where's waldo - there are phalli everywhere! (12-13) 
 Club Zamana bills itself as Columbia's "largest South Asian organization," and while that probably refers to membership size, it looks to be true in the poster department as well. Club members just unrolled (literally) a three-story poster in Lerner for Tamasha 2009, their annual cultural showcase which will take place in Roone Arledge on the 27th. Zamana should be careful, though: their poster completely blocks that of the Association of Computing Machinery. This can only end in an epic throwdown. 
 Those of you following CU Assassins may have noticed that in place of the mocking, playful, and egotistical tones of early kill reports, many killins of the past week have been described with malice and aggression. Water-gun-in-your-face aggression. There are now only two teams remaining in the game - one with two players, and one with three, and the road to the last round has not been an easy one. Kill reports bear witness to some heated disagreements on the legality of the kill. Bwog also has reports of a vicious email from the realm of the dead accusing murderers of cheating. But let's be real, history is DEF written by the winners. Deceased: Diamond Dreamsizzle Time of Death: Tuesday, March 10 at 03:34 PM Summary of Death: The Dancing Beauties thought they could outsmart us, but having lasted so long, they didn't really put up much of a fight. Tiger Steelrail was the first to go, and he pleaded for mercy. You were shot in the neck? I think not friend. Firmdriver was the next victim, and he tried to deny that he was playing. Try having your back fully against the wall, and not partially. Dreamsizzle thought she could outsmart us by standing side by side with her identical twin, but she was no match for us. I'm so sure the water "ricocheted" onto your back. Nice try. R.I.P. THEN END. Deceased: Buttscratcha Time of Death: Sunday, March 08 at 12:39 AM Summary of Death: I'm not funneling kills, I'm just a master of disguise. You gonna dispute this one? Of course, there were also some traditional kill reports quoting gangsta rap Deceased: Nanerpus Time of Death: Wednesday, March 04 at 02:18 PM Summary of Death: When I die, fuck it I wanna go to hell.. Cause I'm a piece of shit, it ain't hard to fuckin tell.. It don't make sense, going to heaven wit the goodie-goodies.. Dressed in white, I like black tims and black hoodies.. God will probably have me on some real strict shit.. No sleepin all day, no gettin my dick licked.. Hangin with the goodie-goodies loungin in paradise.. Fuck that shit, I wanna tote guns and shoot dice.. A few of the straight-up "you are dumb" variety Deceased: Maverick Time of Death: Tuesday, March 03 at 01:14 PM Summary of Death: Don't whip it out in John Jay. You never know who's watching you. A familiar tone of poetic snark Deceased: Michelle Time of Death: Tuesday, March 03 at 08:02 PM Summary of Death: This kill brought to you by your long flowing locks. And Bwog's personal favorite - short and sweet Deceased: Dinkleberrie Time of Death: Monday, March 09 at 03:10 PM Summary of Death: Just happened to walk by. Team Phallic Pizza is dunzo. &nbsp; 
 Bwog has reports of a lot of cop cars blocking both auto and pedestrian traffic in the area of 120th Street and Amsterdam. It is unclear why the blockade has been set up and where it begins and ends at this point. Updates coming shortly.&nbsp; UPDATE (7:51 PM): Officers tell Bwog that it's a "suspicious package," somewhere along 120th Street. An officer was overheard suggesting that the building at the corner of 120th and Amsterdam should be evacuated. The car blockade now extends from 116th to 121st Street along Amsterdam, and pedestrians are also being encouraged to use alternate routes. One Barnard student tells Bwog that she almost wasn't allowed out of Plimpton. Photos and more updates to follow shortly. UPDATE (8:16 PM): Police are searching under trashcans and cars between 120th and 121st Streets along Amsterdam. Pedestrians have been allowed on the east side of the sidewalk, but the west side remains closed. UPDATE (8:54 PM): Blockades have been removed except for 120th between Amsterdam and Broadway, where the "suspicious package" now sits, its contents spilled onto the sidewalk like dissected cat innards. Uniforms told to keep people back, because the detective need some "privacy" to stare at the clothes. - Photo by ESN More action shots of traffic confusion after the jump. -- Photos by JNW 
 -Photo via studentcity.com &nbsp; Instead of giving you a roundup of New York news to make up for the absent Spectator, Bwog has gotten the news from Spring Break hot spots to prepare you for next week. A little pre-gaming, if you will. Tijuana: This town is so great, you'll get your head chopped off! Wait, what!? South Florida: Get smashed, then praise Jesus. Cancun: You know what, maybe you should go to South Florida, instead. California Coast: Quick, get here before it disappears! New Orleans: The rebuilding continues, for the service-minded among us. 
 History Professor David Eisenbach, who served as communications director for Mike "I'm bat-shit insane and running for President" Gravel, is about to make it big. He announced via an email to, as far as we can tell, his entire address book that he will finally fulfill his life's dream this Sunday. What do history professors dream about? Election reform? World peace? A hoard of ravenous groupies? Nothing, it turns out, but their own show on The History Channel.&nbsp; We're not talking reenacted battle-scenes or animated archaeological models here. Eisenbach's show, The Beltway Unbuckled: How History Got Made in the Bedroom, could get pretty raunchy. After watching you'll "never look at Abe the same way again!" The pilot--created, written and hosted by Eisenbach--will air this Sunday at 8pm. It's just a pilot, so tune in to support Eisenbach/sex! Maybe if the show continues they'll do a segment on fantasy pairings like Barack and Hillary. I mean, um, ew. 
 &nbsp; After scribbling the final sentences in your Blue Book today, if you're too tired for a night on the town, Bwog has a couple of post-midterm couch potato recommendations. Jim Cramer, who made a slight error in a prediction about Bear Sterns last year, has been in a cable TV cat fight with the Daily Show. After many potshots back and forth, Cramer is appearing tonight on the Daily Show, which will make for good viewing. Also, at 7:30 in Lerner, there is a free advance screening of Adventureland, which is, essentially, Superbad set in the eighties. Pick up tickets at the CU Arts desk. The film's producer Anne Carey will be on hand for a Q&amp;A after the film, since everyone will have probing questions about all the dick jokes. -DJB 
 &nbsp;-Photo via masternewmedia.org The J-School just got bitch-slapped by recent campus visitor/Entertainment Weekly founding editor Jeff Jarvis. For its new blog The Local, the New York Times decided to partner with the City University of New York, where Jarvis is head of interactive journalism, instead of Columbia. Oh snap! As New York Magazine reported, the J-School has had a difficult time adapting to computers, trying to balance instruction in new media with silly things like objectivity. On the first day of class, the head of Columbia's new media program Ari Goldman reportedly went as far as to say "F*ck new media." Yeah, screw all that linking to ridiculous videos and inappropriate post tagging... -DJB 
 The February/March issue of the Blue and White has hit newsstands, benches, and tables near you. In addition to the reports on hometowns from the issue, here are trips down memory lane from Jersey City, Hickory Hills, and the East Village. Jersey City, NJ Most Jersey City residents are in it for the cheap. Compared to New York City, the Duane Reade is cheaper, condos are cheaper, food is cheaper, and parking is cheaper. To be fair, the two cities share a river, and Jersey City has a waterfront district packed with (ugly) new skyscrapers. There&#8217;s public transportation, too: the PATH train&#8212;Port Authority Trans-Hudson&#8212;takes budget-conscious yuppies where they wish they lived in under ten minutes. There are dreaming real-estate agents who call Jersey City the &#8220;sixth borough&#8221; of New York. Yet we remain New Jersey. The proof is in the Hudson County accent. If you limited your investigation to the waterfront, with its safe neighborhoods of quaint brownstones, it would seem that people choose Jersey City solely for the ease of commuting away from it. But move away from the Manhattan-reaching edge and you will penetrate a sort of &#8220;inner city,&#8221; where Jersey City comes into its own. Read more after the jump. Here, everything is still cheap, but the products are indigenous, making the area feel less like a bootleg New York. In the space of a few blocks, there is the Philippine Bread House, where you can get six pieces of still-warm pan de sal for a dollar; there is Larry and Joe&#8217;s, where you can get a $2 slice of eggplant pizza; there is the whole neighborhood of Little India, full of inexpensive and authentic restaurants. These are reminders of an older generation, now unfortunately left to complain about the new condos and higher taxes. The yuppies defend themselves by pointing out how much safer the city has gotten. There is no easy resolution to this bind. When I was little, there was a cluster of spindly bushes next to the playground by my house that my mom strictly forbade me from playing in because the area was littered with needles. Now, the neighborhood I grew up in hosts three hoity-toity cafes and an organic grocery in two blocks. The bushes in the park are more robust, and there&#8217;s no need to worry about finding needles in the thicket. At least for the next generation, Jersey City is an even better place to play house. &#8212;Amanda Pickering Hickory Hills, IL The name &#8220;Hickory Hills, Illinois&#8221; conjures sprawling corn fields and big red barns, planted among a small number of people on a first-name basis with one another. The reality is infinitely more complicated, mostly because of the town&#8217;s proximity to Chicago&#8212;it&#8217;s only a twenty-minute drive to downtown, and an intrepid person can walk to the formal city lines. It can&#8217;t properly be called a suburb, since it has no planned subdivisions. The distance between houses makes it feel like country, but the blocks are numbered, as in downtown Chicago, instead of named as in most suburbs. In fact, most Hillians consider themselves Chicagoans rather than small town dwellers&#8212;they're &#8220;from the southwest side&#8221; more than from Hickory. This big city identity isn't totally unwarranted. Hickory Hills is home to a surprising number of immigrants from Eastern Europe (especially Poland), Greece, Ireland, and the Middle East. Unfortunately, though, in Hickory Hills as in Chicago, immigrant communities react to one another with sometimes-fierce rivalry. Accidentally offering a Lithuanian person a greeting in Polish (my mistake, as an employee of the local Great American Bagel) will elicit a complaint to the manager. A woman wearing anything but traditional Islamic garb cannot expect to be seated at the town hookah bars. Walking into the Irish immigrant bar without an accent is a very, very bad idea. But some of the town&#8217;s idiosyncrasies are more charming. On Sunday mornings, Hickory Hills has an enthusiastic population of worshipers. But in spite of our apparent piety, the most frequented establishment on Saturday nights is PoleKatz, the town strip club. Still, everyone knows that the clientele hopping between bars on Saturday is settling into pews the next morning. Nowhere are Hickory Hills' contradictions more apparent than in the halls of the local high school. The school educates the children of both multi-millionaire Chicago stock traders and blue-collar corn-processing plant workers; the hallways are jammed with drug dealers, marching band members, and the very few who fall between these two extremes. I graduated in the class of 2005, which was simultaneously the highest-achieving class in school history (call me the case in point; I was the very first alum admitted to Columbia), and one of the worst behaved. One of my classmates was accidentally shot and killed at a party before graduation; another of my classmates set fire to one of the school's bathrooms; yet another assaulted a fellow student during science class with sulfuric acid. Since I hail from Hickory Hills, I can pass as a naive farmer&#8217;s daughter-type or as a jaded urbanite. Going to Mass every Sunday has alotted me some classic Midwestern American charm; navigating among so many different ethnic enclaves has bestowed me with city-smarts. In just three square miles, little Hickory Hills accommodates a lot. &#8212;Sara Jane Panfil The East Village I don&#8217;t know what visitors see when they come to my neighborhood. I might dress like the average NYU kid out on her first East Village adventure, but I remember a very different East Village, where drug dealers were arrested on my stoop and addicts slept in the park. Sometimes I even feel like I remember what the neighborhood was like long before that. But what I really remember are the long walks my father and I took through the neighborhood, even before I understood most of his lively historic commentary. Both my parents remember the neighborhood as it was when they arrived in the '70s, my father fleeing a Masters program at Yale, my mother hoping to paint. My father started working in small factories, got a job selling ladies' underwear, and eventually joined the subway to become a union organizer. They organized a rent strike in their building when the landlord refused to do repairs, and soon were leading rent strikes throughout the neighborhood. Often my father&#8217;s narration went beyond the history that he himself remembers. In the same breath he points out a building teeming with anarchists in the 1980&#8217;s, a one hundred year old Jewish knishery, and buildings that stood on Lafayette during the race riots of the 1860&#8217;s. Even with no visual aids, he narrates the history of the subway workers&#8217; union back to its heyday in the 30&#8217;s, as if he personally remembers it all. After years of his guidance, my eyes now find their own way to distinct visual signs of a once larger Hispanic population, of the days before the Jews and Italians vacated the slums, of the presence of squatters before gentrification. There is a one-block, diagonal road left where Peter Stuyvesant&#8217;s driveway once ran into his property. I begin to feel as though I remember it all. I&#8217;ve been lucky enough to have access to two of the many human relics--most of whom cling to their rent-controlled apartments and share their memories only with college-aged daughters and fellows in nostalgia. But the history of the East Village, my hometown, can be visible and vibrant to anyone--if you take time to look. &#8212;Liz Naiden 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;- AMP A small cadre of protesters amassed outside Vine Sushi this afternoon, holding up signs and offering handouts to passerby. When asked why they were protesting, they explained that they were former Tomo employees. Their claim is that, after trying to unionize, Tsu Yue Wang, who owns Ollie's, Tomo and Vine, shut down Tomo in retaliation. The protesters wanted their jobs back and the right to unionize, as well as an increase in their pay, which they claim was under two dollars an hour. When called, a Vine representative said they could not comment since the manager was not in. More photos after the jump. - DJB - Additional photos by CEE&nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Leaving the neighborhood Fotorush is going on permanent Spring Break beginning in two weeks. The Broadway photo developer plans to close March 27, according to a sign posted on its entrance between Liberty House and The Shoe Tree (n&#233;e Global Ink). Bwog confirmed the announcement with Fotorush's manager, who says "business has not been good" in These Economic Times. Maybe that depends on who's counting. It's worth noting that business information firm Cortera estimates Fotorush pulled in annual sales worth $1 million to $5 million as recently as 2007 -- that's a lot of passport photos. So, though we may not know what finally sank Fotorush, one thing is for sure: the Morningside Death Toll continues to climb. ---JYH 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image courtesy GreatModernPictures.com Most of the Spectator staff departed last night for Aruba having published no issue for today. So, in keeping with that spirit of travel, today's QuickSpec prepares you for departure with news from the airport.&nbsp; Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for flying with us today, particularly those of you with corporate expense accounts. A safety card is located in the seatpocket in front of you. On it you will find evacuation instructions and a few inspirational poems from Chesley Sullenberger. In the event of an emergency, one of our engines will drop down off the fuselage onto homes below. Please turn off all electronics devices at this time, unless you are paying to access our private, in-flight WiFi network. And for our travelers making connecting flights today to Atlanta, please also stow your firearms in the overhead compartment. 
 Guide to the Weekend: Spring Break and St. Pat's Pre-Game Edition We have finally reached the promised land, and just in time for one of New York City's most exciting weekend. For all those not on the road, it's prime opportunity to paint this town red (or, green as the case may be). Friday Afterwork Muevete Salsa Friday 6-10pm, 310 Bowery at 1st Street Free Soco lime shots before 7pm, and a big group salsa lesson that starts when the shot special ends. All together, a fiesta not to be missed. Price: No cover with RSVP, $3 coat check, happy hour drink prices Friday and Saturday The Pogues Friday and Saturday 8pm, Roseland Ballroom 239 West 52nd Street (212-777-6800) The Pogues play at the Roseland Ballroom in celebration of upcoming St. Patrick's Day. Price: $65 day of concert Saturday Savoy's 5th Annual Cassoulet Festival Saturday 12:30-3:30pm, Savoy 70 Prince St. (212-219-8570) The month-long cassoulet festival comes to an end with this special lunch. Sample seven different types of this slow-cooked Southern French stew and enjoy the wine included in the price. A highly relaxing lunchtime experience. Price: $55 All-Star Irish Rock Review Saturday 6pm door and 6:30pm event, Le Poisson Rouge 158 Bleecker Street (212-505-FISH) An event featuring top NYC singers performing the songs of Ireland's greatest including Thin Lizzy, U2, Van Morrison, Morrissey, and The Pogues. Price: $20 Saturday and Sunday (and Tuesday) The World's Largest St. Patty's Day Pub Crawl Saturday, Sunday, and Tuesday, different registration points and times, see website or call 212-724-3900 3 days, 5 miles, and more than 100 pubs in Murray Hill, Upper East Side, and the East Village. All bars will sell $1 Bud Lights, $2 well drinks, and 2-for-1 Jameson shots. Last year, 4000 people attended and they're looking to break the record. Price: $30 for a three-day pass, $20-25 for a single day Sunday St. Patrick's Open Day at the Irish Arts Center Sunday 12-5pm, 553 West 51 Street (212.757.3318) Irish music, dance, language, and song all in one free afternoon. Check out the website for the schedule of events, which includes a tin whistle workshop and a Gaelic conversation circle. Price: Free US Pole Dance Championships Sunday 2:30pm, Bleecker Street Theater 45 Bleecker St (212.253.7017) The top twelve pole dancers in the country come together to compete for the top prize. It's an athletic competition, so there's no nudity allowed. Price: $50-70 Housing Works Clothes Swap Sunday 3:30-7pm, 191 Orchard St., b/t Houston &amp; Stanton Sts. (347-749-9824) Bring a bag of your unwanted clothes for a chance to rummage through others'. Fashion students will be on call to help you assemble your new look. Price: $5 donation at the door 
Posted in Schapiro lounges Friday night (conveniently after most people had already left for break): Despite Columbia's sterling record in respecting privacy, what happens if you've left out anything incriminating goes unspecified. 
 To exams: Who were you fooling with all of those hours you spent in Butler last week? Not the good people at Cramster.com, apparently -- the cheatsheet site reports more traffic from Columbia than any other school. So this is how you were using those WiFi maps. To global warming: Emitted in Texas, sequestered in Memphis? A new map shows where rocks can store excess carbon dioxide. Watch out, Sprayregen: Columbia's moving into the storage business, too. To fat kids: The closer the fast food, the fatter the students. Considering the nearest McDonald's is about five blocks from campus, Columbia might be in the clear, but just think what obesity rates must be like at Hamburger University.&nbsp; To costly journalism: Attention, bankrupt media outlets! The J-School wants your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning for a paycheck. Provided they submit three clips and a cover letter, of course. To low attendance: People do actually watch sports at Columbia. Particularly women's basketball. If you don't believe us, check out this nifty press release. 
 The Blue and White's February/March&nbsp;issue is now online! From the issue: Columbia and internet start-ups: two tastes that don't go well together. Remember, Hitch did go to Columbia... Memories of far-flung homes, including Jack Daniel's in Tennessee and guns in San Antonio. If only bureaucrats liked the idea of going undercover... And: a church without a neighborhood, two very different campus leaders, and whether you should go to grad school. 
 &nbsp;- Thurman, on right, with Moravec (photo by Lucien Marc Smith) At least one senior already has a solid paragraph for the alumni notes: yesterday, the Times's "The Moment" blog briefly profiled soon-to-be-graduate Kyle Thurman. Thurman and recent New School grad Matthew Moravec are five days into their first art show, running until March 29th at the Art Production Fund (229 West Houston Street). Their show's name? "The New Deal." Somewhere, Alan Brinkley approves. Moravec and Thurman (whose girlfriend, Mirabelle Marden, as in daughter of Brice, was one of the co-founders of the influential Rivington Arms gallery) are not the only "young'uns" making up the show: the eleven artists' ages range from 19 to 26. As for the next step, Moravec told Interview magazine, "We're young. We're all in the same situation: finished school, finishing school. Trying to figure it all out." At least they've got something to fall back on. 
 Opportunities to use your parents' hard earned flex off campus are dropping like flies. The Flex-eating disease has spread quickly, completely annihilating some, while putting others into a temporary or sporadic coma. But somewhere out there, far away from the carnage close to campus, courage can be found. The recurring flex mishaps didn't stop Wondee Siam V, a Thai restaurant on Amsterdam between 107th and 108th, from boldly deciding to treat your CUID like money.&nbsp; Wondee Siam V will begin accepting Flex on-site in mid-April. If you're jonesing for some Thai-a-la-Flex in the meantime, use Flex to pay for delivery from Wondee Siam V through Campusfood.com. &nbsp; 
 &nbsp; Photo by ESN Bwog's Airborne Contaminants Team has finally confirmed, after days of close analysis, that the sign posted on the Wien bulletin board earlier this week does indeed contain the word "asbestos." We're all gonna die! Well, maybe only those of us who like to hang out anywhere that smells of the good ol' John Jay garbage chute. Though the sign says that floors 3-9 will be affected, close inspection of another sign (with much smaller print) reveals that construction on floors 3-8 will be limited to trash rooms, where some asbestos-laden pipe insulation will be replaced. On floor 9, residents might be a little freaked by the plastic covering the carpet from the staircase to the south end of the hallway. The construction crew, which is set to start work tomorrow, will be removing "350 feet of vinyl asbestos tile" from rooms 938 and 940. You may be coming home to a freshly "inspected" room,&nbsp; but just think - it could be worse. Instead of stealing your alcohol, Columbia could have stolen your dearly loved asbestos tile floor. Never leave your valuables behind, kids.&nbsp; 
 &nbsp;-Photo via z-mation.com In a sign that small, awkward protests (at least some) can get things done, Tsu Yue Wang, the man who seems to own every Asian restaurant around Columbia, was ordered by the State Labor Department to pay $2.3 million in back wages to hundreds of employees at some of his eateries. The mysterious closing of Tomo, whose management claims was a result of rising rent and old employees claim had to do with their attempts to unionize, remains an open case. Wang alleges he has no affiliation with Tomo, though business documents indicate otherwise. Tomo now owes 100 workers roughly $1 million in back pay from minimum-wage and overtime violations. &#8220;You start to see a pattern, and it starts to get sickening,&#8221; said one investigator to the Times. Funny, that's true of the food as well. -DJB 
 Everyone's favorite Jewish affairs journal The Current just released its Spring issue, and the Zionist focus has us feeling like the most beleaguered of the Brady Bunch children. &nbsp;The Current's Editor-in-Chief feels the Columbia/Barnard Hillel needs to support Israel more. Classical Zionism is so five minutes ago. Inequality even in model Israeli towns. Let's just rock it out and relax. 
 Editor's Note: Hello again! Nice to finally be back up. Unfortunately, our events system might have taken the entire site down with it for the past few days, but our crack team of computer whiz kids finally were able to go in and revive the blog. That, or the blog achieved sentience and decided to watch the first round of March Madness. We're not sure yet. Anyways, we now return to our regularly scheduled blogging. At a diverse school like Columbia, people have many different ways of celebrating the arrival of spring. Some play on the uncovered fields, some partake in a fine outdoor smoke, and some decide to sunbathe on Low Steps (scaring tour groups and small children).Other, more culinary-minded members of the community would prefer to celebrate with a nice outdoor grill, but the university's ban on barbecues looked to kill that impulse for another spring. Now, though, prospective grillmasters will be able to practice their trade again, as the university has decided to reverse the ban. But don't pull out your finest dry rub recipes just yet. This is Columbia; there are rules and procedures to follow. In this case, only student groups can put on BBQs (after having taken a fire safety course), and they can only do so in approved areas like Low Plaza and Van Am Courtyard. Sadly, according to the new policy, "grills cannot be used indoors, on lawns, on building roofs or at any other campus location," which totally kills our idea of roasting a whole pig on the roof of Mudd. 
 &nbsp;Photo via Wikipedia Locally &#8211; Our women's archery coach demonstrates that arrows can indeed puncture humans. Internationally &#8211; We're not opening international campuses, just research facilities.&nbsp; All the glory, none of the undergrads. Internally &#8211; All those Twinkies in your college diet will make you forget everything you've learned. Virtually &#8211; He got a journalism Master's here, now he's reinventing the editorial(izing) process.&nbsp; And he's not writing for Bwog. Underwater &#8211; Yes, the glaciers really are melting.&nbsp; We're just double-triple-checking. 
 Loyalty is not something ingrained in students at this spirit-deprived school.&nbsp; Even with all the excitement, we knew deep inside that Barack Obama (CC '83, now some kind of important person) would never speak at Class Day. After all, what with saving the world, how could he possibly have time to visit his Alma Mater? As it turned out, our intuition was correct &#8211; Obama won't be our Class Day speaker.&nbsp; He'll be the commencement speaker for other schools. That's right, schools, pluralized.&nbsp; Two days ago, the White House issued a little-noticed press release announcing that Barack Obama would serve as commencement speaker at three colleges: Arizona State, Notre Dame, and the US Naval Academy. Bwog's analysis would suggest that he'll touch on themes such as "the economy," "the future," and "you unemployable history majors." The press release promises "more details" at a later date, but we're not holding our breath.&nbsp; We're too bitter. 
 Deal with housing Pay $2.50 to ride the subway Think about life after graduation Prepare for a grim Columbia baseball season just when it was starting to get nice out Read another Spec columnist complain about Bwog. This week: why does Bwog let everyone write those comment things? 
 In a decision lacking much of the fanfare of the College's Class Day speaker announcement, SEAS deans chose their own speaker over the weekend: James Albaugh, SEAS M.S. '74. Albaugh earned his B.A. in Math and Physics from Willamette University and is now executive vice president of the Boeing Company and chief executive officer of Boeing Integrated Defense Systems. According to his Wikipedia page, he supervises a $30.8 billion budget, and is one of Boeing's "best paid managers." See you May 18, Jim! Photo via boeing.com 
 Bwog extends a warm welcome back to Columbians, all of whom we assume are facing the day with bleary eyes. Whether you were getting schwasted in Mexico like those people at other colleges or furiously applying to internships and trying to read the books you skipped so far this semester, coming back to school isn't easy.&nbsp; The next eight weeks before (eek!) graduation should be action-packed ones. The flowers will bloom, you will write term papers, and you will leave another year of college older, wiser, and probably even more neurotic. So let's take a by-the-numbers look ahead at the next few weeks: starting tomorrow, you have&nbsp;3 days to pass/fail a class, 42 days until the last day of class, 46 days until the first day of finals, 53 days until the last day of finals and summer vacation, except for our dearly beloved class of '09, which has 58 days until they graduate and become real people. Enjoy the first day back; you may now resume competing for good grades instead of the intensity of your tan line.&nbsp; 
 All Barnard students received the following e-mail this morning about an incident in Riverside Park yesterday: &nbsp;Dear Barnard community, &nbsp;The Public Safety Department disseminated security alerts involving a B/C student who was in Riverside Park, Sunday March 22 at 1:55pm and a male &nbsp;approached her and proceeded to expose himself. Please be aware and alert of your surroundings at all times. Garrett Doherty Public safety Supervisor 
 &nbsp;Photo via nytimes.com Turns out our 7th grade alter-egos down the street at Columbia Secondary School and us Columbians have more in common than geography and raging hormones. Just as we go gaga for Michael Taussig's fashion sense and perfectly coiffed hairdo, so our friends our middle school friends adore their own teachers. Exhibit A: an article yesterday's Times about the upcoming commitment ceremony of Chance Nalley, a math teacher at the School. Nalley, one of the School's strictest teachers, came out to his students at a diversity workshop two years ago and was delighted to find that his students were insistent on being invited to the ceremony. The students' parents have also been invited.&nbsp; The ceremony will take place on campus at St. Paul's Chapel on April 4. Two-thirds of the School's ninety-six 7th graders will be at the ceremony, and Nalley has hired an extra security guard...to accommodate the horde of 12-year-olds. 
 Those needing to fulfill their New Year's Resolution of finally getting off campus need look no further than the DUMBO Winter Pop-Up Market for a healthy dosage of outer borough fun. The Market is an indoor flea market housed in two buildings on Front Street in the trendy up-and-coming Brooklyn neighborhood of DUMBO (and by "trendy" and upcoming," we mean neither). The Pop-Up Market will close for the season after this coming weekend; a harbinger of spring and a sad loss indeed for the scores of Brooklyn-or-Manhattan-ites alike who have scored totally rad vintage finds throughout the season.&nbsp; While the Pop-Market is certainly an ideal arena for hipster-taunting, it actually also has much to offer, as Bwog discovered during the final fleeting milliseconds of spring break freedom this past weekend. The Market's smaller outpost, on the left side of Front Street and Washington, houses mostly vintage clothing stands, some (though certainly not all) of which, contain reasonably priced goods such as Victorian lace shirts, $8 clip on bowties, Japanese baseball jerseys and the like. The larger part of the market, right across the street, has even more to browse. Overpriced hot chocolate and pastries and really cheap Mexican food are delectable energy sources for an afternoon of sifting through racks of balloon-pant shorts and boxes of prints of the flora and fauna of various countries. Bwog especially recommends the following stands: Jelly Roll Vintage, Charlie and Sarah, Christina Stankard Jewelry, Fine &amp; Raw Chocolate, and Lynn Falconer for the cheapest, and some of the best, vintage stuff at the Market. With the final weekend of the Pop-Up Market, bargain hunters eagerly await the return of the infamous original Brooklyn Flea, which will re-open April 18 at Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Fort Greene.&nbsp; -ECS 
 Columbia may have been upstaged last month in the building takeover category by our violet-loving friends to the south. However, we can all rest assured that nostalgia for the halcyon days of Morningside Heights in 1968 will never be crushed by pesky NYU Public Safety officers. On that note, today Gothamist posted an interview with Mark Rudd, former member of occasional bombmakers Weatherman and, more relevantly, president of the Columbia chapter of SDS. Rudd was expelled from Columbia in 1968 and then joined the Weathermen, aka the Weather Underground, and helped to plan a bombing in the early 70's of Butler Library, a horror unimaginable to those holed up in 209 at this very moment. Rudd and his fellow Weathermen eventually landed themselves on the F.B.I's top 10 most wanted list.&nbsp; Rudd is currently living in New Mexico and is about to release a book about his experiences as a Weatherman and campus activist in the 1960's and 70's. It's creatively titled Underground, and retails for the quite capitalist price of $25.99. The Gothamist interview touches on his childhood and upbringing in the suburbs of New York, the Ayers/Obama controversy, and his thoughts about the progression of New York City throughout the last few decades. He describes his book as a "story of good organizing (Columbia) followed by bad (Weathermen)." (Photo via gothamist.com) - ECS 
 While many of us have only been back on campus for 24 hours or so, the Asian American Alliance (AAA) and Club Zamana have separately decided the time is already ripe for a study break. Beleaguered masses, rise from your work spaces and head to the West Ramp Lounge at 7 for the Tamasha Hype study break, featuring free ice cream and T-shirts. Then, stick around for AAA's study break at the ramp tables from 10-10:30 for free mochi and green tea. The AAA-ers will also be discussing their new "Sex Ed" documentary and are looking for folks willing to be interviewed. Bwog will stick with the mochi for now, thanks. 
 Nathan Bailey, Lenny Langenscheidt and John Nordin, (bottom, middle, top of picture respectively) all CC '12, get a lot of weird looks.&nbsp; This is due to the trio's penchant for free running around campus as the rest of us peacefully walk to class. Free running is essentially the British and American version of Parkour, which is basically running around urban landscapes jumping over things and climbing up walls. Bwog's official urban acrobatics correspondent Julia Barrington noticed the boys climbing up the walls of Uris a few weeks back, and today the trio took us back to the B-school to show us their moves. Before scaling the walls of their favorite Uris nook, the boys, in true Three Musketeers style, touted the position pictured at right for its 'all for one, one for all' mentality. As they lined up, the gentlemen explained: "if one of us falls, we all get crushed." The freshmen have also climbed to the top of the dome of St. John the Divine and explored the science facility being constructed next to Pupin, although they didn't find much besides hard hats and sawdust. As they leaped over the side of Low up to the top of the steps to survey their kingdom, a young man paused and admired them. "Man, that's so cool" he sighed, "I wish I could do that. I'm so depressed now." More photos after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -ECS 
 This evening, mere hours before lottery numbers are due to be posted online tomorrow, Columbia Undergraduate Housing threw us for another loop: there's a new dorm! Cozily-named Harmony Hall will be available for the 2009-2010 room selection process and offers eight floors of freshly renovated off-campus-esque housing. Harmony is located at 544 W. 110th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam and contains 76 singles and 7 doubles, allowing 90 lucky guinea pigs in total to grace Harmony's hallways next year. There are 8-12 rooms per floor, which are arranged corridor-style. Harmony residents will also find a full-sized fridge, sink and stove on each floor, and (of course) a flat-screen TV in their common rooms. There's a laundry room and bicycle storage rack in the basement, and only two RA rooms, allowing for many opportunities to wash dirty clothes and do some hardcore RA-free partying, every Columbian's favorite combination. 
 White smoke has risen from Satow tonight, as Whitney Green has been elected the new ESC President. Green, who succeeds Peter Valeiras, is the current secretary, and has also been GSSC liaison and a class council member. In her speech, Green spoke about she had worked with student groups to get their ideas implemented. Concerned with disconnect with students and alumni, said students want alumni advice, and alumni are more than willing to advise, but need better framework to contact and help each other, adding that ESC "is heart." More ESC election results as they come in. UPDATE (11:29 PM): The new VP Intergroup will be Gunnar Aasen, who dropped into the VP Intergroup race after losing to Whitney for president. UPDATE (12:28 AM): Kelly Chen will be the new VP for Policy. UPDATE (1:23 AM): Chris Elizondo will be the new VP for Student Life. UPDATE (2:12 AM): Heidi Ahmed will be the new secretary. -SVZ 
 Bwog Official Omnivore Julia Mix Barrington skipped out of a "riveting lab session" hoping to catch a glimpse of Michael Pollan's bald head. When she actually got to hear him speak, she was so happy she sent in this report. Warning: this Lecture Hop includes incinerated woodchuck. I joined middle-aged Upper West Side intellectuals, American Studies majors, and other nascent foodies in the line stretching from the doors of Low past Alma promptly at 5.15, hoping only for a seat at the back.&nbsp; Fortunately, Low Rotunda is always much grander than I'd remembered, and I ended up with a pretty excellent seat at a really excellent talk with Pollan, the author of, among other things, The Botany of Desire, The Omnivore&#8217;s Dilemma, and, most recently In Defense of Food, and also a frequent commenter for the New York Times and the Washington Post.&nbsp; Pollan (who also got his masters here in 1981) started out by saying that he spent his collegiate salad days in the hallowed halls of Philosophy, steeping himself in English, particularly Emerson, Thoreau, and the American tradition of &#8220;nature writing.&#8221;&nbsp; He sees their &#8220;Wilderness Ethic&#8221; as the thread connecting each of his books, and it ran through his remarks, as well.&nbsp; Between insightful and extremely humorous passages read aloud from four of his books, Pollan offered a retrospective narrative of his journey from humble English major to revered food writer and advocate. The seeds of his first book, Second Nature, stemmed from a house in "rural Connecticut," after abandoning graduate school (because "you have to learn German and read The Fairie Queene," which didn&#8217;t mesh so well with his real job).&nbsp; He planted a garden "as only a student of Emerson and Thoreau would" - sans fences or any of the resultant allocations of higher privilege to cultivated or uncultivated land.&nbsp; This experiment lasted one night, a night during which a recalcitrant woodchuck dined on each of Pollan&#8217;s carefully-planted seedlings.&nbsp; Then, he said, he learned how infuriating it is when a &#8220;small-brained creature outwits you&#8221;; determined to eradicate his enemy, he embarked on a &#8220;horticultural Vietnam.&#8221;&nbsp; Pollan described his anti-woodchuck strategy&#8212;from damming up the entrance to its burrow with stones (woodchucks, it turns out, always have a back door), to attempting &#8220;behavioral modification&#8221; by pouring eggs, motor oil, jam and creosote into the animal&#8217;s home, to an act of &#8220;terrorism&#8221; (shoving the carcass of a road-killed woodchuck into the hole in hopes of getting his message across), to finally trying to incinerate the woodchuck and nearly incinerating himself and his garden instead.&nbsp; Knowing that Michael Pollan, champion of real food and God of the farmers&#8217; market, could, and did, resort to a woodchuck holocaust humanized him immensely in my eyes; nobody&#8217;s perfect. The Botany of Desire, he said, also arose from his fascination with the natural world; contemplation of a bumblebee and his potato patch inspired the question of how plants manipulate people into propagating and cultivating them while tricking people into thinking they&#8217;re in charge. In the course of searching for the answer, Pollan examines the evolutionary agendas of apples, tulips, potatoes, and marijuana, as well as what these plants&#8217; styles of steering us says about our wants as a species. Pollan selected a section from this book dealing with many a college student&#8217;s favorite topic - cannabis - and, in a treacherously good stoner imitation, made a really brilliant insight about the mental baggage which we carry to all of our experiences.&nbsp; The &#8220;wonder&#8221; which a marijuana high brings is, according to Pollan, directly related to the drug&#8217;s ability to make us forget; pot strips away all prior experience, allowing a user to see, hear, touch, smell and taste as if for the first time.&nbsp; Things become &#8220;italicized.&#8221; Vanilla ice cream turns into vanilla ICE CREAM; chairs are CHAIRS!&nbsp; Pollan&#8217;s audience - made up, for the most part of college students, with a few long-haired older folks sprinkled here and there - gleefully made the leap with him, listening with goofy smiles and unrestrained chuckles.&nbsp; I could make connections, but I won&#8217;t. Eventually, Pollan meandered away from the topic of recreational drugs and onto the topic of industrially-farmed potatoes&#8212;&#8220;people in the East have no idea how big farms actually are&#8212;and the pesticides used on them, chemicals so poisonous that potatoes must sit for six weeks after harvest in piles that would practically fill Low Rotunda before their toxicity has subsided enough for consumption.&nbsp; Pollan saw these potato mountains while researching The Botany of Desire, and they opened his eyes to how little he actually knew about where his food came from.&nbsp; Voila, The Omnivore&#8217;s Dilemma was born, which traces four meals (McDonald&#8217;s fast food, industrial Whole Foods organic food, hardcore locavore organic food, and a meal he hunted and gathered completely from the land surrounding his California home) from their beginnings (photosynthesis) to their ends (stomachs). Pollan&#8217;s talk ended with a meditation from the last few pages of Omnivore concerning &#8220;the perfect meal.&#8221;&nbsp; It&#8217;s a meal, he says, which is completely paid for, which leaves &#8220;no debt outstanding&#8221;; however, even Pollan admits that such a meal&#8212;equivalent to the final one he serves&#8212;is completely implausible in daily life.&nbsp; Rather, he suggests, both the first super-fast meal and the last super-slow one should be treated as ritual &#8220;thanksgivings&#8221;&#8212;held once a year so that we truly think about what we are eating and how it gets to us. (photo: nationalpost.com) 
 Without government-sponsored education programs, our kids will spend all their free time staging elaborate twenty-car pileups with Hot Wheels. Opening Columbia offices in China and Jordan proves to be a lot less hassle than opening any in Manhattanville. The new breed of campus band is scrappy, ambitious, and can be found in your laundry room. The only rule freshmen need to remember for their first on-campus housing lottery is to stay the hell away from McBain. The World Baseball Classic ended last night, but Columbia baseball is just getting started. 
 You came to Columbia for the unique and rich pit of cultural fabulosity that is New York City. Naysayers from your hometown warned you about subway muggings, ridiculous food prices, and deadly air quality, but you weren't scared. You were prepared. Except for the one thing they never tell you about: the pesky problem of pigeons. New York is plagued by them. It prostrates itself before their paramountcy. Until today. Columbia offers you its protection with the new campus pigeon punting team, coming soon to Low Library step near you. Watch this useful introductory video to learn about their exercises and listen to some beautiful piano.&nbsp;Godspeed, punters. And sorry, Hawkma. 
 Some students will spend tonight locked in their rooms, sobbing over the phone to their mothers about their housing lottery numbers. But if you find comfort in the company of others, or maybe just in edible free crap, consider the African Diasporic Literary Society! Tonight it offers a free dinner in the Malcolm X Lounge at 7:45, with a discussion of the play "Brujerias" beginning at 8:00. That's a whole meal, gratis. In this economy. And the ADLS meets every week. You're welcome. 
 Take a deep breath and log into your application. Your number is under Registration Summary. All those who wait for Housing to e-mail the alert first are and always will be fools. But where is the entire list? Knowing everyone else's business is so cathartic. Never mind! Read it and quite literally weep. The winners have an 8. The losers have 3000, which was thought by many to be merely a myth before this day. 
 While you despair/rejoice/fret over your housing number, some other news to take your mind off singles and square feet: the "Study Day Project" has been resolved! Presumptive CCSC President Sue Yang filled Bwog in on the details: Registrar John Carter and Brady Sloan have determined that there will be 2 study days next semester: Tuesday, December 15, and Wednesday, December 16, (as opposed to just Tuesday December 15). Why isn't the last Monday of classes cancelled? "New York State Law prevents us from canceling the final Monday of classes; it requires a certain number of Mondays, Tuesdays, etc. of classes every semester." "Exams are being shifted around to accommodate this change," and "measures will be taken to ensure that future conflict does not arise over this issue." Yang also told Bwog, "I think the Study Day issue and its resolution are a good model of how council can facilitate interactions between students and administrative bodies to bring students the change they want to see," and insisted on giving a shout-out the Committee on Instruction's Student Representatives, Yiliu Shen-Burke and Brendan Price. In case you didn't already figure the symbolism out, New York State Law = "the man." The effect: the exam period will run from Thursday (the 17th) to Wednesday (the 23rd), with Saturday and Sunday still off, and there will just be more exams within those four days. You may now continue with plans to skip your last Monday class. - JCD 
 You know the results, but what about the grit and passion of the battle? Bwog Election Sentinel Sean Zimmermann was on the scene last night (and this morning) as ESC chose its new council. Last night, ESC gathered to elect the council&#8217;s new executive board. Whitney Green, the current council Secretary, ran against Gunnar Aasen for the council presidency. Aasen, who has worked on the council for the last three years, said he would focus on developing a good rapport with the new SEAS dean (who should be chosen by the end of the semester), and work on getting more internship/job opportunities for students. He said his experience on council gave him an understanding of how the university &#8220;ticks.&#8221; When asked how he would work with an uncooperative administration, he said &#8220;persistence never fails." Green, who has also been on the council for the last three years, spoke about her goals of creating a better alumni-student mentoring framework, enhancing &#8220;SEAS pride campus wide,&#8221; and making the council more approachable for student organizations. She&nbsp;described her success in reaching out to clubs and groups to get their feedback on current council initiatives and ended by&nbsp;saying that ESC was her &#8220;heart,&#8221; and &#8220;to put it bluntly, I really want this position.&#8221; After about thirty minutes of closed deliberations, Green was declared the next council president. After losing to Green, Aasen decided to run in the VP-Intergroup race against Varun Gulati and Kim Lipman-White. Aasen, who has served as the treasurer on the interschool governing board and has worked on the Co-Sponsorship Committee for the last three years, reiterated that he had an excellent knowledge of how the system works, and said he would continue the spirit of the ESC partnership network to work to bring engineering student groups &#8220;back in the loop.&#8221; When asked if he was capable of saying no to clubs requesting money, he explained that when it came to saying no, he&#8217;s &#8220;been doing it for a while.&#8221; He also said that he was &#8220;comfortable with looking at a budget and saying, &#8216;This is bullshit.&#8217; &#8221; The council voted him the new VP-Intergroup. The race for VP-Policy was the most hotly contested. ESC 2011 Rep Albert Miller, Academic Affairs Rep Eric Hirani, Student Services Rep Emma Lebwohl, and the 2010 Class Council Policy Rep Kelly Chen all ran for the position. After the speeches, Chen was declared the winner. Chen, who is also the current secretary of the Society of Women Engineers, spoke about her plans to revamp Carlton Lounge and the Mudd Library. She also said she would aim to put vending machines in Butler, and institute a faster off-campus flex system. Chen expressed her view that Lerner is no longer a &#8220;student center;&#8221; since clubs reserve most of the available space, there is no room for individual students. She&nbsp;described her&nbsp;plan to create more room for individual students in Lerner by finding other places clubs could meet, or finding other spaces on campus that could serve as alternate lounges for individuals. When asked how she would deal with an unresponsive administration, she explained, &#8220;if you are clear and serious in your initiatives, the administration will help you.&#8221; The race for VP-Student Life, between Chris Elizondo&nbsp;and Joffre Andrande, was the closest. After over 40 minutes of deliberations, Elizondo was declared the winner. Elizondo, in cowboy boots, opened with a quote from Albert Einstein: &#8220;Imagination is more important than knowledge.&#8221; He explained that he believes in &#8220;positive leadership,&#8221; and asked for the council&#8217;s confidence as well as their vote. He said his goal was to hold an event workshop for first year class councils, and to work with each class council independently to &#8220;touch all levels of the student body.&#8221; He also spoke about instituting a flyer-for-food system to help spread the word about large campus events.&nbsp;The plan would have class&nbsp;councils host dinners before an event, and later ask the people who attended to post a few flyers to help raise awareness. By the time candidates for Secretary began giving their speeches, it was well past 1:30 in the morning, but the exhausted Epsita Hoque, Jennifer Vettel, and Heidi Ahmed all spoke as planned. Ahmed, who has not worked on the greater ESC in the past, was declared the winner after speaking about how she &#8220;got an odd kick&#8221; from her job as secretary for her class council, and explained that she had decided to run for a position on the greater ESC after serving on her class council because she would like to work on more events that affect the entire Columbia community. She explained that what had drawn her to the position of Secretary was that, under Green, the secretary had become a communications position &#8211; a liaison to the student body. She said she would want to continue in that tradition; to play a large role in meetings, but also expand her responsibilities beyond what the constitution requires. 
 Late-breaking news for music fans: Talib Kweli will be part of this year's Bacchanal. A tipster noted earlier today that his website listed a show at Columbia on April 18th, and Bacchanal board members confirmed this evening that the MC will be one of the artists. No word was forthcoming, though, on who the other artist or artists might be. UPDATE (1:20 AM): Spectacle reports that the other half of the bill is Morningside's own Vampire Weekend. However, Bacchanal organizers refused to confirm the story, telling Bwog that "Spec posted without receiving confirmation from the Bacchanal Concert Committee, which could pose problems for security and clauses in the contract." UPDATE (1:35 AM): According to a Bacchanal representative, the Vampire Weekend announcement was only supposed to occur two weeks prior to the event, as there are security concerns about non-students flooding the campus. Bacchanal is, of course, contractually obligated to respect that two-week maximum, which is why Bacchanal refused to confirm to the Spectator.&nbsp; UPDATE (12:10 PM): The post has been taken down, but the headline still shows up on Spec's homepage. (N.B.: Bwog's received permission from Bacchanal to report this information.) - JCD, KER &amp; JNW 
 Plan B's an abortion, masquerading as birth control? Not a vitamin for the average infrequently but recently laid college girl? Written sequel to the movie Goodfellas discovered under ruse cover of history prof's new book. Unfortunately, another unlikely goldmine found in Roget's Thesaurus (all the gossip you could ever want, seriously) is written in invisible ink over the word associations. And no free Ouija board either. Don't believe their denial - everyone really wants to go back to simplicity of middle school. Plus, I hear their production of Our Town is complex and stimulating. 
 Bwog's Seasonal Transition Team has been awaiting this moment for weeks, and the day has finally come. The South Lawn is beginning to show signs of life, emerging as we speak from her long hibernation.&nbsp; More pictures of the disrobing after the jump.&nbsp; &nbsp; Winter blankets away! -- Photos by ESN and LDP 
 &nbsp;-Photo courtesy of CityRoom Every ArtHum student knows that St. John the Divine is a goldmine for statues, painting, and generally beautiful stuff. But even if you're not an old hand at looking at old pretty things, it's certainly worth taking a walk down the street to see St. John's new additions to the displayed collection. &nbsp; The two newcomers, both 16 ft. long 17th century tapestries, now hang above eye level in the North and South transepts. They are both part of the Barberini collection, named for the cardinal who commissioned them as a gift for Pope Urban VIII. The tapestries, titled "Agony in the Garden" and "The Crucifixion" are meant to convey a theme of struggle, relating to both the season of Lent, which ends in a few weeks, and the fire of 2001 that left the church and its art under the wraps of renovation for seven years. But even if you don't feel the pain and penitence welling up, the fine detail and expertly restored colors of the tapestries, particularly in "The Crucifixion" will strike you immediately. And for such a Met-like experience, you won't even have to use a MetroCard ride. 
 The Princeton Review's venerated "College Hopes and Worries" survey has hit the e-news stands, and apparently Columbia is every student's "dream school." That makes you feel a little better about your life and your lottery number, now doesn't it? Bwog is proud - can we get a little ROAR? Only Harvard and Stanford were voted higher on the students' "Dream College List" (oh yeah, and Harvard was not #1). The survey also generated a list of parent's dream schools, which starts with Harvard and Stanford in H-centric order, and Princeton in bronze. Guess who's not on the parent's "Dream College" list? YOU. You, Columbia, are nowhere to be found in the top ten. Yes, parents would much rather send their kids to UCLA, USC, NYU (yeah, really), and the University of Notre Dame than send them here. Perhaps the elders fear that their children will be irrevocably damaged by our pigeon punting antics, sarcastic tone, and 50 person protests.&nbsp; 
 Earlier today, as reported by City Room, the board of the MTA voted to both raise fares and cut back on services. The widely-expected move comes amid a serious budget crunch, exacerbated because the MTA is required to have a balanced budget. Local officials claim that this was a necessary step, especially after the state senate blocked a package of new taxes and tolls championed by Governor David Paterson. How will the decision affect you? For starters, subway and bus fares will increase from $2 to $2.50, beginning May 31. For your extra four bits you will receive fewer trains on the 1 line between 11 and 3 p.m. on weekdays, as well as between 2 and 5 a.m. all seven days, as well as a shortened M104 route. What a deal! Other changes include the elimination of the W and Z lines, as well as 35 bus lines in total. A full list of changes affecting the 10027 zip code is posted after the jump, and those living elsewhere can search at the Comptroller's website. Happy route hunting! (photo via Flickr) Service Type Name Change Time Subway 1 Fewer Trains 2 AM-5 AM Subway 1 Fewer Trains Weekdays &#8211; 11 AM-3 PM Subway Station 125th St (2,3) One full-time station booth eliminated Subway Station 125th St (A,B,C,D) One part-time agent eliminated Current hours: 6:10 AM-12 AM &#8211; Mon.-Sat. Bus M104 Route Partly Eliminated All Times Bus M1 Service Eliminated Overnight Bus M102 Service Eliminated Overnight Bus M2 Service Eliminated Overnight Bus M100 Later Start &#8211; Morning Saturdays Bus M11 Later Start &#8211; Morning Weekdays Bus M10 Service Eliminated Weekdays Bus M18 Service Eliminated Weekdays Bus M1 Route Partly Eliminated Weekends 
 Just so you know, the guy sitting next to you in lecture might be able to build a robot that could kill you in 10 seconds flat. But if he can do that, he's probably also more concerned with building a super-cool robot designed to kick other robots' butts in a national robotics competition.&nbsp; This year, a number of Columbia faculty and SEAS students are acting as involved mentors for a high school robotics team known as 2 Train Robotics. The kids come from Morris High School Campus as well as other city schools, and they work at Columbia's super-teched-out MechE lab. They also participate annually in a robotics competition run by an organization known as FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology), with multiple levels of competition. And while you were sitting around on spring break, these guys and gals were kicking metallic ass in Philadelphia, where they took first place in regional competition. Pictures of the epic battle after the jump. That means the team is off to Atlanta for the National Championships, where it will be officially decided who has the skills to take over the world. The teams have already been informed through an animation of the rules and exactly what the competition will look like. There will unfortunately be no robot duels to the death - instead, the robots will be playing a good-clean-fun ballgame in a simulated moon surface environment. The robots will have a front end with implements for moving the "moon rocks," and a backend that the opponents try to place the balls into. The team that gets the most rocks into opposing cabooses wins. The teams get to throw moon rocks into the fray as well, and for a segment of the game the teams will turn off the auto-pilot and take the monsters on joyrides. That's just what you do at robotics competitions. And yeah, we're awesome at it. 
To aid you all in the existential crises at hand (Wien or McBain... oh the horrors) Bwog's Special Inebriated Stunts Correspondent Jon Hill has been tracking stumbles, drunk dials, puke incidents and blackouts for months to bring you the complete breakdown of every dorm on your list by Blood Alcohol Level. Long live the atrocious reign of Carman. 
 CU Assassins has finally come to a bloody, ruthless end. "The Commissioners" have informed the participants via email that Team "Teamname" officially won the game with three Agents still alive when Agent Claytoya murdered Agent bearclaw at 1:30pm today. Though the last kill appears to be a clean one, the recent animosity over unclear kills persisted to the very end. The second to last of the kill reports contains an exerpt of an angry email sent by the victim to her murderer: Time of Death: Monday, March 23 at 08:32 PM Location of Death: Vine Summary of Death: A great team, a great sport, a great kill. Also, i would just like to post part of an email sent to us by our previous victims... Enjoy. "Dear Douchebags, "I don&#8217;t know exactly who&#8217;s cock you sucked on the rules committee, but seriously, could you be any more of a bunch of jackasses?" skip to the end. "All in all, I&#8217;m just amazed that you kids can turn a few tiny drops into a clean shot to the back in each case. That must be some fantastic head for the rules chair. But I don&#8217;t want there to be any hard feelings, so I want to get each of you a consolation prize: a travel-sized bottle of Scope to get the taste of fresh cum out of your mouths. Enjoy your victory, you&#8217;ve certainly earned it. "Sincerely, A person who enjoyed this game until some douches took it over. (Aka Agent Tiger Steelrail)" Vined em. Then END. In addition to politely apologizing for any judgments players might (just maybe) have found unfair, the email from on high awards Agent bearclaw the prize for most kills, Officer Darwin the award for best Police Officer, and Agent the candlestick a big hug from the ESC president for being the first agent killed. Many congratulations to the various winners - may your aim always be true and your trigger fingers muscular. (Photo above is of next year's winners. No photo available of this year's winning team) 
 &nbsp;-Photo via Failblog.org The MTA is raising fares and cutting service. The M96 is the slowest bus in the City. And the person with the best lottery number is studying abroad! 
 &#160;-Photo via Medicaltourismmag.com Today is the last day to switch your classes to pass/fail, so if the pre-spring break midterm you just got back was not quite what you expected, switch now or take the letter grade. Bwog's chief grading transition expert Julia Mix Barrington alerted us that, for Barnard students, the switch to pass/fall is all done online, so save yourself a trip to the registrar and head to the joy that is eBear. For the engineers among us who may have spent too much time watching robot death battles and too little time studying, today is the last day to drop a class for SEAS. -DJB 
 &nbsp;-Photo via The Eye Columbia imports a student from the army... ...and a student who doesn't want the 'college experience.' Going to college is probably not the best way to accomplish that.&nbsp; TV has unrealistic characters? That's not possible! Plus, we're trying to bring in a linguistics program. 
 Free tacos and classical music on Lerner Ramps RIGHT NOW! Hurry! (And yes, this is the same photo we used two weeks ago. Our tipster says it's the same setup). 
 &nbsp;-Photo via Biojobblog.com How bad is the economy? Even the coffee lackeys are going to be out of work. For the 2009 internship season, companies are hiring almost 21 percent fewer interns. In a double shaft to college students everywhere, the number of applicants for these positions has increased by around the same percentage. That leaves far more people vying for far fewer positions. If you are truly, truly desperate for an internship (and loaded), the WSJ reports that parents have been forking over thousands of dollars to buy internships for their children. Also, the bizarrely named University of Dreams will guarantee you an internship, if you pay them $5,000 to $9,000 dollars, that is. The glimmer of hope is that the pay rates for internships have actually gone up for this year, but, even if you nab a high paying internship, you will still have this to contend with. &nbsp;-DJB 
 Housing just announced the appointment times for Suite Selection. Appointments will be in John Jay Lounge and start at 9:30AM on March 30th and continue at two minute intervals until 4:30 every weekday through the seventh of April.&nbsp; Don't be late, and, if you're assigning a proxy to pick a suite for you, make sure to register your proxy with housing. Good luck... Full email after the jump. &nbsp; Dear Students, The appointment times for Suite Selection are now posted online. &nbsp;Please visit the Housing website at www.columbia.edu/cu/housing to view this information. &nbsp;It will be listed both by appointment time and by uni, in ascending order. &nbsp;For privacy purposes, you will have to login with your uni and password to view the lists. &nbsp;You may also view your appointment time by logging into your Undergraduate Housing Application at https://housing.columbia.edu/StarPortal/. For those students who have requested to have their Directory Information withheld, your uni will appear on the lists as "Uni Withheld." You must view your appointment time by logging into your Undergraduate Housing Application at https://housing.columbia.edu/StarPortal/. Suite Selection begins on Monday, March 30 at 9:30am in John Jay Lounge. &nbsp;Please be on time to your appointment - all students in your group or their proxy MUST be present in order to begin the selection process. &nbsp;You can come select a room at any time after your appointment time, but you cannot select early. If you are unable to attend your appointment time, you may still assign a proxy to select a room for you. &nbsp;To assign a proxy, please visit the Undergraduate Housing Application at https://housing.columbia.edu/StarPortal/ and go to the bottom of the Registration Summary page. &nbsp;You can enter the name and uni of your proxy, and then hit "Continue." &nbsp;This information will be available to our staff during Suite Selection. Please let us know if you have any questions or concerns by emailing housing@columbia.edu. Best of luck! Housing Services 
 The Varsity Show and the Blue and White are looking for experienced graphic artists who are comfortable using Adobe Photoshop to clean up photos and make them illustration-quality (see examples at right).&nbsp; Your skills will be put to use in designing the images in the Varsity Show program.&nbsp; If you're interested, please email bweditors@columbia.edu immediately. 
 Bwog has now entered the dictionary and was featured by the New York Times--sort of. Thanks to a tip from a handy-dandy commenter, we discovered a NYT blog post on vocabulary introducing 'unbwogable' into the English lexicon. According to the post: 'Unbwogable (adj): unshakable or indomitable--from the Kenyan word bwogo, meaning scare or shake.' The word is used in Kenya to describe Barack Obama, which is weird since we have found him very bwogable. It turns out that use of unbwogable extends beyond our 44th President. There is the unbwogable blog, which has just been bwogged, and a song by the Kenyan hip-hop group Gidi Gidi Maji Maji titled Unbwogable, which has also now been proven incorrect. We eagerly await the first proper use of unbwogable. In the meantime, several staff members are recovering from an overdose of "meta." -DJB 
 &nbsp;-Photo via Washingtoninformer.com Spring break is behind us, and now it's time to celebrate the delightful lull before finals come into full swing. The city might be our classroom, but this week we've got the time to make it our playroom.&nbsp; &nbsp; Friday, Saturday, and Sunday Zing, Zang, Zoom! Various times until April 13th, Madison Square Garden Seventh Ave at 32nd St (212-307-7171) The circus has come to town!&nbsp; Ringling Bros. and Barnum &amp; Bailey Circus bring a little bit of magic and whimsy the the big city, so catch them while you can! Price: $15-150 Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter Daily 10am-5:45pm, American Museum of Natural History Central Park West at 79th St (212-769-5100) If you feel like you need a more concentrated dose of warm-weather splendor, head into the vivarium. Price: $13.50 students Friday and Saturday Two Girls for Five Bucks Friday and Saturday 8pm, Ars Nova 511 W 54th St btw Tenth and Eleventh Aves (866-811-4111) An Off Off Broadway sketch show for two nights that raises their glass of wine (and their Xanax) to their &#8220;anti-chick-flick&#8221; style of desperation. Price: $20 Friday TrashNYC Every Friday 10pm-4am, 40C at 40 Ave. C nr. 3rd St. (212-466-0800) It's an ongoing Britpop Dance-a-Thon designed specifically to appeal to the spiky-haired-tight-pants lot. It's a Lower East Side tradition at this point. The dress code is &#8220;nymphomaniac new wave,&#8221; so apply piercings accordingly. Price: $5, free before 11pm Saturday WRK/PLY Saturday 12-7pm, super secret location (somewhere in SoHo) Wish you had more fun when you worked? This secret gathering of like-minded folks know exactly what you mean; this &#8220;non-conference&#8221; calls for more playtime in the workplace. Co-conspire over free drinks. Price: $66, but $44 if you enter the promotional code &#8220;happy&#8221;.&nbsp; Also, make sure that you enter your cell phone number when purchasing tickets so that you can receive up-to-date information on the secret location. &nbsp; Accomplice: New York Saturdays 1-5pm, super secret downtown location Has the spring fever gotten you feeling more daring than usual? Want to do something with a group of friends that isn't playing the housing lottery? This unique urban adventure sends groups of up to eight on a part interactive theater, part scavenger hunt, part walking tour of the Village rife with puzzles and intrigue. Price: $65 Sunday Bacon Takedown Sunday 5pm, Radegast Hall &amp; Beer Garden 113 N 3rd St Brooklyn (718.963.3973) The culinary competitor that sponsors the always-popular Chili Takedown has now expanded his reach to include the greasy and delicious realm of bacon. Thirty chefs compete for the title of top baconner, and you can be the judge! There are rumors of bacon-and-bleu-cheese cookies... Price: $10 for unlimited bacon samplings Phillip Meyer (American Rust), Deborah Copaken Kogan (Shutterbabe) and Robert Goolrick (A Reliable Wife) Sunday 7pm, KGB Bar 85 E 4th St between Bowery and Second Ave (212-505-3360) Remember when reading was fun? Head down to the Lower East Side to indulge yourself in some not-for-homework literature as these three authors read from their latest works. Price: Free! 
 &nbsp;Image courtesy of Mom3Teach NYU students are way, way cooler than we could ever hope to be. The homeless are too lazy to build their own robots. New York City is the center of the Universe. Of all the aquatic mammals, it's the beavers who will accost you. Lerner 6 has no purpose -- okay, maybe that stereotype isn't so unfair.&nbsp; 
 Bwog contributor Anna Kellner sends this dispatch from Thursday night's Creative Writing Lecture Series talk, delivered by James Wood. (No, not that one, this one.) Roland Barthes, Michel Foucault, Harold Bloom. A Creative Writing MFA student opened the talk, titled "Creating Fictional Character: Presences and Absences," by rightfully exulting James Wood&#8217;s place in this pantheon of literary critics.&nbsp; &#8220;Although Wood doesn&#8217;t believe in a traditional God,&#8221; he earnestly stated, &#8220;he turns authors into gods, and books their worlds.&#8221; Although hyperbole often plagues introductions to lectures (particularly those delivered by eager MFA students), James Wood has earned such praise.&nbsp; The professor of the &#8220;practice of literary criticism&#8221; at Harvard, a staff writer at The New Yorker, and the author of three books of criticism and one work of fiction -- including the celebrated How Fiction Works -- Wood is a literary God whose words inspire writers the world over.&nbsp; As he spoke on the fine craft of creating character, Wood took a moderate position that celebrated the approaches of writers as diverse as Henry James and Virginia Woolf. In the battle over character formation, Wood introduced two camps: the superrealists, led by critics like Harold Bloom and authors like Leo Tolstoy who aim to form fully &#8220;round,&#8221; realistic characters, and the antirealists, inspired by critics like William Gass and authors like Thomas Pynchon who self-reflexively acknowledge the &#8220;flatness&#8221; underlying the very characters they parade across the page.&nbsp; Wood revealed both group&#8217;s limits, arguing that both strategies have a place in crafting a literary reality as diverse as our actual one.&nbsp; &#8220;There is no such thing as an anti novelistic character, just different types of people,&#8221; he said. Despite his scholarly pedigree, Wood took a remarkably simple approach to the craft of conceivable characters.&nbsp; Rather than aligning himself with polarized camps, Wood believes that literature reveals what is ultimately &#8220;indescribable&#8221; in life. &#8220;It&#8217;s not roundness or flatness that matters, but subtlety,&#8221; Wood explained.&nbsp; Such subtlety thrives in both the detailed descriptions of Charles Dickens that &#8220;vibrate&#8221; on the page and the lengthy, idiomatic narratives of James Joyce. Even as he spoke to a group of MFA students writing down his every word, Wood ended his lecture on a similarly universal note.&nbsp; He expanded his discussion of character to that of all individuals; &#8220;Is there a way in which we&#8217;re all fictional characters, parented by life and authored by ourselves?&#8221; he asked.&nbsp; Both flat and round, archetypal and self-reflexive, all listeners could appreciate such a reasonable conclusion. 
 In case those high lottery cutoff numbers had you thinking EC was some sort of &#8220;Palace in the Sky,&#8221; you can enjoy a hearty helping of schadenfreude this morning. Tipsters tell us and Housing confirms that all hot water is off in the building because of &#8220;emergency repairs.&#8221; Maintenance crews are just now arriving, so there&#8217;s no estimated time yet for when the hot water might be back on. So, if you live in EC and were in need of a hot shower this morning, you may want to investigate the time-honored tradition of the bucket bath. Be sure to heat the water in your microwave first. UPDATE 12:07 p.m.: Housing confirms the hot water is off in most dorms, the notable exceptions being Woodbridge, Watt, and -- The Land That Happiness Forgot -- McBain. Repairs are nearly completed, though, so the hot water should be back on shortly. 
 Baseball: The defending Ivy League champions start league play this weekend, hosting Harvard and Dartmouth in home doubleheaders. Although the team has started 2-16, that record has been against top competition, including #23 Lamar and #20 San Diego, and the team remains in a strong position for the Ivy League this year. Both&nbsp;doubleheaders begin&nbsp;noon at Robertson Field, with the second game scheduled for 3 p.m. Women's Lacrosse: After beginning 5-0, including a 16-15 win over Marist in triple overtime, the women's lacrosse team has dropped its last two games, including a 15-13 loss to Lehigh and 11-8 loss to Ivy League foe Cornell. They resume play at home to Penn on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. Softball: The softball team also begins conference play this weekend, with doubleheaders against Harvard and Dartmouth (first game begins at 12:30 at the Baker Athletics Complex). The team has been 8-14 in pre-Ivy play, including wins over Farleigh Dickinson, Army, Bucknell, Lafayette, and Sacred Heart. Sophomore outfielder Jackie Ecker leads the team's hitters with a .333 average, while sophomore pitcher Maggie Johnson leads the pitching staff with a 3.58 ERA. Rowing: The men's and women's teams both won the Governor's Cup against Florida Tech last weekend. This weekend, the women take on Penn and defending NCAA champs Yale at Pelham, New York, while the men's heavyweight faces Rutgers in New Brunswick, New Jersey. Men's Tennis: The men's tennis team commences league play as well, against Cornell at noon on Saturday at the Dick Savitt Tennis Center. The team has gone 10-4 in pre-Ivy play in the spring, including a 5-0 record at home, and a runner-up finish at the ECAC Team Championships, falling 4-3 to Harvard in the finals. Women's Tennis: Unlike their male counterparts, the women start their Ivy League campaign away, taking on Cornell in Ithaca. The women's team has gone&nbsp;4-8 in pre-Ivy games, including 6-1 losses to Cornell and Princeton in the ECAC Team Championships in the middle of February. Track &amp; Field: The track and field teams compete in the Dick Shae Invitational at West Point, hoping to build on the Ivy League Heptagonal Championships where the women finished fifth and the men finished third. - JCD 
 After such a warm day, there are two options for your early evening: first, Amnesty International's cleverly named "Jamnesty," which will combine live music with a free "Ethiopian dinner." Apparently, live music plus Ethiopian food equals "almost like the 60s... minus the pot." The potless-ness begins at 8:30 in Earl Hall Auditorium. If living a potless version of the 60s isn't floating your boat, then try to snag a ticket for Club Zamana's Tamasha (Roone Arledge at 8 p.m., doors open at 7:15). Although it's $5 for a ticket, purchasers do get Indian food and the chance to see a huge roster of acts, including CU Bhangra. 
 &nbsp; -Image via ChangeForge.com This week in cinema: Bwog's expert Film Filterer Mark Hay takes umbrage at the end of leisure and the return to toil. It never ceases to amaze, the way that one week&#8217;s absence can erase the memory of and tolerance for the massive gobs of work that are collectively Columbia. With the end of spring break and your return to the salt mines, your life may feel somewhat deflated and repetitive. At times like this, nothing helps your sense of righteous indignation at your current state like a little cinematic sympathy. As such, we present to you three movies culled from Netflix's Instant Watch and specially designed to validate your burning hatred of work and bourgeoning antipathy.&nbsp; Since we're such affable types, we've thrown in a few chuckles, and a semi-valid reason to procrastinate, to boot. Now, children, go forth and sulk in front of your television screens. Office Space (2001) How Mike Judge (&#8220;Beavis and Butt-head,&#8221; &#8220;King of the Hill&#8221;) could possibly have produced a film so blunt yet so soft remains a puzzle for the ages; however, in Office Space, Judge seems not to be fixated on cheap laughs and sitcom humor, but rather upon the banal and absurd that can be channeled from the 1990s American software company, and the plight of the workers within. Repetition, smug managers, and trivial tasks reduce the lives of mid-level workers into a grinding and soul-wrenching rut, slowly transforming them from men into walking powder-kegs of resentment. That the film has caught on not just with IT workers, but with workers of all stripes (and even students!), reflects the relatable nature of the film's office. Those of us freshly returned to school after a wonderful abstraction from the work-a-day world may take some comfort in this film. However, when we cheer for Ron Livingston, David Herman, Stephen Root, and Ajay Naidu as they lay waste to a dysfunctional copier, steal from their office, and finally burn down the company, should we be frightened by this sympathy? Should we act upon it? Or should we see this striking comedy as a cautionary tale and a call to pursue our hearts over our wallets? If you currently question your presence at Columbia, &#8220;Office Space&#8221; may be just what you need, so long as no one has tried to steal your Swingline lately. The Shining (1980) Although Kubrick&#8217;s film centers around a rather flimsy ghost story, a haunting the likes of which we see every year or two, &#8220;The Shining&#8221; still has the power to scare the bajeezus out of us. It is not the ghosts that terrify, however -- the film's terror comes from the realization that the most horrifying acts within the film are enacted by the most typical of people, and arise only by the acceleration and accentuation of their own inborn madness.&nbsp; In fact, rarely do the ghosts even interact with the family, save to push them towards their own self-destruction. &nbsp;As such, the film moves beyond the concept of possession to confront the viewer with the terrifying revelation that a human being can change completely and totally into a sociopath without supernatural affliction. &nbsp; Jack Nicholson, though cackling and deranged, never appears as an alter-Jack, never as a changed or out-of-body Jack; he is always the same old Jack with the same consciousness, but he has simply forgotten his admirable qualities and selectively put forth only his drunken and abusive side (which, early in the film, Kubrick readily informs us are part of his, and perhaps therefore everyone's, natural character). Kubrick intends for this sudden change to be absolutely believable, and, during filming, he made his actors repeat a scene up to 160 times to insure that the madness of the repetition soaked into the humanity of their characters. There is also an unshakable relatablity to Jack&#8217;s madness &#8211; think of the common and jovial usage of the term &#8220;All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.&#8221; Ultimately, as we work, we must consider Kubrick&#8217;s challenging assertion: that the simplest things--isolation, focus--can aid in unleashing the demons within all of us, demons far more horrifying than any the supernatural can display. Modern Times (1936) There&#8217;s something inexplicable about Charlie Chaplin. After seventy-three years, his&nbsp;films, nearly wordless, and relying on mainly slapstick humor to drive both plot and laughs, nevertheless have an unexpected power and appeal. Perhaps Chaplin's charm carries the films--a superb actor, no one before or since has quite so perfectly captured the attitude and grace necessary to turn slapstick from a base and negligible trick into a memorable art. Or perhaps Chaplin&#8217;s mindset just resonates with the average viewer. No one can deny the sympathy they feel for Chaplin and Co. as they are dragged about, driven insane, trodden under, and, ultimately, forced to play second fiddle to mechanization and industrialization. To employ a Yakov Smirnoff approach, in modern life (and Modern Times), it often feels not so much like we do work, but more like work does us. Chaplin&#8217;s film, then, acts as a cry for help, a death portrait of man as he is consumed and ruled by his own creations, slowly (and sometimes literally) turning into just another cog in the machine. The style of the film itself is a battle cry against modernization: the film,&nbsp;mostly silent in protest of the rise of the &#8220;talkies," features dialogue from only the antagonists until Chaplin&#8217;s finale song.&nbsp; Yet, unlike the other directors on this list (who recognize the insanity and mind-numbing subversion work wrecks upon our lives but leave us with no suggestions other than that of monstrous escape), Chaplin offers a message of solidarity and hope. His final lines call out to all of us: Paulette Goddard: What&#8217;s the use of trying? Chaplin: Buck up--never say die. We&#8217;ll get along. Images courtesy of IMDB.com &nbsp; 
 Yesterday, Barnard admissions email-blasted all 2,389 strong, beautiful women with a request:&nbsp; help convince high school seniors that Morningside Heights is the place to be! Barnard's luring ladies in with the promise of "a coupon for a free surprise gift" and hoping that they'll either participate in a phone-a-thon evening or jot down an encouraging postcard to be sent to a prospective 2013.&nbsp; The admissions phone-a-thon is far from an exclusively Barnard innovation; last year, Wesleyan made much of theirs, and UChicago urged 2012s not to be dismayed by the call from a student (or LOLCAT) they'd never met. But honestly, who could keep their heart from beating faster when faced with the thought of a lovely Barnard lady on the other end of the line?&nbsp; Whose pulse wouldn't quicken at opening the mailbox to find an attractive and welcoming postcard in flowing, feminine penmanship?&nbsp; Here's to you, 2013. &nbsp;&nbsp; -Image via Barnard Alumnae Affairs 
 &nbsp; &nbsp; Tipsters alerted us to a New York Times report of two automobile accidents on Friday, one of which took place on 106th and Amsterdam.&nbsp; According to the Times, "a taxi, apparently rammed from behind by a silver Hyundai, jumped onto a sidewalk" and "slammed into the window of Mama&#8217;s Pizzeria."&nbsp; Fortunately, the collision caused only minor injuries&mdash;to the cab driver and six others&mdash;and, when Bwog stopped by to snap a photo, it appeared that Mama's had, for the most part, bounced right back.&nbsp; It's open for business today (though nearly half of the facade is covered in plywood&mdash;pictured below the jump) and drawing quite the crowd. &mdash;JMB -photos by JPMB 
 The Columbia baseball team began its Ivy League title defense successfully, with two wins over Harvard. In the first game, the Lions won 8-3 thanks to a complete game from pitcher Joe Scarlata (5 strikeouts). Third baseman Mike Roberts and left fielder Anthony Potter hit back-to-back homers for the Lions in the second inning, and second baseman Jon Eisen drove in three runs.&nbsp; In the second game, the Lions eked out an 8-6 win. Tied 3-3 going into the bottom of the eighth, catcher Dean Forthun doubled down the line to score centerfielder Nick Cox, and Columbia went on to score four more runs, and hold off a Crimson rally in the top of the ninth. Starter Dan Bracey went 8 innings, with six strikeouts. (Image by Columbia University Athletics) - JCD 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;-photo by JPMB It seems the curse of the closing restaurants has again struck Morningside, and this time, under- (and over-) age drinkers university-wide will be feeling the pain.&nbsp; According to a notice spotted this morning at La Negrita, Bwog's go-to boozerie will shut its doors "indefinitely" next Saturday, the 11th of April. While they couldn't be reached for comment, Bwog would find it totally unsurprising if this tragedy turned out to be the fault of the big R. Regardless, should you need to drown your sorrow in liquor, well, La Negrita will be there for you one last time, as they're hosting "'Drink us Dry'" specials on Friday (the 10th) and the fateful Saturday. 
 Irvine R. Levine, style guru, insisted on his bowties and the use of his middle initial during his forty-five years at NBC. The former Weatherman and 1968 revolutionary Mark Rudd has released his new memoir, but The Wall Street Journal is far from impressed. An oddly-specific study shows that fast food makes people fat.&nbsp; For 50%, never fear: aerobics improves male heart health only (sorry, Barnard). Columbia is making peace with the neighborhood, and UTS is making peace with the earth. The man is frightened that Wikipedia will mean academic demise.&nbsp; Revolt, peons &#8211; Britannica calls your name. 
 &nbsp;Photo via Voices from the Gap In a night of good theater and crazy-ass/disastrous commentary, famed authors Toni Morrison and Assia Djebar stopped by Miller Theater for a presentation of selections from their theatrical works. Though the night started out well, it ended with an onstage intellectual train wreck. First up was Margaret Garner, an opera based on the central story in Beloved. Though an opera based on the Pulitzer-prize winning novel may sound like a strange idea, the four songs performed were impressive, rousing the audience to a hearty round of applause for Morrison. The performers were clearly well acquainted with the music, and the opera brought the story a more immediate emotional poignancy than the novel possessed. Djebar&#8217;s The Daughters of Ishmael was similarly a success. The Italian play depicts the events surrounding the death of the prophet Muhammad, focusing on the women around him. The female characters&#8217; personal strength and freedom subverts misogynist forms of contemporary Islam. As the woman who introduced the selections phrased it in the understatement of the year, &#8220;the interpretations went a little far from the original.&#8221; But the play is compelling because it is more than an anti-radical diatribe; it defies the typical Occidental view that Islam is, at its core, an oppressive religion. It is well worth picking up Far From Medina, the novel on which the play is based. After the successful selections, however, the night took a turn for the bat-shit insane. For the panel discussion afterward, sixteen people were brought on stage, a panoply of performers, musicians, authors and intellectuals who could barely all fit across the proscenium. What ensued was a fruitless and frustrating mix of dumb questions and all-around awkwardness. The always-engaging Morrison had some interesting things to say about the distinctions between the play and the novel, but the event organizers seemingly forgot that Djebar doesn&#8217;t speak English. One of the professors onstage had to provide impromptu translation, and the professor was cut off before she could translate the final question. Meanwhile, Gayatri Spivak, the moderator for the evening, found it necessary to rove around backstage like John McCain at a Presidential debate. While the troupe of intellectuals carted onstage were supposed to pose questions, they instead prattled on about their personal interpretations of the works and then addressed the authors with something to the effect of, &#8220;am I right or am I right?&#8221; When Spivak opened the discussion to the audience, a professor from Stony Brook, who apparently felt there hadn&#8217;t been enough self-serving rambling, went on about her own esteemed translation work without ever asking a question. To add to the bizarre scene, a baby in the audience was (understandably) screaming with discontent, raising the big question someone should have been asking: who brings a baby to the opera!? All in all, it was a pity that Columbia didn&#8217;t make more of having both Morrison and Djebar present together. Hopefully, next time the University hosts such a performance, we&#8217;ll all remember the dictum three&#8217;s company, sixteen&#8217;s a crowd. -DJB 
 The neighborhood is already losing one fine establishment, and now another is in trouble with The Man: tipsters confirm that old standby 1020 was raided hit by an NYPD sting operation last night.&nbsp; According to patrons, three cops showed up with fake IDs, and proceeded to fine 1020 $10,000. No word on whether there were any other penalties, or how close Morningside is to losing yet another watering hole, but it might not be a good idea to test your new fake there for the next&nbsp; few weeks.&nbsp; UPDATE (9:00 PM): A 1020 staff member got in touch with Bwog to correct the record a little, telling us that the sting operation occurred before 10 (when 1020 puts a bouncer on the door). Rather than fakes, the bartender simply forgot to check IDs, and any fine assessed will occur after a court appearance. &#8211;JCD, photo by AB 
It's the final stretch.&nbsp; Post-break, you might have time for a few distractions. &nbsp;Photo via mycaricatures.co.uk Monday Society, Toleration, and the Jews: Ira Katznelson, professor of political science and history, will discuss toleration "as an alternative to persecution."&nbsp; Sounds good to us.&nbsp; 6:15 PM @ Low Rotunda. Tuesday Brinkley, Foner, and Stiglitz: Capitalism is in crisis.&nbsp; How will it affect our politics?&nbsp; Probably the same way every other economic crisis has: protectionism.&nbsp; 7:30 PM @ 309 Havemeyer. Indian Chief Justice P.N. Bhagwati: Interpreting the country's relatively new constitution in favor of broad human rights.&nbsp; 5:00 PM @ 101 Jerome Greene Hall. Wednesday New York City at 400: Representations of the island through time; part of a year-long celebration of a really old city.&nbsp; 7:00 PM @ Deutsches Haus 420 W. 116th St Thursday Free screening of Defiance: Hosted by Ferris Reel.&nbsp; 7:30 @ Roone Cinema. Unexpectedly Dancing in Boise: A CC senior's thesis has gone off-broadway.&nbsp; TRF, 8:00 PM @ The Producer's Club Theatres, 44th St. between 8th and 9th Ave. Friday Chowdah: Brand new, sexy material.&nbsp; 9:00 PM @ Wien Lounge. 
 Nothing stings quite as much as that whirrr-click-click-click sound when you try to boot up your newly-purchased laptop.&nbsp; Blank screens and corrupted data have sent many Columbians into hysterical fits.&nbsp; Do yourself a favor; spend an hour and earn permanent peace-of-mind. &nbsp;Photo via Typepad &nbsp; Backing up up your files is as essential to mainstream computing as oil-filter changes are for your (sorely missed) car.&nbsp; The truth is, far too many people forgo backup, usually because they assume that computers never crash. If you own a computer, your hard drive will crash at some point in its life.&nbsp; You should be prepared.&nbsp; Today, Bwog presents five 100% free solutions for saving your life's work, online and on your own hard drives. Online Backup Mac &amp; Windows: MozyHome Online Backup Mozy is an online backup solution that has one huge advantage over local (i.e., on a separate hard drive next to your computer) backup: online backup preserves your data even in the result of catastrophe (waterfalls) or theft.&nbsp; The free version of Mozy allows you two gigabytes (roughly 100,000 Word documents) of online storage. Setup is simple and easy; download and install, and the backup wizard will take you through the rest.&nbsp; It will automatically suggest file types for you to back up, but if you want, you have a broad range of controls over what (and when) things get backed up. Two gigabytes is enough for your documents, but probably not for your music and pictures.&nbsp; For that, upgrade to a paid account ($4.95/mo) or try one of these local backup solutions. Local Backup For local backups, it's pointless to backup to a folder on your computer - if your hard drive crashes, your backup goes too.&nbsp; You'll need something like a USB thumb drive or an external hard drive to store the backed-up files.&nbsp; It's not nearly as scary as it sounds- an external hard drive is simply a device you can plug into the USB port on your computer.&nbsp; The cheapest external drives start around $60 and are probably big enough for most people's files.&nbsp; Pros can save money by purchasing OEM (meaning no packaging or literature- just the raw hardware) hard drives and an external enclosure separately. Windows only: SyncToy, Personal Backup The easiest backup solution for Windows XP is made by Microsoft.&nbsp; Developed as an add-on for Windows, Microsoft SyncToy 2.0 is extremely simple.&nbsp; Select a folder to backup and select a place to put it, and SyncToy will synchronize the two.&nbsp; Various easy-to-understand options can tweak the backup style.&nbsp; There's no scheduling, however; your backups will have to be started manually. For the power user, Bwog heartily recommends the generically named Personal-Backup.&nbsp; It has a huge array of options and automation that will satisfy any user.&nbsp; It's not for the fainthearted, however; the few bugs that remain in the current version will require some experimentation to understand. Mac OS X only: Time Machine, Super Duper One of the snazzy new features in the latest version of OS X, Leopard 10.5 (sorry, Tiger users), is a bundled piece of backup software called Time Machine.&nbsp; As far as backup solutions go, Time Machine is as simple as it gets.&nbsp; As the official description says, simply plug in your external drive and select it for backup at the prompt.&nbsp; Time Machine will take care of the rest and you'll never have to worry about it again. For those of you who want more flexibility, a time-tested alternative is SuperDuper, which gives you much more control over the backup.&nbsp; For automatic scheduling, however, you'll need to upgrade to the paid version ($27.95 one-time). &#150;AB 
 You have the number. You've scoped out the floorplans. You've obsessed over your chances again and again, and tomorrow, all the pieces fall into place. Yes, the path to your true housing fate begins tomorrow. This year's winners (30/8) start the festivities at 9:30 a.m., with groups every two minutes until the six-person group with 30/2621 makes its choice at 4:30. For those of you eagerly awaiting the results, stick with Bwog: we'll be liveblogging from John Jay Lounge, bringing you the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat. 
 Columbians love/can't afford a nice glass of of Chianti At last, a Spec column that doesn't mention Bwog. Except in the headline. Tomorrow, 21,000 aspiring Columbians get that fated letter from Jessica Marinaccio and find out if they take the step from high school, "the brain's merry-go-round" to college, the brain's "Wii". From talking about protesting, to actually protesting? No, probably not. Spec admits to slummin' it. No east side deluxe apartment nor piece of pie for them! 
Welcome to Bwog's 2009 Housing Live-blog! We'll be updating this space with the latest numbers as they fall much too quickly for your liking. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Board as of 12:20 12:25 PM: Lunchtime rush in the lounge accompanied by Rihanna's "Disturbia", gaggles of excitable upperclassmen huddled togetherlike middle schoolers. 5-person suites in EC are dunzo and there seems to be some Hogan-shifting action. There are 12 Watt 1 BR doubles left. Hogan 4-person suites are gone. Head of Housing Joyce Jackson altered us about the "ton" of Watt studio doubles: 51 left. 11:54 AM: Farewell, sweet EC 4-person suites. On a happier note, have you ever seen the inside of the big storage closet in John Jay Lounge? It's stuffed full of York Peppermint Patties. What you do with this information is your own business. 11:48 AM: The white board isn't being "updated" so much as "utterly and viciously ignored," but all the Watt doubles are gone. 11:22 AM: The very gracious housing people are looking into listing Woodbridge by line. There's an orange&nbsp;balloon stuck to the lounge ceiling.&nbsp;It's eerily quiet. Old updates after the jump. 11:06 AM: EC has been dented, ever so slightly.&nbsp; 10:51 AM: Little white board action to speak of, but the Watt doubles are down to four. Also, eleven 4-room suites and nine 5-room suites left&nbsp;in Hogan. There are a lot of bagels being eaten in this room. 10:31 AM: After a brief interval of Queen, U2 comes back with "Desire." Try to temper yours. Hogan suites going fast. 10:14 AM: Board update! Quiet speculation about Harmony Hall can be heard running through the lounge, while the lure of free Coke before breakfast claims victim after victim. 10:07 AM: Currently playing: U2 - "Beautiful Day." 9:41 AM: The first groups have aleady gone through, most with fairly large grins on their faces. Housing has politely stocked the fridge with a bunch of sugary drinks, and a RED(tm) iPod shuffle is blaring a solid mix. Housing has also placed a friendly notice reminding students to "be the DJ." &nbsp; &nbsp; 
A hungry Bwog tipster just informed us that Ferris is doling out free french fries at their relatively new burger station. Bwog investigated the french fry situation and noted that, although the portion was generous, the fries did not deliver. Our dejected tipster described them as both "vaguely moist" and, perhaps even worse, "limp". Our greatest free food hopes, dashed.&nbsp;
We return with more up-to-the minute liveblogging of the first day of suite selection from John Jay Lounge. Hold your breath and keep refreshing! &nbsp; Board as of 4:24 PM&nbsp; 4:58 PM: EC Exclusion-47, Watt One bedroom doubles-11, Watt studio doubles-51, Woodbridge; A-2, B-6, C-0, D-7, E-5, F-6, G-6, H-0, I-6, J-5, K-0, L-7. Ruggles has 2 five person suites and 3 four person suites, but they come with two RAs (i.e. only groups of 3 and 2 can pick into them, respectively). That's all folks.&nbsp; 4:46 PM: 47 EC Exclusion suites are all that's left. 4:41 PM: Housing employees are cleaning up the refuse of soda cans and candy wrappers. Final count for the day coming soon. 4:32 PM: There is now one EC townhouse with a double left. No EC townhouses left.&nbsp; 4:26 PM: Now no cokes left. Dejected students keep opening the fridge and walking away even more dejected. Yeah, it's been a long day. 4:11 PM: 2-3 A's, 1 C and no K's in Woodbridge...and three Cokes left in the fridge. 4:01 PM: One guy sums up the feelings of many still waiting to be called: "we're fucked." 1 EC townhouse left. 3:51 PM: Only one 4-person Claremont suite left, though Bwog just talked to a four-person group that's dropping into senior regroup, so there's still a sliver of hope.&nbsp; 3:45 PM: Still 6 six-person EC suites, as long as you don't mind 1 double. 3:30 PM: They've run out of diet soda! Nooooooooo... 3:21 PM: Woodbridge: A - 5, B - 7, C -5, D - 7, E - 5, F - 6, G -6 , H - 0, I - 6, K - 1 (L was originally forgotten) 3:14 PM: Housing still hasn't done a count by line for the board, but they tell Bwog that 4 or 5 have been picked since the last round, that more groups are coming through soon, and that the A line is looking particularly popular. Also, some six-person groups are dropping into senior regroup. 3:06 PM: Groups of six are now debating whether to take the few remaining EC 6-persons that have doubles, and it looks like most will. 2:56 PM: All EC 6-person all-single townhouses are taken. Disappointment is present on many faces in John Jay Lounge. We've been waiting for a Woodbridge count before updating with a new pic, and Housing promises one is coming soon. 2:38 PM: EC Exclusion is down to 53, and the 6-person all singles townhouses are down to 6. EC 4-person (with RA) and Hogan 5-person are both gone. Picture to follow. 2:25 PM: The fridge is running low on non-caffeinated beverages! Meanwhile, groups debate TV placement in the suites. 2:17 PM: The "Be the DJ" initiative has led to some odd choices - now on the speakers is "Hot, Hot, Hot" by Buster Poindexter. That feeling does not describe four person groups, though, as some are forced into choosing the Claremont 4-person suites (which include one really small room). Updated housing count is delayed because of counting Woodbridge by lines. 2:00 PM: The iPod has gone silent. Huge crowds around the board and lines snaking around the lounge. All four-person suites are gone except for those in 47 Claremont. Perhaps more importantly, the grape soda is going, and fast. 1:49 PM: Bwog witnesses our first hissy fit of the day: "we're not going to get any natural light! You realize that, right?" Uh-oh, a harbinger of things to come today? Speaking of uh-oh, a guilty-looking upperclassman just changed the iPod to "Single Ladies". Board still not updated. 1:33 PM: Our friends at housing are back from an hour of relaxing in their bean bag chairs. Mariah Carey's "Heartbreaker" (badum ching) is playing from the speakers. Board hasn't been updated for about 45 minutes. A few groups awaiting their appointments are going for "anywhere EC" -- most likely EC highrise. 
 'Twas a dark and stormy night. Lightning flashed over Low and thunder rumbled outside as the members of CCSC took their seats in the Satow Room on Sunday night for another rousing debriefing of the zany world of Columbia politics. The meeting began with a discussion about a possible kickball "event" between CCSC and ESC. After finally suppressing our excitement about such an event, Bwog struggled to focus on attention on a brief discussion on a report on grade inflation. Academic Affairs rep Karen Woodin discussed her meeting with Dean Yatrakis and shared that the report is intended to garner student responses and opinions on grade inflation. Print quotas were up next, and the council discussed the need for increased print quotas for English, history and poli sci majors. CCSC President George Krebs simply hoped to "squeeze as many pages as we can out of them." The council then moved on to a discussion of how to best mark Dean Austin Quigley's accomplishments throughout his 14 years as CC Dean now that he is stepping down. Options ranged from an event that would include members of all four classes (and plenty of coffee and lemon squares to feed them) to a less formal soccer match, reflecting Quigley's love for the sport. Krebs noted that much of Quigley's most important work goes on behind the scenes, and that many Columbians are not aware of Quigley's ability to raise "a hell of a lot of money for this university." &nbsp; The council went on to discuss school spirit initiatives, including a CC Spirit Panel that would seek to define "what CC means" and try to pin down the CC spirit. The initiative, spearheaded by Robyn Burgess, garnered a variety of responses from the council, many of which communicated -- surprise, surprise-- hesitation. The concept of a spirit panel did not seem to be the main problem, but rather the difficulty of attracting enough general student body support and the details of what such a panel would involve.&nbsp; The meeting wrapped up with a discussion on alcohol policy, which got the council members as well as the lightning outside riled up. When the now-ubiquitous phrase "War on Fun" came up, VP for Policy Adil Ahmed said with a smirk, "but we're not calling it that, remember guys?" The current goal is to try to lessen the severity of punishment for alcohol use at smaller "dorm get-togethers". The senior members of CCSC noted that, at campus events where alcohol is served, the lack of information about exactly how much alcohol will be served causes students to pregame too heavily. Ahmed noted that he had been simply "ignored" thus far by Dean Kromm on these issues, at which point Krebs began to not-so-subtly nudge Ahmed under the table. After being poked for a few moments, Ahmed addressed CCSC as a whole: "You guys know this. It sucks. Bureaucracy sucks." - ECS 
The first good off-campus Flex news in a while: Wondee Siam V, the Thai restaurant right across the street from that other Thai restaurant on 108th and Amsterdam, is currently accepting Flex. This Flex development came "a few weeks earlier than planned" according to Michael Novelli, and is sure to delight all those who prefer chicken pad thai to a pile of soggy Ferris fries for lunch.&nbsp;
 The Gray Lady's Freakonomics blog included a post this morning about our very own beloved Sarah Dooley. The poster, Ian Ayres predicted: "she is going to make it big. I&#8217;m not sure how, but remember you heard it here first." False. We actually started praising Dooley's hilarious YouTube series, AndSarah, about a year ago. Dooley made it to the Freakonomics blog because of her brief mention of the book Freakonomics in her newest episode, now available on YouTube, in which she winks at the camera and dubs it "summer reading". Making jokes about books is what Columbians were put on this earth to do. Thank you, Sarah. 
 The SGB has just released the results of tonight's Town Hall meeting, during which the members of the SGB Executive Board were chosen. Two new groups were also approved: the Saving Mothers Research Team and the Responsible Endowments Coalition. Awaaz did not gain recognition from the SGB. And now, the winners: Chair: Devora Aharon, CC '10 (Hillel) Vice Chair: Lisa Weber, CC '11 (Scientists and Engineers for a Better Society) Treasurer: Eugenio Suarez, CC '11 (UC-CANF) Secretary: Beezly Kiernan, CC '11 (Rotaract) Representatives:&nbsp; Kanak Gupta, GS (HSO) Sana Khalid, CC '11 (MSA, Ahimsa) Jonah Liben, GS/JTS '11(Hillel) Rithu Ramachandran, CC '12 (HSO, SEBS) Elissa Verrilli, Barnard '11 (SEEJ) Owais Rasool, SEAS '11 (MSA) Becky Davies, CC '10 (CU Food Sustainability Project) Congratulations, newly christened SGB execs! 
 The university must convince us that freshmen are not the harbingers of all evil. So far, they haven't bothered. Your trip to South Beach was fab and everything, but this March DSpar went to China. If you ignore all the programs centered around living and learning, the LLC really isn't so bad. Columbia takes its oft-scrutinized pitching down to face the Army. No one mention ROTC. The only thing that could possibly make the unemployment news in Harlem&nbsp;less grim&nbsp;is to have it delivered by a man named James Brown. 
 How depressing and/or controversial&nbsp;do you like the news attached to your free food to be?&nbsp;Today, you have two choices: At 6:30 in Lerner West Ramp Lounge, the Northern Korean Alliance demystifies North Korea for you with the aid of a free smorgasbord from Miss Mamie's Spoonbread. Miss Mamie herself is rumored to be opining on the state of North Korea. Otherwise, there will be pizza and drinks in Earl Hall Auditorium at 7:00, to accompany a talk by economics Professor Brendan O'Flaherty, who is also the Campaign Director of Picture the Homeless. If you arrive clutching a bag full of spoonbread, they might not let you in, so it's best to stuff it all in your mouth before you get to the door. 
Welcome back to the Housing 2009 (Your Best Mistake Ever!) LiveBwog! We'll be keeping you updated on the developments of your housing dreams and nightmares throughout the day, now with our handy-dandy How-Screwed-Are-You? Housing Chart.&nbsp; 5:08 PM: Housing has put a new count online, though this count does not break down by line/floor. Two notable numbers: only 15 Exclusion suites and 5 Woodbridge doubles left. &nbsp; Bldg Size Confg Note # Bldg Size Confg Note # EC EX 5 3S 1D FL18 2 Watt 2 2S 2 BR 0 FL16 6 1D 1 BR 9 FL14 8 1D Std Dbl 51 FL8 2&nbsp; Rugl 2(4) 4S RA 2 Wdbg 2 HI DMD C &nbsp; 0 3(5) 3S 1D RA 2 H &nbsp; 0 5 3S 1D &nbsp; 4 K &nbsp; 0 6 2S 2D &nbsp; 1 2 MD DMD A &nbsp; 0 8 2S 3D &nbsp; 12 B &nbsp; 1 4S 2D &nbsp; 2 E &nbsp; 3 47C 3 3S &nbsp; 2 F &nbsp; 0 4 4S &nbsp; 0 J &nbsp; 1 5 1D 3S &nbsp; 1 L &nbsp; 0 6 4S 1D &nbsp; 1 2 LO DMD D &nbsp; 7 7 3S 2D &nbsp; 10 G &nbsp; 6 Hogn 4 4S &nbsp; 0 I &nbsp; 6 5 5S &nbsp; 0 Last Update: 3:18 p.m. 2(4) 5S &nbsp; 1 3:50: That's it then - the all-senior groups have had their turns. Those who weren't satisfied get to drop into General Selection (times posted on the 9th). Up tomorrow: mixed point groups and the lucky sophomores - 27.5/1249 through 20/1192. A number of the early groups are EC Exclusion suites, and they'll be hoping the last 18 don't go too quickly. 3:26:&nbsp; The last of the groups are selecting, and today's suffering is winding down. &nbsp; 3:20:&nbsp; Housing's updated the whiteboard, and we've updated the How-Screwed-Are-You? table.&nbsp; (Answer: quite.&nbsp; "Royally effed in the ass.") 3:01:&nbsp; Billy Joel soothes with "River of Dreams," and the mood seems to be picking up a little.&nbsp; The crowd waiting in line is also thinning out a little bit.&nbsp; Also, it's so hot that the Reese's cups have gone melty in their glass jar; the soda's looking very sparse. 2:53:&nbsp; An eerie silence.&nbsp; Housing tells us that 36 groups in total are present. 2:48:&nbsp; Housing tells Bwog that the many of the groups now selecting are groups of two who seem to prefer Woodbridge and Watt. 2:39:&nbsp; Bwog population estimation experts tell us that there are "about 40 seniors in the room."&nbsp; More precise data to follow.&nbsp; In other news, the fridge is getting dangerously low on soda. Old updates after the jump.&nbsp; 2:36:&nbsp; "It's one thing to get fucked.&nbsp; It's another thing to get double fucked."&nbsp; "Did you put our number in there, Mike?&nbsp; Are you sure it's in there?"&nbsp; 2:24:&nbsp; Now they're picking the lottery tickets out of the metaphorical fishbowl.&nbsp; Nailbiting to "Only Wanna Be With You." 2:16 PM:&nbsp; Housing has started calling up the lucky (or less unlucky) again to receive lottery tickets.&nbsp; Bros sitting next to Bwog are rejoicing! 2:07 PM: The room is packed. Everyone is plotting how they'll attack the slim pickings. 40 Woodbridge doubles and 18 EC exclusion suites was just announced as the official count. 1:47 PM: The afternoon crowd is shuffling in. Things will heat up again in a few minutes.&nbsp; &nbsp; 1:40 PM: It's quiet...too quiet. 1:20 PM: Take My Breath Away is playing. I guess it's a good song to cry to... 12:30 PM: Behold, your exclusion suites. 20th floor-0. 18th floor-3. 16th floor-6. 14th floor-8. 12th floor-0. 10th floor-0. 8th floor-1. Hopefully you didn't just do a spit take in the middle of lunch. Housing will now break to eat a little something, and produce about a bucket of perspiration per person. It's damn hot in here. 12:18 PM: "HEARTBREAKER" IS PLAYING. REPEAT: "HEARTBREAKER" IS PLAYING. Mariah Carey is a goddess, and she knows how you feel about housing. 12:07 PM: Housing is promising a board update by 12:30, which is coincidentally around the time they break for lunch. Every group hanging around the waiting area (like a doctor's waiting room, only sweatier and with a fridge) has its eyes on the exclusion suites right now. According to&nbsp;one satisfied customer, the 16th and 14th floors (ie the ones not renovated) are still mostly up for grabs. Bwog would like to remind its gentle readers that Senior Regroup is at 2:00 pm today, after all the 30-point groups have selected, as always. 11:54 AM: "Are there free drinks?" "What?" "Are those free drinks?" "Free drinks?" "Free drinks?" "Yeah." "Yaaaay!" 11:34 AM: The breakdown of exclusion suites by floor: 20th floor-2. 18th floor-6. 16th floor-7. 14th floor-8. 12th floor-2. 10th floor-3. 8th floor-5. Before you get all uppity about taking a lower floor, remember that at one time, you had to live in Carman. 11:14 AM: Groups are literally leaping out of their seats when their numbers are called. It's either because they want their suite, or because "Like A Prayer" is playing. The atmosphere in the lounge is altogether more playful than yesterday (read: more balloons). 11:03 AM: Official update!&nbsp; 43 EC Exclusion Suites remain, and the numbers are dropping fast in Woodbridge too. Housing told us that this may not be a full count of the updates though, so stay tuned! 10:41 AM: EC Exclusion Suite groups have raided the joint! Seems that up until now we had mostly pairs picking into Woodbridge. Here ends that quiet atmosphere - the diet soda is out in force and the crowds are here, so get ready for a devastating drop in the Exclusion Suite population in the next hour or so. 10:28 AM: Someone Bwog doesn't know is taking pictures with a really nice digital SLR camera, pointing it over the whiteboard to capture, well, maybe a shot for "True Life: I'm Picking Ma Housing." While she points blind, a couple of bad asses are posing for her pictures. Only one Hogan suite with RA's left. 10:10 AM: "Two Princes" by Spin Doctors plays, and a nervous pair prays for Woodbridge. Still no white board updates. 9:48 AM: The fridges are stocked, Bwog has been reminded again that "YOU are the DJ!" And there are new balloons... some attached to the backends of housing personnel.&nbsp; Bwog hears comments like "do they think balloons ameliorate the pain of a 2700?" No updates up on the board yet.&nbsp;
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; It's the last day of March, and for once the weather is behaving correctly - going out like a lamb after the groundhog's prescribed six extra weeks of winter, being awesome, etc. Super Studies Stalker Julia Mix Barrington sends us photographic evidence of the true sign of a Columbia spring: Core classes, outside the classroom. Lit Hum should be around Cervantes right about now, and CC, something like Nietzsche. Hardly beach fare, but then our syllabi have never been as accommodating as the weather. More spring, after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; -Photos by JMB 
This afternoon, Teachers College students received an email from the offices of President Susan Furman and Provost Tom James announcing that "earlier today, several faculty members received envelopes containing hate mail." "We have alerted the Hate Crimes Unit of the New York City Police Department," the email continues, "which is still investigating the October 2007 hate crime incidents.We anticipate that the New York City Police Department will be at Teachers College to investigate this matter. &nbsp;We encourage all members of the community to cooperate fully." Full email after the jump. To: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TC Community Subject: Hate Mail Incident From: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Susan Fuhrman, President &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Tom James, Provost &amp; Dean of the College Earlier today, several faculty members received envelopes containing hate mail. &nbsp;We have alerted the Hate Crimes Unit of the New York City Police Department, which is still investigating the October 2007 hate crime incidents. We anticipate that the New York City Police Department will be at Teachers College to investigate this matter. &nbsp;We encourage all members of the community to cooperate fully. The TC community deplores these hateful acts, which violate every Teachers College and societal norm. We urge anyone who has any information about this incident to immediately contact (anonymously or otherwise) any of the following: &nbsp;The 26th Precinct Detective Squad &nbsp;John DeAngelis, Director of Public Safety &nbsp;Janice Robinson, Vice President for Diversity and Community 
 Admissions decisions are online now! It feels like the Terrible Twelves barely had time to learn how to pronounce &#8216;Schermerhorn&#8217; before being shunted aside by the newer model, but such is the circle of life. It moves us all. As the Spec reported, regular-decision acceptances were sent off yesterday with pomp, circumstance, and &#8220;a middle-aged man wrapped in a light blue flag.&#8221; Welcome, Class of 2013. Oh, the nickname you&#8217;re going to get, once we think of one. Columbia issued polite invitations to some 2,496 high school seniors to make Alma Mater their new boss come September. The overall acceptance rate was 9.82, with a CC acceptance rate of 8.92 (up from last year) and a SEAS rate of 14.42 (down). This year yields, yet again, the lowest admissions rate ever. Congratulations, and we'll see you at Days On Campus, looking for that elusive owl. 
 The CCE offers a lot of services, as anyone who receives its incessant weekly e-mails knows. It will pretend to interview you for a job and try to make you crack. It will describe the career options for your major and try to make you cry. It will even give you tips on resume scents if you ask nicely. But its most important task is to find you a job. And employment, as you may or may not be aware, is kind of thin on the ground right now. The CCE wants you to know it&#8217;s trying really, really hard.&nbsp;It wants you to know so badly, in fact, that it e-mailed your parents (they who pay the bills) telling them so. This morning, a message landed in parental inboxes across the country describing its response to the recession, the &#8220;Hire Columbians&#8221; initiative, in which the CCE promotes connections between student/graduate employees and alumni/affiliate employers. It might have been easier to write, &#8220;It&#8217;s the economy, stupid,&#8221; and leave it at that, but then we wouldn&#8217;t know about &#8220;Columbia Champions,&#8221; who are constant and fearless, and will rescue you from ROUS's if you&#8217;re wearing light blue. The point is, the CCE&nbsp;is keeping&nbsp;up the fight. On one hand, it&#8217;s nice that you&#8217;re getting off the hook for not filling out a dozen job applications over spring break.&nbsp;On the other, anything that prompts a mental comparison between the CCE and the Little Engine That Could is a little worrying. Click for the full e-mail. From: Center for Career Education &lt;careereducation@columbia.edu&gt; Sent: Tuesday, March 31, 2009 10:43:00 AM Subject: Hire Columbians &#8211; an initiative from the career center at Columbia University Dear Columbia Parent, At this difficult economic time, you can make a difference by assisting Columbia students and alumni looking for jobs and internships. The Columbia University Center for Career Education (CCE) is pleased to announce &#8216;Hire Columbians&#8217;, a new initiative designed to facilitate the hiring of Columbians. Listed below are several different ways you can get involved. Post a Position If your firm is hiring, ensure that CCE is aware of openings at your organization. Assist Columbians by posting positions exclusively for Columbia students and alumni on CCE&#8217;s job database LionSHARE. Become a Columbia Champion Make sure your colleagues know the benefits a Columbian will bring to an organization. CCE can work with you to turn your contacts into potential employers of Columbia students and alumni. Offer your Industry Expertise As CCE looks to find new opportunities, those who can speak as authorities within their field are a vital resource. As a Columbia Parent you can work with CCE to share trends within your field, provide industry contacts and help to expand the number of positions available to Columbia students and alumni. To learn more about all the above contact: Patrick Smith Senior Associate Director of Employer Outreach at CCE Telephone: 212-854 5496 Email: ps2211@columbia.edu We hope that you are able to join the &#8216;Hire Columbians&#8217; initiative and help fellow Columbians advance their career goals. Even a small amount of your time can make an enormous positive impact, both on job-seekers and on the firms that hire them. Thank you for your consideration, Kavita Sharma Dean, Center for Career Education &nbsp; 
 CBS News&#8217; latest Medical Correspondent comes with a working knowledge of Homer and the difficulties of swimming 75 yards. Jennifer Ashton, CC &#8217;91 and College of Physicians and Surgeons &#8217;00, will move to The Early Show this year after a three-year gig consulting for Fox News. She already has her own successful private gynecology practice in Englewood, New Jersey, so any of the forty-five billion Columbia students from the Garden State can easily scope her out. Underclassmen in the throes of indecision will note that Ashton was an art history major before going medical. CBS News president Sean McManus cites her ability to &#8220;clearly communicate&#8221; as a prime asset, though in the wrong light that may smack of &#8220;can translate for the plebes.&#8221; The Early Show is on from 7:00 am to 9:00 am Monday through Saturday. You might as well stay up that extra hour on Friday and catch some of it. 
 How do you put the biggest economic meltdown in eighty years into historical perspective? Bwog Money Madame Anna Kelner went to Havemeyer tonight to find out. Today&#8217;s economy is rapidly turning into the stuff of Shakespeare. &nbsp;Headline after headline spells disaster, AIG is handing out multimillion-dollar bonuses, the federal government is bailing out household names like GM and Chrysler, and&nbsp;President Sarkozy is threatening to boycott the G20 summit.&nbsp; Such drama tends to blind, not illuminate, and on Tuesday night, the Columbia Undergraduate History Council sponsored a panel discussion aimed&nbsp;at demystifying the confusion.&nbsp; At the dialogue between New School historian Robin Blackburn and Columbia professors Eric Foner, Alan Brinkley, and Carl Wennerlind, participants analyzed the crisis&#8217; historical antecedents and offered suggestions for the future. The discussion began on a disappointing note&#8212;Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winner in Economics, University Professor, and the likely incentive for most of the audience to leave the warm spring evening and file into the nearly packed lecture room to hear about our failing economy&#8212;could not attend due to a scheduling conflict.&nbsp; After a collective sigh, the first presenter, Carl Wennerlind, presented the most jargon-heavy and esoteric speech.&nbsp; A specialist in 17th and 18th century political economy, Wennerlind analyzed the first financial culture of credit and England&#8217;s resulting economic collapse from 1690 to 1720.&nbsp; Wennerlind declared that&nbsp;&#8220;from its origin, the modern financial system has been prone to crisis,&#8221; and encouraged his audience to &#8220;look for the social relations underlying credit.&#8221;&nbsp; Like many of the left-leaning panelists to follow, Wennerlind overtly revealed his political inclinations.&nbsp; He concluded with a quotation from Marx that rained wrath on the heads of the AIG executives and the like: &#8220;capital comes dripping from head to toe, from every pore, with blood and dirt.&#8221; Eric Foner reinforced Wennerlind&#8217;s radical message by issuing a characteristically liberal call to restructure the government&#8217;s relationship to the economy.&nbsp; He analyzed the panic of 1837 and the period of economic downturn in the late 1890s, detailing the dramatic sequence of big business, bank collapses, labor strikes, and the rise of the Populist Party.&nbsp; Even after offering a somber parallel to our current economic crisis, Foner expressed hope that such disaster can pave the way to new social relations.&nbsp; Economic downturn, he warned, can produce &#8220;conflict not only between Populists and others, but also among racial groups;&#8221; however, it can also allow for the &#8220;consolidation of a new racial system in the US,&#8221; and inspire people to &#8220;think in new and creative ways about the relationship of our government to our economy.&#8221; Alan Brinkley tempered the previous two speakers&#8217; leftist biases by fastidiously evaluating the benefits and drawbacks of the New Deal, a possible remedy &#8220;very much in vogue today.&#8221;&nbsp; In reasoned language reminiscent of every Columbian&#8217;s favorite US History textbook, Brinkley both exalted the program&#8217;s successes and argued that &#8220;we need to learn not only from its triumphs but also from its failures.&#8221;&nbsp; He cautioned that the Second World War, not the New Deal, ended the Great Depression&#8212;&#8220; a solution we have to owe is not the only one available to us today." The final speaker, Robin Blackburn, related the discussion to the present moment with a message far more extreme than those offered by Wennerlind and Foner.&nbsp; He analyzed the period from the 1970s to 2007&#8212;a time that he sarcastically denigrated as one &#8220;dominated by the rise of so-called neo-liberalism and the dismantling of many of the regulatory controls.&#8221;&nbsp; He continued to use a tongue-in-cheek humor to criticize the dying &#8220;culture of consumption, self-regard, and economic analysis,&#8221; arguing that pervasive inequality in both the domestic and global economy caused the financial bubble to burst.&nbsp; Blackburn, though, reveled in the socialist possibilities offered by government bailouts. &#8220;We&#8217;ve stumbled into a completely unintentional collectivism,&#8221; he exalted, &#8220;and the next step should be nationalization, a classic recipe for overcoming crisis in the capitalist system.&#8221;&nbsp; Although these four historians offered definitively liberal views on the nation&#8217;s economic woes, their opinions lent the depth and sense of perspective that dramatic newspaper headlines lack.
 You mean there's someone else screwing over West Harlem too? PrezBo fears for his life, sucks his thumb at night. Barnard has no money or teachers, but SIPA goes on carving? Columbia accepts corporate sponsorship, billboards will go up on low steps.&nbsp; 
 Grab your pitchforks, music fans: Bacchanal members tell Bwog that Vampire Weekend dropped out of the concert early last night. No word yet on the actual reasoning behind the cancellation, although we strongly suspect that last Tuesday's events have something to do with it. More updates coming shortly. UPDATE (12:57 p.m.): Sources confirm that Vampire Weekend dropped out due to "contract issues," rather than (less interesting) reasons such as a scheduling conflict. UPDATE (1:08 p.m.): According to a forwarded email from Bacchanal organizers, the band, which is in the middle of recording a new album (tenatively named "Cedilla Gorilla"), balked at the security breach, and despite offers of additional incentive J. Crew gift cards, band representatives confirmed the band would drop out of the gig. When asked how such a strict clause got into the contract, Bacchanal planner Benny Shaffer blamed it on "a stray Oxford comma. I thought they didn't give a fuck about those!" However, Bwog's been told that a replacement group has already been confirmed, and we expect to have the name shortly. UPDATE (1:22 p.m.): Bacchanal organizers will announce Thursday that the bluegrass group Hootenanny Hollers -- best known for their chart-topping album "Backporch Pickin'," -- will play the spring festivities. Rising stars in the bluegrass community, the Hollers are also known for being one of the few bands left in the industry that still use cast-iron washtubs. Their downhome style has also earned recognition from trade magazine Waterjug, which placed them on its list of "Bands Guaranteed to Get Your Foot Tapping in 2009." &nbsp;- JCD &amp; JYH 
It's the smart mixed-group and the lucky juniors today.&nbsp; We'll keep you updated with the scrawls on the Whiteboard of Fate while you bite your nails and "concentrate" in class.&nbsp; Bldg Size Confg Note # Bldg Size Confg Note # EC EX 5 3S 1D FL18 0 Watt 2 2S 2 BR 0 FL16 0 1D 1 BR 0 FL14 0 1D Std Dbl 36 FL8 0&nbsp; Rugl 2(4) 4S RA 0 Wdbg 2 HI DMD C &nbsp; 0 3(5) 3S 1D RA 2 H &nbsp; 0 5 3S 1D &nbsp; 3 K &nbsp; 0 6 2S 2D &nbsp; 0 2 MD DMD A &nbsp; 0 8 2S 3D &nbsp; 10 B &nbsp; 0 4S 2D &nbsp; 0 E &nbsp; 0 47C 3 3S &nbsp; 0 F &nbsp; 0 4 4S &nbsp; 0 J &nbsp; 0 5 1D 3S &nbsp; 1 L &nbsp; 0 6 4S 1D &nbsp; 1 2 LO DMD D &nbsp; 0&nbsp; 7 3S 2D &nbsp; 10 G &nbsp; 0 Hogn 4 4S &nbsp; 0 I &nbsp; 0 5 5S &nbsp; 0 Last Update: 4:30 PM 2(4) 5S &nbsp; 0 7:00 PM: Official update of "What's Left?" available on the housing website. Essentially you're looking at the chart above you, plus 2 rooms each taken in McBain, Nussbaum, and Broadway. 4:34 PM: Almost. We've also got the word that two (presumably walk-throughs) have been taken in McBain in addition to the two rooms in Nussbaum. They're folding up our folding chairs, so LiveBwog must say goodnight! 4:30 PM: And Woodbridge leaves us! Resigned to a zero on the side of the whiteboard, which perhaps will get a sad smiley face drawn into it like the Watt 1BR doubles did. That's it for today, housing hunters.&nbsp; 4:16 PM: Only one Woodbridge spot left! And Bwog hears that although it's not on the board yet, Nussbaum's best spots are starting to go to rising juniors - two rooms in the 9th floor suite were just taken. Older updates after the jump. &nbsp; 4:10 PM: The whiteboard is steady, the juniors are still indecisive, and freshmen passing the lounge have figured out that there's free candy and soda for the taking - wow! 3:38 PM: We've got a lot of discussion going on between different junior pairs - apparently they'd all like to live in Watt together, and the discussion of what to do if one or two groups can't get in is getting tense.&nbsp; 3:16 PM: It's quiet. Maybe too quiet, but, acccording to housing, the calm is partly because many of the groups with recent appointments have come in, stared blankly at the board for several minutes, and then chosen to drop to General Selection. Yeah, it's that time again. 2:38 PM: "We don't have to take our clothes off to have a good time, yeah, a good time." Discussions of lofting beds in the tiniest Woodbridge bedrooms. 2:20 PM: Woodbridge I and D lines are now dead and burried, only G line remains. Get em' while they're hot! 2:12 PM: After three days of peaceful sugar doping, the first candy jar is knocked over in a frenzied attempt to dull the pain. Junior mints litter the floor. 2:02 PM: Yup, the last four single Ruggles suite is off the board, and there are now just two doubles in Woodbridge not on the G line. 1:40 PM: Annnnd we're back, and the first group up is an eight-person group, no doubt eying one of the remaining Ruggles suites. They end up choosing a three double one, but it sounds like the next group of eight is strongly eying the last remaining four single suite. 12:30 PM: Alright, it's lunchtime - back in an hour with even less to choose from! 12:12 PM: The low-demand lines in Woodbridge continue to fall: only 1 I-line double left. 12:02 PM: Oh no!&nbsp; Only fifty Studio Doubles in Watt! (a Housing person came out and made the changes)&nbsp; And country music! 12:00 PM: From hopelessness to homelessness. 11:57 AM:&nbsp; More updates.&nbsp; Ruggles 5-person suites (with RA) rise from the grave?&nbsp; There were 0, and now there are 2.&nbsp; Also, Woodbridge low-demand apartments dwindle. 11:49 AM:&nbsp; Next round of whiteboard updates courtesy of a friendly Housing staffer.&nbsp; Watt 1-bedrooms are gone. 11:41 AM: And then there was one.&nbsp; Watt 1-bedroom, that is. 11:37 AM:&nbsp; Updates to the whiteboard &amp; handy chart:&nbsp; those Watt 1-bedroom apartments are still slipping away.&nbsp; Two left. 11:31 AM: Bwog briefly joined the masses of nailbiters as John Jay wireless took a short vacation; it's now returned, and we bring you a tragicomic addition to the whiteboard. 11:20 AM: "Does anyone else want to cry?&nbsp; And get an apartment off campus?" 11:12 AM:&nbsp; Somebody here thinks it's a "Beautiful Day," but Housing's just corrected the Ruggles count, and Bwog tends to disagree:&nbsp; 4-person 4-singles in Ruggles are now extinct. 11:04 AM:&nbsp; Woodbridge-Is (2 people) are down to 4; Watt 1-bedroom apartments (also 2 people) are down to 3. 11:00 AM: Apparently there's a Woodbridge E-line suite left that's not in the official count: someone picked it and then crossed it out. 10:47 AM: Whiteboard update. Housing's Woodbridge count was incorrect until a few minutes.&nbsp; There are actually 15 low-demand suites left. 10:33 AM: "It's a total crapshoot," says one Housing official.&nbsp; "Things we thought would go fast aren't, you know?"&nbsp; Bwog is headbanging to even more Kid Rock.&nbsp; It's an On-The-Go playlist, meaning someone from Housing is a fan. 10:25 AM: Wandering around near the laptops used to sign your soul away post-selection, Bwog was approached by a Dining official looking to sell laxatives meals.&nbsp; Apparently the dining dollar bonus for signing up post-housing is up $25 from last year.&nbsp; That should buy approximately 4 sandwiches from Ferris. 10:19 AM: Kid Rock fills the lull left by the departure of ECX hopefuls.&nbsp; Next up, probably the remaining doubles in Woodbridge followed by Watt: a whole host of two-person mixed-point groups is scheduled next. &nbsp; 10:15 AM: The Housing employee doing check-in has been calling out the name of a group for a few minutes now.&nbsp; Bwog thinks a housing appointment is one of those things you ought to set multiple alarms for.&nbsp; 10:13 AM: The final ECX suite was just taken.&nbsp; All those poor 6-people groups coming in will be disappointed to have to deal with the double in the only 6-person suite left, in Claremont. 10:10 AM: Squeals are heard from behind the boards.&nbsp; The last suite, perhaps? We'll know soon enough. 10:09 AM: Chart update!&nbsp; No more than 2 ECX left, unfortunately.&nbsp; "OMG we're like, sixth from now!"&nbsp; A Housing staffer suggests that one group split up and try for Harmony.&nbsp; But apparently the group had never heard of its 80-square-foot cells. 10:03 AM: One of the last happy ECX groups is jumping up and down to more Marley.&nbsp; "Did you get it?"&nbsp; "For shizzz!" 10:00 AM: A group reports that there are six ECX suites left on the unrenovated 14th and 16th floors.&nbsp; One girl checking in just now has estimated that she'll get the last one 9:45 AM: A group of ECX hopefuls with the luxury of choice discusses window views, while the first group of the day, a foursome, emerges from the Land Behind the Bulletin Boards 9:38 AM: The Housing staff seems to have noticed the lack of consumption.&nbsp; It's been remedied by refilling the Fireball Jawbreaker bottle. 9:34 AM: Despite it being a deservedly pre-breakfast sort of hour, no one's touching the food.&nbsp; Perhaps Peppermint Patties aren't a breakfasty sort of food?&nbsp; Or maybe they know that the small, over-shined apples came from that eatery across the hall? 9:25 AM: The first groups are here trying to catch a quick nap in the hard-to-Bwog-from dorm chairs.&nbsp; Humid Reggae, reflecting the weather, urges them to "Stand up, stand up for your rights." 
 Super hero/History prof/Provost Alan Brinkley was walking to work one chilly day, and noticed someone following him. Because he didn't think to look for one of those little red "Lion's Watching" Lions to protect him against evil spirits, the stalker eventually caught up to him and introduced himself - Griff Jenkins of Fox News. Jenkins was there to heckle Brinkley about his American history textbook, Unfinished Nation. In the clip aired on Fox Nation this morning, Jenkins follows Brinkley for several blocks while criticizing the book's treatment of the War on Terror. Apparently Brinkley wrote that only one terror suspect detained at Gitmo was ever charged, while Fox claims that the number today is over one hundred. Too bad Fox didn't have data for 2006, when the book was published. It's also too bad for Fox that Jenkins' suit (no coat, of course) was so damn spiffy and the Fox logo was so damn bright. All that plus Jenkins' youthful enthusiasm and thick-rimmed glasses made our wool-clad provost look positively evil. Jenkins even followed Brinkley for two blocks, up 116th and into campus, until the silent, speed-walking prey finally reached the sanctity of Low and unceremoniously shut the door in the camera's face. Perhaps Jenkins' called the book "Unfinished Business" rather than "Unfinished Nation" on purpose this morning - Bwog sees an old-fashioned smackdown in the works. 
 New bird on the block? Hawkma likes your hair. If you believe in the possibility of a Mr./Mrs. Hawkma, know that you are not the first to be fascinated by stories of hawk love. And speaking of Red-tail love, we have more pics of Baby Hawkma! The hawks in Florida are almost as beautiful as our adored Hawkma! See Hawkmadinebwog's awesome picture at right. Hawkmadinejad is now legitimate UWriting exhibit. Could she get any better? 
 New issue of The Fed out today for your April Fooling pleasure! Laugh, be merry, and pretend you pulled an awesome prank. Spectator to close its doors forever due to certain "allegations" and insufficient funds. Bwog's hoping a casino will replace the Broadway office. The admissions letter you wish you got. And the school you wish you went to. You know, some of us really do believe in the moose. You might not be able to see them, but they're there.&nbsp; You really think I need help being awkward? Yeah? Yeah? Well... um... PrezBo's journal of despair. Yes, he called you a fornicator. And yeah, you can tell he's kinda jonesing for an ego boost, but why go to East Prussia to get it? Emo is the new pink. I mean, whoops.&nbsp; Oh, and we are SO META. - Photo courtesy of The Fed 
 Take away your book stress, housing-related pain, or post-VW panic attack tremors with free food! Choose from two varieties - free food with a side of environmentalism, or free food with a side of 90's nostalgia. Earth Co. will host its study break at 10pm on the Lerner ramps, and you know what you get with your cupcake? Free environmental tips! Or stop by John Jay lounge at 10 to satisfy your long-dormant craving for Gushers, Capri Sun, and blaring 90's music courtesy of CCSC 2012. There will probably be a council member or two running around in outrageous 90's garb for your entertainment as well. Enjoy. 
 African Studies at CU is scattered. I guess that fits with the whole Diaspora thing. A new housing policy is making it harder for the Jewish community to find good homes. John Jay breakfast isn't just like home for international students (or anyone, for that matter). More property issues to our North. 
More on the Teachers College hate mail that was sent on Monday to several TC professors: the New York Post reported last night that four letters were sent, including one with a picture of a noose and addressed to former professor Madonna Constantine. Three other letters included pictures of swastikas, and were addressed to Jewish professors. Police Commissioner Ray Kelly told the Post, ""We are investigating it as a possible bias crime." (h/t Gothamist) 
Welcome to the fourth day of our Housing live-blog! Bldg Size Config Note # Bldg Size Config Note # Hrmy 2 D 6 Watt 2 2S 2 BR 0 Schp 2 D WlkTh 1D 1 BR 0 86 1D Std Dbl 1 Wien 2 D WlkTh 26 Rugl 2(4) 4S RA 0 13 3(5) 3S 1D RA 1 Nuss 2 D WlkTh 7 5 3S 1D 1 49 6 2S 2D 0 McBn 2 D WlkTh 0 8 2S 3D 0 155 4S 2D 0 Bway 2 D 27 47C 3 3S 0 EC 6 2 D 8 4 4S 0 Last Updated: 3:52 PM 5 1D 3S 1 6 4S 1D 1 7 3S 2D 10 3:50 PM: The final few groups are shuffling out. It's calm and quiet...for now. 3:42 PM: Only one Watt studio double left on M!!!&nbsp; 3:38 PM: The iPod returns! Hard Knock Life by Jay-Z is on. Fitting... 3:28 PM: Only two slots left in Ruggles, one with RA and one fifth floor suite. 3:25 PM: The iPod is off, and someone is playing piano. New motto: "YOU are the MUSICIAN!" 3:22 PM: One Ruggles five-person suite with RA remains, and we're down to the last two Watt studio doubles, folks. Breakdown on Watt: A-1, M-1.&nbsp; 3:13 PM: Only four Watt studio doubles, and the last three double Ruggles suite is gone. Breakdown for Watt: A-1, B-1, M-2. 2:57 PM: Just one Ruggles three-double suite left. The iPod magically switched colors from red to black. Is the lottery inducing hallucinations? 2:53 PM: Only five studio doubles left in Watt!! A-1, B-1, M-3. 2:50 PM: Candy was just restocked. Damn, Cow tales are good... 2:40 PM: A surge of groups has flooded John Jay lounge. "I don't know what that board means!" exclaims a frustrated student. Board updates coming soon. Older updates after the jump. &nbsp; 2:12 PM: Watt studio doubles are going fast, down from 15 to 8 in the most recent board update. The breakdown: A-1, B-1, M-5. Updates on Ruggles with two three double/two single suites taken from the 8th floor.&nbsp; 1:56 PM: A rising junior languishing in a butterfly chair exclaims "I hate housing!"&nbsp; 1:43 PM: Lunch is over, Biggie is playing from the iPod, and a few scattered bored-looking rising juniors are leafing through Time Out New York. We just updated the chart above and are expecting a whiteboard update in a few moments, according to a very bored-looking housing employee. Some snippets from the coffee table: "someone took another Nussbaum walk-through since this morning? Shit! Shit!", "we checked out those Watt doubles, and they're really not that bad." 12:38 PM: And we're breaking for lunch. No more McBain walk-through doubles, and we've got 7 walk-throughs left in Nussbaum. After a raucous rock-paper-scissors to decide who gets the two singles in their 8 person Ruggles suite, the last group refeuls with York patties and lollipops. 12:25 PM: New count of Watt by studio doubles by line: A-5, B-1, D-1, E-2, M-6, G/H/J/K-0. That's 15 left. And there's no music at all now, because the replacement ipod had to leave with it's owner, and everyone's tired of being the DJ to the one housing's got. 12:17 PM: Correction from housing - there aren't 41 doubles in Wien, as some of you may remember. There are 13 doubles, and 26 walk through doubles. The white board should be relatively correct now. Bwog feels bad for making housing get up from their spots by the window, because it's getting hot hot hot in the JJ lounge.&nbsp; 12:10 PM: Bwog has the scoop on why Furnald doubles aren't on the board (notice our empty box where the number remaining should be). Apparently all of the doubles in Furnald will be going to incoming freshmen next year, so all Furnald rooms available to you are singles (yay!), and you've got to drop to general to get them.&nbsp; 11:52 AM: Bwog has surreptitiously swapped its iPod in for Housing's. Sorry, but enough Queen is really, truly enough. 11:35 AM: Updated numbers! Watt by line - A:6. B: 2. D:1. E:2. G:1. H:0. J:0. K:0. M:6. We've got some hopeful Rugglers up next. 11:27 AM: They've replenished the AirHeads. Every single pair coming in here is going for Watt. Good thing for you rising sophomores that "every single pair" means, like, one an hour. 11:14 AM: One Watt G-line left! But groups continue to trickle in at an almost heart-stoppingly slow pace! What will happen? What will go? What will remain? Why do they keep playing Rihanna? 11:07 AM: Just when you weren't expecting it, Housing reveals precious information! 41 doubles in Wien, 13 of them walk-through. Walk through to your destiny. 11:01 AM: There is so little going on that the biggest news in this lounge right now is the desecration of our beloved John Jay, below. This is the first time the soda fridge has been more than a quarter full before noon all week. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; 10:40 AM: Watt studio doubles by line - A:6. B:6. D:5. E:6. G:5. H:0. J:2. K:0. M:6. The few groups wandering in are&nbsp;going for Watt. 10:22 AM: A surprising number of groups break into limp cheering upon entering and seeing the white board. Is it because Housing is finally using all the markers of the rainbow today? It's certainly not because more studio singles have suddenly sprung up. 10:00 AM: Housing realized that the ninth floor of Nussbaum isn't available in suite selection, so there are only 56 Nussbaum suites left. Wien count still to come, because of "changing floor plans." 9:50 AM: One departing student takes another Coke for the road, telling his new roommate "not to do anything too hasty." A wise man.&nbsp; 9:43 AM: Good morning! And the only groups we see hanging around to choose are the doubles. Now playing: "My Life Would Suck Without You" by Kelly Clarkson - a song from more recently than 2005! 
 Where Have All the Cowboys Gone? Paula Cole can help! Evolution of dance, meet evolution of dance. The Humanities may be feeling poor, but they can commiserate with poor students. 
 In case you are wondering why College Walk is inundated with red balloons, Bwog Sharp and Pointy Things expert Anish Bramhandkar has discovered their origin. They are courtesy of a group advocating the passage of a House of Representatives resolution on needle exchange. If there is one thing Columbians want on a sunny day, it's needle reform advocacy. More pictures of outdoor/balloon fun after the jump. &nbsp; -Photos by Anish Bramhandkar -DJB 
 Crawl from the pub to show yourself beneath finally sunny skies. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday Gen Art Film Festival Premiers begin 7:30pm and after-parties 10pm, The Visual Arts Theatre 333 West 23rd Street btw 8th and 9th Avenues (212-255-7300) Springtime in New York inevitably means film festivals. This one kicks off the season with some pretty impressive-sounding showings. Check out the website for details. Price: $30 for non-Gen Art members A New President Takes Command: FDR&#8217;s First Hundred Days Daily 10am-6pm, The New York Historical Society Central Park West near 76th St Memories and records from FDR&#8217;s first hundred days are on display, offering some perspective on today&#8217;s issues. Price: Free with CUID Friday and Saturday Seduction Friday 12-8pm and Saturday 10am-5pm, Fashion Institute of Technology Museum 7th Ave at 27th St A visual history of fashion&#8217;s constant foray into the tempting and exciting will be on display at the FIT museum. Price: Free Friday Kool Keith as Dr. Octagon vs. Dr. Doom Friday 9pm, The Gramercy Theater The classic, the renowned, and the multiple-personalitied Kool Keith will be performing as both Dr. Octagon and Dr. Doom live. Price: $21 Kaiju Big Battel Friday 9pm, 261 Driggs Ave, Brooklyn Professional wrestling meets a cosmic war of the gods. Price: $20 A Hard Days&#8217; Night (1964) Friday 12am, Landmark Sunshine Cinema 143 E Houston Street Celebrate the end of midterms, the beginning of spring, or just the end of a hard Friday with the Beatles in a screening of their 60&#8217;s classic. Price: $12.50 Saturday National Tartan Day Parade Saturday 2pm, 6th Ave between W44th St and W 58th St Scots, people of Scottish descent and anyone else who wants to celebrate Scotland can come, and enjoy! Price: Free Mister Saturday Night Saturday 10pm, Santos Party House 96 Lafayette St (212.584.5492) Afrika Bambaataa headlines this party in honor of the funky beats he pioneered. Say his name out loud a few times and you'll get a sense of what kind of music to expect. Price: $15/$10 with RSVP to mister@mistersaturdaynight.com Pillowfight NYC 2009 Saturday 3-4pm, 26 Wall Street Have pent-up frustrations? Pent-up energy? A pitiful pillow? Go to New York City&#8217;s giant pillow fight where anyone and everyone is welcome. Price: Free! Bishop Allen Saturday 8pm, Bowery Ballroom 6 Delancey St The Brooklyn born, Indie underdog that has been entertaining fans and eluding the limelight for a few years now is performing again in Manhattan. Price: $15 Greenwich Village Spring Bar Tour Saturday 1-9pm, 151 Bleecker St Wander from one bar to the next in a 12 bar long pub crawl that will be bustling with New Yorkers from every corner of the city celebrating cheap beers and warm weather. Price: $10 with two canned goods, $15 without Check-in: The Red Lion from 1-6pm Sunday Bishop Allen Sunday 8pm, Bowery Ballroom 6 Delancey St The Brooklyn born, Indie underdog that has been entertaining fans and eluding the limelight for a few years now is performing again in Manhattan. Price: $15 Tricky Sunday 9pm, Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza The famed UK Producer/Rapper/Singer is going to be live with his full repertoire of pop/rap/rock/electronica/blues/punk smorgasbord of jams. Price: $35 
 "You're My Best Friend," Queen "King of Wishful Thinking," Go West "Make Your Own Kind of Music," The Mamas &amp; the Papas "Eye in the Sky," Alan Parsons Project "My Way," Frank Sinatra 
Now's your chance to indulge your inner Garbo. Columbia University Film Productions needs extras tonight for a scene in its project, "Serotonin." Fortunately, since extras will be playing students, there's no need to go all Dustin Hoffman on CUFP. Just show up wearing normal student clothes (anything from the Gap family of brands will do) and normal student expressions (sadness, tiredness, disaffection). The film shoot will run from 6 p.m. to 8 in Fayerweather 313, but you need show up only for one of the two hours. Wages will be paid in free food, your name in the credits, and a DVD copy of the finished product. 
 The march of scholarships continues. Three Columbia students have received prestigious Goldwater Scholarships, which are awarded yearly to approximately 300 college sophomores and juniors who are seeking a Ph.D in science and/or mathematics. This year's recepients are Alex Perry CC '11, Noam Prywes CC '10, and Arianne Richard CC '10. Each university is only allowed to nominate four students, and this is the first time in six years that Columbia has had three of its nominees selected. Perry is pursuing a Ph.D. in mathematics, Prywes in chemistry, and Richard in biochemistry. Congratulations to them! 
And now, the fifth day of our housing liveblog! Feel the despair! Building Size Config Note # Harmony 2 D 6 Schapiro 2 D WlkTh 29 55 Wien 2 D WlkTh 18 13 Nussbaum 2 D WlkTh 0 19 McBain 2 D WlkTh 0 111 Broadway 2 D 19 EC 6 2 D 6 Last Updated: 4:47 PM 4:47 PM: There hasn't been a new group for many minutes, "Like a Prayer" is playing and Bwog is feeling very lonely. But we've finally got a final count for the day! 3:55 PM: Rooms in Broadway continue to drop along with Wien walk-throughs. A group of 4 just checked out the temperature gauge, which read a balmy 83 degrees here in the John Jay lounge. The housing people are absorbed in the age old competition "Shoot the Bottle at the Trash Can." 3:15 PM: Each member of the housing staff wears a 'Get a Room' t-shirt every day of this process. Have they all been wearing the same shirts for the past five days? Ew. 3:11 PM: Love is a Battlefield is echoing through the room. The lounge now has the humidity of a rain forest. 2:58 PM: In remembrance of the suite you won't get, we've cleaned up our table.&nbsp; Behold, the doubles. 2:46 PM: There goes the last Claremont Suite. The board is getting grayer and grayer... 2:40 PM: There goes the Claremont suite on 7. Only one Claremont suite left. 2:37 PM: Thriller is blasting out of the speakers, and friendships are being strained over the sparse options.&nbsp; 2:30 PM: Broadway is going fast, down to 22 from 29. A few more McBain rooms taken too. Women are screaming for no apparent reason. This is weird.&nbsp; 2:11 PM: More McBain doubles being snatched up with pairs of sophomores filling up the sixth floor. People are taking catnaps in butterfly chairs and looking sadly out at the rain.&nbsp; 1:54 PM: Groups of rising sophomores hang around, wondering why there are not any singles left on the board. Hopes of large McBain doubles shouldn't pose a problem yet: 136 left.&nbsp;Some sophomore groups with high numbers are dropping to General hoping to get Furnald. More updates after the jump. 1:37 PM: Back from lunch. Six doubles remain in EC.&nbsp; 12:45 PM: Lunch time!&nbsp; There's a board update and our chart is updated.&nbsp; Housing continues to miscount, as Broadway doubles are up to 29 from 21. It looks like most people took McBain doubles, with Nussbaum coming in second.&nbsp; See you in less than an hour; the next appointment is at 1:30 and will be taking a double. 12:19 PM: Ruggles will be completely gone before lunch.&nbsp; The last five-person suite will be picked by a proxy.&nbsp; Something confusing about "mistakes" and an "I got the email."&nbsp; There are only three suites left now, for five, six, and seven people.&nbsp; And they will be gone soon. 12:10 PM: Several groups of six have skipped over the remaining six-person Claremont suite because it's "too small."&nbsp; Most are opting for doubles in Nussbaum. 12:02 PM: Halfway into the first day of sophomore selection and no one's picked into the six Harmony doubles yet.&nbsp; They range from 200 to 250 square feet- it might not be a bad pick for sophomores.&nbsp; 11:51 AM: Many groups are taking advantage of the new sophomore pair-up.&nbsp; Groups of four go in and emerge having picked into Nussbaum.&nbsp; Oddly, few groups Bwog has seen are talking about going to Broadway doubles. 11:46 AM: Board update.&nbsp; A confused freshman looks at all the instructive signs and says "Here goes.&nbsp; Where's 'Step 1'?" 11:35 AM: While we wait for a large group of rising sophomores to emerge (who certainly won't get what they want), Ludacris' "Get Back" is playing.&nbsp; For those unfamiliar with this artistic masterpiece, its refrain is "Get back, m*****f***er." 11:33 AM: We caught ourselves singing along.&nbsp; Minus three style points. 11:31 AM: Housing still has "Stacy's Mom" on its iPod.&nbsp; That would be an awkward rooming arrangement. 11:24 AM: The last Ruggles RA rider suite went to a group of four because the RA didn't have a rider..&nbsp; Congratulations to smart-thinking rising sophomores. 11:15 AM: With Disturbia weakly pumping through the room, Bwog wonders why Wien is abbreviated as "WIN" on the housing whiteboard.&nbsp; Even they're trying to fool themselves. 11:10 AM: "It's dangerous business, this Claremont."&nbsp; This followed a discussion of sunlight availability on various floors.&nbsp; "Higher floor means more light, right?"&nbsp; Wrong.&nbsp; If you're on a shaft, just forget about light's existence.&nbsp; It will make you less bitter. 10:56 AM: John Jay residents are easily spotted in this crowd: they're the ones wearing pajamas. 10:50 AM: Although only 2 7-person suites remain, the top all-sophomore groups seem to have 2, 4, or 8 members, with next 7-person scheduled for 11:42. Look for a lot of doubles to go before then. 10:36 AM: An impromptu dance party breaks out after somebody cranks up the speakers, only to be swiftly shut down by the Housing staff.&nbsp; 10:33 AM: Another seven-person group is behind the proverbial curtain right now, and the last mixed-point group has just been called. 10:26 AM: One student refuses to give up, as he tells his group: "Stop with the negative energy - don't give me that shit." Also, 5 7-person suites left. 10:16 AM: Now playing: "Signed, Sealed, Delivered" by Stevie Wonder. Bwog's having Obama campaign flashbacks. 10:12 AM: Although housing has yet to update the count, Bwog counts three groups of seven this morning already for those Claremont suites 9:51 AM: Housing updates the count to note that Nussbaum walkthrough doubles are gone. Still waiting on those 7-person suites in Claremont. 
 With all the dreary rain tumbling down outside, you might be hesitant to believe how beautiful the campus is going to be in full spring bloom. Polish up your Columbia campus mental imagery, then, with the following selection of films available on Netflix's Watch Instantly! service -- they all incorporate Columbia and its campus, even if not always by name.&nbsp; &nbsp; GHOSTBUSTERS After being expelled from Columbia, three parapsychology &#8220;experts&#8221; open up a ghost investigation and eradication service in New York City. The trio soon discover a centuries-old Sumerian demon living in an apartment refrigerator near Central Park, which they learn has imminent plans to trigger the apocalypse. Fighting off both stern government agents and evil beings that come their way, the Ghostbusters must rush to save their reputations and New York itself. The film that started the franchise, Ghostbusters is one of the rare exceptions to the rule with most movies that film on campus. Columbia generally tries to avoid being mentioned by name in these movies, but here, the university features rather prominently in the plot. Look for scenes filmed around Low Library beginning about 12 minutes into the movie, and look for a second sequel to the film in 2010. &nbsp; ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND A painfully ended relationship leads Joel and Clementine to pursue an experimental medical procedure that can erase specific memories. As they both lose the experiences they shared, Joel rediscovers his passion for Clementine. He doesn&#8217;t want to forget Clementine, but he&#8217;ll have to fight to keep her. This bizarre-but-touching film does incorporate Columbia if you have a quick eye. You&#8217;ll recognize the Columbia bookstore from Jim Carrey&#8217;s scene in the erstwhile-Long Island Barnes &amp; Noble, but notice the bookstore acts only as a stand-in. Columbia isn&#8217;t mentioned by name, in keeping with the preferences of the university. Too bad no one can be seen holding a Lit Hum boxed set. &nbsp; ACROSS THE UNIVERSE Scouser Jude Feeny leaves for the United States on a quest to find his father. Winding up at Princeton, he befriends a well-to-do, smart, and rebellious student who introduces Jude to the counterculture. The pair move to New York and become part of the turbulent 60s scene, rubbing elbows with the great moments of the radical left movement. Across the Universe has little going for it, unfortunately, other than the Beatles music strung loosely into the plot. Most of the history is only partially remembered correctly and sloppily dashed together. Case and point is the way Columbia is depicted -- Jude winds up at the 1968 riots outside a brick Low Library balcony. Yeah, brick. Enjoy the music to his film and have a laugh at Columbia&#8217;s cameo, but that&#8217;s about it. ---JYH 
 &#160; Anyone sauntering into Levien yesterday afternoon to shoot some hoops got a little more than they bargained for: a gym full of high-tech paper airplanes.&#160; Red Bull's Paper Wings Contest gathered a crowd of 20 or so engineering-types who spent an hour and a half battling it out for a free trip to Salzburg, Austria (home of the Red Bull Headquarters, where they put the real lightning into the cans), and the chance to compete with other schools' engineering-types in some sort of world finals.&#160; From what Bwog hears, Columbia's resident paper airplane geniuses--Mikey Antonakakis, Austin Brauser and Menachem Kaiser--have a decent chance of hopping a larger plane and flying to the edelweiss capital of the world.&#160; Columbia-Red Bull pontifex and CU Formula SAE associate Nicholas Chang promises to alert us as soon as he knows how Columbia's scores match up to the 200-or-so other schools'. The judges, a trio of slim, heavily made-up, imported Red Bull babes, judged our boys' designs in three categories: total flight distance, amount of hang time, and "aerobatics," or, fancy tricks.&#160; Brauser's spinning paper ring took the Columbia prize for aerobatics, and Antonakakis, decked out in a Formula One driver's jumpsuit and helmet, swept up in both distance and hang time; one of his planes flew 110 feet, and another stayed in the air for a glorious 6.63 seconds.&#160; Kaiser's impromptu entries--he showed up for the basketball and stayed for the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat--came in close behind Antonakakis.&#160; Check out some pictures after the jump! --JPMB 
 &nbsp; Photo via TheTallisScholars.co.uk Bwog's resident Hildegard fanboy Peter Thompson spent his Thursday evening at the final concert of the Miller Theatre's Early Music series and sent back this dispatch, lovingly illuminated, on vellum. The Miller Theatre concluded its Early Music series on Thursday, April 2 with &#8220;Music for Double Choir&#8221; at the Church of St. Mary the Virgin on 46th St. The program was presented by the UK-based Tallis Scholars, one of the world&#8217;s most prestigious professional choral groups. The ensemble of 10, led by renowned conductor Peter Phillips, sang music from the 16th and 17th centuries. The first half of the concert comprised of music by three Renaissance stalwarts, Palestrina, Peter Philips and Orlande de Lassus. The Tallis Scholars handled the selections with characteristic ease and graceful musicality: Palestrina's perfect "Surge illuminare" was sung cleanly, without affectation, and Philips' "Ecce vicit Leo" and "Ave Jesu Christe" were short, splendid gems. The singers also treated Lassus' "Missa Bell'Amfitrit'altera" with the sonorous elegance it deserves. Yet while the first half of the program was dependably pleasant, the second half was far more interesting. Orlando Gibbons&#8217; masterpiece &#8220;O clap your hands&#8221; started in a deceptively quiet and understated manner before blossoming into a joyful symphony. The little-heard &#8220;Lamentations&#8221; by French composer Dominique Phinot revealed the Tallis Scholars at their best, as they masterfully explored the piece&#8217;s emotional depth. Selections from Alonso Lobo and Jean Mouton served as short devotions to the Virgin Mary, and the concert concluded with the surprisingly rhythmic &#8220;Magnificat&#8221; by Hieronymus Praetorius, which was delightfully and energetically performed. If there was a shortcoming to the performance, it was because of the awkwardness of the group&#8217;s composition. The higher voices both outnumber and seem to dominate the lower voices. Though this gives the choir an exquisitely light, transcendent tone, it also seems to distort the musical experience, making the lower voices harder to hear. But this is more a comment on the uniqueness of the group than a complaint. The Miller Theatre has several concerts left in the season. On Monday, April 6, Tuesday, April 7 and Wednesday, April 8, Pacifica Quartet will offer free lunchtime performances of Mendelssohn&#8217;s Quartets in Philosophy Hall. On Friday, April 17, pianist Christopher O&#8217;Riley will present a program of Nick Drake and Claude Debussy. The Miller Theatre also recently released information regarding next year&#8217;s concerts, which will include a return visit from The Tallis Scholars and two world premieres. &nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via CabinetMagazine.com Campus Crusade for Christ, along with its buddies the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, the Remnant (no, not replicant) Christian Fellowship, and the oft-maligned Korea Campus Crusade for Christ, is hosting the ReCharge "Cofeehouse" tonight from 8-10.&nbsp; Head over to 114th and Broadway to sip some free coffee and see Kayte Grace (of Gossip Girl fame) do her singer-songwriter thing.&nbsp; Don't forget, also, to consider accepting God's love while you're there. 
The next Hu Jintao may be on campus right now. A delegation of China's top university student body presidents is visiting New York this weekend to wrap up an Ivy Council-sponsored global leadership summit. Called the All-China Students' Federation, what makes this group particularly important is its close ties to China's leadership structure. Members of the ACSF are groomed for top spots in the Chinese Communist Party following graduation, and we mean top spots -- both presidents Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao are alumni. The ACSF delegation has spent the past week visiting charming Boston, historic Providence, and regrettable New Haven. They've been meeting with other student groups, business leaders, and politicians along the way. Today, though, they'll be touring Manhattan, no doubt having airbrushed T-shirts made, grabbing photos with the Naked Cowboy, and hopefully buying a few souvenir Treasury bills. ---JYH 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via Yahoo News Canada John Solecki, the CC and SIPA graduate who was kidnapped in Pakistan two months ago, has been released, according to CBS News. Prior to his capture, Solecki worked as the head of the UN refugee office in Quetta, Pakistan; on the 2nd of February, 2009, members of the Baluchistan Liberation United Front (BLUF) kidnapped Solecki and killed his Pakistani driver.&nbsp; In exchange for his release, they demanded that the Pakistani government liberate over 1,000 pro-Baluchistan activists. The circumstances under which the BLUF freed Solecki are still unclear, but CBS has a quote from an anonymous Western diplomat who says that the "'release could not have been made possible without some trade-off. I am certain Solecki is a free man but in the process the Pakistanis must have released some people sought by nationalists from Baluchistan.'" 
 &nbsp; Photo via the Harvard Crimson Experienced Bwog Intercontinental Schmoozer David Berke spent some time with the visiting ACSF contingent and found that a language barrier is very effective at preventing Cultural Communication. The future leaders of the world/owners of our country were not pleased. Sitting in a cozy, wood-paneled room in Low with portraits of old white people adorning the walls, the eight members of the prominent Chinese student delegation visiting campus were slouched in their chairs, listlessly listening to other student delegates. The burning topic of debate? How to get students to vote/care about student elections. I'm not quite sure why anyone would spend thousands of dollars and travel thousands of miles to Columbia to answer that question, but whatever. This meeting was one of the final activities during the Columbia/Manhattan tour of the Chinese students from the All-Youth China Federation. CCSC and ESC reps, student council leaders from Universidad Iecsi in Colombia (as in Latin America. Yeah, I'm not quite sure what they were doing there other than&nbsp;providing the inevitable Columbia/Colombia joke) and the aforementioned All-China Student Federation leaders were discussing topics they could have more easily/less ironically teleconferenced about. One Colombia rep, for example, chatted about his hopes to make tuition more affordable for students in his country. Cutting the gratuitous overseas travel might be a good start. Plus, it seemed there was no one language that all the students in the room could speak fluently, and, when some international students spoke English, it was difficult to decipher. To make matters that much more ridiculous, What is Love was blasting from some shindig on College Walk, increasing the comprehension difficulties. Before the meeting was adjourned, a Columbia rep made a joke about &#8220;Columbia University students visiting Colombia&#8221; (Token vowel humor, check). Another Columbia Ivy Council member apologized for translation issues and other technical difficulties; one Columbia rep later told Bwog the Chinese visit had been &#8220;pretty crazy.&#8221; In spite of the problems, the Columbians called the meeting &#8220;historic&#8221; and an important &#8220;first step&#8221; in improving international student dialogue and cooperation. The torturous roundtable finally vanquished, I was ready to interview some of the Chinese students, who, if their organization&#8217;s alumni are any indication, will someday be pretty damn important. Before any relevant questioning could begin, the array of US, Colombian and Chinese students tried to snap photos in front of Alma Mater. The endless picture process was first delayed by some Chinese students who couldn&#8217;t get over the owl is Alma&#8217;s dress. US Foreign policy strategy for the Chinese ten years in the future: hide owls in everything to distract them. Then, the assemblage of students had a very hard time arranging themselves around the statue. Apparently, that &#8220;first step&#8221; was the first of many, many, many steps toward improved cooperation. Finally, I got to sit down with Li Huidong of Fudan University. Huidong had thirty seconds to explain how &#8220;at Harvard, everyone at breakfast is reading textbooks, at Brown, everyone is reading the newspaper, and at Yale, everyone is talking to each other&#8221; before he was whisked away by the delegation for something allegedly important.&nbsp; In fact, the Chinese students were rushing for their next vital activity: free time to&nbsp; shop at Columbus circle. US Foreign policy strategy for ten years in the future #2: tantalize the communist leaders with Macy&#8217;s. The midtown department store hopping was&nbsp;more pressing to global dialogue than&nbsp;questions like &#8220;I know Hu Jintao was a member of the All-China Youth League, so do you aspire to one day lead China? Do you want a freer China with greater individual rights and a less draconian judicial system?&#8221; Rest in piece, veiled liberal jabs at Chinese state policy. 
 The one redeeming facet of new-new-Facebook is the highlights bar, which today painted the picture of a campus overflowing with food. For breakfast, head over to the Casa Latina for a pancake brunch.&nbsp; It's $2 for all-you-can-eat pancakes, benefiting the Lucha Community Health Fair next week.&nbsp; 12-2 PM @ EC TH 504. Head over to the McBain lounge right after that to nab a sandwich for dinner.&nbsp; Subway (remember them from home?) is sponsoring a SEAS 2011 study break.&nbsp; There's a free Yankees tickets giveaway (helpfully repeated four times) and little motive for the festivities apart from the launch of a new ESC 2011 website.&nbsp; 1-3PM @ McBain Lounge. Return to the scene of the grime at 8 for a free "curiosity" ice cream social.&nbsp; The CU "T-Mobile Brand Ambassadors" and the Students for Substance-Free Space will be hosting with "tons" of flavors and toppings for the "ultimate sundae."&nbsp; They're giving away a free T-Mobile G1 phone (that's the Google Android phone) at the end of the night and the person with the most phone-related spirit (spirit-making supplies provided) will win "some cash."&nbsp; Maybe they'll return the two dollars you spent on pancakes.&nbsp; 8-9:30 PM @ McBain Lounge. And if you're the kind of person who likes "free" food over "free food," head over to the KSA Culture show in Roone tonight for "free" Korean food, provided you purchase the $15 ticket.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Roone Arledge Auditorium. 
 Monday CUO Concert: Tchaikovsky's Variations on a Rococo Theme, op. 33 featuring Elizabeth Lyon, cello, winner of the CUO concerto competition, and Berlioz's Symphonie fantastique, op. 14.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Miller Theatre.&nbsp; Also 8:00 PM Tuesday @ Roone Auditorium. Tuesday Westminster Boys' Choir: Yes, that choir.&nbsp; Sponsored by the OUC.&nbsp; 6:00 PM @ St. Paul's Chapel. Wednesday Ownership of Scholarly Works: After you write your last CC paper, who owns it?&nbsp; 3:00 PM @ Davis Aud, Schapiro CEPSR. Friday Matsuri 2009: A Japanese cultural festival with lots of free stuff.&nbsp; 4:00 PM @ Low Plaza. 
 At the Double Discovery center, they confirm and reconfirm that dating abuse is just not okay. Our pediatric neuroscience department was managed by a fraudster.&nbsp; John Bzdil pleaded guilty on Tuesday for defrauding Columbia for $180,000 used for personal expenses. Miller Theatre has a "new" director.&nbsp; Granted, she was the acting director since October. A Columbian is related to the host of the most listened-to radio show in America.&nbsp; "Now please stop judging me by my last name." Senior Justin Floyd revealed his taste for conservative dress to Meredith Vieira. 
 Watch your step in front of Butler tonight - the forces of nature have opened a cavernous pit by the main entrance.&nbsp; One of the grates by the wall collapsed. Public Safety assured our tipster that no one had fallen in.&nbsp; Good thing, too, otherwise they might have found Columbia's secret gold vault. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Photo by Aryeh Hillman 
 Wait, when did 2012 student council debates happen again? And what does the freshmen student council actually do? Spec Revelation #2320: If you don't like parts of the Core, you can talk about what you don't like in a public forum. Like John Jay dining hall? Political apathy runs rampant, but you're definitely not going to be the one to do anything about it. The Painted Boy Gay Erotic Art Fair: the perfect cure for your Sunday blues. 
 See a concert, fo' free! This afternoon the Pacifica Quartet will be performing their first of six installments of the Mendelssohn Quartets. Take in Op. 12 from 12:30-1:30 PM today in the Philosophy Graduate Student Lounge. Then brag about it; Music Hum so got you into this stuff, right?&nbsp; 
 Sunday night's CCSC meeting got off to a discombobulating start. Where, oh where, was George Krebs? Robyn Burgess (VP for Campus Life) who sat in that spot that Krebs usually sits in and ran the meeting, announced that both Krebs and Adil Ahmed were not in town. Uh-oh. &nbsp; Leader-less CCSC-ers immediately got testy when a long-awaited presentation on meal plans began. The Student Services Representatives admitted that much of their initiative was a reaction to the high number of complaints filed by nervous parents about their kids "actually eating and having meals." Ideas to increase swipe options per day for first-years and improve the salad bar at John Jay passed without criticism, but once the reps suggested an uperclassman meal plan, shit kind of hit the fan. The rationale for requiring upperclassmen to purchase a ("very lax") meal plan is that it would increase revenue for "struggling" Dining Services. The idea of transforming Ferris into an unlimited swipe-access second dining hall on campus was also thrown around. Both ideas were shot down immediately. Even though the upperclassmen meal plan would require a minimum of one meal per week, council members protested: "I don't believe Dining Services", "a mandatory meal plan would be wildly unpopular", "Ferris food will get shitty" and so on. Then everyone started shouting about shrimp in Ferris salads, overpriced Ferris cupcakes, and how much worse John Jay food was back when they were freshmen. The council finally simmered down a bit and discussed a possible update to the smoking policy. While there seemed to be a consensus that no one should have to walk into a "cloud of smoke" when they enter their dorms, Burgess' idea of banning smoking on certain parts of Low Steps ("but not hookah") and the larger idea for a smoke-free space between 120th and 114th from Broadway to Amsterdam was immediately dismissed as impractical. Burgess then gave the CCSC-ers before her a talk about not showing up to campus events, during which many eyes were averted to the ground: "your faces aren't known and you don't come to events". The council then sauntered out into the surprisingly warm evening, most likely pleased that to be done with that particularly trying episode of CCSC politics in the Satow Room.&nbsp; 
 Inclement weather brought a day of touring fiascos to prospective Columbians and their anxious parents. First, Official Traffic Jam Correspondent James Downie found that two tours had collided in the lobby of Butler, with the poor tour guides being forced to shout over each other.&nbsp; Mere moments later, a tipster sent us a picture of a touring family sporting Yale ponchos in Lerner. Seems they've caught the Gossip Girl bug. But why bother even applying now? Jessica Marinaccio definitely reads Bwog, you traitors. Yale photo after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; First photo by JCD, second by JG 
We return to John Jay Lounge for the penultimate day of suite selection. We're sick of the candy. You're sick of the candy. The same songs play over and over. Sophomores don't understand how to pick rooms. OK, let's do this.&nbsp; Building Size Config Note # Harmony 2 D 1 Schapiro 2 D WlkTh 18 38 Wien 2 D WlkTh 8 12 Nussbaum 2 D WlkTh 0 1 McBain 2 D WlkTh 0 50 Broadway 2 D 5 EC 6 2 D 6 Furnald 2 D 0 Last Updated: 4:53 PM 4:53 PM: Day's final count! See above. Only one Nussbaum and Harmony double each remain, with a bunch of McBain left. See you tomorrow, unlucky sophomores! 4:45 PM: Only one full double left in Nussbaum with two half doubles. 4:31 PM: Final updates for the day coming soon. 4:08 PM: The last wave of the day is pouring in. The end of Harmony is probably nigh. 3:49 PM: Furnald is gone! No doubles left... 3:36 PM: Shapiro is down from 48 to 33 doubles and 25 to 18 walk-through doubles.&nbsp; 3:31 PM: BIG drop. Broadway went down from 12 to 5.&nbsp; 3:17 PM: Major board updates. Six rooms left in Nussbaum. 65 in McBain with 2 half doubles left. 3:05 PM: Three suites taken from Harmony! Oh Snap! A weird mash-up of Billy Jean, Stand By Me and random eighties hits mixed with techno is playing, composed by someone named "DJ Chachi." It's like all the songs that has been playing through the housing lottery are replaying at once. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; 2:21 PM: The new "sophomore pairup" mechanism has made a big difference, as they are consistently choosing to split up rather than hope for singles. Look for the doubles numbers to tumble, especially for Nussbaum and Schapiro. 1:53 PM: An exchange between first-years: "Where do you want to live?" "A single." "Really?" "A single...it's not gonna happen." 1:45 PM: And we're back, with the iPod mericfully replaced by somebody practicing on the piano. First-years are urgently discussing the room sizes in the various remaining buildings. 12:43 PM: Board update!&nbsp; Time for lunch, be back in a jiffy. 12:36 PM: The last two groups before lunch on this rainy day picked into Nussbaum ("We pseudo-cook") and McBain.&nbsp; We await a board update and a lounge lockdown. 12:25 PM: McBain still seems to be popular, perhaps because there are still so many rooms to choose from.&nbsp; A group of future rat killers was going by square-footage alone, saying "the more desirable rooms" in Broadway were all taken. 12:18 PM: There's No Doubt most groups today will get acceptable housing.&nbsp; Everyone chilling in the humid Jay lounge seems certain that Wien will not be in their future. 11:45 AM: Finally, a partial board update - six Broadway, two Nussbaum and two Furnald doubles have dropped off the board, but Bwog suspects that many of the groups that have taken doubles have gone for McBain or Schapiro, judging by how few of the other numbers of changed. Housing will update those counts after lunch. 11:38 AM: The board remains unchanged, but Housing has promised us an updated count of the lower-count doubles (Nussbaum, Broadway, EC, Harmony and Wien) before lunch, with Schapiro and McBain counts taking slightly longer. Housing also says that the Harmony and EC numbers haven't changed. 11:10 AM: And the white board just stares at us, un-updated and cruel. Discussion among sophomores about how big a McBain double has to be for them to pick it over Nussbaum. Energy lags, diet soda chugging continues.&nbsp; 10:27 AM: Still no board updates. We hear more talk of McBain being snatched up. A 225 square foot Nussbaum double also just taken.&nbsp; 10:16 AM: Head of Housing Joyce Jackson and some friendly housing employees inform us that that will almost definitely be doubles left over at the end of tomorrow. Jackson projects that there will be fewer doubles left than last year, but still a few for those with the absolute worst numbers, due partly to the fact that a fair amount of doubles still remain in General Selection. A rising sophomore is beat boxing to Jay Z's "Hard Knock Life". 10:07 AM: Three "and a half" fourth floor McBain doubles just taken by a group of friends who are putting one friend in a blind double. Apparently a "bunch of wrestlers" just picked into some more big Harmony doubles. Most other groups are just picking into McBain doubles.&nbsp; 9:57 AM: Woah woah woah! Two Harmony doubles taken! We never thought we'd see the day! 9:45 AM: A pair just picked into a Furnald double, of which 6 now remain. Sophomores seem delighted to be able to fall back asleep in butterfly chairs. 
 Those planning to watch the NCAA Championship game tonight would be well advised to do so at Village Pourhouse. If you RSVP to melissa@yourpartyplanning.com,you'll get access to an open bar for the first hour of the game. Bud Light, mixed drinks, and Monday-night drunkenness. Delightful.&nbsp; Your other non-Butler option tonight is the Not-for-Profits Employer Connection Night. The event starts at 7 PM and will take place on the lower level of EC. Mock interview and resume review fun awaits. A weighty choice now lies before you: beer or employment?&nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Can't find love at Columbia? Really? That's weird. There must be something wrong with you. We kid, we kid! No one can find love at the Columbia. That's the point, right? We all commiserate about the Core, we all commiserate about not getting any. That is, of course, until today.&nbsp; The answer to all your problems can be found at LoveatCU, a brand-new dating site that promises to "revolutionize" the Columbia dating scene. The site's background is of couples' feet intertwined, lovers walking through European-looking cobblestone streets, and other affectionate stuff like that. Its slogan reads: "Each of us, then, is a 'matching half' of a human whole, because each was sliced like a flatfish", a quote from every hopeless romantic's favorite Lit Hum book: Plato's Symposium. In order to jump right into the world of Love at CU, simply register with your Columbia or Barnard email address and enter the UNI's of your &lt;3 crushez &lt;3. Your crush will then find out that someone (someone!) has a crush on them, and they'll sign up and enter their crushes, but you two probably won't have crushes on each other, and you'll be back where you started from. Love at CU has also employed the use of the rather cruel "abandon" and "reject" features, in which you can do exactly what those two terms imply to those on whom you crush and those who crush on you. The site also offers a dating advice blog and a "most liked" feature, through which, if anyone actually signs up for this, you'll be able to see the ten most liked people at Columbia. Thanks Love at CU, Bwog misses being 12 also. Photo via loveatcu.com 
 Straight from Whitney Green, SEAS '10 and ESC Secretary, your ESC candidates. Congratulations! 2010 Class President Heather Lee - Expresh Class VP Joffre Andrade - Expresh Class Rep Austin Brauser &#8211; Equilibrium Party Stanley Chen - Equilibrium Party Liza John Varun Gulati More results after the jump. 2011 Class President Kamal Yechoor - Synergy Kimberly Lipman-White Class VP Dana Ibarra - Synergy Class Rep Albert Miller - Synergy Epsita Hoque - Synergy 2012 Class President Judy Kim &#8211; Fu My Life Tsado, Alexander Omokhude - Lion&#8217;s Alliance Yongbok Scott Lee &#8211; Fun Foundation Class VP Santosh Balachandar - Fu My Life Tianning Mary Ye - Lion&#8217;s Alliance Katherine Bell - Fun Foundation Class Rep Rebecca Frauzem &#8211; Lion&#8217;s Alliance Mailing Wu - Fu My Life Eric Tang - Lion&#8217;s Alliance Spencer Almen - Fu My Life Aman Eyasu - Fun Foundation Ben Ye - Fun Foundation&nbsp; Senators Timur Dykhne Daniel Nitiutomo Eric Hirani Alumni Affairs Ini Li Emma Lebwohl Academic Affairs Mike Wymbs Student Service Reps Sahil Shah Nathan Lee CCSC Liaison Jennifer Vettel GSSC Liaison Nathan Levick SGA Liaison Jessica Lewis 
 Our Purple Friends to the South never seem to learn. This morning, NYULocal reported that the CAS (College of Arts and Sciences) Student Council changed its constitution to require that anyone running for Student Council President would be required to have three full semesters of government involvement under their ultra-hip faded leather belts in order to run.&nbsp; NYULocal called the move "baffling" and pointed out that sophomores, juniors and transfer students will never be able to run for Student Council President. The current CAS Student Council President Megan Cruz defended the constitutional change by stating: "this is about ensuring the preservation and continuing success of the Council for the foreseeable future." Right, that way student councils will always be incestuous. 
 SIPA just needs some time alone with its sister departments, okay? God, you're pushy. CC promises its budget cuts won't affect financial aid. This is to make up for all the flashers and thieves Public Safety isn't telling you about. We are scarily addicted to coffee, you guys. Come on in, alumni, we just want to hang out and read magazines with you. How many ways can you Mean Girls-style hate on the Yankees without ever coming out and saying it? 
Oh Housing LiveBlog, we hardly knew ye. If only there were a few more days worth of sophomores, a few of them would end up living in the basement of a frat, which would be funny. Instead on this final day we track the difficult decisions ahead for the dregs of 2012 - McBain or McBain? Building Size Config Note # Harmony 2 D 0 Schapiro 2 D WlkTh 12 35 Wien 2 D WlkTh 3 9 Nussbaum 2 D WlkTh 0 0 McBain 2 D WlkTh 0 5 Broadway 2 D 2 EC 6 2 D 0 Furnald 2 D 0 Last Updated: 12:45 PM 12:45 PM: Our last board update. The fervor now dies, until Thursday, when general selection appointment times are online. 12:32 PM: You bastards. 12:12 PM: EC is gone. There are only three Broadway doubles left. No one has stepped on the Pattie, yet it seems to be slowly deflating. This could be a great time-lapse photography project. 11:59 AM: Everyone seems (or is pretending to be) fairly light-hearted. "It could be much worse," one rising sophomore tells another. Meanwhile, there's been a York Peppermint Pattie on the ground in the waiting area for upwards of forty-five minutes. If it's wrapped, does the five-minute rule apply? Older updates after the jump. 11:48 AM: " 'Be the DJ?' Hell yeah!" Freshmen approve of the homey atmosphere housing has created in John Jay. That, is, after all, what housing does best. 11:33 AM: A board update. Harmony is gone; apparently we'd rather take the risk than go for the devil we know (that would be McBain). 11:12 AM:&nbsp; Yes, suite selection has been going on too long. The housing staff is trudging around looking like they've been socked in the collective gut, and there is awful white boy dancing occurring by the check-in table. The lack of interest in Broadway doubles is surprising - allow Bwog to recommend the 22 line, which has great views of Broadway and a slice of the river beyond. 10:52 AM: A steady stream of sophomores files in and out, all saying the same thing -&nbsp; "McBain shaft. McBain shaft? We don't wanna be shafted. It is the SHAFT."&nbsp; 10:28 AM: As "The Boy is Mine" plays, we have our first update of the morning! The EC 6th floor doubles are starting to go, despite their awkward location, and the McBain numbers are dropping fast. 10:11 AM: It's quiet. Dejected rising sophomores find no comfort in the candy that they've been snagging from the lounge since last Monday. "Nobody Said It Was Easy" sets the mood for all three of us sitting here waiting for a whiteboard update. 9:45 AM: It's too early to update the whiteboard, duh. Relax and take it easy with a little Jason Mraz, "I'm Yours." 
 Hey, '09! Don't forget that today (as in&nbsp;"right now"),&nbsp;your&nbsp;new and improved 40s on 40&nbsp;will be on the steps. It's called "Senior Playpen," a subtle way of reminding you that Columbia still thinks you're eight years old.&nbsp; So go celebrate your last few weeks of being a quasi-child by getting crazy in what is literally a university-built pen (and it doesn't even have a ball pit!). Remember to bring your Columbia ID, and don't try to sneak in any oversize bags, because they hate that. And check back with Bwog soon for some real 40s on 40 news. 
 Get yourself to Lerner piano lounge on the double for free hot dogs, cupcakes, baked beans, buns, and lentils, before they disappear. Yeah, you were cheated out of your 40s. Here's your chance to make up for it, with the bonus pleasure of looking at some fancy student artwork hanging the walls. And the overall nutritional value should be about the same. If free food revolts your finer capitalist sentiments, Lerner offers another item of intrigue: Ferris Booth's all-new Columbia Cobb Chicken Salad, which boasts grilled chicken breast, blue cheese crumbles, cranberries, smoky turkey bacon, and fat-free ranch dressing. The Ferris twist on the Cobb salad might be missing a few traditional ingredients, but are you going to complain? Your alternative is baked beans. 
 For several weeks, whispers have reached our ears of a true 40s celebration, one that does not require being treated like a three year-old McDonald's customer to enjoy. Now, a dispatch has reached us from a shadowy group known only as the "Senior Underground": "Attention Seniors!!! Don't let Columbia stop you from having fun. Because, let's face it, when has one beer an hour really been enough? Come to Pourhouse or Havana Central for the&nbsp;REAL&nbsp;40 Days.&nbsp;40s are just&nbsp;$4&nbsp;at both bars starting at 10 pm and going all night long." According to sources, who flitted back into the night as quickly as they appeared, the 40s purchased at Pourhouse and Havana will probably have to stay in the bar. Intelligence also indicates that stricter-than-normal carding policies will be in effect, for any first-years who might desire to join the celebrations. Those who prefer portability/drinking elsewhere can try ordering from the many vendors in the area; Bwog recommends one with your Spicy Special for between $3-7 (depending on your standards). Of course, Bwog reminds seniors to drink elsewhere at their own risk - the administration is on the lookout for dissent, and no doubt violators will be made an example of in typically ham-handed fashion. Enjoy the booze. 
 Satisfy your Anglophilia tonight at 6:00, when the Westminster Boys&#8217; Choir will be performing in St. Paul&#8217;s Chapel. Westminster Abbey has been training boys in addition to its adult choir for at least six centuries, but this is the first United States tour for the little lads. Their normal routine at home in England includes singing Evensong six times a week and playing cricket, which is basically living the dream. They know their stuff, too &#8211; they&#8217;ve sung for both Queen Elizabeth II and Pope John Paul II. As Her Majesty no doubt said after seeing the choir perform, blimey. Drop in, and brag to your Music Hum professor about it tomorrow. Photo via the Sydney Morning Herald 
 The weekly ESC meeting never fails to provide all sorts of drama. Bwog's Drama Junkie Sean Zimmermann was on hand last night to lap it up. Good Samaritan policies, smoking rules, wifi in class rooms, and dining services changes were among the major topics discussed at this evening&#8217;s ESC meeting, the last of which triggering one of the more heated discussions in ESC this year. Administrators are discussing a new idea to make the entire campus within the gates completely smoke-free, with six designated smoking areas around the campus perimeter. As of now, smoking is prohibited in all buildings and within 50 feet of the entrances, though the policy is generally not enforced unless someone complains. Residential Life Dean-In-Residence Cristen Kromm spoke at the meeting. Kromm explained to ESC that there have been no recent policy changes, as they have not instructed RAs to step up policy enforcement. When 2009 Class President Kim Manis asked about implementing a good Samaritan rule for CAVA calls, Kromm said that she reads every incident report, and there is usually another reason for public safety to write-up the hosts of a party, other then the CAVAed student. When pressed further, she said that students shouldn&#8217;t fear calling CAVA, and said that if students do feel frightened, then ResLife needs to &#8220;overhaul the system.&#8221; She declared that &#8220;there is no war on fun,&#8221; and that she &#8220;firmly believes have an educational process in place.&#8221; When asked about room inspections during fire drills, Kromm explained that the inspections are just to check that everyone exist the building, and not to check for contraband Housing violations are only reported if the infraction is in plain view. Kromm also said &#8220;in an ideal world, residents should talk to each other&#8230; I would love to get Public Safety out of front line responding.&#8221; She stressed that Columbia is &#8220;her home too&#8221; and encouraged students to contact her directly if they had any concerns. The CCSC liaison reported that the administration is considering implementing a gender blind housing policy that would&nbsp;make co-ed&nbsp;doubles possible, though they would not be available to first-year students. In response to concerns about a professor movement to block Wi-Fi in classrooms, President Peter Valeiras said that any plan to stop Wi-Fi in classrooms wouldn&#8217;t be implemented for a long time, he &#8220;hopes,&#8221; and that any plan would require senate authorization. Additionally, the council explained that the university has been reluctant to require login to access the Wi-Fi, because the university does not want to give logins to university guests. Student Services Liaison Emma Lebwohl presented a new idea from dining services that would restructure dining plans into a weekly quota system, with meals expiring at the end of the week like print quotas. New freshmen meal plans would also force students to purchase plans with more meals and fewer dining dollars. To compensate for the loss in dining dollars, dining services with convert Ferris Booth into a second dining hall, which would be open all day. Most food in Ferris would still be made to order, but sushi and other expensive options in Ferris would be moved into Caf&#233; 212. According to the student services liaison, dining services believes that making Ferris a swipe, and keeping the quality constant, will not cause Ferris to be overrun and John Jay to be abandoned. Both proposals received a strongly negative response from the members of the council, who said that forcing students to use more meals would not cause them to eat more if they don&#8217;t like the food. Lastly, Caf&#233; 212 will be remodeled this summer to increase efficiency, and President Valeiras is working on increasing the print quota for second semester seniors, to help accommodate seniors writing theses.
 But the Senior Fund Committee apparently is. In their latest fundraising prayer request, the Fundraisers have decided to invoke a little Yale hatred to get those cheap holdouts amongst the 09ers opening their wallets. "Yale's Class of 2009 already hit 86% Senior Fund participation," they inform readers, "are you really going to let New Haven beat New York?" Why, we feel the strains of "Roar Lion Roar" stirring in our hearts. Sadly, the propaganda stops there (the hoped-for history of Yale's beginnings as a community of coke addicts, for example, fails to materialize). For the rest of the email, the committee instead prostrates itself to its fellow classmates. In fact, "a senior on Senior Fund Committee will drop by your room to pick up your $1 at any time that's convenient for you!" Sure, seniors, you may be doubting the wisdom of giving, but how else will Columbia fund watching over you? Full email after the jump. Yale's Class of 2009 already hit 86% Senior Fund participation... are you really going to let New Haven beat New York? Almost 70% of our class has already donated, so now we really need your help. By making your gift to Financial Aid or Internship Stipends, your gift can directly impact another student. So what's stopping you? We're only asking for $1 from every senior - please make your donation today! CREDIT CARD | www.college.columbia.edu/seniorfund FLEX | email seniorfund2009@gmail.com CASH | email seniorfund2009@gmail.com - a senior on Senior Fund Committee will drop by your room to pick up your $1 at any time that's convenient for you! 
 &nbsp;- Anonymous photo of the CC '10 presidential candidates in friendlier days (aka "last week") The 2010 Class Council hopefuls gathered in cramped Lerner 568 to wade through students' favorite topics this evening.&nbsp; Guessing, perhaps, that there would be little new and exciting to hear, there were not more than ten people in the audience, including the moderator, Brenden Cline, and Elections Board Head James Bogner. The debate was between The Party Party (not a typo) and The Clear Party.&nbsp; Though punsters both, The Clear Party was clearly more tickled with its name, never missing an opportunity to end its alloted time with a flourish of, "I think we've been Clear." Cline's questions covered familiar territory and were met with familiar answers.&nbsp; Both parties responded on topics ranging from engaging and uniting the senior class to student life initiative proposals to throwing parties. Indeed, engaging the senior class after three years of moderate disinterest was the focus of both parties tonight. AJ Pascua, The Party Party President, was firm in his belief that senior year has to be a turning point: "Senior year is incredibly different," he said.&nbsp; "It's all about traditions."&nbsp; Cliff Massey, The Clear Party President, countered that new perspectives were needed; the council should not rely on tradition alone. Past that distinction, there was nothing new.&nbsp; Each set of responses to the questions was largely the same.&nbsp; Pascua hammered away at the three buzzwords of The Party Party's platform: collaboration, connections, and"we've already done that."&nbsp; Integrating Greek life?&nbsp; Check.&nbsp; Exploring Manhattan?&nbsp; Check.&nbsp; Real-world skills after four years of an economics degree?&nbsp; Check.&nbsp; No matter The Clear Party's rebuttal, The Party Party's response was inevitably along the lines of, "Yes, we've done that.&nbsp; We have connections!"&nbsp; And The Party Party's solution to most problems?&nbsp; "Publicize, publicize, and collaborate," said Pascua.&nbsp; The Party Party neglected to expand on how exactly its numerous connections would work for students, except for the possibility of businesses owned by alumni recruiting graduating Columbians. &nbsp; The Clear Party, often put on the defensive, sought to pick apart the finer points of The Party Party's confidence.&nbsp; Regarding The Party Party's claim of a detailed Web site, Cliff Massey asked, "Did you update it, like, this morning?&nbsp; There's nothing whatsoever new." He then cited the vagueness of the group's "Platform" page.&nbsp; The Party Party generally answered questions with the claim of experience, but The Clear Party's nudging forced Pascua into listing numerous examples of his party's successes, drawing largely on his ticket members' past years on council. Perhaps the only dramatic moment of the 80 minutes began when Pascua brought up his party's Chipotle study break.&nbsp; Asher Grodman responded by mentioning that day's beautiful weather had driven everyone outdoors&#8212;they weren't on the ramps.&nbsp; Evelyn Phan continued, "You throw an event and expect them to go to you.&nbsp; We went door to door "&nbsp; Pascua suggested this level of proactive politics amounted to harassment, throwing The Clear Party on the defensive. Both parties stated again and again that increased cooperation and coordination was needed between various organizations.&nbsp; Each promised to have a hand in a long list of activities for what seemed to be every organization on campus.&nbsp; Yes, Greek life ought to have more of a role in campus life.&nbsp; Yes, the "bureaucracy and bullcrap" that is the ABC funding process needs to be streamlined.&nbsp; And yes, everyone loves free stuff (including the upcoming delight of appropriately-sized T-shirts). Overall, The Party Party was much more polished and prepared, looking refined as its members calmly sat in their matching suits.&nbsp; The Clear Party was much more casual, a mix of colors and styles, often laughing at questions and making (terrible) puns.&nbsp; Apart from the image and the clash of experience vs. novelty, however, The Party Party failed to distinguish the uniqueness of its ideas from The Clear Party's.&nbsp; Too bad their equally cringe-inducing names won't be a factor. &#8211; AB 
 If you don't, he will hold you up at gunpoint in front of Morton one of these days.&nbsp; Of course art won't scandalize the average fallen Wall Streeter. Take him to Hooters if you really want to offend his conservative values.&nbsp; College Dems stick it to a secretary in Albany who has no idea what they're talking about. Sadly, CQA probably won't have time to send the Dems a thank you note, what with the emissaries from far away lands they will be entertaining. 
 Lots of free food for simply nice, warm and fuzzy reasons today from 12-2pm. Your choices are Re-Charge, an event on Low Steps that encourages you to regroup and partake of free snacks courtesy of the University Chaplain, or SEAS Coffee House in Mudd Lobby, where you will find some nice sugary breakfast items and coffee from Dunkin' Donuts. At the coffeehouse, You can also meet the ESC candidates and ask them all sorts of important campaign questions in this informal setting. Plus, Mudd's lobby isn't as chilly.&nbsp; 
 Professors gathered last night to discuss the G20 summit in London last week. Bwog's International Quibbling Correspondent James Rathmell reports on the profs' hopes and fears for the economic futures of the US, Latin America, Russia, and India. If you've been under a rock in Butler, you may or may not have heard that the G20 summit held in London last week got a little hot and heavy. Beyond the general disorder caused by the riots, President Sarkozy&#8217;s threats to boycott the summit, and how awesome Michelle Obama is, there's still debate over what, if anything, was actually accomplished. A panel of distinguished professors, moderated by Merit Janow, gathered last night in IAB 1512 to discuss the summit's ramifications for various global regions. Richard Clarida and Sharyn O&#8217;Halloran, representing the United States, and Guillermo Calvo, Padma Desai, and Arvind Panagariya, respectively representing Latin America, Russia, and India, were each given 10 minutes to express their views on the summit&#8217;s impact. After introductions, O&#8217;Halloran contextualized the summit, and gave a broad overview of the reason for its organization; &#8220;Everything&#8217;s tanking,&#8221; she said, referring to economies worldwide, &#8220;There needs to be a huge structural adjustment.&#8221; She went on to link the falling out of many economic bottoms to a steep decline in global trade, a large component of every country's GDP. In addition, she described the necessity for &#8220;cooperative monetary and fiscal policy among nations.&#8221; She pointed out that the summit was successful in its ability to collect some $1.1 trillion for the International Monetary Fund, for its creation of the Financial Stability Forum, and for the encouragement of voting rights for China, India, and Brazil, who are all rising world economic players. O&#8217;Halloran gave the floor over to Calvo, who, when told that US issues would be addressed at the beginning and end of the panel, referred to it as an &#8220;American sandwich.&#8221; Calvo described the current crisis in terms of Mexico&#8217;s own crisis in 1985; the main difference, he explained, is that this time the lender of last resort (in this case the IMF) has insufficient funds to cover the projected $400 billion in losses to the Latin American economy. In light of this, he criticized the summit for putting too much emphasis on financial regulations at the cost of not discussing the lender of last resort. Panagariya briefly addressed the impact of the summit for India, which he said was mainly the &#8220;symbolic meaning&#8221; of being present at the summit at all. He explained that India was now &#8220;hanging with the big boys.&#8221; In addition, he expressed an optimism that the Indian economy would quickly recover from the current crisis, and return to its high growth rate of 9% within several years. Clarida came off as a supporter of the summit, despite &#8220;cynicism and skepticism&#8221; about its function; indeed, he called the summit &#8220;quite remarkable&#8221; and &#8220;impressive in scale and scope.&#8221; However, he was hesitant about China&#8217;s proposal for the IMF to adopt Special Drawing Rights as an international currency. Desai spoke at length about Russia&#8217;s financial woes: &#8220;Russia was an odd man out at the summit,&#8221; she said, &#8220;but there&#8217;s a silver lining to their crisis.&#8221; She explained that the reason for this is that Russia&#8217;s crisis is different due to the crumbling value of the Rouble and the expansionary nature of their economy pre-crisis. She ended with a joke, and described the Russian sense of humor as &#8220;very intellectual&#8230;constantly changing&#8221; and now &#8220;very Stalinist.&#8221; Though the panelists were contentious on some issues, such as the validity of SDRs and the voting roles of certain countries in the IMF, they were respectful of one another, and seemed hopeful about the effects of the G20 summit. It seems as if, at least financially, the future may be looking brighter. 
 &nbsp;-Via Non-Consumer Advocate Morningside Heights offers plenty of school supply stores, but which one is the cheapest? The CU Bookstore is a ripoff, right? Bwog's Ripoff Search and Destroy Team sampled prices of a few school supply staples and found some unexpected results. &nbsp; It turns out that the CU bookstore is generally cheaper than Ivy League Stationers on 116th and West Side Stationers on 108th, which one Bwog tipster swore was the best deal around. In fact, the price stickers at West Side have 'Ivy League Stationers' printed on them, so those two stores probably have the same owner (hence the similar prices). In everything but the Mead one-subject notebook, Staples beat the local competition by far. The downside to Staples is that the nearest store is on 125th and Lenox. As much as you hate the man, your cheapest option after corporate and far away is Columbia affiliated (but, on the upside, Flex accepting and very close to home). &#65279;&#65279; -DJB 
 Not to say that anyone who goes to study in a country that requires little or no foreign language proficiency is taking a shortcut. However, if you would like to study abroad somewhere other than wherever your foreign language requirement can get you, you might want a shortcut around taking another two years of language beforehand.&nbsp; If you're thinking along those lines and you're hungry, stop by CCSC 2011 &amp; 2012's info event, Study Abroad Programs in English. Free pizza will be served, and you can learn about all the study abroad programs that you are eligible for without any proficiency in a foreign language, or with a proficiency you can get in a semester. And that's more than just the UK - South Africa, the Czech Republic, and Austria are all favorites with little or no pre-requesite language. Information about keeping up with the Core while abroad will also be provided at this event. It all goes down from 4:00-6:00 pm today in Lerner C555. 
 If you were not aware, Passover 5769 (double take? gentiles should read that "Passover 2009") will begin at precisely 7:28 PM tonight, and will run until next Wednesday the 15th. But, unlike JTS students, we don't get the week off, so Jewish students may not be able to go home for a family seder. If you're in the market for a replacement seder or relevant event with Kosher for Passover foostuffs, Bwog would not recommend wandering campus unguided - very few such events exist. There are two true seders to be found tonight, both at 8:30 PM. One will be held at the Chabad Center on at 625 W. 113th (between Broadway and Riverside). Hillel will also hold a large seder dinner in the lower level of the Hillel center at 606 115th (between Broadway and Riverside). You should have pre-registered if you expected to attend either, naughty naughty, but if you arrive early there may be space left, and both are completely free with a CUID. Chabad will also host a second seder tomorrow night at 8:45 PM if you miss out, and Hillel will be hosting a "Queer/Feminist seder" on Sunday at 7:30 PM, in the second floor cafe. Bwog isn't quite sure what would make a seder queer or feminist, but the brave among you will certainly find out. Bwog is sad to inform you who are keeping Kosher for Passover, and you who are not, that we found no Matzo in John Jay today. But, if you want to have prepared sit-down Kosher for Passover meals this week, you can still sign up for them at Hewitt, space allowing. If you're Jonesin for some Matzo ball soup, Morton Williams makes an oily variety, but it is almost always available in good stock. They even have a Kosher for Passover menu you can order from. But if you're gonna go to that trouble, you might as well go to West Side. 
 The SGA has released their election results, and Barnard's new student council president is Katie Palillo, who won with 73% of the vote. She'll be joined by Kimberly Wu (VP Student Government, Amy Chen (VP Student Activities), Giselle Leon (VP Communications), and Sharmin Ahmed (VP Finance) 41.5% of Barnard students voted, despite the senior and junior class races being uncontested. Those class councils will be headed by Chelsea Zimmerman and Lara Avsar, respectively, and they'll be joined by Bo Yun Park, who won the sophomore class race with 56%. Full results after the jump. 41.5% of Barnard Students Voted! Thanks to all our candidates and to everyone who voted. &nbsp;Announcing the officers of the 2009-2010 Barnard College Student Government Association: Position: Winning Candidate (Percentage of Vote) President SGA: Katie Palillo (73%) Vice President, Student Government: Kimberly Wu (52%) Vice President, Student Activities: Amy Chen (55%) Vice President, Communications: &nbsp;Giselle Leon (44%) Vice President, Finance: Sharmin Ahmed (68%) Jr.Representative to the Board of Trustees: Verna Patti (100%) Representative to the Engineering Student Council: Jenny Chen (100%) Community Affairs Representative: Ellie Mcnamara (51%) Academic Affairs Representative: Zeest Haider (57%) Representative for Diversity: Anna Steffens (100%) Representative for Student Services: Marci Leveillee (100%) Sr. Class President: Chelsea Zimmerman (100%) Sr. Class VP: Stephanie Velasquez (100%) Sr. Class Secretary: Lindsay Mcghay (100%) Jr. Class President: Lara Avsar (100%) Jr. Class VP: Doris Domoszlai (100%) Jr. Class Secretary: Marisa Franklin (60%) Soph. Class President: Bo Yun Park (56%) Soph. Class VP: Madalena Provo (51%) Soph. Class Treasurer: Astrika Wilhelm (100%) Soph. Class Secretary: Victoria Pollack (100%) 
 We know that almost all of us had to overcome something to get to Columbia, but let's be honest: some had to overcome more than others. As the first example of this, the New York Times presents Carrie Montgomery, a new member of the class of 2013, and one of twelve Times scholars this year. Despite growing up in the South Bronxwith 9 siblings and an ailing single mom, Montgomery maintained a 95.6 average in four years at the Bronx School for Law, Government, and Justice, and now joins a group of 12 that will recieve $30,000, a laptop, and (perhaps just as precious in this economy) a guaranteed internship at the Times. The Times reports that Carrie wants to be a lawyer, and hopes to write an autobiography some day to encourage young people like herself to work hard and succeed despite their backgrounds. We'd say she's off to a good start. (photo via the Times) 
 Last May, rumors circulated that controversial Professor Joseph Massad was up for a second round of tenure review, after having been denied tenure six months earlier. Now, word is spreading both on campus and in media outlets that Massad has been granted tenure. Massad, who is in Egypt this semester, did not respond to an email request for comment (although this CSU-Stanislaus professor claims Massad's already heard the news), and University spokesman Robert Hornsby told Bwog, "it is our longstanding policy not to comment on any tenure case." But even when they do comment, the news will probably go unnoticed, and the internet will move on...or not. - JCD &nbsp; 
 &nbsp;-Via motivatedphotos.com Graduates + Job Market = Sadness Morningside Heights - La Negrita = Awfulness The Books / Poor Publicity = Confusion and Regret Dartmouth * Not Losing = Depression&nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;-Via Senior Week website Crappy job market be damned! Seniors, it's time to end your Columbia tenure in (drunken) style. The Senior Week coordinators, who claim to be the "one and only source into the exclusive lives of Columbia University's seniors," have their website up and running with tickets to everything currently on sale. Their exclusive access to your lives may be creepy, but it's still high time to buy their tickets and other senior goodies. Their frou-frou hobnobbing event at the Columbia Club has already sold out, so it's only a matter of time before the other events/products sell out too.&nbsp; Some of the week's events are a little less than inspiring. A Saturday brunch in John Jay is depicted as a nostalgia trip, but memories of that dining hall probably have all the charm of a Vietnam War flashback. Anyhow, if you don't want bad pizza to be the only highlight of Senior Week, get tickets. -DJB 
 Bwog Balladry Groupie Anna Kelner dropped in on Tuesday night's Woman Poetry Reading in Sulzberger Hall. Estrogen levels rose on Tuesday night in Sulzberger parlor, where only a few men joined students, faculty, and alumni to hear female poets Katha Pollitt, Evie Shockley, and Rachel Wetzsteon read. Aspiring Barnard poets introduced each speaker, whose pieces covered subjects as diverse as the complexities of African-American identity to a mother&#8217;s internal dialogue on the playground. Although the poets lacked the star power of many Columbia lectures, their energized presentations and distinct styles invigorated the event. Wetzsteon presented first, reading largely from a collection that transformed our own Morningside Heights into, as the Barnard student exulted, &#8220;a theater of romance.&#8221; A local resident, she shared poems that focused on locales as diverse as Low Library, Sakura Park, and a Buddhist monastery in Upstate New York. Wetzsteon celebrated the close link between her work and her listeners, joking, &#8220;The great thing about reading in this neighborhood is that I don&#8217;t have to explain locations.&#8221; Wetzsteon capitalized on this connection; she read in a theatrical tone with wild hand gestures, often peering behind her hair to stare at the audience. Shockley followed with a series of poems and prose poems that focused on issues of metatextuality, identity, and influence. The Barnard presenter confessed that, along with storied figures like E.E Cummings and T.S Eliot, she counted Shockley as one of her major influences; she exulted Shockley&#8217;s &#8220;gift for pairing sound and image,&#8221; an innovative style that permits her to &#8220;criticize other systems.&#8221; Despite her esoteric aims, Shockley&#8217;s poems were remarkably comprehensible. As she read pieces ranging from mediations on her relationship to South Africa to tributes to admired female poets, Shockley consistently poked fun at her grand aspirations. &#8220;This poem,&#8221; she deadpanned, &#8220;is titled, My Last Modernist Poem&#8230;#4.&#8221; Pollitt concluded by reading works with a decidedly straightforward style and overtly feminist aims. The Barnard poet put it best when she explained, &#8220;In Pollitt&#8217;s poems, history is a woman who grinds men up like meat.&#8221; Although Pollitt&#8217;s subjects remained diverse&#8212;she read pieces about her teenage body, poetesses, and Biblical heroines&#8212;her sarcastic tone and unique perspective shed a new light on women&#8217;s issues. Despite the series&#8217; gender bias, the stylistic prowess and confidence of each poet allowed her to emerge first and foremost as a poet, not just as a woman. 
In a preview from the April issue of the Blue and White, Will Snider and Lauren Glover tackle this month's At Two Sword's Length pro/con debate: is it worth introducing yourself at a party? Just stand still and don&#8217;t say anything. No introductions necessary. All I need to do is stare at you and try to stay awake. You sure do talk a lot. It seems that your mouth hardly ever stops moving. Please, just be quiet for a minute and drink the Long Island I bought for you? You have nice teeth, though. I like that in a girl. Oh, a psych major. Interesting. You&#8217;re convinced we had a lecture together last semester? I e-mailed you the day before the final to &#8220;compare notes&#8221;? Fascinating. Wait. Did you say &#8220;psych major&#8221;? I wonder if you&#8217;re trying to read my mind. You better not be trying to read my mind. That would be freaky if psych majors could read minds. Maybe they can. Maybe that&#8217;s why girls major in psych. I&#8217;d better stop thinking. You know, I would introduce myself. I would tell you that my name is Will and that I grew up in Maryland with a loving family and two dogs and a sprinkler. I would tell you I was an all-star little league pitcher who ate hot dogs and played the violin and drank lots of milk because Michael Jordan told me to. I would tell you I read the entire Redwall series with a flashlight after my mom told me to go to bed, that I played Warhammer in my basement. But the thing is, you&#8217;d rather I didn&#8217;t. You want me brooding and mysterious. You want to take me back to your room, sexile your mousy roommate, and listen to me talk about my goddamn poetry. I don&#8217;t even have any poetry. But I can pretend. What&#8217;s your name again?&nbsp; I like your hair. Maybe I&#8217;ll start to pet it. Maybe you&#8217;ll like that. I need an activity to help focus my energy so I don&#8217;t fall over. Oh damn. It looks like I&#8217;ve spilled my drink on your pants. Hm. Wait&#8212;I meant to do it. Yeah, I meant to spill my beer on you, because you like being disrespected (Didn&#8217;t The Game say something about that?). I can so do this. And then maybe if I slowly lean toward your face, we&#8217;ll start making out. Here goes. Nope. Spilled again. Now you look kind of mad, but I&#8217;ll just smile and laugh to defuse the awkwardness. At least you&#8217;ve stopped talking for a second. I wonder if you secretly want to know my name.&nbsp; Maybe you do. Maybe if I tell you my name, you&#8217;ll go ahead and kiss me, and we can go buy plane tickets to Mexico and sit on the beach and make love in a hammock and never go to Butler again. But maybe you&#8217;ll think I&#8217;m lame. I&#8217;ll just be some skinny white kid with a Brooklyn lager and an above average SAT score looking to lock lips and hips for a few early morning hours.&nbsp; If I don&#8217;t tell you my name, I could be anyone. I could be a shipping heir. I could be a war journalist. I could be an NYU student. You like these fantasies. I know you do. In the end, though, I won&#8217;t introduce myself because self-introduction is self-defeating. People worth knowing know other people worth knowing; they are always introduced. Besides&#8212;if I have to start talking, I&#8217;ll start sounding like the played-out econ major that I am. and then I won&#8217;t ever get to say I hooked up with Lauren Glover. &nbsp; Hi. I&#8217;m Lauren Glover. What&#8217;s your name? I remember you from last semester. Weren&#8217;t we in&#8212;what? Where are you going? Come back! Come back here right now, young man! I&#8217;m sorry. Was I too forward just then? Are we not on a last name basis yet? I&#8217;m sorry&#8230;It&#8217;s just, there are so many Laurens. And we&#8217;re all brunette and 5&#8217;4&#8221; and were born in the mid- to late 1980s, so I always&#8230; Hey, what&#8217;s your problem? You look like you&#8217;re going to vomit into your beer. No? You&#8217;re fine? Then quit staring at me like I&#8217;m playing my guitar on the steps. Did you really just write me off because I introduced myself to you at a party? Listen, buddy. I know your game. For you, words are for after you&#8217;re drunk enough to spill your drink on a girl and you need to apologize, in addition to helping her wipe off her pants. Introductions are for the walk back to your dorm, and then again, the next morning. And then again, when you realize she&#8217;s in two of your classes. And one last time, at the paternity trial. You say you&#8217;re not that sleazy? So, you must be following a more elegant stratagem: the subtle, yet straightforward tactic of never introducing yourself to anyone, ever. If you&#8217;re introduced to someone, it&#8217;s never your doing, right? And it&#8217;s usually a mistake. She&#8217;s trying to talk to the guy behind you, ouch! You&#8217;re awkward. You&#8217;re so awkward. And you secretly love being so awkward, don&#8217;t you? Oh my god, I hate you. Though, you know, I used to be like that. I never wanted to go through the trouble of speaking to or looking at a guy if he was going to turn out to be unforgivably weird, or in a relationship. So I would carefully select a few informants, then conspire with my best friend, the Internet, and cull enough information to fill out a brief pre-introduction questionnaire. It went a little something like this: 1.&nbsp; Is he single? 2.&nbsp; Is he passably articulate? 3.&nbsp; Legally-speaking, would he be considered mentally stable? 4.&nbsp; But is he still neurotic enough to be interesting? 5.&nbsp; Does he have a minimum of the following: bitter ex-girlfriends, drug habits, and Facebook applications? Any single &#8220;no&#8221; on the questionnaire was a dealbreaker for a potential introduction. Too many risks. Mission aborted. Then, Back to the drawing board, namely Butler.&nbsp;&nbsp; So, yeah, I used to be like you. I used to be like you until I realized that, on the off chance that the rest of the world isn&#8217;t as socially stunted as the Columbia student population, I should probably start practicing actual social engagement with my peers. Now, here I am, desperately trying to chat with a stranger at a party, getting nothing but scorn in return. But I don&#8217;t really blame you. Life here forces us into physically intimate situations all the time; I have gotten closer with strangers while navigating 1020 on a Friday night than I have been with any number of ex-boyfriends. We believe that survival in this cramped environment requires donning a prickly protective carapace. But would it really hurt us to make eye contact on occasion, a few more spontaneous introductions at parties? What&#8217;s the worst that could happen? Anything a little mace couldn&#8217;t dispatch? Anyway, sorry to moralize your ear off. I&#8217;ve got to go clean the booze off my pants. Nice to finally meet you, Will. 
 &nbsp;-Via Hiptics.com For this week's Eyepoke, The Notorious BIG has all the answers. &nbsp; Mo' Scholarship, Mo' Problems. Mo' Speed, Mo' Indolence. Mo' Unsold Expensive Art, Mo' Poverty. Mo' Marriage...Fewer Problems!? 
Bwog has been alerted that Housing has posted the appointment times for general selection. The times can be accessed in order of UNI and appointment time. The appointment slots run from 9:30 AM on April 15th to just after 5 PM on April 24th. Sincerest condolences to whoever is stuck with 5 PM on the last day. Best of luck avoiding blind doubles/not getting shafted. Hopefully the roomiest of singles await you.&nbsp; 
Bwog Expert on all things cold and creamy Jon Hill discovered that a Mr. Softee truck has broken down right outside the Broadway gates on 116th. Unconfirmed reports are that the engine seized after absorbing the collective sad nostalgia of studying students who had flashbacks to childhood upon hearing the jingle. Let's all pray the freezer breaks, forcing the driver to give away all his ice cream... &nbsp; 
 How to start the weekend? Why not cheap beer? Sources tell Bwog that Pourhouse has 300 40s left over from Tuesday's celebrations, and will sell them for $4 until they run out. After all, today is the real 40 days until graduation (celebrations were moved to Tuesday because of Passover), and starting the night with cheap beer means things can only get better.&nbsp; Afterwards, Bwog recommends bouncing on over to La Negrita, which is commemorating its last weekend with a "Drink Us Dry" special. 
Win access to thousands of Columbia student e-mail addresses. Win a first-year seminar with a Korean Idol finalist. Win a number to earn a chance to possibly secure a spot to see the Target Lady. Win an Icky Sticky Hand after playing three hours of "Street Fighter." Win a medal, leg cramps, and a post-race upchuck.
&nbsp; Finally spring seems like it's here to stay&#8212;go outside and enjoy! FRIDAY, SATURDAY, AND SUNDAY Rods &amp; Cables 8pm, 3LD Arts and Technology Center: 80 Greenwich St. An original arts creation, Rods &amp; Cables explores the fears people carry with them about losing trust in the people that are most important to them. Price: $18 full, $12 student http://www.3ldnyc.org/ Billy Elliot: The Musical Fri-Sat 8pm, Sat 2pm, Sun 3pm, Imperial Theatre: 249 w. 45 st The famed movie has hit the stage with stars chosen from a casting call of epic proportions. The twists and turns of Billy Elliot's rise to dance mastery plays out right before the audience. Price: 41.50-136.50 http://www.billyelliotthemusical.com/ FRIDAY Trash NYC 10pm 40C: 40 Ave. C This is the place to be for punk hipsters in NYC, where a tight, dark, Britpop dance-intensive night is dominated by young 20somethings. It is encouraged that those who attend dress up like &#8220;nymphomaniac new wavers&#8221; or &#8220;post-punk rockers&#8221;. Price: $5; free before 11 http://nymag.com/listings/nightlife/trash-nyc/ Cabaret Cinema 9:30pm, Rubin Museum of Art: 150 w. 17th st Guest speakers accompany classic films. This week, the seminal yakuza hit Sonatine will be on display for anyone who makes the trip. Price: $7 bar minimum http://www.rmanyc.org/cabaretcinema SATURDAY Guitar Hero Saturday 10pm, Comix- Ochi's Lounge: 353 W. 14th st Stop by Guitar Hero Saturday to challenge everyone from comedians to the audience on the way to rock stardom on Guitar Hero. Everyone's welcome to join in the fun! Price: Free! http://www.comixny.com/ochislounge.aspx Seamless 10pm, Supreme Trading: 213 N. 8th St, Brooklyn Entry is free, and three of the city's best DJ's come to spin dance-heavy funk, soul, hip-hop and reggae music to keep a crowd pumped up and dancing the night away. Price: Free! http://newyork.metromix.com/bars-and-clubs/bar_club_event/seamless-williamsburg/327553/content SUNDAY Asssscat 3000 Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre: 307 W. 26th St. From SNL Vets like Amy Poehler, the Upright Citizens Brigade brings classic improv to the stage, involving the audience, and pulling out every type of joke, from the flatulent to the refined. Price: Free! http://newyork.ucbtheatre.com/ 
Tipsters have been asking Bwog why a giant wooden cross is in front of Alma this afternoon. No, she hasn't converted&#8212;yet&#8212;but the display is instead part of a Good Friday observance by student members of the Remnant Christian Fellowship. They'll be there until 3 p.m. today. 
 Image courtesy of Flickr.com Another vendor has been stricken from the Flex-friendly list&#8212;this time, by the University. Camille's on Amsterdam Avenue has been expelled from the Flex program for non-compliance with the University's alcohol restrictions. Administrators say they caught the restaurant allowing students to purchase alcohol using Flex on multiple occasions. "Any attempt to purchase alcoholic beverages&nbsp; using Flex could potentially jeopardize not only the merchant's participation but the entire program," explains Michael Novielli of Student Auxiliary and Business Services in an e-mail to Bwog. Though this no doubt comes as bad news for the three Columbia students who ever go to Camille's, it also reverses the hard-fought gains by Wondee Siam V, bringing the total of merchants accepting Flex back down to 17.&nbsp;
 &nbsp;Image courtesy of Facebook In a school-wide email announcement earlier this afternoon, Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger announced that MIT Financial Aid Director Daniel Barkowitz will be Columbia's new Dean of Financial Aid and Associate Dean of Student Affairs. "A financial aid professional with over twenty years of experience in higher education - most recently as Director of Student Financial Aid and Employment for MIT," Shollenberger wrote in the announcement, "he brings to Columbia a depth of experience and strategic planning skills in the areas of enrollment management and policy development." Full email after the jump. April 10, 2009 Dear Students, Providing an affordable education to all students, regardless of their financial resources, has long been a priority at Columbia. From the time students apply to Columbia and continuing through graduation, we guide students through the complex and frequently misunderstood process of financing a college education. Financial Aid staff offer caring and confidential advice along with comprehensive, timely information about the various financing options available. In these times of economic uncertainty, this commitment to our students and their families becomes even more important. With this in mind, I am delighted to announce the appointment of Daniel T. Barkowitz as Dean of Financial Aid/Associate Dean of Student Affairs, effective June 1, 2009. A financial aid professional with over twenty years of experience in higher education - most recently as Director of Student Financial Aid and Employment for MIT - he brings to Columbia a depth of experience and strategic planning skills in the areas of enrollment management and policy development. He is a nationally recognized leader in his field and has developed innovative ways of looking at need analysis. Under Dean Barkowitz&#8217;s leadership, the Office of Financial Aid and Educational Financing will continue to provide the kind of support Columbia students and their families need while at the same time developing new programs to enhance the services we provide. His knowledge, dedication and experience managing financial aid systems and processes, together with his understanding of financial aid policies, will serve our students well. I hope you are as pleased as I am that Daniel Barkowitz will soon join the Columbia community. Sincerely, Kevin G. Shollenberger Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College/The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Student Life Arts and Sciences Columbia University &nbsp; 
 Dry your tears, you downtrodden Dionysians: it seems that La Negrita may not be closing, after all. In a message sent to members of La Negrita's Facebook group, bar manager Jared Cardon says the bar "got it's 11th hour reprieve and will stay open." Details are few, but the a new "Partner/Manager" named Eric will take over operations beginning Sunday. Confirmation of this Facebook message is pending&#8212;calls to the bar today have not been returned but the full text of the message is after the jump. UPDATE (5:50 PM): Bwog confirms with Jared Cardon that the bar will indeed remain open. Well everyone it looks like the bar got it's 11th hour reprieve and will stay open. But I'll be leaving as manager after Saturday so please if you get the chance stop by this weekend and say goodbye. The new Partner/Manager Eric will be taking over on Sunday. He is pretty enthusiastic about coming into the La Negrita community. Thank for a good (if short) run- Jared 
Columbia University Film Productions (CUFP) is hosting its own film festival tonight at 8 p.m. in the Roone Arledge Cinema. Besides the festival offering FREE FOOD, films being screened are the works of Columbia students and staff, including a film by Lili Gu, SEAS '09. Now, if that name sounds suspiciously familiar to you, it may be because Gu is also producing the campus' rival film festival, the 5th Annual Columbia University National Undergraduate Film Festival (CUNUFF). That festival happens tomorrow at 7 p.m., also in the Roone Arledge Cinema. So has CUFP been infiltrated by CUNUFF? Will there be espionage and intrigue? Will there be Sharks-and-Jets-style snap-dance brawls? There's only one way to find out: pick up your tickets to both festivals in the TIC. And get going, it's almost showtime. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via the Boston Massacre Historical Society The New School is (or was) at it again!&nbsp; We told you last December of their first attempt at a building takeover and in February of their threats to shut down the entire university, largely over a desire to see current president (and former Nebraska senator) Bob Kerrey resign. Yesterday, dissent (and, apparently, violence) again reared its head at the University.&nbsp; In the morning, New School students stormed a 5th Avenue university building and chained themselves inside.&nbsp; In response, at least 20 NYPD officers appeared in riot gear.&nbsp; City Room has videos of police behaving in ways that may make you quite uncomfortable.&nbsp; Those cans they're shaking?&nbsp; Yeah, that's pepper spray, even though police spokesman Paul Browne had earlier claimed that it was "untrue that pepper spray or mace was used in effectuating the arrests."&nbsp; These questionably-rigorous arrests sparked a protest-con-march-on-Kerrey's-house later last night, which, according to the Times, also met with police opposition.&nbsp; The NYPD and the New School administration have denied any misconduct, but the New York Civil Liberties Union is, naturally, up in arms.&nbsp; NYCLU Executive Director Donna Lieberman is quoted in the Times calling the police's behavior "a violation of civil rights plain and simple." 
 Baseball: For the second weekend in a row, the baseball team split its weekend Ivy league double-headers. After 13-9 and 8-6 wins over Yale, the team dropped two close games, 9-7 and 12-11, to Brown. A midweek 9-1 thumping of Rutgers, though, put the team back on track heading into four games this weekend against Princeton.&nbsp; Softball: The softball team fell to 2-6 in the Ivy League, dropping 2 games to Yale and splitting a doubleheader with Brown. This weekend, they have two doubleheaders against Princeton (although the first one has been delayed due to rain). Men's Rowing: The men's heavyweight rowing team, defeating MIT and Holy Cross in 3:38.96, while the lightweight team finished third behind Harvard and Georgetown in the Murtagh Cup. This weekend, the heavyweight team faces Penn and Princeton, while the ligthweight team races Penn and Yale. Track and Field: The track and field teams competed in the Penn Invitational and the Sam Howell Invitational last weekend. At the Penn Invitational, sophomore Jeff Moriarty won the 1500m, while first-years Kyra Caldwell, Sharay Hale, and Monique Roberts won the women's 100m hurdles, 400m dash, and high jump events, respectively, with Roberts tying a school record. Lacrosse: After such a bright start to the season, the women's lacrosse team remains unable to find a win, falling for the sixth straight game (and 5th straight Ivy League game) 12-6 to Yale. This weekend, they take a break from conference play to face Bryant at home at 1 p.m. Women's Rowing: After finishing second last weekend against Rutgers and Princeton, the women's rowing team is in Washington for the George Washington Invitational. Archery: The archery team is in Phoenix, Arizona for the Arizona Cup, after taking gold medals in the team recurve and compound divisions at the Adam Wheatcroft Memorial Tournament in Harrisonburg, Virginia. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via Examiner.com The CU Bartending Agency doesn't seem to be running as smoothly as its sister operation across the street.&nbsp; Gender (and web-design skill) differences aside, the concept is the same, but now a message on CU Bartending's homepage alerts "Valued Columbia Bartending Agency Clients" that the agency continues to be "unable to respond to new requests for bartenders at this time." Officially, the reason is "an internal, Columbia University review of the operations of the Agency designed to update Agency policies and procedures" (read the full message after jump). John Dema, the managing director of CU Bartending, declined to comment to Bwog about the reason for the hiatus or when the agency might return at full strength, suggesting that we could find "the most relevant information" by speaking to administrators at the Career Center. Still, aspiring Brian Flanagans among you will no doubt be pleased to hear that the Columbia School of Mixology (run in cooperation with the agency) will continue offering classes; unfortunately, both sessions for this semester are already full, but there's always next year.&nbsp; In case that BA in Urban Studies isn't cutting it for you financially.&nbsp; Dear Valued Columbia Bartending Agency client, I am writing to inform you on the current status of the Columbia Bartending Agency. Due to an internal, Columbia University review of the operations of the Agency designed to update Agency policies and procedures, Agency management and the Columbia University Student Enterprise team regret to inform you that we continue to be unable to respond to new requests for bartenders at this time. The School of Mixology will continue to offer classes to new customers. For details of upcoming Mixology classes please visit the school for the most up to date information. Regards, John Dema Managing Director
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via AnthonyDaCosta.com All's a-twitter for Bacchanal next week and, on an only-vaguely-related note, Columbia musicians (or Columbia-hopeful musicians) are making waves all over the City. First up: Anthony Da Costa, our charming folksinger prospy is returning tonight to the tiny exposed-brick room that loves him.&nbsp; The Postcrypt coffeehouse, that is.&nbsp; Da Costa's website recommends "coming early and getting a good seat cause they go pretty fast!"&nbsp; Adorable exclamation point, no?&nbsp; Aw.&nbsp; In addition, Da Costa writes that "The Postcrypt," as he calls it, is "one of my favorite places to play, period...totally chill, unplugged, great atmosphere, intimate concert!"&nbsp; He's supposed to start at 10:30, but you heard the man:&nbsp; go early. Second on the Bwog musical beat, Reni Lane, CC '10 (you may have heard her on The L-Word), recently popped up in fashiony-type blog Refinery 29.&nbsp; Lane attended the Paper Magazine Beautiful People Party last Thursday, and a blogger hung out with her, then mentioned it on those wonderful things, the internets.&nbsp; Fantastic! 
 While baseball and softball both had their doubleheaders postponed, it was otherwise a successful Saturday for Columbia athletics. Most notably, the #10 ranked men's heavyweight rowing team defeated #8 Princeton and Penn to win its first Childs Cup since 1963. A year after losing by just over a second to Princeton, the boat put it all together to win by&nbsp;nine seconds (or approximately two boatlengths). Elsewhere, the women's rowing team took home the Howard Willkins Bowl, winning the most points of all five teams (including Georgetown, George Washington, Navy, and St. Joseph's), and the women's lacrosse team got back to .500, defeating Bryant 19-11. Holly Glynn had 5 goals, while Gabrielle Geronimos added 4 goals and 3 assists (photo by Columbia University Athletics). - JCD 
With the admission of the final batch of CC 2013 students, the time has come upon us. The times which shall see a swell of apple-cheeked youths swarming over the campus, staring all doe-eyed and innocent at Low. In honor of the swarms already here and the swarms yet to come, Resident DVD-Repackaging Expert Mark Hay offers up a list of three films depicting the epic coming-of-age these unsuspecting juveniles will surely endure over the coming months. &nbsp;Via Houston Chronicle The Squid and the Whale (2005) A rough sketch of director Noah Baumbach&#8217;s childhood, &#8220;The Squid and the Whale&#8221; elegantly depicts the conflicted angst and traumas of children growing up in an intelligent, well-off, but completely dysfunctional family. Typically, films about familial implosion depict strictly internal affairs.&nbsp; Baumbach eschews this for the expected melodrama of the genre.&nbsp; Despite living in a state of continual self-destruction and conflict, Baumbach&#8217;s characters prove reluctant to admit their own problems. They feel that their wealth and intellect forbids such levels of tension and pain. This introspection drives their demons under the skin where they can run rampant. As the film chugs along &#8211; slowly and always with the stretched and tired air of denial &#8211; these bottled terrors manifest themselves in moments that are painful, humorous, and harrowing; always masochistically ignorant and self-aware. It may be a sad magic to work, but in expressing the family&#8217;s hidden and shameful angst, Baumbach&#8217;s film strikes a chord with all who ever felt tortured growing up but always felt rather childish for feeling as such. Superbad (2007) As unforgivably raunchy as they may be, writers Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg are at least honest folk. Their story of two youths (unabashedly named Seth and Evan, a nod to the autobiography inherent in all of this) nearing the end of high school and meandering about town in search of alcohol (ostensibly&#8212;but really, just anything) is unrepentantly true to life. Rogen and Goldberg magnify the crude and misperceived notions of adolescence into such a grotesque and burlesque form that they become less painfully awkward and more unbelievably hilarious. By the grace of director Greg Mottola (of &#8220;Adventureland&#8221;), the film acquires the punch and the continuity to tie together all of the obscenities and absurdities.&nbsp; In its finished form, &#8220;Superbad&#8221; may remain affronting and abrasive, but such is the lost and confusing period of youth in which the two characters live, trying to justify their high school years.&nbsp; Smarmy though it is, the conclusion is natural and satisfying, and affords the characters maturity and dignity and the viewer pleasant nostalgia.&nbsp; Who can&#8217;t relate? Leon (1994) Director Luc Besson takes the quest to maturity and peace with life in some truly twisted, endearing turns in &#8220;Leon&#8221; (&#8220;The Professional&#8221; to most American audiences). Besson zeros in on two forsaken individuals &#8211; an isolated, illiterate, and generally cold hitman (Jean Reno) and the street-smart orphan of a drug dealer (Natalie Portman). By thrusting these two souls together, Besson takes the opportunity to examine compassion &nbsp;and its ability to destroy all that is despicable and redirect all that is heroic. Make no mistake, though, this is a story of mutual redemption, but it is not without its disconcerting hitches. &nbsp;&nbsp;Reno&#8217;s contemplation of putting Portman out of her misery and Portman&#8217;s inappropriate mistake of a fatherly bond for a romantic bond, serve to complicate the development and make it somehow more plausible in its gruffness. As usual, Besson (&#8220;The Fifth Element,&#8221; &#8220;Nikita&#8221;) operates with such precision that he creates an alternate universe in New York in which all of this, all the debauchery and all the corruption, all the love and all the redemption, is not just romantic, but is indeed heroic. The coming of age here is bought at a high price, but it is amazingly thorough and enchanting for it. 
 The weekly "Gee, really?" news of the week: replacing soda with water is healthy.&nbsp;&nbsp; In fact, water even has fewer calories. The Chronicle is careful not to judge when reporting on Massad's probable tenure.&nbsp; It's just been a "rocky road," but not the delicious kind. Harvard was mentioned in global media more often than Columbia last year.&nbsp; A quick, biased investigation suggests that it was merely to save newsprint; "Harvard" has one fewer letter. Finely-aged conservatives whine about kids these days.&nbsp; We're "radicals," "attacking" the social order.&nbsp; Imagine the bridge club chaos that would ensue if the status quo were altered. Payouts and salaries are dropping across the board, but publishers are desperate.&nbsp; Meghan McCain's book was just sold for "high six figures" in an auction.&nbsp; Of course, nobody seems to know exactly what the book will be about. Journalism's flailing has been a gift for the J-School: the number of applicants has soared and the number of entry-level jobs is expected to increase, as well.&nbsp; Veteran reporters, no longer employed, are turning to academia for fulfillment. 
 &nbsp;"French fries in a bowl," circa 2006 The Wikipedia Collection The smell of old grease wafting from Morningside's finer college-grade establishments is irresistible in this indecisive weather.&nbsp; But which one to pick?&nbsp; The musty, fast-paced oil of HamDel?&nbsp; The old-fashioned, touristy lard of Tom's?&nbsp; Or, the sushi-soba mix of M2M?&nbsp; In this installment of "The Rest of the Best of," Bwog analyzes the gluttonous offerings of the area. Tom's Restaurant They're classic, they're expected, they're from your home town.&nbsp; Tom's McDonald's-style fries are a pleasant American yellow, and once you've slipped a few into your mouth, it's an easy, nostalgic ride.&nbsp; The fries are thin, well-salted, and horrifyingly greasy.&nbsp; The puddle left at the bottom of the dish at the end of our nutrient-deprived meal is more guilt-inducing than the threat of impending finals. They're far from gourmet, but you've known that taste since you were born, and they've been served at diners across America.&nbsp; Rely on them for a quick, lazy, 3:00 AM fix. Hamilton Deli This semi-subterranean bunker is known for swarming with doctors and athletes during peak hours, all ordering artery-clogging "Famous Hamburgers" and chicken-related hoagies.&nbsp; But what of the french fries?&nbsp; Simply append "deluxe" to the end of any order and you'll be upgraded from a dripping, foil-wrapped package to a luxury aluminum container, complete with a patent-pending sogginess-enhancing plastic lid &nbsp; All of this does wonders for the fries, which are anything but tasty.&nbsp; HamDel fries have the consistency of a baked potato.&nbsp; One Bwog associate, usually useful as a leftovers-consumer, described them as "chalky" and politely declined to finish the portion.&nbsp; In addition, during peak hours, the potatoes are pre-fried, which means by the time you've ordered, the french fries have probably been sitting around for a while.&nbsp; Nobody likes a stale, saltless french-fried potato, not even the chefs themselves: every order comes with several packets of (imposter) ketchup to add some much-needed flavor. M2M Finally, an establishment that knows its deep-fat frying techniques.&nbsp; These fries are the kings of Morningside.&nbsp; Crispy and chewy, perfectly wrapped in a golden-brown skin, these fries win the contest.&nbsp; They're made to order, but are apparently double-fried, the way any decent recipe suggests.&nbsp; M2M doesn't use quite enough salt, but the rich burnt Russet flavor more than makes up for it. You won't be cramming these masterpieces into your mouth as you run to class.&nbsp; It's worth the time and effort to eat the fries one by one, savoring perhaps the only bargain delicacy in the area &#8211; at $2 for a generous portion, they beat all other prices.&nbsp; For your significant other's next special occasion, forgo the cupcakes and cuddles for a disposable container of deliciousness.&nbsp; Thank us later. Photos by AB 
 Monday Columbia College Days: The Campus Life Committee starts its attempt to muster up school spirit today.&nbsp; M-F. Tuesday The Darfur Debate: It's a chance to see Mahmood Mamdani debate.&nbsp; Genocide?&nbsp; Sudan?&nbsp; The International Criminal Court?&nbsp; They'll yak it up.&nbsp; 6:00 PM @ Cowin Aud, TC. Wednesday US vs. Iran: The major turning points in Iran's relationship with the West.&nbsp; 12:30 PM @ IAB 1118. Thursday CUSearch: Register for this CPA extravaganza-cum-scavenger hunt.&nbsp; Plus, it's an excuse to take silly pictures of yourself. Friday LateNite: It's back for Spring semester.&nbsp; One-acts by Ariel Karlin, Rob Trump, Stephanie Neel, Alish Erman, and Justin Grace.&nbsp; R, F Sa 11:00 PM @ Lerner Black Box. 
 At tonight's CCSC meeting, VP for Policy Adil Ahmed announced that, after a meeting with Dean Cristen Kromm, alcohol may be allowed in common areas next year. Currently, Columbia does not allow alcohol to be kept anywhere except in an overage student's room, declaring the common area a "public space" (locks and doors not withstanding). &nbsp; Ahmed emphasized that the step "is still a plan," and that the changes would have to be written into official ResLife guidelines over the summer. If it goes through, the change will be in place by next year, and denizens of EC, Hogan, and other popular senior locales could finally stop pretending that a second door suddenly made their alcohol private. A first step, perhaps, but we doff our caps to the councils. Now let's work on that whole 40s thing. - JCD 
 SEAS students need a break from Morningside Heights, too Hey, we wanna use those fancy classrooms! The social scene at Columbia isn't easy, and social interaction here can become "a Kafka-esque affair" &nbsp;Woe is us, we're sad, and we're not going to do anything about it 
 Forty years have passed since your parents went to Woodstock and spent the next 39 telling you how awesome it was. Now, Columbia community, it's your turn! A mini-Woodstock is coming your way beginning your weekend. Yes, that's right, it's time for Bacchanal 2009, and by Bacchanal we mean, of course, Woodstocchanal. All the events are free unless indicated otherwise. Saturday 4/18 Vampire Weekend and Talib Kweli, 3-5 PM on Low Plaza Monday 4/20-- plenty of holiday-themed activities&nbsp; Lunchtime Acoustic Concert with Neal Goldberg of Miss Distress, 12-2 PM on Low Plaza Taste of Morningside Heights, 3:30-5 PM on Low Plaza. $5 charity fee to satisfy munchies Movie screening of Alice in Wonderland, 8-10 PM on Low Plaza Full schedule for the week after the jump. Wednesday 4/22 Lunchtime Acoustic Concert with Oak and Gorski, 12-2 PM on the Sundial Comedy Show with Comedy Central's Robert Kelly: 8-9:30 PM in Lerner Party Space Thursday 4/23 Free stuff and music on the Steps from 12-2 PM Friday 4/24 Capture the flag, 8-10 PM on Low Plaza Saturday 4/25 Bacchanal Hippie BBQ, 1-4 PM on Low Plaza Malama Hawai'i Luau, 4-7 PM on Ancel Plaza between EC and SIPA Sunday 4/26 Nurse that hangover: Bagels and Beanbags, 12-2 PM on Low Plaza Postcrypt Folk Festival, 12-6 PM on Ancel Plaza 
 A week after the advent of Love at CU, Columbia has been transformed from sexless wasteland to a regular college.&nbsp;A new edition of the C-Spot is out just in time: Now that you're in the relationship of your dreams, learn how to, you know, do stuff with your significant other. Some gems from this month: "Dating in the world of Orthodox Judaism is a strange and tightly choreographed affair." You're married? Me too! Let's bone. Relevence to Columbia undergrad community unclear. "To put it simply: some women urinate during an orgasm." "Day 3, 1:45am: Kiss a girl. Oops." Plus...a photo montage. Look out for your Butler crush, naked and blindfolded! (Photo via The C-Spot) 
Even if the Executive Board was chosen by internal machinations, SEAS students can still have some choice in the rest of their representatives by voting in ESC elections. The (electronic) polls are open until Wednesday at 6 p.m, and the various candidates' speeches are on YouTube.
 We haven't heard from our favorite 209-haunting uber-dashing favorite grad student in a while. This week, James Franco resurfaced in New York Magazine in a feature about New Yorkers old and new. Franco discusses the joys of riding the subway and being able to actually read in transit instead of listening to audiobooks on the Pacific Coast Highway. The brief interview includes a few lines about Butler, about which Franco muses: "I go to the Columbia library all the time...Everybody used to come up to me in the library. Then I realized I was in the one room people are free to talk in. Now I go to the quiet room." Plus, the cafe has lousy wireless. 
 Today marks the start of College Days, a week-long celebration of all that is Columbia spirit and pride, in which we are all united in our collective love for free things. The feature-film related theme of the week is "Admit One", which strikes us as a bizarrely exclusive title. Regardless, there's a wealth of free and fun stuff happening this week, all beginning with with the CCSC Town Hall meeting tonight. Exercising your right to free speech is never boring. The meeting will be held tonight at 8:30 in Earl Hall and all are welcome to "help shape the direction of the council." There will also be free pizza and a kosher for Passover alternative served. Right after the Town Hall, head to the Sundial free candy, T-shirts and a chance to win tickets to the King's Ball. Together, our love for free things of all varieties will never die.&nbsp; 
 Much of last night's CCSC meeting split two ways was concerned with the CCSC Town Hall and College Days, with George Krebs and Robyn Burgess reminding the council members to come out. Actual news was little in evidence, with one exception: VP for Policy Adil Ahmed, CC 2010 President AJ Pasuca, and CC 2010 VP Sue Yang reported on their Wednesday meeting with Dean Cristen Scully-Kromm, in which they discussed noise policies and other parts of the War on Fun. Yang told the council, "In terms of the noise policy, I feel we agreed there needs to be a more informal system for minor noise warnings to small groups." Currently, some RAs have logs differentiating for these, but there is no formal system for this approach: each complaint must be registered with ResLife.&nbsp; Pascua noted that ""Dean Kromm expressed a strong willingness to move forward in the near future with CCSC. She'd prefer to work over the summer, rather than working hastily now." However, he also cautioned the council: "although Adil, Sue and I felt that we'd like a resolution as soon as possible, we felt some intransigence on the other side." Ahmed also expressed concern about the actual influence CCSC would have: apparently, Kromm told them that ResLife is already working on a new policy, but when the CCSC representatives asked to see it, Kromm refused, saying that the policy was "unconfirmed" and asked CCSC instead to submit their own ideas separately in writing. Hey, at least she's consistently secretive. After Ahmed also announced that the current ban on alcohol in common areas may end, the floor was opened for comments and questions. Several members of the executive board and CC 2009 expressed their concern over submitting a separate noise policy, saying that it would be better to be involved with the noise policy from the beginning, so that the council could avoid being in the same position next year. Presumptive VP for Funding Nuriel Moghavem noted that he and presumptive VP for Policy Sarah Weiss would be in New York over the summer to follow up on the progress. Laura Doan reminded the council that any policy would need to be completed by mid-August (before RA training's completed). Good luck. - JCD 
Today, the wild world of off-campus Flex throws us another curveball: D'Agostino will accept your Flex dollars! D'Agostino, also known as that supermarket next to Westside on 110th and Broadway, will begin taking Flex in mid-May, conveninently enough when we'll all be home, not using Flex.&nbsp;
 Ollie's is all right, but any dish at Vine will be seasoned with your bitter liberal guilt. Besides joblessness and hopelessness, the recession will also cause more violence against women. Maybe that's why we're all in therapy. Because television shows that air on actual televisions take too long. That's right. Not PlayStation, and definitely not your godforsaken Core. &nbsp; 
 Normally when someone passes out on Glenn Beck&#8217;s show, it&#8217;s just some kicky metaphoric role-play commenting on the day&#8217;s news. Unfortunately that wasn&#8217;t the case yesterday, when Teachers College professor David Buckner fainted on air while discussing the economy on Beck&#8217;s Fox News show. In the middle of recounting America&#8217;s economic &#8220;path to destruction,&#8221; Buckner began swaying, then staggering out of frame. His first warning of &#8220;I&#8217;m passing out,&#8221; delivered in a polite whisper, couldn&#8217;t distract Beck from his lecture on our grim, grim future, so Buckner was forced to casually introduce it as a topic of conversation. Beck tried to catch his fall when he went down a minute later. Despite the fact that there are a ton of people on any given television set, Beck had to ask, &#8220;Somebody help him, please?&#8221; pretty plaintively before anyone with a headset would hesitantly approach. Beck came back on after a commercial break and explained that Buckner had been feeling lightheaded earlier that morning, but was awake and alert backstage. Beck has a reputation for, shall we say, tending towards intensity, but he doesn&#8217;t seem to be the cause of this particular mini-tempest. Bwog wishes a speedy recovery to Professor Buckner, and recommends that everybody try to spend at least one hour a day not thinking about the recession. Photo via inquisitr.com 
 Bwog Eager Inquisitor Chloe Eichler reports from Monday night's CCSC Town Hall. Last night, the CCSC asked to hear from you at its Town Hall meeting. And you told it to quit bothering you: you were going downtown to a bar. The overwhelming theme was school solidarity, or lack thereof. In quick succession, students ticked off the symptoms of weak school spirit: Campus groups don&#8217;t communicate. No one goes to the football games. No one goes to the big spring events. No one goes to student government meetings. No one goes to student government town halls. CCSC responded positively, pledging to advertise campus events to death and taking any suggestions about facilitating communication between clubs.&nbsp; The second major topic was the Council&#8217;s foray into technology. More than one student stressed the need for an online centralized listing to spread word about campus events further than two degrees of separation on Facebook. CCSC assured the room that this would be included in the long-awaited university portal. Other tech issues passionately raised were the dearth of working printers in residence halls and inconsistent wireless accessibility. More importantly, as one freshman delicately put it, &#8220;I&#8217;m concerned about CubMail&#8221; (who isn&#8217;t?). CCSC President George Krebs mentioned that Columbia could conceivably follow other schools that merged their e-mail systems with Gmail. The ever-popular MetroCard student discount was brought up, but that project has been dropped in the current economy. A one-off discounted card, probably good for a week, is still a possibility. Miscellaneous proposals included working with other New York colleges on some big events (to which Krebs responded that he wanted to put on an inter-college dance competition), and resource sharing between clubs to eliminate wasteful spending. The Council ended the night with its own hopes for next year - more collaboration with student groups, more transparency about funds, and as much communication with the student body as possible. The earnest good will in the room was palpable. Then the free t-shirt feeding frenzy began. 
A roving gang of mustachioed bandits invaded campus yesterday. Before they were chased off by the NYPD Special Trimming Squad, though, they got a very special photo op.&nbsp; Salvador Dal&#237; would be so proud. 
 The perennially generous Oren's Daily Roast does it again! Or rather, will do it again, in about an hour. Between 4:00 and 7:00, pick up a free 12-ounce coffee at Morningside Heights' favorite alternative to Starbucks (besides the Hungarian Pastry Shop and every single on-campus establishment that accepts Flex). Oren's is calling it a "tax break," but students are more likely to call it "the only thing that makes attending a 6:10 CC class even remotely possible." Enjoy. 
The April issue of the Blue and White is now on a newsstand or under a dorm room door near you! If you can't get out to pick one up now, here is another preview: contributor Sam Schube enlists in the men's rugby team. &#8220;Do not drop the fucking ball!&#8221; yelled coach Sean Horan. &#8220;That is our motto. Do not drop the fucking ball!&#8221; Coach Horan&#8217;s barked command leaves the members of the Columbia men&#8217;s club rugby team with limited options: one can move the ball by running with it, kicking it, or passing it laterally or backwards to a teammate. The forward pass, that civilizing innovation of American football, is forbidden (the glossary after the jump may shed a little light on the game&#8217;s Brittanic terminology). Each side has 15 players of varying sizes and speeds, all working to move the ball to the in-goal area. After this point, mechanical laws fail to explain their motion, though it typically involves large, moving piles of large, moving men.&nbsp; Large men seem to gravitate naturally towards the rugby team. The roster includes several ex-football players, a few all-around athletes, and a veteran whose high school happened to offer the sport. Coach Horan is a lifelong rugby devotee and tries his best to convey his savvy with highlights reels and whiteboards, but for the most part, his team&#8217;s acumen extends not far beyond the basics. A Rugby Glossary Drop Kick: A player drops the ball for a single bounce before kicking it toward the goalpost. If the goalpost is hit, the team earns three points. Maul: A player holding a ball is swarmed&#8212;but not tackled&#8212;by players from the opposing team. Ruck: A swarm of players converging on a ball in an attempt to secure it. Scrum: Much like football&#8217;s line of scrimmage, this is the faceoff formation of players from the two rugby teams. The ball is rolled between the lines of opposing players as a hooker tries to pass the ball with his feet to the back row of his team. The ball is then considered in play. Sin Bin: The penalty box behind the goal area where offending players are sent by referees. The team then continues with a reduced number of players until the penalty is complete. Try: The basic unit of scoring in rugby. Worth five points, a try is earned when one team touches down the rugby ball in the opposing team&#8217;s in-goal area. Try Line: The dividing border that separates the field from a team&#8217;s in-goal area. The rugby team is very welcoming, which it advertises with flyers scattered around campus. No tryouts or auditions are required; &#8220;interested ruggers,&#8221; no matter how green, need only attend an informational session on a well-air conditioned squash court in Dodge to join up. With my reasonable high-school sports resume, I didn&#8217;t feel out of place stopping by. At the initial summit meeting, prospective players have a chance to meet team members, and vice versa. Not knowing quite what to say when I stood to introduce myself, I piped up by telling everyone that I was there to write an article about being on the team. The players shot a few quizzical looks my way, and an awkward silence fell. &#8220;&#8230;But I fully expect to get my ass kicked, too!&#8221; I sputtered. They hooted in approval. Most of the team members can be described as &#8220;stocky.&#8221; This spring&#8217;s recruits were welcomed by the solid-looking Ben Cheslak, who has a reputation as both curmudgeonly and impish, which he has earned both from the indeterminate duration of his senior standing and from his habit of hiding the ball underneath his shirt whenever it goes out of bounds during practice. &#8220;I was here before all of you fucks and I&#8217;ll be here after you leave,&#8221; he announced, by way of introduction. A balding, hard-living Teacher&#8217;s College student known as Farmer John is also short and stout, his thickness accentuated by orange suspenders. Olof Matti, the team&#8217;s resident Swede and a former competitive downhill skier, calls himself Liten Pansarvagn, or &#8220;the little tank.&#8221; Zach Bull, like a character from a bad first novel, boasts of a branding iron tattoo on his chest. Cheslak, Farmer John, Pansarvagn and the rest of the team practice twice a week at the Baker Field Athletic Complex, located on the 218th Street wind tunnel created by the adjacent Hudson and East Rivers. Gusts buffet the players as they perform shuttle sprints and suicides three times a week, two hours at a time. Practices are typically violent, intemperate, and, at least for Saturday&#8217;s 10:30 a.m. session, populated by the hung-over. There&#8217;s no locker room&#8212;players throw on sweats or shorts on the sidelines&#8212;but the locker room culture lives on in O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s, the sweaty dive just off-campus, a favorite among fraternity brothers and the women who love them. The rugby team wears its love for O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s on its sleeve; the bar is the team&#8217;s official sponsor, so their uniforms sport the O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s shamrock. It&#8217;s a relatively glamorous patronage, at least compared to the Columbia Business School rugby team&#8217;s Bear Stearns-logoed silks. The rugby boys decamp to O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s regularly, often heading straight from Baker Field to the bar. O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s teems with masculinity and the celebration thereof; when the team isn&#8217;t racing each other in beer-drinking relay races, the players purchase pints for one another and regale the bar with bawdy, rugby-themed ditties. &#8220;Jesus can&#8217;t play rugby &#8217;cause his best friend got him hammered&#8221; is one of the less offensive lines of a traditional six-verse doggerel. Perhaps unsurprisingly, these impromptu recitals are often conducted to the chagrin of O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s less sportsmanlike patrons, including the occasional squad of New York City police. They once misinterpreted Farmer John&#8217;s naturally menacing expression as a genuine threat, and, believing (correctly) that he carried drugs on his person, searched him. The team&#8217;s hard-drinking, hard-partying habits don&#8217;t take a vacation for spring break&#8212;the team just takes them on the road. Each March, they travel for a week, on an alumni-subsidized junket, in some far-off, exotic locale, where they punish their livers and play international teams. The night before their annual &#8220;Tour,&#8221; the team prepared for its five hour flight by pounding pints until 4:15 a.m., when their bus was scheduled to depart for the airport. Details from the Trinidad expedition are scant, as the team has seized upon the dictum, &#8220;What happens in Trinidad, stays in Trinidad.&#8221; Except what comes back to America&#8212;like one player&#8217;s nickname of &#8220;Bukkake&#8221;, an ancient Japanese form of psychosexual torture&#8212;for better or for worse, remains in America. These close-knit bonds among the players are steeped in testosterone. They partake in stereotypically manly barroom antics and share a remarkably high tolerance for Bud Light. But the team&#8217;s masculinity is also clear in its players&#8217; attitudes toward injury. Bones are broken and ligaments sprain in nearly every match, but pads are an after-thought, at best. &#8220;Well, when you&#8217;ve got to get down and get someone&#8217;s knee in your soft face, you wish you wore a helmet, I guess,&#8221; observes team captain Phil Kemp, a kindhearted giant who speaks with a slight lisp. When injury does visit the team during a match&#8212;as this Blue and White reporter discovered after breaking his collarbone on a goalpost collision&#8212;sidelined ruggers only rage at the loss of valuable playing time. For physical wounds, there&#8217;s always O&#8217;Connell&#8217;s&#8212;or a batch of Farmer John&#8217;s pot brownies, which were given to your correspondent&#8212;to help numb the pain. - Illustration by Sonia Tycko &nbsp; 
 The best thing about College Days is the big wave of school spirit on campus. But the best thing about the big wave of school spirit is free food. Tonight at 8:00 in Roone Arledge, CCSC brings you Comedy Night, featuring John Mulaney, who has graced "Best Week Ever," "Important Things with Demetri Martin," and "Late Night with Conan O'Brien" with his presence, and is currently a staff writer for "Saturday Night Live." If that's not enough, he'll be preceded by former Bwogger and beloved balladeer Tony Gong. Sounds interesting, right? There's something for everyone! Except people with cholesterol problems. The food selection tonight is Napoleon Dynamite-themed, which means tater tots and corn dogs. Roar, lions, roar, but definitely eat a breath mint first. 
 The new issue of the Columbia Political Review is out! Read it online, download it as a PDF, or hunt for a print copy in the wilds of Lerner, if you're into that sort of thing. Authors with political agendas aim for children's hearts, minds, and future campaign donations.&nbsp; If internal conflict and foreign invasion destroy Iraq's past, can it have a future?&nbsp; Why "The Life And Times of Barack Obama: The Movie" should never be made, as if that could really be avoided. How one architect plans your politics for you. Beware the pop economist bearing prepackaged cocktail party conversation. 
 Statistics show that people who watch The Office do better in life. Bloomberg's ouija board decides the fate of the public schools. What do you mean there's no way to find out? I want to know exactly how sexy the country's first belly dancer was. Now.&nbsp; Plus, the mystical powers of upper Amsterdam revealed! &nbsp; 
 Rise and shine! Wouldn't want to miss your General Selection appointment time (you lucky, lucky bastards). If you are lucky enough to have an appointment this morning, or you want to use your super powers to keep your room from being taken by staring at it, you can log into the General Selection Portal here. The process will officially be underway at 9:30 this morning, when a single senior with the lottery number 9 will be able to choose a room. Since everyone can see the constantly updated data on which rooms are free, even those who chose in Suite Selection, we will not be LiveBwogging the process for your pleasure. If you get tired of staring at the taken Watt studio singles, the general selection list by uni and by appointment time might take the edge off the old addiction to laughable yet biting housing web coverage. 
 SEAS' student governing body presents yet another opportunity to savor Dunkin' in all its glory today from 12-2 PM. This is your last opportunity to chill out with the totally laid back candidates in the ESC elections, which are currently underway. Find the coffee, donuts, and hopefuls in Mudd Lobby. And vote here, before the polls close at 6pm tonight.&nbsp; 
 Last night's ESC meeting was predictably punctured with nervous fidgeting and intense, meaningful stares between candidates in the current election. Bwog's Specialist in Celebrity Nervous Breakdowns Sean Zimmermann has the scoop on what they discussed through killer tension headaches.&nbsp; First order of business - elections have started! Of course everyone knows that, but tell your friends to vote again anyway. Turnout for ESC elections has been historically poor, but that's nothing a bunch of donuts can't fix. In other news, 2011 Class Council is getting a mascot, but they won&#8217;t say what it is yet. It's top secret! The idea is that the mascot will be at all the 2011 class council events, and &#8220;people will see it and think 2011 class council.&#8221; Whispering ensues. Dining Revisited: Dining insists that converting Ferris into a second dining hall will not cause quality to drop. Whispering gets louder. Dining adds that as part of this plan, sushi would move into 212, and packaged goods would be removed from Ferris. Dining and student services are both in favor of converting Ferris into a second dining hall, but any change, if made, would not take effect for at least another year. Additionally, President Valeiras said that dining is currently putting together student focus groups to test support for the plan, so nothing has been finalized. ESC E-Board elections to be more open: starting next year, anyone who wants to run for the executive board will have to collect signatures before they can run. Student running for President will need to collect 100 signatures (minimum 20 per class), while people running for other E-Board positions will need 80 signatures (minimum 15 per class). The council's discussions will also become public, though the election of board members will stay secret. Irony: in the thick of the drama, the ESC website is down (and has been for the last two weeks). 
 Unfortunately you won't be able to see him walking a tightrope up in the sky today, but if you're interested you will have a chance to meet stuntster and artist Philippe Petit tonight at St. John the Divine. Petit is most famous for his tightrope walks between the towering tips of skyscrapers in the city. His multiple walks on a rope stretched between the tops of the World Trade Center towers in 1974 earned him international fame, and became the subject of a documentary called Man on Wire. St. John will be showing the documentary tonight at 7 p.m. before opening a question and answer period with Petit himself. It is a benefit screening, so it's not quite clear whether you have to pay $20, or whether that's a suggested donation a la Met. But Petit might just be worth the money. Aside from what he calls "artistic crimes" like the tightrope walking, St. John reports that his activities as an Artist in Residence there have included "writing, drawing, close-up magic and street juggling, and the study of lock-picking, French wine, and 18th century timber framing." He was once also seen bullfighting in Peru - the indisputable mark of a true Renaissance man. If you can't scrape together the money, you can find the documentary and Petit's book of the same title online, or you can wait for what could be a truly once in a lifetime opportunity to see Petit again later this year. Gothamist reports that Petit is planning yet another tightrope walk for sometime this fall. Infinitely better than the movie, and free! 
 What's the worst thing about being unemployed in Morningside? That sinking, defeated feeling of utter despair that comes with craving a mood boosting, delicious nutritious meal at, well, almost any sit-down restaurant, and then realizing you can't come close to affording it.&nbsp; &nbsp; Lucky for those still unemployed seniors, Thai Market now officially recognizes your pain and extends its helping hand with a whopping 30% discount on all in house meals for the unemployed! The discount will run through the end of May, and is expected to do a world of good for those seniors who have been subsisting on naught but ramen, nail bitings, and CCSC's bread and circuses. All you've got to do to get the deal is produce some proof of your joblessness. An unemployment slip is ideal, but breaking down in tears might also be enough. Happy noodling! 
 Like many other college campuses, Columbia sees an explosion of events every April, as the warm weather and the pending exam period leads groups to trip over each other in occupying Low Plaza. The overlaps are hardly without amusement, of course: Bwog looks forward immensely to the 4/20 screening of Alice in Wonderland coinciding with the second half of Days on Campus ("Yeah, Mom, Columbia's just like Brown!"). Other screw-ups, though, verge somewhat more into the embarrassing category, and this year's best example comes courtesy of our friends on the Columbia College Student Council, who scheduled not one but two events during the annual Take Back the Night march. Yes, tomorrow night students will be able to choose between marching against sexual violence, a Class of 2010 dinner at Campo, or, for the other three classes, King's Ball: Bollywood Adventure in Roone (UPDATE: CCSC 2010 has moved now its class dinner to 7 p.m., though King's Ball remains overlapping). Not since the days of "Pregame Lol!" vs. Barack Obama has such a critical event showdown confronted the campus. In CCSC's defense, the council has recognized the conflict, and has already taken steps to show its support for the march: CCSC members will be joining the march as it passes by Campo and then the Columbia campus. Nevertheless, since this is not the first calendaring mishap this year, perhaps next year's council should check out this helpful site. - JCD 
 Tonight's College Days festivities will include not only free food, but apparently "prizes" (of the elementary school carnival sort, Bwog hopes) and most importantly, the chance to be dubbed a "Columbia University Royal." That's right, you can lord above the rest, preside in all your glory at the Kings Ball tomorrow night, and they might even give you a little crown shaped like the one in the college seal. Isn't hierarchy just the most awesome way to celebrate all of us coming together as one community? Even if you're a sworn revolutionary, you might still want to check out the Royals Pageant. First of all, yes, there really will be that much free stuff there, courtesy of CCSC. Plus the accompanying Dance-Off promises to be a roudy loud time. The boogie begins at 9pm tonight in Roone Arledge. 
 The War on Fun is bringin' you down. You have two options: drink 40's somewhere else, or promise yourself that, without a doubt, you will never give a penny to this god awful place as long as you live. Senior Fund and its awkward propaganda be damned! Well, unless you're too cool for mimicking Obama's every move, you might want to reconsider that plan. It turns out that despite a few attempts to distance himself from Columbia during the campaign, the President donated $1,000 to the university this year. If you are an Obama follower to the core and can't see yourself scraping up $1,000 a year to give to PrezBo, never fear. When you compare the $1,000 donation to some of the other numbers in the Obamas' tax returns, like their $2.66 million dollars in adjusted gross income, you realize Obama only donated about $40 dollars in real people money. In fact, Bwog's special Lingering Resentment Calculator tells us that if Obama were making $100,000, by proportion his donation would have been $37.59. Ok, maybe that's still a little more than Bwog has budgeted for PrezBo too. 
ESC election results are out, and the new senior class president is Heather Lee, who won (uncontested) with a whopping 191 votes. Lee will be joined by Joffre Andrade as VP and Stanley Chen and Varun Gulati as Class Representatives.&nbsp; The 2011 Class President will be Kamal Yechoor, with candidates from his party, Synergy, filling in the rest of the 2011 positions. The Fu My Life party won a similar landslide in the 2012 elections, making Judy Kim your sophomore President. Find the announcement email after the jump (Bwog has inserted in parentheses all available vote tallies for both winning and defeated candidates). _________________________________________________________________________ Hi Everyone!! The time to release the election results is here!!&nbsp; But, before I disclose the winners, I would like to thank each and every candidate for dedicating your time and interest towards this election.&nbsp; This was a VERY close election and you have all done an incredible job campaigning.&nbsp; We look forward to working with the elected members on council next year and for those that did not win, please stay connected and involved with the council by joining ESC committees and/or your class council.&nbsp; You are all incredibly valuable assets to the engineering student body and we would very much like you to continue impacting SEAS in a positive way. Now, on behalf of the Engineering Student Council, I would like to congratulate the newly elected members of the ESC: 2010 Senior Class President - Heather Lee (191) 2010 Senior Class Vice President - Joffre Andrade (172) 2010 Senior Class Representative - Stanley Chen (102) 2010 Senior Class Representative - Varun Gulati (99) (Austin Brauser - 93; Liza John - 77) 2011 Junior Class President - Kamal Yechoor (106) 2011 Junior Class Vice President - Dana Ibarra (133) 2011 Junior Class Representative - Albert Miller (149) 2011 Junior Class Representative - Epsita Hoque (129) (Kim Lipman White - 68) 2012 Sophomore Class President - Judy Kim (107) 2012 Sophomore Class Vice President - Santosh Balachandar (109) 2012 Sophomore Class Representative - Spencer Almen (111) 2012 Sophomore Class Representative - Mailing Wu (83) (Tianning Mary Ye - 57; Katherine Bell - 40; Aman Eyasu - 60; Rebecca Frauzem - 53; Eric Tang - 46; Ben Ye - 44) Senator - Eric Hirani (327) Alumni Affairs and Professional Development Representative - Ini Li (240) Academic Affairs Representative - Mike Wymbs (468) Student Services Representative - Nathan Lee (433) CCSC Liaison - Jennifer Vettel GSSC Liaison - Nathan Levick SGA Liaison - Jessica Lewis (Sahil Shah - 116) 
 &nbsp;-Photo via Princeton Online The City tries to save us from vicious dogs. Somehow, people are outraged. Take Back the Night is going to clean house. &nbsp;The Earth Institute is going to clean the world...with a new major. Okay, Vampire Weekend and Talib Kweli aren't going to clean anything, but we appreciate the study break. 
 -Via Imp Awards CUSearch, ResLife's week-long scavenger hunt, is slated to begin today. Team representatives will meet in Furnald, the epicenter of all things not quiet and isolated, tonight at 4 PM to receive the list of tasks. They will then spend the next week taking pictures of the whole team accomplishing listed items for points, and the team with the most points wins. The coordinators write that "all tasks can be performed legally, at minimal to no cost." That seems to mean that you can perform them illegally, too. Not that we're recommending anything. Over 170 teams are registered for the competition, though we suspect that "Team Balls" and "Team Jugs" may be colluding. A lot of Columbians must have realized that, if you use that $500 grand prize correctly, you can buy about $714.30 of Thai food.&nbsp; For anyone desperate vying for discounted Khao Pad, make sure to submit photos early. Extra points will be awarded to teams that send in pictures before the final deadline. Feel free to send pictures to Bwog, too, if they're sufficiently ridiculous. Also, strive to pick up some bonus points, which you get from going above and beyond the basic picture requirements. The CUSearch rules give this example: "A photo of your team with PrezBo in the background gets you the regular number of points. But a photo of your team engaged in a discussion with PrezBo gives you bonus points." In other words, be like these people. -DJB 
 &nbsp;-Via The Eye This edition of the Eye is all about stars and success stories here at Columbia. Feel free to grumble about it. Who looks at King Lear while doing math, anyway? These Columbians juggle school and acting...all while being prettier than you. Sarah Dooley is still "the coolest thing on YouTube." These Columbians juggle school and professional ballet. Yup, still better looking than you. It's PULL-it-ser, not PYUL-it-ser. &nbsp; 
 Before you trudge up the stairs to Ferris, consider a free alternative: Music on the Ramps returns this week with a triumphant mix of sandwiches and, uh, well, some really catchy music. There's also macaroni salad and free drinks. Hurry! - Photo by JCD 
Bwog's Postmodern correspondent James Rathmell, who is really a synthesis of previous Bwog art correspondents, spent a few hours with the loveable Teuton Thomas Demand. He brings us this report. Though a lecture with the pretentiously alliterative title &#8220;Fiction, Fact &amp; Fabrication&#8221; sounds like something better suited for an art school than Avery&#8217;s Wood Auditorium, Thursday night&#8217;s visit from Thomas Demand was insightful and approachable. Hell, at times, it was even very entertaining. Demand was introduced as a paragon of Architecture School-ness: &#8220;A minority figure, a person who doesn&#8217;t know what a building is. Schools of Architecture are asylums,&#8221; the speaker said, &#8220;places for those crazy people who are strangers in their own world.&#8221; &nbsp; Though not apparent at first, Demand fits this description perfectly. He speaks fluent English, though tinged with a German accent. He wears black glasses and has a receding hairline, and a patterned shirt stuck out from beneath his sweater for the entire lecture. He was incredibly nondescript by all measures. Yet his art shows a view of the world in which he is a complete stranger. It is postmodern in the best sense of the word: a representation of a representation. He began by playing a clip from one of his recent works &#8220;Rain,&#8221; in which rain is filmed hitting glass for about four and a half minutes. He called the process of making it &#8220;a long and painful, banal and trivial exercise.&#8221; The sound of rain in the auditorium drowned out his words, but when he stopped the tape, he explained that none of what we had heard or seen was real. The hundreds of raindrops had all been animated, and the sound was recorded and laid over the film. This unapparent artificiality was the theme of his presentation. After he showed photographs of rooms that seemed completely real, he would go on to reveal that they were fabricated. Demand explained that he began as a sculptor, creating &#8220;prototype, Utopian versions of things.&#8221;&nbsp; Most of what he made was disposable, fabricated from cardboard or paper, and therefore temporary. Demand then pursued photography as a way to capture things. Most of his subsequent artworks have been photographs of structures made from cardboard: recreations of the area where the Florida recount happened, the last security checkpoint that the 9/11 hijackers went through, the kitchen where Saddam Hussein was found, the Tunisian Embassy in Rome, and, most recently, the Oval Office, which he said, &#8220;showed a meta-level about the presidency&#8221;. The purpose of all this artwork is to emphasize &#8220;the distance between the thing it reminds you of and what it is.&#8221;&nbsp; The rooms he makes are cardboard, but they remind the viewer so much of a kitchen, or the Oval Office that the line between essence and artifice begins to blur. Many of his pieces are overtly political, but the overarching idea is that Demand wants &#8220;places to be their own commentary.&#8221; Demand&#8217;s most recent piece will be on display in Berlin in September; it is a reconstruction of the German Parliament from the 60s and 70s. It is meant to capture the fundamental representation of the place, what Demand referred as the &#8220;dark memory.&#8221; 
 &nbsp;-Via EW.com We're so close to summer that it's about time we re-enter the city to prepare for all the free time we're about to have (Don't question our logic, just enjoy yourself). FRIDAY New Music Bake Sale Friday 7pm-midnight, First Presbyterian Church 124 Henry St. at Clark St.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A fundraiser for New Music that will include baked goods, drinks, and live performances from several participating bands. It's a packed program, see website for line-up. Price: $15, includes two drinks Tori Spelling Friday 6pm, Borders 10 Columbus Cir., 2nd fl (212-823-9775) Tori Spelling of Beverly Hills 90210 fame reads from her new memoir, Mommyhood. Price: Free! FRIDAY AND SATURDAY Deganit Shemy and Co. Friday and Saturday 7:30pm, 219 W. 19th Street nr. Seventh Ave (212-691-6500) An Israeli choreographer puts five dancers to work to the music of metronomes and crowd noises. Shape the moves yourself this weekend only. SATURDAY Basement Bhangra's 12th Birthday Saturday 11:55pm, S.O.B.'s 204 Varick St (212-243-4940) For twelve years, S.O.B.'s has put New Yorkers dancing to the beats of remixed music with Indian motifs. The celebration turns twelve, and the club is hosting a special night of partying to celebrate. Price: $13 Club Animals Saturday 11pm-2am, Rubulad 338 Flushing Ave It will be an off-the-wall experience featuring a free bouncy ride and a human petting zoo.&nbsp; It promises of provoke! Price: $15 SUNDAY Ravinstyle Pop-Up at the Wonderland Fashion Flea Market The online boutique Ravinstyle sets up their once-in-a-blue-moon pop-up shop at the Wonderland flea market. Expect unusually deep discounts on New York's most famous names in fashion. Sunday 12-5pm, 418 W. 13th St. b/t Ninth Ave. &amp; Washington St. (212-524-2800) Price: Free entry People's Symphony Concerts Sunday 2pm, The Town Hall 123 W. 43rd St. (212-840-2824) The latest in these series of way-cheaper-than-they-should-be performances features world-renowned pianist Peter Serkin. It's an event practically begging for college-student patronage. Price: $10 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;-Photo via YouTube Kurt Hinterbichler, a grad student in the Columbia physics department, joined 95 other musicians from around the world to play in a multimedia concert sponsored by YouTube. About 3,000 musicians submitted audition videos to the site, and YouTube patrons, with their refined taste, selected the winners from the top 200 submissions. Given the musicians, hailing everywhere from South Korea to Reno, had only two days to practice together, the show seems to have gone pretty well. Hinterbichler, who has a website displaying his scribbles (which seem to be fodder for heated debate), his musical compositions and his theory of the universe, filmed an introductory video played during the concert. He, as did the Prime Minister of South Korea, also starred in second video to promote the event. According to the concert's website, there is going to be a documentary about the YouTube orchestra, and since Hinterbichler appears in the trailer, he will probably appear in the movie as well.&nbsp; Kudos to Hunterichler, who joins the pantheon of kick-ass Columbia grad students. -DJB 
 Bwog has been alerted that Havana Central, bastion of all things edible and Cuban, will be accepting Flex starting in early June, which is great...if you plan to hang around a month after finals. At least summer sessioners and students returning next fall will be able to pretend that they are using a credit card. A very, very, very slow credit card. No word on whether Columbia's partnership with the Cuban restaurant is related to recent shifts in international relations.&nbsp; -DJB 
 "Tonight," declared one of the Take Back the Night organizers before the march, "we reclaim the streets!" And for the 21st time, anti-sexual violence marchers (about 200 this year) took to the streets around campus with a mix of chants and whistles, adding a dose of public emotion to their campaign against sexual violence. Unlike last year's version, there was little groundbreaking about the march. For the second year in a row, though, men were allowed to march from the beginning, although a woman-only "safe space" zone at the head of the march remained in effect (when TBTN organizers decided to go equal gender last year, Columbia's Sexual Violence and Prevention people objected, saying that some survivors preferred marching without men and so the safe zone was created). Men remained about 10-15% of the whole group. As the group turned off of Broadway onto 116th, the chanting began in earnest: "What do we want? Safe streets! When do we want it? Now!" and "University silence perpetuates the violence" were two particularly common ones, though sometimes the back and front of the march had two rhythms going. But the most ear-splitting effect was when the group used its whistles as a whole - the high pitches bouncing off building facades split this writer's ear drums quite effectively. As the march snaked (at various points) along Broadway, Claremont, Amsterdam, and the various cross streets between 113th and 120th, bemused observers hung out of their windows, or stared at the passing marchers. Bwog heard about ten different groups of bystanders having the same conversation: "What's going on?" "It's some sort of anti-sexual violence march" "Oh yeah..." Each show of support, though, including from those along frat row (where organizers told Bwog that in decades past was sometimes a site of catcalls), strengthened the spirit of the marchers, who responded with even louder whistles and chants. After pausing for a traditional moment of silence in the middle of campus, the march returned to Barnard at around 11 p.m. for the speakout in LeFrak gymnasium, always the most powerful part of the event. Students gathered in a pitch-dark room to hear survivors tell their tales from behind a curtain until early in the morning, with audience members (many survivors themselves) often breaking down in tears from the stories. - photo and story by JCD 
 Cultural clubs are teaming up to think green. They were all yellow at one East Village restaurant. These riders can't help that the MTA is in the red. Lacrosse hopes to stomp the Crimson. Don't let the Core make you feel too blue. 
The April issue of the Blue and White is out and about! If you haven't yet cracked open its new, glossy cover, here's another preview of what's inside: a profile of campus character Stephan Vincenzo. Stephan Vincenzo&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Stephan Vincenzo, n&#233; Jose Stephan Perez, CC &#8217;12, learned about Carman Hall in the sixth grade. Touring Columbia with his great uncle, he glimpsed his future: &#8220;It&#8217;s not the prettiest dorm, but if you want good times, live in Carman,&#8221; his sibyllic uncle told him. Later, while tending to his great uncle on his deathbed, Vincenzo swore to him that he would someday attend Columbia. Carman has been on his mind ever since. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Vincenzo takes dorm living seriously, as evidenced by the name of his party production company: 11th Floor Entertainment. Before he had even moved in, he became notorious for coordinating an orientation week party at a club downtown, for which 1,400 guests confirmed their attendance on Facebook&#8212; perhaps lured by his promise of &#8220;Open bar!!! srry no alcohol.&#8221; For such a bold move, Vincenzo achieved instant fame. His imposing social presence has already spawned caricatures in The Fed and is the inspiration for the character &#8220;Vincent Stephanzo&#8221; in this year&#8217;s Varsity Show. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Vincenzo&#8217;s 6&#8217;2&#8221; stature, mid-back length brown hair, and penchant for oversize beaded necklaces enhance his eccentric image, but the most enduring expression of his originality is his adopted name. &#8220;Jose Perez is the Spanish equivalent of John Smith,&#8221; he explains. &#8220;I don&#8217;t know anybody with the name Stephan.&#8221; (He added &#8220;Vincenzo&#8221; as an homage to Al Capone&#8217;s brother, James.) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Vincenzo is proud of his name and the cult of personality that he&#8217;s inspired, but not all of his classmates have been as supportive. After the Bwog posted updates about his infamous &#8220;Open bar&#8221; bash, the half-Colombian, half-Mexican Vincenzo read comments on the site that characterized him as an &#8220;affirmative action case.&#8221; &#8220;I&#8217;m from the South, so I&#8217;m used to racism&#8230; but broke my heart. I&#8217;ve been discriminated against, but I&#8217;m not gonna lie, it still hurts just as much as the first time,&#8221; he says. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The monarch of social butterflies, Stephan is an intense communicator: he interacts with nearly everyone he comes across, grilling acquaintances with a million questions a minute about their various goings on, all while never breaking eye contact. Though fans sometimes ask him for pictures, few have recognized him for his loftier pursuits&#8212;for example, his poetry, which has been published in the Columbia Daily Spectator. &#8220;Even though you&#8217;re in the midst of all these people knowing your name&#8230; you can be really lonely,&#8221; he observes. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Indeed, the prevailing view of Vincenzo as a party animal has hindered his social savvy where it may matter most: with girls. He says that the Columbia women who catch his eye believe they &#8220;know all about&#8221; him as a &#8220;player,&#8221; and that the ladies who frequent the nightlife scene aren&#8217;t the ones he&#8217;s interested in anyway. &#8220;You can find a quality girl at a church, in a library, studying, Barnes &amp; Noble&#8212;not at a club. Beautiful, glamorous club chicks, there&#8217;s a thousand of them. For a moment they&#8217;re cool, but I like individuals that I can engage with intellectually.&#8221; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;According to Vincenzo, his cerebral tendencies made him something of an anomaly in his hometown of Atlanta. &#8220;A lot of my friends got involved heavily with drugs, a lot of my friends dropped out of school, ended up in jail, ended up in gangs.&#8221; During his first semester at Columbia, he struggled with both his &#8220;really humble upbringing&#8221; and his campus infamy. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t participate in class. It was intimidating as hell,&#8221; he recalls. &#8220;I just thought, &#8216;Oh my God, these people are just waiting for me to say something stupid.&#8217;&#8221; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;And yet Vincenzo has no regrets. &#8220;If I could go back, I would throw the same party. I would&#8217;ve still done the same thing,&#8221; he says. &#8220;That&#8217;s just the price you pay.&#8221;&nbsp; &#8212;Tony Gong, with illustrations by Maxine Keyes 
 World theatrical premiere correspondent Julia Mix Barrington brings Bwog this review of Three Spoons, a new play from NOMADS performing tonight at 8 and tomorrow at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Samantha Carlin&#8217;s play Three Spoons may rely on some well-trodden storylines, but, to a certain extent, all clich&#233;s are clich&#233;s because people like them.&nbsp; That&#8217;s why, for all its lack of innovation, Three Spoons is definitely an enjoyable show, with a tight and engaging plot and the three lead actresses who truly inhabit their roles as sisters. Melissa Caffrey, CC &#8217;11, plays Alli, the eldest of the three, with a poignant blend of physical confidence and intellectual self-doubt.&nbsp; She knows she&#8217;s attractive, and she knows she isn&#8217;t smart.&nbsp; In contrast, Meg, the middle sister (played by Eloise Eonnet, BC &#8217;11), knows she&#8217;s smart and has trouble feeling attractive; she masks her insecurity with (surprise!) academic drive&#8212;&#8220;being pretty doesn&#8217;t get you into med school.&#8221;&nbsp; Eonnet, however, is pretty, very obviously pretty, and Meg&#8217;s supposed inability to get a date, while humorously exploited in the dialogue, isn&#8217;t, in the end, convincing. Katrina Kostro, BC &#8217;12, plays Chelsea, and from her first entrance&#8212;drunk, climbing through a window&#8212;to her last piece of business&#8212;flipping off the lights to end the show&#8212;she&#8217;s magnetic.&nbsp; Kostro sells her ditzy-little-sister lines so they&#8217;re authentic and lends Chelsea a humanity&#8212;a reality&#8212;which isn&#8217;t necessarily present in the dialogue.&nbsp; She neatly name drops American history and makes cupcakes like her heart is breaking. Carlin&#8217;s sisterly dialogue&#8212;and the camaraderie between the three female leads&#8212;is spot on.&nbsp; The girls go from snapping to wheedling to genuine affection with believable speed.&nbsp; Less convincing, though, is Alli&#8217;s interaction with Jonathon (Jonathon Grant, CC &#8217;09), the boy over whom Alli&#8217;s sibling ties to Meg become strained.&nbsp; Their dialogue, including Alli and Jonathon&#8217;s date conversation, tends to lean almost comically in the direction of soft-core porn. Perhaps Jonathon&#8217;s character is just too burdened with contradicting traits. Alli&#8217;s throw-away reference to Jonathon having won &#8220;that Fulbright,&#8221; for instance, seems to have been popped into the script by Carlin without much consideration&#8212;he&#8217;s so handsome and so smart!&nbsp; Yet Grant is unfortunately left to reconcile Jonathon&#8217;s arbitrary genius with the beer-swigging rest of his character, and though&nbsp; it&#8217;s a noble effort, it&#8217;s somewhat of a lost cause. Three Spoons is still worth a ticket, though. A sleek production overall, only minor technical difficulties like overlong blackouts between scenes detract from the show.&nbsp; The sets, by Arnold Mwanjila, CC &#8217;09, are appropriately middle-class, as are Meghan Coppoletti&#8217;s costumes; the fireworks in Three Spoons come from the powerful acting and from the predictable&#8212;but nevertheless delightful&#8212;twists of Samantha Carlin&#8217;s script. ---JPMB 
 First it was freshman residences, then all dorms, and now the main campus: Columbia University's tobacco policy working group has "has forwarded a set of recommendations, including a proposal to prohibit smoking in within the gated areas considered the core of campus." The policy would go into effect in next year. In explaining the proposed changes, the website cites, among other reasons, an "increase in number of city, state, and federal regulations regarding smoking," "consistent decrease in number of smokers and increase in community support for more smoke-free spaces," "encouraging healthier behaviors that translate to workplace benefits," and "less litter, more physically attractive campus environment." A final decision has not been made yet on the recommendations, as open feedback sessions are being held next Tuesday and Friday, as well as the following Wednesday and Thursday (times and locations after the jump). Students can also provide confidential feedback online. A final decision will be made in the summer. Members of Columbia University Community: In 2008, following inquiries from the NYC Health Commissioner and changes to New York State law, Columbia University convened a tobacco workgroup to consider changes to the University tobacco policies.&nbsp; The group, made up of student and staff representative from 12 different schools and departments, has investigated best practices for tobacco policy on college campuses around the country.&nbsp; The workgroup has forwarded a set of recommendations, including a proposal to prohibit smoking in within the gated areas considered the core of campus.&nbsp; As a part of this policy consideration, we are soliciting feedback from students, faculty, and staff.&nbsp; We invite you to visit the following website to review the proposal (including maps and proposed designated smoking areas) and provide confidential feedback: http://www.columbia.edu/cu/studentservices/docs/smoking/index.html In addition to providing comments via this website, you may also elect to attend one of the following four open forum feedback sessions: Tuesday, April 21, 2009 from 12:00 &#8211; 1:00pm in Lerner 477 Friday, April 24, 2009 from 12:00 &#8211; 1:00pm in Lerner 568 Wednesday, April 29, 2009 from 5:00 &#8211; 6:00pm in Lerner 569 Thursday, April 30, 2009 from 5:00 &#8211; 6:00pm in Lerner 569 Following this feedback period, the proposal and community comments will be forwarded to University administration for consideration.&nbsp; A decision on the proposal is expected to be made during the summer of 2009.&nbsp; If you have additional questions or comments, please email Michael McNeil at mm3117@columbia.edu.&nbsp; Thank you in advance for your feedback. Michael McNeil Assistant Director Alice! Health Promotion Program &nbsp; 
The lawns are open! Rejoice and frolic! Ok, technically, only one Butler lawn is open, but don't let that spoil the joy. - Photo by JCD &nbsp; 
 Barnard juniors may want to stop browsing those Craigslist apartment listings. Housing has announced in an e-mail that it will not offer rising seniors the "Senior Option," a program that allows seniors to apply a portion of their financial aid funds toward off-campus apartment rent. The program was designed to alleviate pressure on campus housing facilities during years when the number of rooms ran short, but Housing officials say that's not an issue for the 2009-2010 school year. If Barnard seniors still wish to move off-campus, May 15 is the deadline for cancellation without incurring a $1,000 fee. Just remember, commuting may be a bitch next year. Barnard Housing's full e-mail is after the jump. Dear rising-Seniors: In recent years, Barnard has offered a "Senior Option," which allowed Seniors on financial aid to apply those funds toward rent for an off-campus apartment.&nbsp; The Senior Option was created as a response in years in which the College had a shortage of vacancies in campus housing for students on the Wait List after Room Selection and for new students. After evaluating our current housing stock and the number of projected First-Year and Transfer student enrollments, we have determined that the Senior Option will not be offered for the 2009-2010 academic year. If you chose a room for the 2009-2010 academic year during this year's Room Selection process and wish to cancel it in order to move off-campus, you have until May 15 to do so without incurring the $1000 cancellation charge. If you do decide to move off-campus, we encourage you to discuss your individual circumstances with the Financial Aid office, as changing to commuter status will affect the amount of financial aid you may be eligible for and/or receive. --------------------------------------------------------&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Barnard College / Residential Life &amp; Housing&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 Image courtesy of Facebook Thespian tracker Liz Naiden sends Bwog this dispatch from the spring showing of LateNite Theater, playing tonight and tomorrow at 11 p.m. As the LateNite crowd stumbled in they may or may not have had time to engage in thoughtful conversation with the giant computer screen projected onto the back wall of Lerner&#8217;s Black Box theater. If they got through their programs at a near sober rate, they probably spent at least 10 minutes watching the "man behind the curtain" typing inside jokes for people in the audience, insulting his own taste in music, and displaying his private AIM conversations. It only got more absurd from there. Awkwardness owned &#8220;My Response to the Zombie Question&#8221; from the beginning. Ariel Karlin&#8217;s one woman play, performed almost too realistically by Emily Kaplan, is the monologue of everyone's inner basket-case. Emily plays a disaster shelter leader who&#8217;s nervous energy and enthusiastic fear of everything take her from awkward group introductions to the unhinged declaration that she &#8220;always knew something like this was going to happen!&#8221; Somewhere deep in her childhood fear of vampires, she knew that one day there would be a zombie attack. Classic awkward humor at it's best, if you like that sort of thing. When the lights raise again we have left The Office and entered Rob Trump's not-so-classic &#8220;Murder Mystery.&#8221; Trump&#8217;s spin on the murder mystery is sufficiently clever &#8211; the story is actually of five friends holding a murder mystery party, including Kim (Lauren Glover) and her boyfriend William (Colin Drummond) who attends against his will. The realism and sarcasm of their exchange puts the audience at ease until one of the friends mysteriously drops dead. Bwog won&#8217;t give away the end ( it is a murder mystery after all) but the sudden illogical plot twist will have you boozed and confused. It is, in a word, absurd. Sarcasm rises and absurdity takes a sinister tone in &#8220;Barbituaries,&#8221; by Stephanie Neel. Cynicism and adorable old-peopleness create a strange pairing between the entrance of old Marvin (Jonathan Kaplan), carrying a bottle of wine and a tray of prescription pills, and his jaded wife Nina (Hillary Krit). Though Bwog found it a little creepy, the LateNite crowd seemed to enjoy having their heartstrings pulled ever so quietly after a hearty serving of snark. Snap back to real life, you see on stage your very own seminar table, populated by various irritating prototype Columbia students. Hopefully you didn&#8217;t identify with the title character Thomas, portrayed with gusto and excessive finesse by Evan Johnston. But the details, the true juice of stereotyping, are almost too well done for the fuzzy crowd. Erman serves up several completely unexpected and yet perfectly stereotypical outbursts before the class resumes its normal business. Justin Grace's pseudonymously penned jewel of the night then hits a sobering crowd straight in the face. Spinning through multiple layers of a play within a play within a play, the lost audience eventually gives up on keeping track of the many characters each actor plays and learns to get lost in the magic of recurring characters like David Foster Wallace and Thomas Pynchon. Bwog was super meta&#8217;d out, but must recommend LateNite to everyone if only to see &#8220;My Nutty Friends.&#8221; Each member of the ensemble executes their random piece of the puzzle with incredible enthusiasm and expertise. Together they're nothing short of meta-bulous. 
For about the past half an hour, freshman students were marooned outside Hartley, Wallach and John Jay after a rogue washing machine in Hartley caught fire. "I was going to do my laundry in the Hartley laundry room, and it was filled with smoke." A few minutes later, "The entire hall was filled with smoke," said the freshman who first encountered the flaming cleaner of clothes. Public safety is now letting students back in, though they initially said the wait would be closer to an hour. Students reentering John Jay have noticed that the stairwells smell heavily of smoke. We were under the impression that laundromats were way more fun.&nbsp; -DJB 
 If you have a bike, and you store it at Barnard, you may wake up on Tuesday to find it suddenly gone. Don't worry, though, it's not being sold in another borough. Barnard is conducting a bike toss on Tuesday, getting rid of any bikes that are being improperly stored on campus. Apparently, "misuse of this installation for permanent bike storage, or transient bike storage in unauthorized areas is unsightly, and in some cases unsafe." How do you go about saving your bike from destruction? According to Barnard's Facebook note, aspiring Lance Armstrongs need to move their bikes to the 117th Street bike rack, and attach an "Active Tag," available from Barnard Facilities. Otherwise, all the effort to avoid theft may go for naught.&nbsp; 
 Men's Tennis: The men's tennis team clinched a share of the Ivy League title last night, with a 5-2 win over Penn at the Dick Savitt Tennis Center. With a 5-1 record in the Ivy League, the Lions can win the league outright by beating Princeton tomorrow. Match starts at 1 p.m. in Princeton. Baseball: Although they lost 3 of 4 games against Princeton last weekend, and now have a conference record of 5-7, the Lions remain tied for first place with Princeton and Cornell in the Gehrig Division of the conference. After beating Fordham 5-3 on Wednesday, the Lions return home for four games against Cornell. Games are at Robertson Field at 12 and 3 p.m. both today and tomorrow. Track and Field: The track and field teams competed in both the Sun Angel Track Classic in Tempe, Arizona, and the Joe Hilton UNC Classic in Chapel Hill. At the UNC Classic, first-year Sharay Hill set a school record in the 200m dash, while in Tempe, junior Serita Lachesis and sophomores Jacqueline Drouin and Jeff Moriarty set NCAA regional qualifiying times in the women's 800m, women's 1500m, and men's 800m respectively. Moriarty in fact came from behind to win his race in a photo finish - Bwog highly recommends watching it. Rowing: Following the historic win over Penn and Princeton last Saturday, the heavyweight eight race Yale and Penn in the Blackwell Cup, over in Orchard Beach Lagoon at 6:10 pm. The lightweight eight, which lost to Yale and Penn last week, is racing in the Geiger Cup against MIT and Cornell in Cambridge. The women's eight has the weekend off.&nbsp; Softball: After being swept by Princeton over the weekend, and losing two games to Manhattan midweek, the softball team looks to rebound against Cornell, with two doubleheaders at Baker Athletics Complex. The doubleheaders start at 12:30 today and tomorrow. Women's Tennis: The women's tennis team looks to get at least one Ivy League win in their final match, against Princeton at noon tomorrow. Golf: After finishing 4th out of 14 teams in a rain-shortened Princeton Invitational, the men's team is in Indiana this weekend for the Purdue Invitational. The women's teamare hosting nine schools in Suffern, New York in the Roar-EE Invitational. 
The steps, at about 2:10 p.m. Bwoggers report that it's gotten significantly more crowded since then - check back with Bwog later for Bacchanal photos. - Photo by JMB 
 Bacchanal is upon us, and the week's most eagerly-anticipated festivity has come and gone.&nbsp; All Bwog can hear now is the obnoxiously soothing tooting of a zampo&#241;a from the street fair on the East side of Broadway.&nbsp; But only moments ago, Talib Kweli asked us "who here listens to hip hop music?"&nbsp; And, after a little coaxing and some repetition, the mass of predominantly white fist-pumping students said, "yeeaaaaaah."&nbsp; Regardless, the beats were thick (like the crowd), everyone sweated and screamed, and there was much rejoicing. Of course, several moments before Kweli took the stage was, well, Bwog's run out of snappy monikers, and all we can say is: Vampire Weekend!&nbsp; Returning!&nbsp; Triumphantly.&nbsp; Since the Bacchanal staff were chucking plastic wayfarers into the crowd, anyone tall enough to snatch one could instantly gain some hipster cred as they bopped along to "A-Punk" or "Bryn."&nbsp; Onstage banter consisted of reminiscing from Ezra--"we played this song at our first concert...memories..."--and offstage banter was mostly Barnard girls and imported NYU kids singing along like their lives depended on it.&nbsp; Nary a boat-shoe in sight, but there are pictures (more to come once cameras charge) after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - JPMB, photos by JPMB, Matthew Rendely, and Rajib Mitra 
 Bwogger Eliza Shapiro may be a full year away from the CC dose of Freud, but that didn't stop her from getting up for this semester's CC Coursewide Lecture. Groggy CC sophomores and their balding elbow-patched professors filed into Miller Theater Friday morning for a coursewide lecture given by Jonathan Lear, a professor at our long lost cousin college, University of Chicago. Lear was introduced by Michael Stanislawski, Nathan J. Miller Professor of History and Chair of CC, who, after surveying the room, which was relatively crowded but certainly did not contain the 1,000+ sophomores that technically should have been there, remarked: &#8220;I&#8217;m glad to see that our policy of mandatory attendance has been realized.&#8221;&nbsp; Lear, who is also trained as a psychoanalyst, has written a number of books that might make for some pleasant summer reading, among them &#8220;Ethics in the Face of Cultural Devastation&#8221;, &#8220;Happiness, Death and the Remainder of Life&#8221;, and simply, &#8220;Freud.&#8221; Lear began his talk a brief praise of the Core and assured us that he is &#8220;very committed to teaching within our Core at Chicago&#8221;. Before launching into the meat of his talk, he suggested that those especially interested in Freud consult his clinical material in addition to his theoretical works, which often are &#8220;very, very hard to connect with.&#8221; At this point, ambient jazz music began to float in from nearby rooms, startling some sleepy &#8217;11-ers. He went on to discuss the parallels between Freud&#8217;s work and the first book his audience skimmed this year: Plato&#8217;s Republic. He related the fundamental intention of both Plato and Freud as dealing with the &#8220;trajectory of concern with the human condition,&#8221; and pointed out an element of particular fascination for both men: &#8220;we are the only creatures we know of who care about finding out who we are, yet we also want to avoid finding the answer.&#8221; Lear spoke about Plato&#8217;s preoccupation with the well-ordered nature of the universe and his idea that humans are the exception to this order, related to the Greek notion of justice. &nbsp; Lear began to wrap up with a focus on psychoanalysis in general and shared an anecdote from his own practice: a compelling story of a woman with a long history of alcoholism in her family who serially dated alcoholics. Lear mentioned the popular idea of the &#8220;third-time loser&#8221; in relation with this story, as his patient was having particular trouble with the third alcoholic she was dating. Lear used this story as a moment to start discussing the stigma of sex within psychoanalysis, leading him to a discussion of the opposing emotional and rational human psyches. He got his one true belly laugh of the morning when he imagined what emotional, visceral side would say: &#8220;let&#8217;s just really&#8230;have some sex.&#8221;&nbsp; Lear&#8217;s final argument related to the title of his lecture, &#8220;On Getting Stuck and Not Fitting In&#8221;, and was that psychoanalysis differs from other kids of &#8220;talking cures&#8221; in that it encourages patients to become &#8220;more comfortable and creative with the fact that they don&#8217;t fit in as much as they&#8217;d like to.&#8221; He shared a quote from Thomas Mann&#8217;s Magic Mountain to conclude: &#8220;I&#8217;m getting used to not getting used to it.&#8221; (photo by the University of Chicago) &nbsp; 
 The men's heavyweight eight won their fifth race in a row last night, defeating 14th-ranked Yale and Penn for the Blackwell Cup at Orchard Beach Lagoon, N.Y. The Lions won the event with a time of 5:54.0, two seconds ahead of Yale and 13 ahead of Penn. The Varsity Eight has yet to lose this spring, and will compete next week for the Doc Lusins Trophy against Boston University and Syracuse.&nbsp; In other sports results, the lightweight eight finished second place in the Geiger Cup (losing to Cornell, but defeating MIT), Gabrielle Geronimos scored with less than 40 seconds to go for the women's lacrosse team first Ivy win of the season (11-10 over Harvard), and both baseball and softball split their first doubleheaders with Cornell (photo by Columbia University Athletics). - JCD 
 Another blog has discovered our friend Sarah Dooley.&nbsp; Yes, her character is a lot like Michael Scott, but so much cuter! A Columbia grad student played in that intertubes-inspired concert at Carnegie Hall: "I haven't hardly played at all." Drought in Africa: yes, it could happen, and it's happened before: "startling." Ever wonder what happens in that underground lab by Avery?&nbsp; It's the behavioral labs for the Center for Research on Environmental Decisions.&nbsp; A reporter discloses the horrors within. Studying at a university that crushes your self-esteem, remind yourself now and again that you have skills.&nbsp; It'll raise your grades by one third of a grade.&nbsp; Hopefully.&nbsp; Maybe. The J-School, with PrezBo's impetus, is leading the way in adapting its curriculum to the post-print world.&nbsp; In love with newsprint?&nbsp; First, learn Photoshop. The world's largest collection of pop music is now available for your perusal at a library near you.&nbsp; Hopefully, most of it is pre-Britney. News flash: Ivy League tuition is expensive.&nbsp; So we've signed up for a government supplement fund to help GI's complete their education here. 
 Bwog Chocolate Specialist Lydia DePillis excitedly reports: "Huge platters of brownies outside Roone for Days on campus!" Need we say more?&nbsp; Run! 
 Spring is in the air and lovers are marrying on the steps today.&nbsp; Or, at least, pretending to.&nbsp; Hangama, the annual Pakistani mock wedding, will be on the steps today from 3:00 to 5:00 PM.&nbsp; They're already setting up, although no one has yet spotted the majestic white horse that will ride through the gates. The Chicken and Rice cart (officially "The Halal Guys"), however, is almost done setting up.&nbsp; The famed questionable combination will be on the steps this evening.&nbsp; It's not free, but one tipster associated with the event says the food will be available at a "reduced price." And while you're gorging yourselves, enjoy performances by Bhangra, Taal, Dhoom, and Raas.&nbsp; It'll be a good show, so enjoy the mild weather and last bit of freedom before the dash to finals. Photo by AB 
 The fire is out, the smoke has cleared, and a half-dozen people probably lost half their wardrobe. Our official Charred Carnage Expert David Berke was wandering by Hartley this morning and noticed that the offending dryers were being unceremoniously evicted from the building. &nbsp; Take a quiet moment now in memory of those monstrous sock-eaters that lost their lives two days ago.&nbsp; And try not to stare. More schadenfreude after the jump. Photos by DJB 
Although no official announcement has been made (yet), Bwog tipsters have informed us that this year's valedictorian and salutatorian will be Emily Clader and Mollie Schwartz. Clader, a Mathematics/Philosophy double major, was also early Phi Beta Kappa, and a Bach Society alto to boot. Schwartz, a chemical physics major, is no stranger to prestigious awards: last year she won a Goldwater Scholarship. Congratulations to both! - JCD 
 CQA and company are sponsoring tonight's midnight snack for you Butler-ites and friends. The follow-up to last semester's Queer Sushi is Queer Cupcakes, and it's in the Satow Room at the strange time of 11:45 PM. The tasty cakes in the CQA-sponsored picture look delicious.&nbsp; Their real life counterparts are from the Buttercup Bake Shop. Queer Cupcakes is partially geared towards this weekend's Days on Campus groups that probably have little else to do so late at night.&nbsp; Always the welcoming host, Bwog recommends that you get there before they do. 
 Here's a trippy opinion piece called "The Benefits of Smoking" that doesn't contain a single word. Pete Seeger lived through the 60's. That must have been so sick, man. Wait, why was he at Teacher's College again? No one will ever suspect you if your eyes are a little red today: "everyone knows" we don't sleep anyway. Facebook and religion. That's what it's all about, dude. It's all this massive social construct. Like, the Facebook guy just wants us all to buy into this system of organized religion. We have to fight it; we have to fight back against Facebook. Yeah, yeah, definitely. Wait, I'm so hungry right now. Cheetos?&nbsp; 
 The organizers Bacchanal have noticed that it is not an especially lovely day outside, and, unfortunately, have had to do something about it. The two outdoor activities for today-- the Neal Goldberg lunchtime acoustic show and the screening of Alice in Wonderland-- have both been postponed due to imminent rain.The acoustic show has been moved to bagel brunch on Sunday, 4/26, and the movie will be screened on Friday, 4/24 from 8-10 on Low, right before Capture the Flag from 10-12. Those spending most of the day in a haze will be glad to know that, although there will be no trippy movie to accompany their celebratory state, Taste of Morningside Heights is still on from 3:30-5 to satisfy their munchies for a good cause. - ECS 
 Move out day seems eons away and we know you have approximately 100 million pages to read and write before then, but that hour when every last scrap in your room has to be gone lingers on the horizon. To start the cleanup process in an earth-friendly way, search your room for any old plastic bags you forgot to throw out and bring them to College Walk today between 12:30 and 4. If you bring more than 15 plastic bags, you'll get a free tote bag from EarthCo in celebration of Earth Week.&nbsp; Edit 1:55 PM: Event canceled due to rain. We'll keep you posted with rescheduling. 
 A mild Sunday night meeting started off with some great news: the Bacchanal College Days T-shirts had been universally praised and were in high demand.&nbsp; In true Columbia form, however, the only leftovers are extra-large.&nbsp; And speaking of Bacchanal, the Campus Life Committee had originally wanted to have a pre-concert festival was originally planned for Saturday, but were told that it "needed to be silent."&nbsp; George Krebs offered no further explanation other than that they had actually been considering a mime show. The majority of the meeting was spent on familiar topics: meal plans and substance policies.&nbsp; After last week's hullaballoo, the upper class meal plan is no longer part of the Ferris Booth proposal.&nbsp; Those optional meal plans have already been adjusted by increasing the number of meals in most plans and adding "free meals" to each plan. In order to save the struggling venue, however, both sides are still pushing for John Jay-style swipe access.&nbsp; Breakfast would be priced from $6-7, lunch from $8-9, and dinner from $10-11.&nbsp; It would be a continuous swipe system (much like the system John Jay will transition to by 2010) and no, the food won't go down in quality, though portions may be reduced. Curses! As far as alcohol policy is concerned, George Krebs and Adil Ahmed woefully acknowledged that the administration is getting stricter by the minute.&nbsp; The events that allow alcohol, such as Lerner Pub and First Friday, are grandfathered in from better times.&nbsp; But even with those special cases, leftovers from Lerner Pub had to be poured out after the party ("blasphemy," noted Robyn Burgess).&nbsp; For next year, alcohol may be saved until the next Pub event, but with strict accountability for every single container involved. The most heated discussion came, predictably, with the new tobacco policy.&nbsp; It is an initiative of Health Services, with the help of VP of Student Auxiliary Services Scott Wright and Chief of Administration Michael Novielli.&nbsp; The proposed plan is simple: smoking will be banned within the university gates, no exceptions.&nbsp; Health Services argue that it's not fair that Barnard and Teachers' College are smoke-free while their bigger neighbor isn't.&nbsp; In addition, "statistics" show that campuses that ban smoking have an overall lower number of smokers. Ahmed said enforcement will be "mostly through signage," prompting laughter around the room.&nbsp; Health Services is not considering the inconvenience to smokers or employees, such as the additional time it may take to leave campus for a cigarette break, because their focus is on health and safety (and cigarette breaks are not part of Columbia employee contracts).&nbsp; Other council members raised concerns that the signage would be a waste of money if the ban were not properly enforced and that we'd simply be pushing the problem outside our gates instead of dealing with it with cessation programs.&nbsp; Ahmed responded that the university has been engaging local bars and restaurants in "negotiations" over where the smokers will go, and Burgess informally proposed a summer recess trial run to see if the signs work. In a straw poll, all but two of the council members were against the ban.&nbsp; Wright and Novielli might come to next week's meeting to make presentations, but it's doubtful that they'll be able to change any minds. &#8211;AB 
 This year's Pulitzer Prizes are being announced at a J-School press conference right now, but why wait when they're already online? On the "Letters, Drama, and Music" side, Newsweek's Jon Meacham won in the biography category for his biography (duh) of Andrew Jackson, while Elizabeth Strout's Olive Kitteridge won in the fiction category. This year's big winner on the journalism side is the New York Times, which won 5 awards, including "Breaking News Reporting" and "International Reporting." More importantly, they recieved $10,000 for each award: that may come in handy. 
 Registering for classes isn't fun. It's stressful: your internet doesn't work, MusicHum and ArtHum are always full, you'll never finish your major, you'll never get into med school, you knew you shouldn't have left your ex (wait, what?). That's why, each semester, Columbia offers some truly funny classes that no one can actually take (except maybe the Butler Marxist) for you to giggle at. While you're furiously refreshing your browser to start clicking away the millisecond your registration slot begins, took a peek at some of Fall 2009's gems: Anthropology V3974 LOST WORLD/SECRET SPACES: MODERNITY AND THE CHILD DNCE BC 2501X: BIOMECHANICS FOR THE DANCER: THEORY AND PRACTICE DNCE BC 2561Y: APPLIED ANATOMY FOR HUMAN MOVEMENT Spanish W3455 WITCHES,SORCERERS/PROPHETS-SP German BC3012 IN LOVE WITH TELENOVELAS Comparative Literature and Society G6115 ANARCHY: HIST,THEORY,PROSPECTS Music S3395 SONIC GEOGRAPHY OF HIP-HOP A few more after the jump. Photo via barnard.columbia.edu/dance&nbsp; Art History W3845 THE GRAND TOUR Anthropology V3917 URBAN GUERRILLAS Comparative Literature and Society V3190 AESTHETICS OF THE GROTESQUE Architecture V3114 MAKING THE METROPOLIS Architecture A4718 FAKING IT Philosophy V2702 CONTEMPORARY MORAL PROBLEMS Philosophy G4565 RATIONAL CHOICE&nbsp; 
 In a two-part series on the eve of CCSC Elections, Bwog sat down with the dueling slates for 2010 Class Council. Below is our interview with Cliff Massey, Eve Phan, Asher Grodman, Ruqayyah Abdul-Karim, and Lena Fan of The Clear Party. CC juniors can also read our debate coverage, and can find our first interview, with The Party Party, here. Voting begins tomorrow.&nbsp; "You're running against a party with several incumbents - what do you think is the importance of experience on the council, and what experience do you bring to the council?" Cliff: For us, we think that real experience comes from being members of a diverse cross-section of the student body, of putting lots of events of different areas. Asher: Class council and the events at Columbia are often the same thing over and over again, and to people inside of it, they&#8217;re think about doing these. And so when you&#8217;re within, you&#8217;re lacking at just those events, but with us, we look at branching out. Cliff: We understand what goes into planning an event &#8211; we&#8217;ve reserved space, we&#8217;ve know what administrators to talk to. So in that sense we have a lot of experience for what takes up much of the class council&#8217;s time. What is your opinion of the "War on Fun," and how do you plan to improve next year's senior class events? Cliff: We all have our own separate experiences in working with the &#8220;war on fun.&#8221; As head of ABC&#8217;s Policy committee, I&#8217;ve worked on the alcohol policy for groups, and I know how groups can be frustrated with certain requirements like proctors and so forth. In terms of actual groups and actual events, our actual goal is to push the administration for the return of 40s on 40.&nbsp; While I thought that the &#8220;Senior Playpen&#8221; was fun, we&#8217;re looking into increasing the variety of alcohol and live performances. Eve: Yeah, if Lerner Pub has to have a one drink per hour ratio, then we want people to stay in between. Asher: But with all this, we need to also look at branching out, and making people aware of what&#8217;s going on on campus All of us are from different backgrounds, from frats and cultural groups, and we all bring different experiences. Lena: As for residential policies, I think that while the new alcohol policy will be favorably received by seniors, and will go some way to reducing the belief that the school is &#8220;attacking&#8221; them or something. With concerns about the endowment, if CCSC were forced to make budget cuts, what would be your first priority to keep fully funded? Cliff: The first priority to be funded properly is probably going to be the traditional events like Lerner Pubs. Lerner Pubs, because it&#8217;s a four council event, is important because senior year should involve all the schools. Another area of our platform that we really feel strongly about is career services. Ruqayyah: Basically we want every senior to be equipped with basic skills when they graduate. I remember reading about CCE promoting a Columbia teaching Columbians program, and we&#8217;d love to do that within our own class. We met a senior while dormstorming who wanted to teach computer languages &#8211; a skill many of his classmates would find useful. Another example is the online career fairs &#8211; I for one couldn&#8217;t attend the premed career fair at the start of the semester, and having the specific information on the website could help. Eve: We also have the idea of major networking nights, where students from different majors can hang out, share ideas, and network. Lena: So in that sense using the resources that already exist, which actually keeps more money from being spent. Asher: And we can extend that to groups as well, with performing arts groups sharing space with study breaks for example.&nbsp; That promotes the arts groups, as well as the group holding the study break, and less food needs to be bought, and less space reserved. Cliff: And that kind of hits on one of our main philosophies as a ticket: council should act as one of those areas that all these diverse areas of groups and students can be tied together. Asher: I lived in McBain last year, and all the time people complained about leftover food from a study break. Often, those breaks were held by one group only, and that waste could be lessened if we bring more groups together to hold study breaks. What relationship do you hope to have with next year's executive board? Cliff: The relationship we hope to have next year is of course a close relationship, and especially as the senior class council, with three years of experience as Columbians under our belts, we want to get involved with those individual policy committees. We&#8217;ve talked about expanding cosponsorships, for example, so that CCSC can help out even more. I know most of the members of the exec board from class or from working with them: I&#8217;ve worked with Sue Yang in the past, I&#8217;m on ABC with Nuriel, and I&#8217;ve been discussing a campus life ideas with Daisy for several weeks, as you can see from our ideas. Asher: One idea is bringing more student groups to Bacchanal, getting more live performances and so forth. And what&#8217;s important for us is the memories of stuff like Senior Week and Lerner Pub. Cliff: This is not to say that we&#8217;ll neglect policy, but that&#8217;s of course the responsibility first and foremost of the VP for Policy. We&#8217;ll be the voice of the senior class&#8217;s ideas, but we also want to make sure that their year is memorable. Lena: And it&#8217;s about not just connecting groups, but people, so I&#8217;ve been talking with SEAS 2010 to do more events together, and we&#8217;re definitely looking forward to putting those on. What would you like to improve on from this past year's council? Ruqayyah: In general, I just didn&#8217;t really know what class council did, and I feel like if you want to be a representative of a class, people should be able to know who you are and how to approach you, and I&#8217;d like for us to be people that students can approach and we can help right away. Asher: Right now, there are systems for communication, but they&#8217;re laid back and most people aren&#8217;t aware that they exist.&nbsp; I had no intention of getting involved until I was talking with Cliff and I realized that class council can be a mechanism to bring everyone together. One example is athletes, which the council didn&#8217;t really work with this year, and people just need to be pushed to realize how fun these events can be. Cliff: Yeah, I didn&#8217;t realize how fun the basketball games until I started going. The really important thing here is that we know that we&#8217;re not the only ones who can plan events, and we want people to come to us with these great ideas, and we can use our resources to make those events even better. Asher: Yeah, right now, athletes and performing groups and frats just sort of do their own thing, not aware that others can come in and help out with. - JCD &nbsp; 
 On the eve of CCSC Elections, Bwog sat down with the dueling slates for 2010 Class Council. Below is our interview with AJ Pascua, Shirley Chen, and Joey Goldberg of The Party Party (not a typo). CC juniors can also read our debate coverage, and can find our second interview, with The Clear Party, here. Voting begins tomorrow. "You're perceived by some as the party of incumbents, yet many have also had problems with class council in the past - how important do you think that council experience is?" AJ: We&#8217;re also the party of a fresh perspective. Valerie, Joey and I have experience, but we also Shirley and Maximo, who are foreign to student government.&nbsp; They&#8217;re active in other groups, and they bring that fresh perspective. We have the best of both worlds. Shirley: When AJ&#8217;s explaining events to me, I can see how hard it is for someone with no experience to come in and get started right away. I think you need to have students with council experience Joey: I think that&#8217;s really the point to hit home: we&#8217;re not saying that the other party is not capable, but we&#8217;ve been to these events, and we understand what it takes to put on a given event, and make sure that these are memorable events. AJ: Both parties want to have Lerner Pubs, but Joey and I have been involved with the planning this year. We know who to talk to and how to put on these good events so the people have fun. What is your opinion of the "War on Fun," and how do you plan to improve next year's senior class events? AJ: In order for us to put on this alcohol-based events, we need to have a strong relationship with the administration. We have the strong relationship with alumni and administration to make sure these events get done. For example, we&#8217;ve had a relationship with the Class of 1960, and they&#8217;ve already agreed to give us a ton of funding for our events so that we can have a great senior week while they&#8217;re enjoying their 50th anniversary as a class. Shirley: As for events like Lerner Pub, we&#8217;re looking to increase the variety and quality of what is available there. AJ: Because the administration has its own views, which are different from ours compromises will inevitably happen. Our council cannot go in and be oppositional &#8211; 40s on 40 nearly didn&#8217;t happen, but once the two sides were able to compromise on an event, something actually did come out that, we&#8217;ve been told, many seniors enjoyed. But also, as people with contacts with administrators, we&#8217;re the council that can go right in and work with these people and make sure that the best events get put on. In light of concerns about the endowment, and by extension budgets in general, if CCSC were forced to make budget cuts, what would be your first priority to keep fully funded? AJ: First of all, we want to secure funding for all senior events. If we had to make a choice, we&#8217;d like to focus on Senior Week. While the other events are interspersed throughout the year, and while they do have their own pluses, Senior Week has a special place because of the memories students have of it. What relationship do you hope to have with next year's Executive Board? AJ: Sue Yang has been working with us, and we were elected with her. She&#8217;s been with Joey and I through sophomore and junior class year, and Sue and I are roommates as well. As a result, we plan to continue the close working and personal relationship that we&#8217;ve had for years, and that&#8217;s going to make senior year go even better. What would you like to improve on from this past year's council? AJ: An aspect we believe we can improve on is collaboration, not just with Barnard and SEAS student councils, but with groups across the campus. Just this week, we saw a big overlap with TBTN, the 2010 Class Dinner, and King&#8217;s Ball. It&#8217;s not any one person&#8217;s fault; it&#8217;s just that right now there&#8217;s different parts of the council doing different things. As part of that, we want to have representatives from cultural groups, arts groups, athletics, and Greek members on our class council. Through this, we hope to hear about all sorts of events coming up, and all sorts of ideas, and help out with the best ones, and help different parts of Columbia come together. Shirley: I know I&#8217;ve worked a lot with Asian cultural groups, and I know that there&#8217;s a lot of great events going on out there that don&#8217;t get a whole lot of publicity. I think that, as a council, we can do a lot to help cultural clubs, the performing arts community, the athletics community, the Greek community, or really any other interested campus groups. AJ: To sum up everything that we&#8217;ve said, we believe we have the best plan for the senior class, and the best resources to make it happen. 
 Bwog could not have asked for a better point of refuge from today's inclement winds and spitting rain than the Taste of Morningside Heights tent on Low Plaza, organized by Inside New York with help from the Center for Career Education and Bacchanal. Once inside the tent, we encountered delights far exceeding our imagination as well as the meager $5 charity entrance fee. We started our trip through local culinary heaven with Terrace in the Sky's hamachi with fish eggs, followed by shot glasses of spiced green tea with cucumber and carrot. There were also Milano sandwiches, vanilla flan and, uh, free drink stirrers from Havana Central, delicious slices of baguette from Community with olive tapenade and a fennel spread, and pretzels from Silver Moon Bakery. The crowd, which included many locals somewhat confused by the hordes of hungry undergrads, seemed to especially enjoy Mama Mexico's guacamole and their breaded shrimp. Campo and Cafe du Soleil offered almost identical mozzarella and tomato crostinis. The mystery wrapped inside an enigma that is Camille's dished out even more confusion: pasta salad, lemon squares, brown rice and brownies that had no taste. The inside of the tent was a mess: there were spilled green teas and lumps of guacamole everywhere, and we had to wade through discarded water bottles and plastic bags on our way to our third Lime Leaf spring roll. One frightened-looking Prospie lad, who had abandoned his sleeping bag on the wet ground as he dug into his snack, admitted that, despite the carnage, "this is a good reason to come to Columbia." These sentiments were echoed by the man at the front of the longest line under the tent: the crepe-creator of Crepes on Columbus. As we waited for our Nutella and strawberry crepes, he sang to us: "dreams come true at Columbia, I'm going to make your dreams come true." And he did. Thanks for the best food coma ever, Bacchanal.&nbsp; -ECS 
 A special late night note: Housing Services's Laundry Fire Experts have issued a diagnosis for the "small fire" that smoked out Quad residents (including SEAS prospies) on Friday night. "The fire was caused by an overload of clothing in one of the dryers. Many of the items in the dryer were synthetic, which compounded the problem. Synthetic articles, like nylon, should never be placed in a high temperature dryer."&nbsp; Taking advantage of the email to offer even more safety tips, Housing also reminds LLC residents to "please follow the manufacturer&#8217;s recommendations on how to properly launder and dry your clothing. Do not place flammable items in the dryers." And, just to cover all the bases, "please remember to empty the lint screen between each dryer cycle." You have been warned. As for the aftermath, "Housing Services has removed all of the machines and is currently working with Facilities to provide the cleanup. &nbsp;The laundry room in Hartley will be closed until Monday, April 27. In the meantime, the laundry room in John Jay Hall is available for use." At least it's good exercise! Full email after the jump. - JCD, picture by DJB Dear Hartley and Wallach Residents, As many of you may already know, there was a small fire in one of the dryers in the Hartley laundry room on Friday night. &nbsp;The fire was contained and promptly put out. No one was injured. The fire was caused by an overload of clothing in one of the dryers. Many of the items in the dryer were synthetic, which compounded the problem. Synthetic articles, like nylon, should never be placed in a high temperature dryer. To avoid future incidents, do not overload the dryers. &nbsp;Overloading is a fire hazard, and it does not allow your clothing to dry properly. &nbsp;In addition, please follow the manufacturer&#8217;s recommendations on how to properly launder and dry your clothing. Do not place flammable items in the dryers. &nbsp;Also, please remember to empty the lint screen between each dryer cycle. In order to repair the equipment and laundry room, Housing Services has removed all of the machines and is currently working with Facilities to provide the cleanup. &nbsp;The laundry room in Hartley will be closed until Monday, April 27. In the meantime, the laundry room in John Jay Hall is available for use. Thank you for your patience and cooperation. &nbsp;Please let us know if you have any questions by emailing housing@columbia.edu. Regards, Housing Services 
 Sometimes going green actually has effects that are dark and troubling. Like the sky right now. More Columbia students are going to China, presumably to get away from this weather. Read about these biking enthusiasts, then check the forecast and pity them. Let's hope Barnard's Athena Center can, uh,&nbsp;fly straight&nbsp;with this wind and drizzling and everything, and, um...well, that metaphor's not going anywhere. Does Athena even fly? There is nothing snarky&nbsp;about this article title. And it's a beautiful day outside. 
 Hippies: They know what's up. Hot off the heels of yesterday's holiday, during which certain sectors of the campus experienced an oddly intense, insistent hunger, Ben and Jerry's brings you Free Cone Day. It's the duo's annual way of showering you with affection and gratitude, and it's from noon to 8:00 tonight. The nearest store is 104th and Broadway, and yes, it's participating. Get a cone, pretend it's ten degrees warmer out, and daydream of May 16th. Cross over to Amsterdam and 105th for today's other deal: 50-cent iced coffees at Dunkin' Donuts. 10% of the profits go to Homes for Our Troops, a non-profit organization that builds and modifies handicapped-accessible homes for veterans. There's a video on the Dunkin' Donuts website about their partnership. Good luck venturing beyond Columbia's stately gates in the quest for a sugar and/or caffeine rush. 
 Despite all appearances to the contrary, Columbia is aware that there has to be a little give and take when it comes to the Core. Yes, the classes you have to take to graduate are also the ones that are impossible to get into. You know it. And they know it. That's why for Music Hum, Art Hum, and (for some reason) selected chemistry classes, seats are being released over the course of a few days, so that juniors and sophomores can have a shot.&nbsp;Can't get in right now? Follow Mystery's good advice and don't take your first rejection as the final word. Student Services recommends trying every few hours. By tomorrow, all the spots should be open. As for the physical education requirement, that's another story entirely. - CEE &nbsp; 
 Columbia College Student Council elections are now officially open! You&#8217;ve read the interviews. You&#8217;ve seen the debate. Now make your voice heard, CC students. As per outgoing President George Krebs' e-mail today, here are the candidates and the log-in for the ballot. The voting process this time around requires you to rank all the candidates for each position in order of preference (see our CCSC wrap-up for further explanation). This is a curious choice for a year in which almost all the races are uncontested, but you can take the opportunity to linger lovingly over your write-ins. Let your muse guide you. You have until tomorrow night, at 7:00. Take care, and remember these are the people who will control your 40s on 40. Oh, and hey, GS students! Today is your last day of GSSC elections! Candidates, ballot: Get on it! - CEE 
 Ed. note: Last night's ESC meeting in fact ended with an off-the-record portion of the meeting, which Bwog has confirmed included discussion of impeachment proceedings against an ESC member. ESC President Peter Valeiras declined to comment. The council is in the process of setting up a survey to see if engineering student would be interested in implementing a Pass/Fail/Uncover option, similar to the system implemented at Columbia College. Though members of the council are concerned that some people will be less likely to respond to the survey because it is so late in the year, President Valeiras said that the sooner they get a large response from students, the faster the administration can begin work on implementing the system. Attempts to cancel classes on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving have failed in the University Senate. The Senate wants the council to discuss the issue with the Committee on Instruction first. The engineering student council held their final election of the semester: director of technology. The first candidate, Michael Angerville, a sophomore computer-engineering student, got off to a rocky start when his PowerPoint presentation froze, but he quickly recovered. He said &#8220;computer technology is passion,&#8221; and since &#8220;people work harder on things they love&#8221; he would be an excellent director of technology, though he confessed he has not been working on any extracurricular computer projects due to his class load. His opponent, Shannon Tan, though much quieter and lacking a PowerPoint, spoke in depth about her web development work. She stressed her previous experience as a webmaster both on and off campus, and expressed her belief that website problems need to be resolved promptly. After deliberating, Shannon was chosen as the new director of technology for ESC. The 2012 council expressed their displeasure that secretary Whitney Green changed &#8220;pwned&#8221; into &#8220;pounded&#8221; on the meeting agenda, and there was much "lol"ing. Council members also clarified that gender blind housing, if implemented, would be used solely to enable male Columbia students to live with Barnard females at Barnard. It would have no effect on housing at Columbia. &nbsp; In a straw poll vote, members of the council voted against the new smoking policy, which would ban smoking within the campus gates. However, they said the administration should do more to enforce the current policy, which prohibits smoking near the entrances of buildings. The student services representative explained that if the new dining plan fails, then Ferris would be in danger of closing. She also explained that to bring John Jay up to Hewitt quality (with more made to order food), the kitchens and ventilation systems would have to be modernized, which would be a $20 million renovation. She stressed that John Jay does try to order the highest quality of food possible; it is the preparation that is poor. She said that if students are unhappy with food quality, they should fill out comment cards, because Dining pays more attention to comment cards than they do to student councils. Stuff the comment boxes! - SVZ 
 The 115th Annual Varsity Show will be upon us in less than two weeks, for four all-too-brief performances. The February preview promised a choreographed exorcism and drunken freshmen first-years galore. Does it get any better? Yes, if you're a Columbia College senior. Normally it's five dollars to get in, but CC'09 is offering two hundred $2 tickets to the Saturday, May 2 show to College card-carrying seniors.&nbsp;That's one and a half subway rides! Until the fare hike, anyway. The tickets lead you to a special '09 section where hors d'oeuvres will be served during intermission. Hors d'oeuvres.&nbsp;In Roone. It's got to be better than dashing out to 212 for a chocolate croissant made out of tree bark. Whether&nbsp;you anticipate each Varsity Show with avidity or need an excuse to get around to seeing one of these things in your last year, the deal is on the table. Just think about where you could go with that money! (Brooklyn, and half of the way back.) 
 Late-breaking drama in an otherwise uneventful election season: according to Elections Board Chair James Bogner, "a rules violation has been filed by The Party against the Clear Party. &nbsp;The complaint is regard to Facebook updates which allegedly occurred during moratorium. &nbsp;The Clear Party has submitted their response and the Elections Board is now in the process of adjudicating the complaint." Anonymous sources tell Bwog that, more specifically, the complaint concerns supporters of The Clear Party who updated their Facebook statuses with messages of support for The Clear Party after the beginning of the moratorium on campaigning at 9 p.m. on Monday. CCSC's Election Rules state that "rules violations committed by supporters will be treated as if the candidates committed them" (there currently is no exception for Facebook statuses), and that any "substantive" rules violations committed during the moratorium period "will result in automatic disqualification from the election." Bwog will keep you updated as the situation develops. UPDATE (9:42 p.m.): The Clear Party sent Bwog this statement: "We think that The Party Party has shown its true interest by filing this complaint. &nbsp;Rather than focus on the issues and ideas that actually affect our class, they would rather focus on Facebook status updates. &nbsp;We tried to reach a compromise with them tonight over the alleged violation, but they were unwilling to budge, claiming that the updates altered the election in a fundamentally unfair way. &nbsp;Because of their unwillingness to compromise, we may be looking at a delay in election results." The Party Party has not yet responded to requests for comment. UPDATE (12:41 p.m., Wednesday): The Party Party appears to have dropped the complaint, as they have told Bwog that "although Clear Party engaged in moratorium campaigning, The Party decided last night to move beyond the rules violation." - JCD 
 Sometimes kids don't pay attention to ceremonies they don't understand. Don't worry, they'll care more about their heritage later.&nbsp; Of course, young man, I'll let you use your laptop for non-academic purposes in class. Just this once. Fare hikes are a'comin! Good thing Columbia Alumni Association is on the case.&nbsp; Awkward life? There's always Xanga. Cold heart? Well... uh, don't go to Africa. 
 As if John Jay's courageous tray-elimination weren't enough! Dining goes the extra mile today with "Green Dinners" for Earth Day in John Jay and Hewitt. You should probably proceed with the usual caution, avoiding all meats and carbohydrates that appear green, but on your way out you might stop by a few of the student environmental groups that'll be tabling at the events. And, in all fairness, the "locally grown food" might be pretty good. If green food and the EcoReps' guilt-inducing waste buckets don't fulfill your earth friendly quota for the day, you could turn off some lights or something. Plus, Greenspiration, a series of events sponsored by various campus groups, will be running earth-related activities from now until Sunday. There are also Earth Fairs going on throughout the city this weekend - Friday and Saturday at Grand Central and Sunday in Central Park. There will be musical performances, tons of info on how to do good by Mother Earth, and probably some free stuff. Of course, if you want to feel like you've really done something really important, you should head to Times Square today to see New York City's best effort to diminish it's carbon footprint - The Green Ball Drop. Yes, we're talking about a big ball of green lights, all bright and shining, dropping at 12 noon to celebrate Earth Day.&nbsp; They're energy saving lightbulbs, but still.&nbsp; 
Thanks to a special tip from videographer Charles Kubal, BwogLive is proud to present you with recorded footage of Talib performing his (and Hi-Tek's) new song "Back Again" on your very own Low Plaza. If you don't recognize the title, don't worry, the original music video hit the internet just days before Bacchanal hit you. You probably remember it as that song where Talib had to take a water break before spitting a really fast, really long, awesome a capella rhyme that made the crowds go wild and Bwog feel a little dizzy. Check out Kubal's awesome footage, and remember Bacchanal fondly.&nbsp; 
 Spotted: Anthony Da Costa&#8211;the most electrifying thing to happen to acoustic guitar since actual electric guitars&#8211;at the Days on Campus activities fair, currently in Roone. Says he's definitely headed to Columbia in the fall, and has his sights set on living in John Jay. (Ladies, take note.) Plus: he's walking around with his mom&#8211;be still our hearts! &#8211;JNW 
 In November, Illinois and Columbia (and a few other places) combined their powers to win the White House. Now, Illinois comes to Morningside, as President Lee Bollinger has just announced that current University of Illinois Associate Provost Professor Feniosky Pe&#241;a-Mora will be the new Dean of SEAS. In his email, Bollinger wrote, "Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora comes to Columbia after six years at Illinois, where he is the Edward William and Jane Marr Gutgsell Endowed Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, a Center Affiliate at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and a Faculty Affiliate at the Beckman Institute." As a professor, Pe&#241;a-Mora, who earned his masters and doctorate at MIT, has taught civil engineering at both Illinois and MIT, as well as in Great Britain and Switzerland. His specific interests include "information technology support for collaboration in preparedness, response, and recovery during disasters involving critical physical infrastructures, such as the 9/11 terrorist attack and Hurricane Katrina," an area of expertise we sincerely hope he never has to apply to Columbia. Full email after the jump (photo from the University of Illinois). - JCD Dear fellow members of the Columbia community: I am extremely pleased to announce the appointment of Professor Feniosky Pe&#241;a-Mora as the new Dean of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, effective July 15, 2009. Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora has earned an international reputation for outstanding scholarship, teaching, research, engineering, and leadership in managing major university engineering programs at both MIT and the University of Illinois, where he has also served as Associate Provost. Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora comes to Columbia after six years at Illinois, where he is the Edward William and Jane Marr Gutgsell Endowed Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, a Center Affiliate at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and a Faculty Affiliate at the Beckman Institute. He earned a Master of Science (MS) degree in Civil Engineering and a Doctor of Science (ScD) in Civil Engineering Systems from MIT. Before joining the University of Illinois in 2003, Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora worked at MIT as Assistant Professor and Associate Professor of information technology and project management in the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department. He has also served as a visiting professor at Loughborough University in Great Britain and at the Ecole Polytechnique F&#233;d&#233;rale de Lausanne in Switzerland. Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora&#8217;s research interests include information technology support for collaboration in preparedness, response, and recovery during disasters involving critical physical infrastructures, such as the 9/11 terrorist attack and Hurricane Katrina. He has also worked on problems of management of large-scale civil engineering systems. Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora is the author of more than one-hundred publications in refereed journals, conference proceedings, book chapters, and textbooks on computer-supported design, computer-supported engineering design and construction, as well as project control and management of large-scale engineering systems. His publication, &#8220;Design Rationale for Computer Supported Conflict Mitigation,&#8221; received the 1995 award for best paper published in the American Society Civil Engineers&#8217; (ASCE) Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering. He is also the author of an influential textbook, Introduction to Construction Dispute Resolution (2002). Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora is the holder of the 1999 National Science Foundation CAREER Award and the White House Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). More recently, he has won the 2007 ASCE Walter L. Huber Civil Engineering Research Prize. In 2008, he was recognized with the ASCE Computing in Civil Engineering Award for outstanding achievement and contribution in the use of computers in the practice of civil engineering. Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora also has extensive practical experience in the fields of engineering and applied science. He is a professional engineer registered in the Dominican Republic and has been a key figure in a variety of international projects. He has founded high-tech startup and consulting companies and has worked with both the construction industry and governments in various countries, including Argentina, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, and Japan. Columbia is fortunate to welcome such a remarkable new engineering dean at a time when the school is becoming ever more central to the University&#8217;s mission &#8211; from its interdisciplinary work with our medical center in the life sciences and the Earth Institute in climate science to its pioneering service-learning curriculum that is a national model for civic engagement between university and community. I want to extend my thanks to Interim Dean Jerry Navratil for his effective leadership at SEAS these past two academic years. I would also like to thank Provost Alan Brinkley and all the students, faculty, staff, and alumni members of the search committee for their hard work and enthusiastic recommendation of Professor Pe&#241;a-Mora for this vital leadership role at Columbia. The success of their efforts is obvious. For the present, please join me in welcoming Feniosky Pe&#241;a-Mora and his family to the Columbia community. &nbsp; Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger &nbsp; 
If The Party Party wins its race against The Clear Party, it won't be because of disqualification. According to Elections Board President James Bogner, early this morning, the CCSC Elections Board and current CCSC president George Krebs ruled that "there was not sufficient evidence presented by The Party to prove that the Clear Party, 'encouraged, requested or solicited' according to the Candidate Rules and Regulations, the support of those making changes to their Facebook page." Voting ends tonight at 7 pm. The explanation emailed to the parties after the jump. - JCD To whom it may concern: At 10:26 am on April 21, 2009, The Party Party filed a rules violation&nbsp;against the Clear Party. In their claim, The Party Party stated that&nbsp;the Clear Party had violated the moratorium because their (the Clear&nbsp;Party's) supporters updated their Facebook status showing their support&nbsp;for the Clear Party. The Party Party cites Section 3c of the rules:&nbsp;"Rules violations committed by supporters will be treated as if the&nbsp;candidates committed them." The rebuttal of the Clear Party was that The Party Party had had its&nbsp;supporters change their Facebook profile pictures to a campaign flyer&nbsp;for The Party Party. The CCSC Elections Board decides that there has been no rules violation. This decision references the specific definition of supporters also defined in Section 3c: "Candidates are responsible for&nbsp;the campaign-related actions of those whom they encourage, request, or&nbsp;solicit to support the campaign." Thus, while members of the Clear&nbsp;Party did publicly approve the profile updates made by student body&nbsp;members, it cannot be concluded from the evidence provided that the&nbsp;Clear Party solicited these endorsements. Thus, it is the Elections&nbsp;Board's decision that there has been no rules violation. The Elections Board
 Let's be honest: this semester's been pretty lacking for controversial speakers. Until now, that is. Yes, famous author, commentator, and hater-of-all-latte-sipping-liberals Ann Coulter is coming to Columbia this May 4th. Coulter is being brought by the Columbia College Republicans and the Columbia Conservative Forum, with assistance from Young America's Foundation and the Clare Booth Luce Policy Institute (Coulter's speaking fee is typically $20,000), and will speak at 8 p.m. in Altschul Auditorium in IAB. Her speech will be followed by a signing of her latest book, Guilty: Liberal "Victims" and Their Assault on America. No doubt many measured repartees will accompany the signings. Not surprisingly, the event will be ticketed, with passes available starting either Sunday or Monday at the Lerner Box Office and at CUArts online. Should be a blast (photo from Wikimedia Commons). - JCD 
 Want to go to the Venice Biennale this year, you eager little Art History major you? Uh, YES. Well, the Columbia Alumni Association can take you!&nbsp; Kinda, sorta, ish. They can take you to all sorts of cool events once you're already there. In order to get to Venice, they recommend that you... spend your (parents'?) money at their favorite travel agency. Yeah, it's probably the richer end of the alum spectrum that would go to an event like this, surely expected to purchase their own tickets. But it seems that, fortunately or unfortunately, this email went out to all CC and SEAS students as well. Bwog thinks we should pool our resources for a sailboat. Full email (with pretty picture of Venice) after the jump. &nbsp; 
 The results are in: Sue Yang is your new CCSC president, and Cliff Massey and Aki Terasaki have won their respective class council races. Massey defeated incumbent president AJ Pascua with 64% of the vote, while running mate Eve Phan won the vice-presidency over current 2010 rep Valerie Sapozhnikova. It was not a clean sweep for the Clear Party, though, as Party Party rep candidate Maximo Cubillette will join Clear Party candidates Asher Grodman and Lena Fan as senior class representatives. Current BSO president Ruqayyah Abdul-Karine was the only Clear Party candidate not to win, though she too would have won if the Council had not implemented instant runoff-voting this year. At the 2012 level, it was a clean sweep for Access Columbia, led by presidential Aki Terasaki and vice-presidential candidate Sarah Chai. They will be joined next year by Kenny Durrell, Brandon Christophe, and Jasmine Senior. The rest of the candidates ran unopposed, including Yang's Action Potential Party (Sarah Weiss, Deysy Ordonez, Sana Khalid and Nuriel Moghavem) and incumbent 2011 president Learned Foote's ticket. The rest of the results, and more helpful graphics, after the jump. - JCD &amp; JYH CONTESTED RACES Class of 2010 President&nbsp; &nbsp;Candidates Votes (out of 339) &nbsp;Cliff Massey 219 &nbsp;AJ Pascua 118 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Class of 2010 Vice-President &nbsp;Candidates &nbsp;Votes (out of 337) Evelyn Phan 226 Valerie Sapozhnikova 106 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Class of 2012 President&nbsp; Candidates Votes (out of 243) Aki Terasaki 173 Michelle Kwak 41 William Prasifka 27 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Class of 2012 Vice-President&nbsp; Candidates &nbsp;Votes (out of 244) Sarah Chai 165 Brandi Ripp 56 David Lynch 23 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;UNCONTESTED RACES 2011 Class Council&nbsp; Candidate Votes&nbsp; Learned Foote (Pres) 136 out of 140 Sean Udell (VP) 129 out of 131 Tom Amegadzie (Rep) 125 out of 135 Alexandra Coromilas (Rep) 125 out of 135 Sonya Chandra (Rep) 125 out of 135 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Senate Candidates Votes (out of 710) Alex Frouman 517 Tim Lam 176 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Pre-Professional Candidates Votes (out of 584) Melissa Im 573 &nbsp; &nbsp; Student Services Candidates &nbsp;Votes (out of 688) Stephanie Wilhelm 346 Priyanka Gumaste 333 &nbsp; &nbsp; Academic Affairs &nbsp;Candidates Votes (out of 656) Gilad Bendheim 647 &nbsp; 
 &nbsp;-Via Alternative Film Guide PrezBo says he reads Bwog...and brings out his puppy again (getting a little old). A Morningsider will run SEAS. Spar does not bring any puppies to her chat. Next year's slate of CCSCers celebrate. 
 Bwog's Japanese Culture in Small, Enclosed Units Specialist Liz Naiden has evaluated the sushi of Morningside, and she has some surprising results. Pre-made sushi is the best food from a box (though only the second best thing that can be in a box) there ever could be. It's refreshing, healthy, readily available, and you can get it for pretty cheap if you are willing to venture outside of Columbia Dining. Pretty much every food spot with a fridge sells box sushi these days--Westside, Morton, M2M--the list goes on. So where do you head for the freshest, cheapest, most perfectly succulent California roll? Bwog's pick is undoubtedly M2M. Not only do lots of Asian people shop there (always a good sign), but M2M has got the goods for a damn good price. The California rolls are $3.50 for white rice and $4.00 for brown, and they are fresh, plump, juicy, and tightly rolled. This may be partly due to the nice big serving of avocado, an ingredient on which M2M's competitors tend to skimp. Morton is a close second with California rolls of brown and white rice going for $4.95 each. These are pretty good--a good hand put them tightly together--and the ingredients taste fresh all around. The only exception was the slightly stale, sesame seed-coated brown rice, which our official taste testers found "a little tiresome." Admittedly, not all taste testers understand the brown rice "heath nutty whatever" craze. Westside, though farthest from Butler, is generally a favorite for price, freshness, variety and jovial atmosphere. Unfortunately, not where sushi is concerned. You can tell from the minute you find yourself wandering the depths of the store to find the sushi that Westside is not a good idea. Westside's sushi tends to be stale, square, and thinly cut. There is a healthy serving of roe on top, but the sushi is still an inferior pariah, relegated to second class status in the back of the market. No view of the sushi from the front of the store means no impulse buyers (yeah, that's why the desserts are there) and stale sushi. You'd think they'd be offering a fine little deal to sell the stuff from back there. But alas, $6.50 a pop, when you've walked that far, is no deal. -LN 
 &nbsp;-Via the Eye How does the Christian minority (also known as almost 80 percent of our country) do it? Does John Jay Dining abuse animals? Trick question: you're an animal, so yes. How is the Barnard dance department academic? Why would Ben Folds do A Cappella? &nbsp; 
 Bored with hearing lawyers talk about law, the Columbia Pre-Law Society held a Q&amp;A Tuesday night with Steven Chaikelson, director of the Theater Management and Production Program at the School of the Arts. Bwog&#8217;s Lawyers In Disguise Specialist James Rathmell was there to hear his story. Though the Columbia Pre-Law Society has been pushing for a totally new direction in Pre-Law, inviting Steven Chaikelson to speak isn&#8217;t as strange as it seems. He may currently serve as director of Theater Management at Columbia&#8217;s School of the Arts, but Chaikelson's career has been based from the beginning on the integration of the entertainment and legal profession. He set the precedent at Columbia for the dual degree in law and theater management (he obtained his MFA and JD in 1993), though maybe it would be better to keep those things apart. The audience for Tuesday&#8217;s Q&amp;A was small enough that Chaikelson asked everyone to introduce themselves and describe their interest in law before he introduced his own background in law and theater. Chaikelson held a strong passion for theater throughout college (he was head of BCMT, which is now part of CU Players, for two years), yet he came from a family of lawyers, who encouraged him to go into law as a stable career.&nbsp; After graduating CC in 1989, he began to search for programs that offered a joint major in theater and law. &#8220;I told my parents that I can always fall back on law as a stable career,&#8221; he said, but after graduating law school in a climate where there was little demand for lawyers, &#8220;I told my parents, &#8216;Don&#8217;t worry, I have the theater degree to fall back on.&#8217;&#8221; Though he entered grad school with two passions, Chaikelson did end up mostly in the theater world. He has worked on several very high profile Broadway productions throughout his career: he served as Assistant Company Manager for Les Miserables and Company Manager for The Lion King. But Chaikelson still gets in touch with his inner lawyer as a "Lecturer-In-Law" at Columbia Law School. When asked if he regretted anything about his grad school choices, he joked that his main regret was that he didn&#8217;t take a speed reading course before entering grad school and found that he had no free time his first semester due to &#8220;the amount that had to read, integrate, and then spit back out the next day.&#8221; In terms of the transition between college and graduate school, he said that, &#8220;I had the misguided thought that I would just be able to continue as I was&#8230;I had a life.&#8221; Wait, a life in CC? Chaikelson had a lot of strong advice to give. He encouraged undergraduates to &#8220;think about and explore a vast array of subjects,&#8221; since in many grad schools (and particularly in law school), &#8220;students must divorce themselves from feelings &#8211; they must become cold and analytical.&#8221;&nbsp; He also referred to college as &#8220;a giant Facebook&#8230;it is a gigantic networking opportunity, so you should connect with people in a meaningful way.&#8221; But, more than anything else, he encouraged students to learn to balance their commitments and responsibilities. &#8220;In college, you have a paper due, and that&#8217;s your inbox. But once you start your career, you realize &#8216;My inbox is never going to be empty again.&#8217;&#8221; As he began to give his thoughts on the state of theater today, he expressed confidence that &#8220;there are people who can learn the box and then, the next moment, destroy the box. 21st Century theater needs people who can think differently.&#8221; However, he predicts that while &#8220;there&#8217;s no reason to panic&#8221; in the current economic climate, particularly for Broadway, &#8220;Non-profits are hurting right now, and it&#8217;s just the tip of the iceberg.&#8221; When asked about the most gratifying part of his career, Chaikelson responded, &#8220;The teaching, particularly the management and producing students. I live with them for two to three years and see them grow.&#8221; He also cited Fool Moon and The Lion King, the latter of which he referred to as &#8220;a once in a lifetime experience&#8230;a work of artistry.&#8221; In closing, he paused briefly then laughed and reiterated that students should really take a speed reading course if they want to go to graduate school, especially &#8220;if you want to have a life.&#8221; After all, the other road to having a life (getting one graduate degree at a time) is way too risky. You might end up actually becoming a lawyer. 
 Remember Miss Subway competitions? No, because they were discontinued after 1976 (save a one year revival in 2004). But we should all pretend to be nostalgic for them now that, with the help of a tipster, we have found a former Columbia student winner! After extensive research (read: some Googling), we know nothing about the smart and seductive Helen Lee except what her Miss Subway sign tells us. She studied Chinese, trained in voice and liked interior decorating and football games when "escorted by her Yale beau." Yale!? Okay, since your pastimes are as archetypal as you are beautiful, we'll forgive you. The Miss Subways just held a reunion, so maybe Helen was there! In completely unrelated alumna awesomeness, Megan McCain went on The View recently to praise her Alma Mater. "I was around all these, like, MENSA scholars," she said of her Columbia classmates, adding, "There's a really good school at Columbia that's specifically for math and science." The one downside is that she was comparing Columbia's prowess to The View and its hosts. But still, intellectual compliments? SEAS love? Looks like another high-profile alumnus just got one-upped. -DJB 
 &nbsp;-Via Tribeca Film Festival The City temperature will finally breach the 80s this weekend. It's a perfect opportunity to get out! Friday Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid Friday 6pm seating (8:15pm showing), World Financial Center Plaza North Cove (212-945-0505) In honor of the film's fortieth anniversary, the Tribeca film festival is sponsoring a free outdoor showing. It's nominally a drive-in, but pedestrians can find room anywhere. Check out the first of NYC's outside movies! Price: Free! New York Tropical Five Party Friday 10pm-4am, Glasslands Gallery 289 Kent Ave (718-599-1450) In honor of spring, this cute Riverside dive hosts a party featuring the music of Dominican musician Maluca. The beats will be lively electronic cumbia beats and African house mashups, keeping you dancing long into the night. &nbsp; Price: $7/5 before 11pm Saturday Saturday Wine Tastings Saturday 4-7pm, Chambers Street Wines 148 Chambers St (212-227-1434) Every Saturday, wine connoisseurs gather at this downtown wine shop to share their expertise and tastes with the public. Go enjoy the free booze and learn some impressive wine shoptalk. Price: Free! Family Hour with Auntie Sara Saturday 9pm, Ochi's Lounge at Comix 353 W. 14th St. (212-524-2500) Every Saturday, Auntie Sara gets together NYC's best comedians, and everyone shares hilarious stories from dysfunctional family lives. It's a show that never disappoints and is a good bet if you need to feel better about your life. &nbsp; Price: No cover, one drink minimum Elegantly Wasted Saturdays with Velizar Saturday 9pm-4am, Element 225 E. Houston St. (212-254-2200) This electronic dance party happens every Saturday, and always succeed to attract the very best of NYC's best young underground DJs, artists and musicians. &nbsp; Price: $10/5 will RSVP before midnight Sunday Sundays with Poe Sunday 2pm, under St. Marks 94 St Marks Pl Starting this week, every last Sunday of the month will be devoted to the ghoulish world of Poe's fiction. This month, the The Premature Burial, Berenice, Hop Frog, and Annabel Lee receive the Radiotheatre treatment, which will include original orchestrations, sound effects, and visuals.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; Price: $18 Reflections Sunday 6pm, Rubin Museum of Art 150 W. 17th St. (212-620-5000) A classy evening of poetry and classical music. Poet Robin Morgan puts her words to the music of violinist Gil Morgenstern. &nbsp; Price: $20 
 Bwog's Spirits-and-Scrolls Correspondent Anna Kelner attended a reading at the Ding Dong Lounge by author Zadie Smith. Provided with the opportunity to luxuriate under dimly lit chandeliers, splurge on a $2 Pabst Blue Ribbon, and hear one of Granta&#8217;s best 20 young authors of 2003 read from an unpublished novel, MFA students tore themselves away from their laptops on Wednesday evening to hear Zadie Smith (and, of course, five aspiring Zadie Smiths from the MFA program) read at Ding Dong Lounge. Smith is best known for her novel White Teeth, which was included by Time Magazine in its list of 100 Best English-language Novels from 1923 to 2005, among other honors.&nbsp; The novel highlights the immigrant experience in England with Smith&#8217;s trademark humor and keen understanding of character.&nbsp; Globalized, urban, and innovative, she stands as a writer of the modern world. And if there's one bar that stands for the modern world, it's the Ding Dong Lounge. Five MFA students read their work before Smith, pieces that ranged from starkly poetic to self-consciously digressive.&nbsp; Rachel Riederer began with an essay on her kitten&#8217;s string-eating habits; Garrett McDonough, an Irishman whom the presenter claimed was a Nigerian prince tragically &#8220;unable to access his rightful inheritance,&#8221; followed with a tongue-in-cheek essay on homelessness and finding fame in a cold Los Angeles winter; Julie Limbaugh shared two vignettes on Cuban men; Ben Pease read definitely American poems on milkshakes and cross-country road trips; Katherine Morris concluded with the tale of a love-struck, fatherless Southern girl.&nbsp; Knowing laughter followed each speaker, suggesting the audience&#8217;s closeness and transforming the room into one, big, Joyce-loving family. Zadie Smith concluded the evening, slinking up to the microphone in an elegant red turban and high heels. She shared an excerpt from an unfinished novel about two socially distinct women from London&#8217;s projects who meet and share an uncanny spiritual connection.&nbsp; She told the tale of Char, an abused, impoverished housewife who, driven to desperation, knocks at the door of Lear, a more educated, urbane woman. As she read, Smith&#8217;s voice seemed to pulsate, lending the story a tense excitement. Smith&#8217;s prose was far more poetic than the colloquial style exhibited in White Teeth, and her calm, focused tone highlighted its elegance. Smith&#8217;s reading also showed an intimate knowledge of her characters; she kept the narrator&#8217;s voice to deliver Lear&#8217;s speech, perhaps suggesting the latter character&#8217;s closeness to Smith, but slipped into a Cockney accent to capture Char&#8217;s hardened tongue. Smith&#8217;s characters may come alive on the page, but hearing her read their story with an energy and eloquence that few writers exhibit in person made the trip to Ding Dong more than worthwhile. 
 You wake up in your 30th floor Park West Village apartment before having breakfast at Whole Foods downstairs. You think about riding the subway to work, but economic hardship has forced the city to cut your local line. You instead hop into your green-roofed, solar-powered, bamboo car and take off for Columbia. You park near Bollinger's office in Furnald, since Low Library was damaged in the Coulter Riots of '09. You're meeting with PrezBo to encourage his support of Palestinian academic freedom. You're the latest in a long line to try, but no luck today. Maybe next year. 
Seven fire trucks and emergency management vehicles have congregated outside of the Nussbaum block this morning as smoke seeps out of the lower level. Nussbaum residents have been evacuated, though fire officials seem to be focusing their efforts on entering Community Food and Juice, where most of the smoke appears to be coming from. UPDATE (12:50 p.m.): Housing has sent the an e-mail to Nussbaum residents apprising them of the fire's impact on their residence. The e-mail is posted after the jump. Tipster Beatrice Lee sends us the following photo of the situation, which we will bring you updates on as news warrants.&nbsp; &nbsp; Dear Residents of 600 West 113th Street, Unfortunately, there was a fire in Community Food and Juice this morning, Friday, April 24, 2009. &nbsp;At this time, we are not fully aware of the damage to the student rooms in 600 West 113th Street because the Fire Department is still working in the building. &nbsp;We have been informed there is smoke and water damage, as well as some broken flooring and windows. &nbsp;This is particularly the case on the 2nd floor of the building. At this time, we are working with Facilities to prepare temporary rooms for any residents that will be displaced until repairs can be completed. &nbsp;After we are able to enter the building and determine the extent of the damage, we will be notifying residents that need to move to come to 125 Wallach for a temporary assignment. &nbsp;All residents of suites 2B and 2C should expect to move, and may come and wait in Wallach Lounge until temporary rooms are ready, once they have checked-in at 125 Wallach. Thank you for your patience and cooperation as we complete the necessary repairs to the spaces affected in the building. Regards, Housing Services 
 Bwog's Associate Literati Expert David Berke spent some time in the Kraft center with writer Paul Auster. He brings us this report. Paul Auster, acclaimed novelist and former Columbia undergrad, dropped by the Kraft Center for the final installment in the Literature and Terror lecture series. Because fiction and fright are like academic peanut butter and jelly, apparently. The conversation, moderated and often dominated by religion department chair Mark Taylor, started where all discussion of terror logically begins: baseball. Taylor, reminiscing about his own sports-obsessed youth (see &#8216;often dominated&#8217;), displayed some old baseball photos he had taken as a child. He then asked Auster to read from a nonfiction essay he had written about the origins of his writing career. Obliging, Auster recounted his visit to a baseball game after which his eight year-old self ran into Willie Mays, but, for lack of a pen, failed to obtain the mythic star&#8217;s autograph, motivating him to always carry around a writing utensil. According to the essay, it was a small jump from carrying the pen to putting it to paper. This pattern--Taylor framing a question with an outside source and Auster, in spite of the tenuousness of the query, giving a compelling answer--repeated itself for the rest of the evening. Taylor read excerpts from intellectuals like Roland Barthes and occasionally assigned sections of Auster&#8217;s works for Auster to read, which was bizarre. All in all, though this style was a little pedantic, usurping time that could have been spent listening to Auster, the lecture was still compelling. The best points were when Auster veered from the script Taylor had set. After reading the Mays story, which Taylor wanted to take in a particular diction, Auster added a postscript. Amy Tan, author of The Joy Luck Club, read Auster&#8217;s essay and managed to have it read to Willie Mays who, awestruck at the tale, autographed a baseball for Auster. The other problem with the evening was that the conversation had little to do with terror. Taylor and Auster discussed absence, loneliness, sports, translation, tightrope walking, typewriters and mortality, only sometimes touching on terror, which itself was never really defined. It seemed like excising &#8216;and Terror&#8217; would not have been such a bad idea. Given the second half of the Willie Mays story, perhaps Literature and Warm Fuzziness would have been just as fitting. 
It's Friday! Need even more incentive to blow off working ahead on that big paper? One of the Butler lawns is open! &nbsp; Quick, before the sun sets! Then again, temperatures are supposed to be in the 80s until Tuesday, so you've got plenty of time to enjoy the heat. &nbsp; - Photo by JCD 
 Though most Nussbaum residents can return to their rooms by 8 p.m. tonight, the effects of the Community Food and Juice fire may be felt for weeks to come. Housing officials say repairs are still in progress and some building utilities will be phased back into operation over the coming days. One elevator will be out-of-service until at least next week, while the laundry room will not be operating for an indefinite period. All stoves in the building will also be out-of-order until all damaged gas lines are repaired. Meanwhile, second-floor residents whose rooms were damaged by the smoke and fire can expect relocation to temporary housing on campus. Details can be found in a Housing e-mail posted after the jump. Dear Residents of 600 West 113th Street, Thank you for your cooperation as we work to restore and secure the building in the aftermath of the fire at Community Food and Juice. We are working closely with Facilities to complete the necessary work to secure all suites and rooms and to clean and repair the damaged spaces. Currently, Public Safety staff is monitoring the floors where the doors are not secured.&nbsp; Access is only permitted to residents being escorted by Public Safety, Housing or Residential Programs staff.&nbsp; Escorted residents may remove necessary belongings until they may return permanently. We expect to have the majority of the required work completed tonight by 8:00 pm.&nbsp; At that point, most residents will be able to return to their rooms.&nbsp; If you have key for a temporary room, you may keep the key through the weekend.&nbsp; Whether you stay in your room in 600, or the temporary room, please return the key to the temporary space to the Hospitality Desk by Monday at 12 noon. Returning residents should be aware of the following: - One elevator will be restored by 8:00 pm tonight and will go to the basement.&nbsp; The other elevator will be restored next week. - There will not be gas in the building until sometime next week. The stoves in the kitchens and the dryers in the laundry room will be off-line until the gas is repaired. - If you want to do laundry, you may use your Laundry Card at 601 West 113th Street; if you prefer to use Flex Dollars, you may use the laundry machines in any residence hall.&nbsp; Residents may get additional information about returning to their rooms by checking at the Public Safety Guard Desk in the lobby of 600 West 113th Street.&nbsp; If you have questions, please call or visit the Hartley Hospitality Desk in the lobby of Hartley Hall, 212-854-2775. Thank you for your continued patience and cooperation. Regards, Housing Services&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
 The General Studies Student Council results are in, and the big winner is apathy. New president-elect Katherine Edwards defeated Alfred Davis with 63% of the vote. She will be joined by Hannah Kim as VP Student Life, Jacqueline Thong as VP Finance, Clark Chaheine as VP Communications, and Scott Jurkowski as VP Policy. More notable, though, was the thorough lack of votes for several positions - in fact, there were no winners for the positions of senior class vice-president, sophomore class president and vice-president, alumni affairs rep, student services rep, or student workers rep, while the freshman class president and vice-president received a stellar fourteen votes. GSers,&nbsp; give yourselves a pat on the back - you had to work to be so indifferent. Full results after the jump. GSSC President Katherine Edwards: 212 Alfred Davis: 125 VP Policy Scott Jurkowski (WI): 50 Jenny Chong (WI): 29 VP Student Life: Hannah Kim: 220 Chin Kim: 47 VP Finance: Jacqueline Thong: 236 Allen Settle: 106 VP Communications: Clark Chaheine: 246 Social Chair Ashley Kemp: 146 Ellen Oh 113 University Senator Paul Zachary 154 Nathan Miller 129 Paige Lampkin (WI) 49 Academic Affairs Richard Adams (WI) 41 Alumni Affairs NO WINNER Student Services Rep NO WINNER Student Worker Rep NO WINNER International Student Rep Henry Wells 201 Delegate At Large Abiola Akinyemi 210 Delegate at Large: Vitaly Lenskiy 26 Senior Class President Brian Corman 97 Senior Class Vice-President NO WINNER Junior Class President Christopher Ideen 49 Marina Lamb 40 Elliot Shakelford 27 Sophomore Class President NO WINNER. Sophomore Class President NO WINNER First Year Class President Paul Darnell 14 First Year Vice President Keenya Powell 14 
 It's Friday night, and if you're short on bucks but long on boredom, there's plenty of free stuff to be had on campus. Postcrypt Art Gallery has free art, free models, free food, and&#8212;best of all&#8212;free wine in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. It's the last show of the year, and the theme is "Montage." Meanwhile, the week of festivities that is Bacchanal isn't over yet. Capture the Flag begins at 10 p.m. on Low Plaza after the Alice In Wonderland screening wraps up. If you like to rock the party and own a flashlight, tonight's your night. Do something&#8212;anything&#8212;just get out of your dorm rooms before another one catches fire. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo via RottenTomatoes.com Happy Saturday everyone!&nbsp; With highs in the low eighties and hope for more open lawns, Bwog can't help but feel a little bubbly this morning, not to mention pretty darn hungry.&nbsp; Luckily, Bacchanal has not one but two free food options today.&nbsp; Or, since they're consecutive, the option of six hours of free food in a row. First up is the "Bacchanal Hippie BBQ" (the title of which suggests it may not be for the squeamish) on Low Plaza from 1-4 PM.&nbsp; We're not comfortable even hazarding a guess at what charbroiled counterculturals taste like, but no doubt they'll be selling those attractively neon t-shirts again, so for that if nothing else, check it out. And, in case you're still hungry, the "Malama Hawai'i Luau" will be going strong on Ancel Plaza (that's the open space between East Campus and SIPA) Update, 10:30 AM: Low Plaza from 4-7 PM.&nbsp; Grab yourself a hibiscus or a surfboard or somesuch and head on over. 
 Feeling broke?&nbsp; Feeling angry?&nbsp; Bwog's Movie Marathon Man Mark Hay offers up three films about people who have even less money than you do.&nbsp; Mmm...schadenfreude. The Full Monty (1997) The message of director Peter Cattaneo&#8217;s film wavers back and forth somewhat between a grim conclusion on the economic plight of the workingman and an uplifting assertion of man&#8217;s nature. On one side, Cattaneo&#8217;s Sheffield cannot support its population anymore and its citizens have been reduced to scavenging the corpses of their old workplaces. The characters in this film are all either desperate, deadbeats, or just defeated. Never does Cattaneo offer hope &#8211; there&#8217;s no economic stimulus cavalry charging into the pub after the men bare their bits to give them new jobs and resolve their crises. Their fate stays largely loose and dark. But &#8220;The Full Monty&#8221; is a comedy, and it doesn&#8217;t even feel like dark humor. This is largely thanks to the character of Gaz (Robert Carlyle), whose boisterous resilience lifts the others out of their suicidal sense of worthlessness and turns their anguish into humor. That such downright miserable conditions may believably be twisted into an upbeat comedy speaks not just to the power of Cattaneo&#8217;s directing and Simon Beaufoy&#8217;s writing, but to the power of the human soul. Ultimately, Cattaneo&#8217;s film asserts that, even a man emasculated by unemployment and forced to peddle his flesh &#8211; to sell the last good he has to offer &#8211; can maintain his pride; that the people around him can understand and lift him out of misery; and that no matter the depths of our depravity, we may keep our dignity - a useful message and a glittering bit of situational humor for those about to embark into the job market. Bonnie and Clyde (1967) &nbsp;Whereas &#8220;The Full Monty&#8221; speaks to the ultimate redeemable and resilient nature of human beings, director Arthur Penn&#8217;s film offers only the most feral and base components of our nature. Clyde (Warren Beatty) starts off like a mangy cat, pawing at Bonnie&#8217;s (Faye Dunaway) mother&#8217;s car, but ultimately failing to steal it. That Clyde should steal cars in the Great Depression is understandable, &#8211; everyone has to get by &#8211; and that he should perpetually fail (both here and in his bank robberies &#8211; always bloody, never lucrative) also attests to his economic displacement. Clyde was not made for this life. However, when Clyde fails he does not pull forward with renewed vigor or face his true dilemma like Robert Carlyle&#8217;s Gaz. Instead, Clyde grows into more of an animal, a street cat, starved and lashing out at everything around him. That Bonnie should become preoccupied and run off with Clyde reflects even more darkly on the nature of man in desperate times.&nbsp; Clyde&#8217;s listless wandering becomes an infection spreading to those around him, attacking the moderate discontent of Bonnie and transforming it into an animal cancer. He co-opts everyone around him into a lustful and wild romp, not in search of a solution (as is ostensibly the case, but clearly the money doesn&#8217;t really matter to the gang), but in search of self-destruction. The character of Blanche (Estelle Parsons), the repressive foil to the duo&#8217;s depravity, ultimately reveals Penn&#8217;s verdict on humanity. The man in lack of meaningful work, of sustenance and structure, denies his plight and may either whither away (Blanche) or go out with a bestial bang. Watch this film, then graduate, wander around for a few weeks in search of meaningful employment, and wait in fear for the animal within your breast to come tearing out. Chinatown (1974) No genre can more perfectly capture the grimy and despicable greed and swindling behind our recent economic downturn than noir. Of all the films in the noir catalogue, though, none better encompasses the massive scale of our situation, the individual agency that drove it, or the ultimate swirling inability of the populace to fully digest the full view than Roman Polanski&#8217;s &#8220;Chinatown.&#8221; During his investigation of a plot by officials in the water department of Los Angeles to undermine farmers in the San Fernando Valley, gobble up their land, and turn a profit at the expense of thousands of livelihoods, private eye J.J. Gittes (Jack Nicholson) confronts the wealthy, suave and degenerate mastermind of the plan. During this confrontation, Gittes smoothly asks the water magnate the burning question, both for modern investors and the film&#8217;s audience, &#8220;How much better can you eat? What can you buy that you can't already afford?&#8221; to which the man has no substantive answer. This, then, may be the most concise summary of the situation both Gittes and we find ourselves in. A flawed, but fundamentally moral and intelligent man seeks to unravel, out of a sense of justice a duty, the dirty workings tearing apart the lives of those around him. The scheme he discovers and the reasons for it transcend any logical desire and reveal a groping, monstrous nature in their perpetrators. Unable to fully comprehend the massive misdeeds of his enemies, Gittes falls to focusing upon his nemesis&#8217;s personal corruption, only to find himself blocked at every turn. It&#8217;s a sense of despair and confusion &#8211; a dirty and hopeless journey &#8211; that one cannot help but connect with just now. And what is Polanski&#8217;s only advice on how to live in such a world, amidst such people? &#8220;Forget it, Jake. It's Chinatown." Photos via IMDB.com 
Hungover East Campus residents stumbled out this morning to people assaulting each other with rang.&nbsp; This year's Holi had its largest ever turnout - Bwog saw many neighborhood kids rolling around in the colors. As Bwog left, trashcans were being filled with water to make people recognizable again.&nbsp;Another picture of the aftermath after the jump. &nbsp; 
Want to take a quick break from the sun? CU Search is holding its closing event in Furnald right now, and tipsters tell Bwog that there are "over a hundred cupcakes!!!" Enjoy the frosty goodness.&nbsp; Alternatively, Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmerman recommends the Tae Kwon Do tournament currently going on in Dodge. He sends us this action shot. &nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via the BBC For once in your life (savor the moment) something's been completed before facilities said it would be! Tipsters report that the Hartley laundry room is back in business today after last week's spontaneous combustion; the email Housing sent out didn't anticipate the laundry room's return until Monday, the 27th. Not only do "all the machines seem to be working," but the room is also "really clean."&nbsp; "Cleaner," in fact, than Bwogger-About-Town Adam Kuerbitz has "ever seen it."&nbsp; Clean laundry in a clean laundry room!&nbsp; It's the simple things. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via IEatTreats.com Perhaps CUSnacks' issues have you down.&nbsp; Perhaps you feel hunger pangs in the wee hours of the morning.&nbsp; Perhaps all you want is something sweet to keep you company (not like that). Enter I Eat Treats, a new service which offers "Decadent Nibbles Delivered Nightly 6pm-4am in the Columbia University Area."&nbsp; A quick perusal of the business' website reveals fudge brownies for $1.50, red velvet cupcakes for $2.50, and carrot-ginger cake for $3.00, among (many) other desserts offered.&nbsp; As long as you live within the area bounded by 103rd and 122nd streets and Riverside Drive and Columbus/Morningside Drive, you could have treats baked by "elves" (yeah, we have no idea either) brought to your door.&nbsp; Just remember that the minimum order is $5, and "at this time" you have to pay in cash. 
 Second breakfast, charcoal, and quaintness - it's yours on Sunday morning. It's all thanks to a school spirit organization, a women's college, and an outdated, ye-olde-style philosophical debate group. First on the agenda this morning, WBAR has their annual WBAR-B-Q on Lehman Lawn at 11:00 AM.&nbsp; It's free, several bands are playing, and there are probably hamburgers.&nbsp; It's a wonderfully carnivorous lunch. At the same time, the Philolexian Society will be hosting their croquet and tea party on the steps.&nbsp; They promise "a small spread of victuals" whilst you piddle the morning away hitting wooden balls in a circle and making delightful exclamations. That should only last an hour because Bacchanal will be taking over at noon for their Bagels and Beanbags.&nbsp; They'll have your post-lunch breakfast and hackysacks, moving from the 1950's into the 1960's. 
 You've eaten your fill from three, count them &#8212; three feeding opportunities this morning.&nbsp; Now, put a cap on this glorious day with four, yes, four campus concerts.&nbsp; There's something for every cynic. For those who've had enough of the sun or music written after 1950, there's the air-conditioned Senior Choice Concert in Roone, put on by the CU Wind Ensemble at 2:00 PM. On the sun-scorched steps, there's the acoustic side of Bacchanal's bagel shebang.&nbsp; Neal Goldberg of Miss Distress will be playing. Postcrypt has crawled out of the catacombs into the bright light.&nbsp; They'll be in front of EC until 6:00 PM tonight with new acts every half hour, should you tire of a particular strum-and-moan ensemble.&nbsp; Sweetheart Anthony Da Costa will be wrapping things up at 5:10. After you grab a quick dinner, head on over to Philosophy Hall for the Music Performance Program's end of semester concert.&nbsp; Starting at 8:00 PM, it features undergraduate ensembles playing works by Beethoven, Dvorak, and other lesser-known composers.&nbsp; No worries if you can't make it &#8212; the second part of the concert will be Monday night at the same time. Photo via MySpace 
 Match the quote to the speaker.&nbsp; To give you a break from problem sets, it should be pretty easy, but answers after the jump anyway.&nbsp; Good luck! Quotes Speakers "t was like a national day of protest.&nbsp; There was a counterculture dimension to it." Roberta Balstad, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions "...hardly principles on which normal market economics is based." Barack Obama, CC '83 "They basically set her up." Steve Cohen, Executive Director of the Earth Institute "It's one of those events that is of low probability but high consequence.&nbsp; The consequences could be extreme." Joseph Stiglitz, Professor and Nobel Prize winner " to put affordability front and center as they chart a path forward." Paul Giacomo Jr., Attorney &nbsp; Answers after the jump! "t was like a national day of protest.&nbsp; There was a counterculture dimension to it."&nbsp; - Steve Cohen, Executive Director of the Earth Institute, on Earth Day. "...hardly principles on which normal market economics is based." - Joseph Stiglitz, Professor and Nobel Prize winner, on the bailouts. "They basically set her up." - Paul Giacomo Jr., attorney for Madonna Constantine, on her suit against TC. "It's one of those events that is of low probability but high consequence.&nbsp; The consequences could be extreme." - Roberta Balstad, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions, on the possibility of solar storms taking out world infrastructure. " to put affordability front and center as they chart a path forward." - Barack Obama, CC '83 and Generally Important Person, on rapidly rising college tuition. 
It's the last hurrah before finals.&nbsp; Music, theatre, and the disposal of the year's leftover free food.&nbsp; Join in! Monday BC Spirit Day:&nbsp; In-dorm Krispy Kreme, a barbecue (hopefully for real this time), and a carnival.&nbsp; If none of that piques your interest, go just to be among the first to know the new name of the Nexus at 3PM.&nbsp; 11:30 AM to 9:30 PM @ Lehman Lawn. Chamber Ensembles: The Music Performance Program hosts Columbia student classical ensembles.&nbsp; It's an evening of Schumann, Mozart, and Ravel.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Philosophy Lounge. Wednesday Big Apple BBQ: Every student life organization ever created is joining forces for Dining's day off, featuring waffles, pizza, dumplings, dosas, and much more.&nbsp; 5:00 PM @ South Lawn. Blaeu String Quartet: An extension of the resident Moebius Ensemble.&nbsp; Arriaga, Schubert, Kodaly, Janacek.&nbsp; 8:00 PM @ Casa Italiana.&nbsp; Friday Varsity Show: That one time the entire campus comes together to hate on itself under one roof.&nbsp; F @ 8, Sa @ 8, Su @ 3, 8. 
 The men's golf team won their second Ivy League title in a row today, coming from three strokes back to beat Penn by one stroke. First-year Brendan Doyle made par on the ninth hole, while his Penn playing partner bogeyed, to keep the title in Morningside. They join the men's tennis team as the 2nd Columbia sports team to medal this spring.&nbsp; In other sports results, the baseball team lost three of its four games against Penn, finishing 7-13 in the league and failing to qualify for the Ivy League playoffs. The track team competed at the Penn Relays, with first-year Monique Roberts winning the high jump, the men's 4x800 team setting a new school record, and several other members setting NCAA qualifying times. Meanwhile, softball also lost three of four to Penn, and lacrosse had its three-game winning streak snapped by Dartmouth. On the water, things were no better, with the men's varsity eight losing their first race of the reason, finishing behind Boston University and Syracuse. The women's varsity eight finished third as well, to Cornell and Brown (photo by Columbia University Athletics). 
 Skip business school, go to TC When school gets too stressful: take an art class and find yourself After four years at Columbia, this senior has determined that the world is "a complicated, challening place." If we don't like Paterson, who does? 
 Who's the new kid in town? Uh oh, it's swine flu. The newest fad in respiratory diseases, is, as you've heard from just about everywhere, sweeping its way through the U.S and will probably creep up behind your comfy chair in Butler 209 any second now.&nbsp; Although all cases of the flu in the U.S have been mild, Health Services is staying alert about a Columbia outbreak. Scott Wright, VP of Student Services, discussed the need to be aware of flu's ability to spread during his cameo at last night's CCSC meeting. He passed around flyers from the NYC Department of Health that instructs New Yorkers on avoiding getting down with the sickness: "clean things that are touched often," "avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth," and, you know, wash your hands. Wright echoed the general sentiment that we are at a moment where the situation is "changing hour-by-hour", but that it has the "potential to be very serious." Halp! He assured CCSC that Columbia has access to flu vaccines anti-viral drugs such as Tamiflu but is "not positive" that they will be effective against this strain of the flu. Although, according to Wright, "not enough is known yet to take further action", Columbia is considered one of the city's main hubs in case of an emergency and Columbia administrators will know updates on the situation "before anyone else in the area." We're all gonna die! - ECS 
 Barnard cowgirls and uh, cowgirls, will be treated to a host of Wild West-themed free food and fun today, available for whole campus. Today's Spirit Day includes free Krispy Kreme donuts in all Barnard dorms, followed by the third consecutive day of BBQ in a row at Lehman Lawn. The Nexus will finally be named during "Celebrity Scoops" at 3, when deans give out ice cream to students. There's also a class carnival beginning at 7:30. The posters encourage you to saddle up and see how the Upper West Side was won. Yee-haw, etc.&#160; 
 They motion to vote, we Bwog. Another Sunday evening of CCSC. A sunburned CCSC gathered in Satow last night for their penultimate meeting of the year to discuss the Big Issues: smoking, Manhattanville, meal plans. The meeting started off with a round of applause for, in Kreb&#8217;s diplomatic words, &#8220;a few of the people in this room&#8221; who were nominated to next year&#8217;s CCSC. El Presidente then announced that the meeting would include talks from two reps on Manhattanville as well as a discussion with Scott Wright, VP of Student Services. CCSC welcomed Victoria Benitez and LaVerna Fountain to discus the current state of the Manhattanville project, which Krebs assured confused CCSC-ers was not in fact &#8220;not the Manhattan project&#8221;, but just harmless old Manhattanville. The reps fielded questions from the council on topics ranging from displacement and Floridita to graduate school housing.&#160; &#160;Fountain explained that the Manhattanville project is currently &#8220;not even at the beginning&#8221; of its projected 30-year construction time frame and explained that some answers to all the council&#8217;s questions did not exist yet. Benitez, who has been a resident of West Harlem for 50 years, did her part to assure the council that &#8220;we won&#8217;t be closing anyone&#8217;s favorite grocery store&#8221;. The reps explained that 132 apartments, and roughly 300 people, will be displaced, and moved to &#8220;equal or better&#8221; housing, one of PrezBo&#8217;s provisions from 2007. Fountain acknowledged the problem of secondary displacement for those living outside the 17 acres allotted to Manhattanville and promised more information to come on the topic. Despite his best efforts &#8220;not to sound like a community activist&#8221;, Adil Ahmed raised the issue of the environmental impact of a massive construction project on a mostly industrial neighborhood. Fountain and Benitez made sure we didn&#8217;t worry about that: there&#8217;s a 2,000 page Environmental Impact Statement online in case anyone&#8217;s curious. &#160;All in all, the Manhattanville reps didn&#8217;t tell us a whole lot we didn&#8217;t know already, but did drive home the point that the project is still very much in its planning stage, and change to the structuring and execution of the project can still be made. Fountain and Benitez then gave the floor to Scott Wright, who was, in Krebs&#8217; words, &#8220;another weekend warrior&#8221; willing to spend his Sunday night in the Satow Room. Wright addressed the proposed smoking ban on campus and called it more of a &#8220;recommendation&#8221; than anything else. He announced that the policy would not change unless there was a good deal of support for it among student and administrators. &#160;Wright then addressed dining and reassured us that &#8220;we are not in favor of mandatory meal plans&#8221; for upperclassmen. He also discussed the option of turning Ferris Booth into an all-you-care-to-eat dining hall. Ferris would retain most of its food except for &#8220;all those bottled beverages and stuff like Crumbs cupcakes&#8221;, which would probably be moved to another dining location. Since off-campus Flex absorbs so much money, Ferris would most likely be turned into a lunch-only facility if it were not made into a dining hall due to lack of funds. There was some good news for living and eating on-campus, though: Caf&#233; East will be expanded over the summer to include sushi, Wien bathrooms will be fully renovated, and there will be improvements in EC and Broadway. "I don't think anything is more important than those renovations in Wien," Wright admitted, "although John Jay bathrooms are close second." Wien: marginally less miserable next year? - ECS &#160; 
 At the "coolest" part of Barnard's Spirit Day - "Celebrity Scoops," where administrators served free ice cream to students - President Deborah Spar announced that the Nexus will now be known as "The Diana" (yes, just "The Diana"). The new moniker replaces the unofficial name of "The Vagelos Center," a change that possibly maybe perhaps almost certainly came about because of the building instantly being nicknamed "The Vag." Not only is it the first name of Diana Vagelos, whose family gave $15 million to the project, but, as President Spar noted in her announcement, "Diana is the goddess of female power and strength." Spar did not note that Diana is also a virgin, the goddess of the hunt and chastity, and notable for her enjoyment of revenge, often taken on men. A quick informal naming survey suggested that students in attendance approved of the name. Then again, several attendees also commented that, with that much money, the Vagelos family "can name it whatever they want." - JCD 
Those who still haven't caught a glimpse of James Franco would be well advised to head to the Columbia University Film Festival beginning tonight at 5:30. The festival, which will screen short films from grad students at the School of Arts Film Program, runs through May 7 at the IFC Center on 6th and West 3rd. Each year, films featured in the festival go on to Cannes, Tribeca and Sundance. Brave the heat and the subway ride and see films with titles like "The Art of Suicide" and "Cigarette Candy."
 Roy Den Hollander just can't seem to catch a break. Today, the Business School '97 alum's lawsuit against Columbia for failing to offer a "men's studies" class was dismissed yet again.&#160;This afternoon, an evil feminist cloaked as Judge Lewis Kaplan rejected Hollander's claim that "feminism is a religion." Kaplan countered that feminism is "no more a religion than physics, and at least the core of the complaint is therefore frivolous." Hollander fought back by telling City Room that, in fact, the "only thing frivolous and absurd is men looking for justice in the courts of America." Them's fighting words, Roy. Can't wait to see what our favorite alum comes up with next. Solidarity.&#160; 
 The final challenge of the EcoReps' "Do It In the Dark" initiative begins today. To become the "biggest loser", you and yourself/your roommate/your suitemates must have the room with the most reduced electricity consumption for the week (ending May 3) compared with its consumption at the beginning of the challenge.&#160; The electricty meters will come in next week and the winning dorm will be announced then. Take radical measures like turning off your lights, putting your computer to sleep, and unplugging your fridge to achieve victory. 
 The New York Post knows what's up. Yesterday, the Post featured on their website entitled, not-so-subtly, "Student Bodies", featuring the 50 hottest college students in New York City. We found two of our own among this jumble of PYTs: Anthony Castellanos, CC '09, and Sabina Barbulea, BC '10.&nbsp; In order to stand out amongst a sea of Gansevoort Hotel-haunting Pace, Fordham and F.I.T students, Castellanos and Barbulea&nbsp;revealed what makes them sexy. Castellanos, a dance major, chalks up his sex appeal to his "hard and muscular" legs. He also likes science fiction. Barbulea brags that she can speak "Romanian, Spanish, and French. You could say I'm a bit of a cunning linguist." Ohh, we get it! &nbsp; Congratulations, Anthony and Sabina. You're attractive enough for the other 4,098 6,926 of us. &nbsp; 
 Mark Taylor, Chair of the CC Religion Department, published an Op-Ed in the Times today urging us to, "End the University As We Know It."&#160;He focuses on the problem of the graduate school system, calling graduate education the "Detroit of higher education." Oof. He also condemns the trends of early specialization in the university system and cites the Religion Department as emblematic of the problem of "narrow scholarship": there are 10 religion faculty working in 8 subfields with relatively little overlap. Taylor calls for a complete restructuring of the graduate system and then immediately moving to a reconstruction of undergraduate programs.&#160;Stemming from his frustration with departmental structure and politics, Taylor suggests eliminating all permanent departments and creating in their place "program-based" departments that focus on issues and draw in academics from multiple fields. He lists off a few such departments: Water, Space, and Time (!) among them. Taylor finally proposes that we expand professional opportunities for grad students and - gasp! - abolish tenure. He finishes with a quote that he often shares with his students with hopes of stirring up even the loftiest fake elbow-patched professors:&#160;&#8220;Do not do what I do; rather, take whatever I have to offer and do with it what I could never imagine doing and then come back and tell me about it.&#8221;&#160;Photo via nytimes.com&#160;
 Last night, the Engineering Student Council voted to impeach Senator Rajat Roy. Roy was up on impeachment charges for allegedly having hurt ESC's relationship with other senators and schools by actions including using improper language with a Business School senator.&nbsp; The impeachment proceedings, according to ESC sources, were initiated by outgoing ESC President Peter Valeiras, who did not comment beyond confirming the impeachment vote. In addition the ESC's standard procedure of closing impeachment proceedings to press, Roy had invited several of his senate colleagues to speak, but the colleagues were denied entry to the meeting, Valeiras telling them at the door that it was his decision to bar them from the meeting. Nevertheless, Roy's Senate colleagues continued to express their support for Roy. CCSC Senator Monica Quaintance told Bwog that Roy is an &#8220;invaluable member of senate&#8221; and is the &#8220;most effective spokesperson for the engineering students.&#8221; She also told Bwog that she believes that &#8220;ESC does not like that Rajat spends more time on Senate then than internal affairs.&#8221; She also noted that Roy has since "made up" with the Business School senator, and that the two have worked together on Senate since. Another member invited by Roy, who requested anonymity, said that ESC&#8217;s impeachment of Roy was motivated by &#8220;personal reasons," an accusation several other ESC and Senate members have previously made to Bwog. As for the next step, Roy explained to Bwog that though the vote was to impeach, his impeachment does not mean he will be removed from office. He said the action by the council was not really a censure, but more a message from the council that &#8220;we want you to change.&#8221; - SVZ and JCD 
 Barnard wrestles with its god(dess) complex. Why would you anger the people in charge of your security? Are you immune to the Cassandra complex? Stop trying to force an inferiority complex onto the music majors. There is nothing complex about our dependence on the tubes. Just disheartening. 
 Free food is nice. But during the last week of classes, free alcohol can seem more appropriate. Village Pourhouse to the rescue! This week the Amsterdam eatery will be sending out coupons for one free Bud Light. Here&#8217;s the twist &#8211; it&#8217;s via text message. An electronic coupon! How did we ever get trashed without technology? Have fun trying to redeem the thing by waving your tiny LCD screen around a crowded bar. According to our tipster, you text &#8220;getcoupons pourhouse&#8221; to 41411 to receive a coupon. It&#8217;s unclear if they still send you the text if you space the words properly, so copy-edit at your own risk. In related boozy news, the mysterious Haakon's Hall,&nbsp; purveyor of comfort food and fount of free wi-fi, has put up a sign announcing its grand opening next Tuesday. This is the place with the communal table and eggs all day long. Sure, they were still putting up Craigslist ads for pantry cooks as little as one week ago, but did you read them? All about the rotisserie flair and the cobblers? This has the potential to be excellent. And the restaurant has already promised to stay open twenty-four hours a day during finals. So throw caution to the wind and embrace the midnight meatloaf. Photo via goinggreenmatters.com 
 Ahmadine-who? There's a new controversial speaker in town. You can now pick up your tickets at the Lerner Ticket Center for the upcoming&nbsp;Ann Coulter talk.&nbsp; CUCR Executive Director Lauren Salz informs us that students must buy the tickets in person (meaning no online ordering - suck it up and put on some pants), and that on the event date, May 4, no posters, signs, food, drinks, or bags will be allowed inside. So keep your #1 Ann Fan foam finger or rotten tomatoes at home for this one, kids.&nbsp; The Ticket Center is open from 1:00 to 8:00 for the rest of the week. Photo via cuarts.com 
&nbsp; The May issue of the Blue and White is imminent! For the last issue of the year, Lydia DePillis investigates the skies with Columbia's Rutherford Conservatory. Or tries to. In Venice in 1609, Galileo created the first known telescope. It was a great leap outward in man&#8217;s expanding sphere of knowledge. Four hundred years later, on a rooftop at Columbia, his invention is embattled by&#8212;of all threats&#8212;a science building. Not that the Rutherford Observatory, in place since the early 1930s, is exactly cutting edge; recently, its telescope was sold to a museum in South Carolina, to be replaced with more up-to-date equipment. Nor is Manhattan a particularly great place for observing. The light pollution and air disturbances alone make the night sky less accessible than it is in, say, Arizona. Lately, though, Pupin stargazers have had a particularly rough time of it due to the snazzy new Interdisciplinary Science Building rising directly to the west, which will top out at six stories higher than Pupin&#8217;s roof. The height, plus glaring lights from the all-glass fa&#231;ade and chemical fumes venting off the roof, blocks roughly ten percent of the observatory&#8217;s view&#8212;&#8220;Which is, you know, significant,&#8221; said Cameron Hummels, the lanky redheaded Ph.D. student in charge of the Observatory&#8217;s outreach efforts. In the Astronomy department&#8217;s lofty 13th floor offices, Hummels pulls out a piece of paper to explain. Since celestial bodies traverse the sky from west to east, he diagrams, all of them will sink behind the ISB a few hours before they would normally disappear below the horizon. Oh, and Venus? Say goodbye. &#8220;From the roof of Pupin, we&#8217;ll never be able to see it again,&#8221; Hummels eulogized. A search for alternative locations for the observatory began even before the building broke ground, when bearded department chair David Helfand noticed the looming threat from architectural plans and began eying other rooftops for his telescope. Planners considered the roof of Carman, but couldn&#8217;t stomach the idea of having people traipse through a freshman dorm for public viewing sessions. The lobbying push lost steam when Helfand left to help start a new college in Canada, and now the economy has stymied it completely.&nbsp; &#8220;With all the economic uncertainty, I&#8217;m afraid there&#8217;s a number of capital projects that have been put on indefinite hold,&#8221; said Scott Norum, the chief administrative officer for arts and sciences. He talks of things like debt service and credit markets&#8212;such earthly cares to obstruct the heavens! &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 The porcine pathogen may have arrived in Morningside: in an email to all Teachers College students, TC President Susan Fuhrman wrote, "late yesterday afternoon we received a response from a TC student to our communitywide email on swine flu. The student was diagnosed this past Sunday with Type A Influenza, which has been linked to swine flu.&nbsp; We have been and will continue to be in touch with the student." As for locations, "the student informed us that he was here on campus Thursday, Friday and Saturday and that he used computer labs on the third floor of Macy and on the second floor of Horace Mann. He also mentioned that he was in the first floor of the library as well as Zankel Hall." TC administrators have decided that, because of the limited amount of time that the virus can live outside the body, sanitizing these areas "would have extremely low health utility and would be unnecessarily disruptive to our students during this busy time of the year." That doesn't mean it's the particular subtype of swine flu that's causing everyone to freak out on Twitter. According to Wikipedia, "the new strain of influenza involved in the 2009 swine flu outbreak is a reassortment of several strains of influenza A virus subtype H1N1 that are, separately, endemic in humans and in swine."&nbsp; Influenza A is the supertype of all the swine flu-like subtypes, as far as we can tell. Commence mass hysteria, but only after reading why this whole epidemic may not actually be that serious. Full email after the jump. UPDATE (5:29 p.m.):&nbsp;Great news!&nbsp;City Room reports that one of two possible new outbreaks of swine flu is at Ascension School, at 108th between Amsterdam and Broadway. City Room also ominously notes that city officials do not know how swine flu could have made it to the school. - JCD &amp; AB Dear TC Students, Late yesterday afternoon we received a response from a TC student to our communitywide email on swine flu. The student was diagnosed this past Sunday with Type A Influenza, which has been linked to swine flu. We have been and will continue to be in touch with the student. The student informed us that he was here on campus Thursday, Friday and Saturday and that he used computer labs on the third floor of Macy and on the second floor of Horace Mann. He also mentioned that he was in the first floor of the library as well as Zankel Hall. We promptly reported the incident to the Department of Health. We have since checked with Columbia University medical personnel who have confirmed that the virus, in all likelihood, can only live outside the body, on surfaces such as tables and computer keyboards, for a matter of hours or, rarely, up to a couple of days. As we were notified 2 days after the student was on campus, sanitizing the facilities would have extremely low health utility and would be unnecessarily disruptive to our students during this busy time of the year. We urge all members of the community to continue to follow the guidance of the Centers for Disease Control, the Department of Health and any of the other Web sites we noted in yesterday&#8217;s email. We urge the entire community to take appropriate hygiene measures, including frequent hand-washing and the use of hand sanitizer. 
 Tomorrow&nbsp;you will wish each other&nbsp;a happy Yom Ha'atzmaut with lots of dignity and layers of clothes, but tonight you will celebrate Israel's Independence Day in full out "Tel Aviv Beach Style." Hillel's celebration begins at 8:45 in Lerner Party Space. The free food has a Mediterranean theme, naturally - feast on falafel, hummus, and Israeli candy, among other things. Other freebies include suitably summery kind of things, like Havaiana sandals and inflatable beach balls. Stick around for the dance performances by CUBhangra, Pizmon, and Shalhevet. It sounds like it's going to be a veritable party. Mazel tov! The only tricky thing will be avoiding any and all human contact while wearing your swimsuit. Oh, and wash your hands after every bite. 
 One day after voting to impeach University Senator Rajat Roy, ESC Executive Board released the following statement through council president Peter Valeiras: "On Monday (April 27), the Engineering Student Council voted to impeach Senator Rajat Roy from council due to his negligence in fulfilling his responsibilities as outlined in the constitution. The move to call for his impeachment was the culmination of a number of meetings between the council's Executive Board and Rajat.&nbsp; Each time we sought an improvement in communication between Rajat and the council, or at least with the E-Board. Yet, we did not see the improvements that we were promised by Rajat and this lack of communication with the ESC, along with other issues, resulted in the council's vote for his impeachment.&nbsp; The proceedings were closed because they pertained to matters internal to the council.&nbsp;&nbsp;There was no need for the Senate to speak on his behalf because we were not questioning his accomplishments within the Senate, but rather his methods and relationship to the ESC. &nbsp;However, we did allow a faculty member who chairs one of the Senate committees that Rajat serves on to speak on his behalf." UPDATE: Roy tells Bwog that he was not told the specific charges until Monday, even though the ESC constitution requires that both sides be given "at least one week" to prepare arguments. 
 This place sucks, I wanna go back to 4th grade. Go off campus to smoke? Nah, I'd rather take those free nicotine patches and secretly smoke out of my window at 3am. Hell no, I'm not going in that little space. That's even more depressing than my John Jay single! I'm graduating from Co-Lame-Bia. NOOOOOOO! 
 Today, LionPAC will celebrate Israel's 61st birthday with an event called "Peace of Cake." As the title suggests, the cake is doubly symbolic - it says Happy Birthday Israel, how old are you now? while at the same time promoting peace in the region. Bwog didn't know cake could be used as a tactic to bring about peace in the Middle East, but when you think about it, what could make more sense? Of course, it wouldn't be a peaceful celebration if it weren't free, so grab your peace and cake from 11am to 1pm today on College Walk. 
 Outgoing Dean of Columbia College Austin Quigley has just issued a goodbye letter to the students of Columbia College. He wants us to know what an impact we have all made, "individually and collectively," on his life in the past fourteen years, and so he has copied and pasted his own statements from a previous interview published in Columbia College Today. To great effect, Bwog might add. The self-plagiarism not withstanding, Quigley has been well-loved and his comments in the letter and interview certainly come straight from the bottom of his adorable little British heart. But who could have predicted he express them by quoting his own interview? Bwog congratulates the writers of the 115th Varsity Show on their incredible powers of divination. Full email after the jump. Dear College Students and Young Alumni, As you know, I will be stepping down this year as Dean of the College and returning to the Columbia faculty. Though I am always pleased to talk with each and every one of you whenever opportunities arise, there have been nearly 20,000 of you passing through the College in my time as Dean.&nbsp; I will not, therefore, have the chance to say goodbye to each of you in the way I would wish, by letting you know in person what you have, individually and collectively, meant to me as Dean.&nbsp; I signed up for four years and stayed for fourteen, in significant part because it has been so personally rewarding for me to spend so much of my time working for and with College students. As there will not be an occasion when I can tell you directly why that has been so, I would like to draw attention to some remarks I made in an interview, just published in Columbia College Today . I was asked several questions about students, one of which ran as follows: &#8220;Columbia College students are known as active, involved students who think for themselves and readily voice their opinions. You seem to enjoy interacting with students, and judging from the reception you get at events such as the Senior Dinner or Class Day, the students enjoy this interaction as well. Please talk about this aspect of the job.&#8221; I responded as follows: &#8220;Though you&#8217;re dean of a college of 4,000 students, your work with students is always one at a time. You shouldn&#8217;t be in a job like this unless you find young people really interesting &#8230; in fact, unless you find people in general really interesting. Interacting with College students is a privilege, a challenge and a joy not least because Columbia students traditionally tend to have independent views and very strong opinions. It&#8217;s not going to get you very far if you enter conversations with your mind already made up. A conversation really does need to be a genuine exchange. That doesn&#8217;t mean that every time you talk to a student you are going to change your mind on something, but it does mean that you have to be open to changing your mind, that you are ready to be influenced by a better argument than the one you began with. That respect for students and their views is essential in dealing with young people, and it isn&#8217;t something you can readily manufacture or adopt as a pose or deploy as a strategy for conversing with students. They&#8217;ll see right through it. You really do have to be genuinely interested in what they have to say, to have the readiness to disagree when you feel there is something they need to hear, but also to have the willingness to listen attentively when they disagree with you, to understand that, besides being deeply engaged with the world you share with them, they are preparing themselves for a world in the future that they will shape together long after you are gone&#8230; We all have values and beliefs and convictions, and we don&#8217;t hold them lightly. But the world keeps changing and moving along, and the world that young people are growing up into is going to be their world, and they have a right to define it eventually on their terms. We must, of course, make sure that, as students are exercising their right to take increasing responsibility for their own future, they are very well informed about what people have learned before them. But in the last analysis, it&#8217;s going to be their world, and you need to be listening very carefully and making sure that you try to move with them to wherever that future is going to be. For all of us, being ignorant of the past is a serious disadvantage. But being governed solely by it is a serious misjudgment. Making sure we are in a position to be guided but not governed by the past is essential if we are to bring about a better future, and that is what grounds our intellectual relationship with our students, along with the respect and admiration they so regularly earn.&#8221; These words, along with some of the other remarks I make in the interview about College students, serve, in their own way, as my personal tribute to every member of the College classes from 1995 to 2012, whom I have had the honor to serve as Dean.&nbsp; Should you wish to read more of them, they can be found at: &nbsp;&nbsp; http://www.college.columbia.edu/cct/mar_apr09/features1 . I very much want you to know that you have played such an important role in my life, and I would like to think I have played some small role in each and every one of yours. With fond and enduring memories, your Dean, Austin Quigley &nbsp; 
 News that swine flu may be "linked" to a TC student has put Columbia's email systems in overdrive, as administrators have made various "community-wide" announcements about the flu. Executive VP for Student and Administrative Services Jeff Scott announced yesterday to faculty and staff that "Currently, there are no changes to University operations or activities based on these public health recommendations." Students will be receiving a similar email from Health Services Assistant VP Samuel Seward later today, which will also include prevention tips. UPDATE 8:05pm: Seward has officially issued the long awaited second email with a number of ingenious tips for keeping yourself swine flu free, like washing your hands, washing things your hands touch, and using a tissue instead of your sleeve. Full updated email with all the anti-sick tips you could ever want after the jump. On the Barnard side of Broadway, Barnard Health Services has sent an email to all students outlining the symptoms of swine flu ("Runny nose, sneezing, fever, cough, sore throat, headache, body aches, occasionally vomiting and/or diarrhea"). Barnard's email was all over the health tips in the first place - it suggests, along with more standard health tips, that you "avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth," which sounds like a great party game. As for the original possible case, TC Vice-Provost Iriada Torres told Bwog, "Unfortunately, we have no additional information regarding the type of influenza the student was infected with but we have been told that the student is recovering nicely." Finally, earlier today President Barack Obama said that schools with confirmed or suspected cases should "strongly consider temporarily closing," which we think is a great idea. Full Columbia and Barnard statements after the jump. - JCD &amp; CEE Dear Students: As you may know, several confirmed cases of mild swine flu have been identified in New York City and, though this has not been confirmed, at Teachers College. Columbia will follow the guidance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other appropriate agencies in fashioning the University's responses to a matter of understandable public concern. Currently, there are no changes to University operations or activities based on these public health recommendations. The federal CDC has issued a recommendation to avoid non-essential travel to Mexico during this time. The best thing everyone can do at the present time is to practice normal precautionary hygiene such as regular hand-washing. If you have flu-like symptoms, it is recommended that you stay home from work or school and avoid public activities. If you have specific questions related to the current situation, our staff in Health Services would be happy to hear from you and can be reached at 4-2284. Tips for Preventing the Flu: 1. Wash your hands often with soap and water, especially after you cough or sneeze. Alcohol-based hands cleaners are also effective. 2. Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue or the elbow of your arm when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it. 3. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Germs spread that way. 4. Get an influenza shot annually. The current influenza vaccine formulation is not protective against avian or swine influenza. However, a recent study suggests annual influenza immunization of the elderly has a cumulative protective effect, resulting in reduced mortality, particularly in older individuals. 5. Clean things that are touched often. Clean things that are touched often at home, work, or school like door or refrigerator handles, computer key boards / mouse, phone and water faucets. 6. Avoid close contact with others who are ill. Avoid holding, hugging or kissing anyone who has a cold or the flu. For ongoing updates and more prevention tips, please visit: http://www.columbia.edu/cu/studentservices/preparedness/ University leadership continues to monitor the situation closely and will keep you informed of any developments that affect the CU community. Additionally, if you are interested in monitoring updates on your own, the most recent information is available on the CDC website: http://www.cdc.gov/swineflu/index.htm Sincerely, Samuel Seward, M.D. Assistant Vice President Health Services at Columbia Dear Students, In light of the current concern about swine flu, we want you to know that the Health Service staff and leadership of the College are keeping informed and connected to both the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and the New York City Department of Health (NYC DOH). The information changes by the hour; at this moment, over 40 cases have been confirmed at St. Francis Preparatory High School in Queens, and a handful of new probable cases have been identified elsewhere in New York City. All patients in NYC are said to be recovering, and the overwhelming majority have been only mildly ill. The symptoms of swine flu include the following: *Runny nose, sneezing *Fever *Cough *Sore throat *Headache, body aches *Occasionally vomiting and/or diarrhea The most important thing you can do to lower your risk of infection is to wash your hands frequently (with either hand sanitizer or soap and water). In addition, you should *Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. *Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue in the trash after you use it. *Avoid close contact with individuals with symptoms of a cold or the flu. Influenza is thought to spread mainly person-to-person through coughing or sneezing of infected people. If you get sick, the CDC recommends that you stay home from work or school and limit contact with others to keep from infecting them. Please check the Barnard homepage for ongoing updates. You may also want to visit www.cdc.gov or the NYC Department of Health website for further information. Sincerely, Marjorie Seidenfeld, MD Medical Director Director of the Health Service Brenda Slade, NP &nbsp; 
 In case you haven't noticed, there is some sort of free food thing going on out on South Lawn. That line that snakes all the way around the lawn and past the J-School? Yeah, it might take a while, but once you've given them your ID you are free to gorge yourself on delectables from a half dozen different food carts serving up grilled meat and other unhealthy things. If you miss out on the Big Apple BBQ or don't want to wait on the line, there is another unfortunately scheduled event going on in Lerner from 6-8 that will have a ton of free pizza. Vegetarians and lazy people might want to hit up Lerner East Ramp Lounge to be fed and see a short documentary presented by an urban studies seminar. The documentary, directed by best selling author and rock star professor Sudhir Venkatesh, is about the destruction of public housing in the South Side of Chicago. Academics watching a video about the urban poor and eating pizza, what fun! 
Columbia (or at least the Butler computer lab staff) has deployed the giant sanitary bottles! "Mexican" flu stands no chance.&nbsp; - Photo by AMP 
 &nbsp;Screen shot of "Wilma's Anthem" "To the left, to the left. When your omelet's done it'll be to the left" rings the creative chorus of "Wilma's Anthem," a YouTube music video made by two Columbia students to celebrate their John Jay dining experience.&nbsp; Though there's no way to be sure, Bwog assumes this video and three other celebrations of dining joy would never have seen the light of the world wide web if it weren't for Dining's facebook-based video contest, going on right now on the Dining Services facebook group. The lure of the grand prize for the best (50 free John Jay meals for each contributor) has prompted four groups of students to create their own new, special way to say "I heart John Jay." Though all of the submissions make use of a popular song, not every group produced such a masterpiece of coordinated dancing and karaoke-esque singing as "Wilma's Anthem." "Addiction" is more of a short film, where in the darkness of the gated alley between Hartley and Wallach an angry kid with a flashlight confronts his friend about a dangerous addiction... to John Jay. "Dining Love," on the other hand, is essentially what you'd see if you listened to "Love is Gone" by David Guetta while eating in John Jay slightly intoxicated. You'd pretty much start to see every shake of the salt and every stab of a fork in line with the beat of the song, and then you would slowly lose you mind. Then you'd watch the fourth video, appropriately titled "Columbia Dining Competition Submission," which is one quarter intense music video choreography, one quarter intense stares into the camera, one quarter footage of a take-out cup of cereal being eaten over and over, and one quarter ABBA's "Money, Money, Money" tune. And you'd realize you actually had lost your mind. That being said, if you're prepared for the ABBA, these are all a pretty good laugh. And you can vote to help decide who gets those precious 50 meals by using that new-fangled "I like this" feature under the video you prefer on Dining's facebook group. Obviously, even if "Wilma's Anthem" loses its current lead, Wilma will always be irreplaceable. 
 Instead of making for the nearest bar in order to forget the impending doom with your fellow seniors, the organizers of Senior Night ask you tonight to switch it up a bit, and head to a specific bar based on where you will be moving after graduation.&nbsp; If you'll be staying in the Northeast, head to Havana; future Californians head to The Heights; anyone going abroad should drink together at Campo, and the undecideds among you can soak in your indecision at 1020. Oh, and if you're going anywhere in the entire United States that isn't the Northeast or California, you should all go to Pourhouse and talk about what you'll all have in common. But actually, unless you'll be going (somewhere) abroad or you'll be going (somewhere) in between the two important parts of the country, you could potentially find to talk to about your specific post-grad destination. So face your future, and uh, drink just as much as you normally would, but with people that you actually might see after May 20th. There'll also be specials of various sorts at every one of these bars tonight. A special one at Havana will be sponsored by Red Bull (they'll be making a drink called a Drag Me To Hell). There's the negative outlook on graduation in a glass, if you were looking for it. Full details from the Senior Night email after the jump. ___________________________________________________________________ &nbsp;So we've only got two senior nights to go and thought we'd mix it up a little. Here are the rules... -If you're going to be in the NYC area (yes, Connecticut and Jersey count), Boston, or DC, head to HAVANA for the regular Senior Night drink specials! -If you're going to be on the West Coast, hit up the HEIGHTS for Happy Hour prices all night long ($4 Margs and well drinks, $2 Budlight)! -Heading abroad? Head to CAMPO for Happy Hour prices from 10-2 am! -Moving to a city that hasn't been mentioned (Atlanta, New Orleans, Chicago, etc.)? That's cool...go to POURHOUSE for $4 beers and $5 well drinks! -Not sure yet? Spend the night at 1020, where every drink is a drink special all night long! In addition to this, Red Bull will be sponsoring free giveaways at Havana Central, so be sure to stop by even if you're not going to be in the Northeast next year! You&#8217;ll want to try their special Drag Me to Hell (which is Red Bull, vodka, orange juice and grenadine) on special. 
 -Layout of Bloomingdale asylum via shorpy.com Yeah, it seems like there's this weird bug going around... Your professors aren't the only crazy people in Morningside. What!? Middle East politics controversial at Columbia? Students 'redefine' classical music. Proposal for new definition: rabid puppies with mustaches. 
 &nbsp;-Via employmentguide.com Because the most important thing about your internship is what you wear... ...not what you do. Good luck getting involved with journalism this summer... ...or trying to cope with living in Europe (the horror!) 
 Those final Gateway project due dates may be looming, but there is always time for popsicles. The 2011 SEAS class council will be handing out free sticks of icy, sugary goodness today from 2PM to 4PM on College Walk, so make sure to get yours. Bwog has been told that there will be "upwards of 300 popsicles," but, given the weather, they will probably run out quickly. The free food is open to everyone, not just those stressing in SEAS, though if you are in an engineering mood, maybe you can build something out of the leftover sticks... 
 Bwog "Newspaper-Reads-You" Expert Valerie Sapozhnikova joined a tiny audience at the Harriman Institute to learn about media in the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. Sitting amongst an audience of about 15, and listening to the moderator become bored with herself as she droned on about each speaker&#8217;s accomplishments, I almost started to regret my decision to attend the Harriman Institute Lecture on the Role of Media in the Former Yugoslavia and the Former Soviet Union.&nbsp; When I heard what the three speakers had to say, I quickly changed my mind. All of the panelists were journalists who had worked with Communist dominated media in Eastern Europe. The three had clearly seen more than their share, and had a nuanced take on journalism that is rarely encountered in the United States. &nbsp; Nikola Krastev, a quiet and confident Bulgarian native, who reports for Radio Free Europe, brought up an intriguing topic&#8212;self-censorship. He told the audience how during his years as a young journalist in Bulgaria, he was not allowed to cover politics. Apparently, his ability to censor his own thoughts was not as well-conditioned as it ought to have been. For a lecture having to do with Communism, this was hardly a shocking story. What did surprise me was his discussion of how he self-censors now that he&#8217;s a writer in the US. Krastev made the point that, in order to be objective, one must censor some ideas. In hard-news reportage, emotions and personal biases are hardly appropriate. The difference between the two types of self-censorship, he told the audience, is the level of consciousness present when each is performed. Marija Sajkas&#8217;s experiences were reminiscent of Krastev&#8217;s, though Communism&#8217;s influence on them was much more extreme. Sajkas, who has done minority reporting for the last twenty years in the former Yugoslavia, went through a timeline chronicling the ups and downs of freedoms in this region&#8217;s media. During her days in the Communist era, censorship was an implied part of being a journalist. Glorifications of the current President always took the front page, along with a detailed account of how the socialist economy was of course advancing in comparison to that of those crazy capitalist countries. In 1999, when Belgrade was bombed, the Secret Service agents who had been working in the publications undercover came out of the closet, and checked over every single word sent in for print. Sajkas said the only solution was to write for people who could &#8220;read between the lines.&#8221; She repeated the importance of allegorical language many times throughout the lecture, making it clear that it was the tool that helped her writing survive. The third speaker&#8217;s stories were much less colored by Communism&#8212;he&#8217;s lived in New York since the 90s&#8212;but he made up for that with his opinions. When Erol Ardic started out as a correspondent for the United Nations, he didn&#8217;t get paid (internships &lt;333), and worked side jobs to survive. Everyday, when all the other "lift boys" were eating lunch, Ardic would pick up a New York Times, and see the information he&#8217;d passed on to them in print. Soon he started wondering whether he was doing his job as thoroughly as he could. It took Christiane Amanpour&#8217;s criticism of Clinton to make him realize he wasn&#8217;t, and it was then that he &#8220;started to slap everybody&#8221;. In the figurative sense, of course. Ardic also disagreed with the new politic the &#8220;Bosnian friends&#8221; (Americans) keep proposing&#8212;one which tries to bring everyone together and label every Bosnian with a binary nationality (ex. Bosnian Serb)&#8212;is not working. In fact, it&#8217;s making everything go backwards. &nbsp; In accompaniment to the sound of chalk on the black board (the moderator desperately taking notes), the speakers finished up by talking about the freedom of the press in both countries. They discussed the dangers their colleagues in Russia face (journalists are threatened and killed annually) from both the government and the mafia. Ardic summarized the discussion with a joke: &#8220;An American journalist tells a Russian one, &#8216;In my country, I can stand in front of the White House and shout all sorts of criticisms at the US President and not be arrested.&#8217; The Russian journalist replies, &#8216;In Russia, I too can stand in the center of the Red Square, and shout all sorts of criticisms at the US President, and not be arrested.&#8217;&#8221; When it comes to Communism, at the end of the day all you can do is laugh. 
 &nbsp;-The Uptown Local Team Columbia's Ultimate Frisbee (the sport is also called Ultimate) team Uptown Local gained some national cred this past weekend, finishing an impressive fourth in regional competition. The team's meteoric rise began the weekend of April 18th when they surprised the competition in Sectionals. Though the team was the 8th seed out of 15 competitors, they won six straight games, losing to first-place Vassar by only two points. But if you think about it, Ultimate Frisbee must be to hippie Vassar kids what cynicism is to Columbians, so it was an understandable loss. Rebounding from the Vassar game, the Columbia team beat the College of New Jersey, which, as our governor knows, loses because its in New Jersey, to place second. Vassar and Columbia then headed to Regionals, beating out NYU and Princeton, which aside from outdoing Yale, are the best things a Columbia team can do. Entering this Regional competition, the team was seeded 15th out of 16, but won over the 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th and 10th ranked teams to place fourth. Only the top two Regional teams go to Nationals, so the team's impressive rise ended there for the year. But, with only three graduating members, Uptown is ready to go farther in the coming seasons.&nbsp; As senior captain Tim Pennucci put it, "The men of Uptown Local now want to work toward...winning a bid to...Nationals. &nbsp;Our club has gained some attention and respect in the Region, and is now certainly feared within the Section." Apparently the team's secret is a mix of Ultimate strategies imported from around the globe: an offensive system from the West Coast and a defensive system fresh from Japan. Now if Uptown could somehow incorporate our school's cynicism into their play, they'll become national champs. -DJB 
 Are you a freshman freaking out about finals? The 2012 Class Council has taken heed of your mania, setting up a new study buddy finding system called FAC, Freshman Academic Connection. Students input their courses and areas of expertise, and the Council will compile a list of participating students and send it to RAs. Freshmen, both in SEAS and CC, will then be able to access the list and get in contact with potential study partners. So, if your friends refuse human contact for fear of illness, you can phone a stranger to prepare for finals! &nbsp;It is good to know that Columbians can now find all the important people in their lives online. FAC email after the jump.&nbsp; Finals period is approaching, and we want you to study in the best way possible. We are excited to announce the Freshmen Academic Connection, or FAC, for both CC and SEAS freshmen. It will help you form study groups and create a way for students to help each other out! Here's how it works: 1. &nbsp;Fill out the FAC form and submit: http://tinyurl.com/freshmanacademicconnection The form asks for some basic information, your current courses and academic subjects of strength. 2. Your information will be sent to us and will be sorted out according to residence halls. 3. A list will be compiled of students participating in FAC. Your RAs will then make this information available to you via a PDF document. Your information will only be sent to people in your residence hall. 4. Next time someone wants some extra help or someone to study with, they can look you up on the list and set up a time to work together! 5. You will be able to contact people to study with and get help from, based on your classes and academic strengths. 6. Encourage your friends to sign up. The more people, the more options for studying in a diverse range of subjects. FAC is all about helping you study better and creating community. So sign up now, it's quick and easy! Best, The CC 2012 Class Council &nbsp;-DJB 
 Everyone's favorite collegiate journal of East Asia, the Columbia East Asia Review, just dropped its hottest volume yet (apply rap jargon to academic journals, check). These articles expand the boundaries of East Asia...if that's possible. Fujian leads Chinese immigrants all over the globe. Defective Chinese products are going everywhere too. Let's research the Burmese...in New York! American-esque Pop art, now made in China. 
 &nbsp;-Via Time Out New York It's our last pre-finals weekend of the school year. Make it count! Friday, Saturday, Sunday The Generational: Younger than Jesus Friday 12-9; Saturday &amp; Sunday 12-6 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery At the New Museum, 50 artists, all under the age of 33 are being showcased. There are 145 pieces of various mediums, all on the cutting edge. Price: $12, $8 for students Friday Road Recovery Benefit Friday 8pm at Nokia Theatre Times Square Come see musicians Perry Farrell, Iggy Pop, Tom Morello, Jerry Cantrell, Wayne Kramer, Don Was, Billy Bragg and more. They're bringing their &#8216;A&#8217; game to support Road Recovery, a non-profit organization that works to help young people flourish and find their way to a healthy future. Price: $25-$500 675 Bar Goes Casual Friday 6pm-2am, 675 Hudson Street at W. 13th (212-699-2410) This normally high-end Meatpacking District bar temporarily transforms itself into a more democratic place, with foosball, billiards, and other hallmarks of the laid-back bar experience.&nbsp; Price: Reduced, varies by drink Saturday Brooklyn Flea returns to Fort Greene Saturyday 10 am to 5pm at Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School on Lafayette Ave. between Clemont and Vanderbilt Ave in Brooklyn Come to check out vintage furniture, clothing, and antiques alongside locally produced new jewelry, arts crafts, and delicious food to boot! Price: Free! Led Zeppelin Wine Pairing Saturday 8pm, City Winery 155 Varick Street Led Zeppelin's deep and complex music lends itself quite naturally to wine pairings (believe it or not). The people at City Winery show you how it works. Ticket price includes entrance, six wine pairs, light Italian food, and music. Price: $55-75 Sunday Hot Dog Hootenanny Sunday 3-6pm, Astor Center 399 Lafayette Street (212-674-7501) Vendors from around New York come to show you their best work. All styles and interpretations of this classic NY dish will be on hand, and there will be plenty of beer to wash it down with. Price: $25 Dane Cook May 3rd 8pm at Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike (516-794-9300) See Dane Cook performing at the intimate Nassau Coliseum. It's an opportunity to hop on the LIRR and see scenic Long Island. Price: $35-100 &nbsp; 
Bikini-and-Taurine Correspondent Sean Zimmerman notes that the John Jay 13 lounge has been taken over by Monster Energy Drink's campus rep. "Well, I wasn't considering this free sample, but the posters show I can undress multiple chicks with it..." 
 But everybody else is doing it! I know, I know, I'll get to it eventually. Okay, so I made that part up. But the spirit of it is true. They gave me all of those column inches -- I couldn't let them go to waste! I'm no different than you. It's just that I'm better. 
As the senior class heads out into the real world, Bwog traditionally delays them a few minutes to get their final thoughts on their time at Columbia, and their advice to their successors. So we proudly present the first installment of a many-part series profiling the Class of 2009. You can follow the rest here. Name, School: Mallory Carr, CC Claim to fame: I'm actually not really sure if being asked to do a Bwog Senior Wisdom counts as fame. Either way, 2-year RA, URC, MRC, CCSC, DDC, lots of acronyms. I was also known as "that girl on crutches" during first semester, freshman year. Post-grad plans: Teach for America - HS Special Education in South Central LA. And then after that, I'm really going to try and save the world. Favorite study spot: Social Work library. It's a hike but I swear everyone is happy there. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. The underrepresented majors are actually way more fun- our professors know us, we have wine &amp; cheese parties, and are generally much happier and less competitive. 2. There are 2 ways to anger a Columbia student- run out of their size of a free t-shirt at an event you're running, or run out of their favorite type of free food at an event you're running. Either way, don't run out of free things at your events. 3. The more times you call HAPPY and get increasingly angry, the faster your maintenance request will be filled. Even better if you can get an angry parent to call on your behalf. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. If I have blank space in my planners and nothing to do, I really do start feeling sick. Then I join another group. And yes, I have multiple planners. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Hunger strike, definitely. I still don't understand how the Major Cultures requirement could make me want to starve myself to death. There are worst things in the world and I still can't see myself starving for many of them, let alone for the Core. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? I'm an RA... but I did hear a loud party in Carman once and when I went to break it up, it was actually a birthday party for a large group of Orthodox Jews, complete with cake, ice cream, and Pride and Prejudice (the one with Colin Firth). After a slice of cake, I allowed them to continue the festivities. Does that make me the cool RA? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Yes. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? If you take the 1 train downtown to 96th or somewhere comparably close, and then take the bus back uptown, it counts as a transfer and saves you $2. It took me awhile to figure that out. Also, try to go abroad before you graduate. Regrets? I went to a football game and decided that it was unnecessary for me to paint my entire face light blue (see picture). Someone else in our group did paint her entire face light blue and won Fan of the Game. I regret not painting my entire face light blue (and also regret never winning Fan of the Game). In all seriousness, though, that's my only regret. I've had a filling 4 years and wouldn't change a thing. There are a lot of things that Columbia can improve upon but I'm also incredibly grateful to how much it has given me and taught me, and am really looking forward to becoming a Columbia alumna! 
 Van Am Quad (image via WikiCU) Van Am Quad is filling with the sweet, smoky smell of barbecue, which can mean only one thing. No, it doesn't mean there's another fire in Hartley. It's actually the start of the Van Am Block Party, which does mean FREE FOOD. Organizers say there will be outdoor games and tie-dying in addition to the barbecue. Bring your own T-shirt to dye, or steal one from an unattended pile in the laundry room. Or, if you're one of the first 200 to arrive, you get a free "Block Party" T-shirt, which you could then presumably tie-dye. Whatever you do, you'd better get going because the party starts at 4 p.m. Update, 4:57 PM: Commenters point out the window at the rain.&nbsp; The barbecue will (somehow) be held in Wallach Lounge, and it's starting at 5:00, not 4:00, so you didn't miss anything yet. 
Bwog Daily Editor and Blue and White staff writer Eliza Shapiro delved into the world of Columbia professor housing and brings us this dispatch, which appears in the upcoming May issue of the magazine. Sometimes, in the morning, Philip Kitcher and Judith Shapiro take their dogs, Teddy and Nora, out to play in Riverside Park. Kitcher, director of Undergraduate Studies at Columbia College, and Shapiro, the former president of Barnard, both live in The Oxford, one of the swankiest buildings on the Morningside Gold Coast, which stretches along Riverside and Claremont between 110th and 120th streets and includes such storied residences as The Cambridge and The Colosseum. The pair has plenty to discuss, like &#8220;where we&#8217;ve been and where we&#8217;re going,&#8221; says Kitcher. &#8220;What things at Barnard and Columbia are like. We discuss issues and ideas.&#8221; Teddy goes crazy when he sees Nora. Scenes like this take place often, from the fairest green patches of Riverside Park to the plushest red velvet-draped lobbies of the Claremont buildings. This is the world of Columbia faculty housing, where many professors live in neighborhood apartment buildings, in severe proximity to one another. They say that living cheek to jowl with their colleagues can be simultaneously suffocating and exhilarating, awkward and inspiring. The romantic notion of living in a place where musings on Sophocles and Plato spill out onto the sidewalks is not entirely a Morningside myth. Kitcher recalls a recent jog in the park, where he ran into Gareth Williams, department chairman in Classics. &#8220;So here we are, out on the promenade in the park, talking about the difference between the comic text and the tragic text, and about King Lear and Pride and Prejudice,&#8221; Kitcher says. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t have my watch on, so when I got home my wife says, &#8216;Oh, I was about to send the dogs out for you.&#8217; It&#8217;s very nice. You stop and chat, wandering around Morningside Heights. It&#8217;s fun.&#8221; Richard Sacks, the perennial Lit Hum professor, echoes the sentiment. &#8220;It was exhilarating running into someone on the street who was teaching Crime and Punishment the same week I was. On the way to work I&#8217;d end up talking about whether Porfiry set up the painter.&#8221; There is an intellectual intensity that is &#8220;almost unique&#8221; to Columbia, says former Provost Jonathan Cole. &#8220;If you go to a dinner party at Stanford, you&#8217;re more likely to talk about your trip to the mountains&#8221; than, say, the Platonic Ideal. None of this happened by accident. In order to bring undergraduate life to the center of the University, Cole spearheaded a project to make Morningside Heights a &#8220;truly residential neighborhood in New York City.&#8221; By 2003, Cole&#8217;s final year as Provost, Columbia had purchased&#8212;and sometimes built&#8212;8,000 apartments for faculty and grad students. For many faculty members, living in the neighborhood became &#8220;almost compulsory,&#8221; Cole says, especially considering the sizable Columbia-subsidized apartments that faculty &#8220;could not otherwise afford.&#8221; Creating a pseudo-college town in Morningside has helped make Columbia a direct competitor with its Ivy League counterparts. By 2003, Morningside was the third-safest precinct in all of New York City. But in the middle of the city, the college town atmosphere can feel constrictive. Professors often joke about never making it below 110th Street. Kitcher combats the stereotype by frequenting the New Young Fish Market on 108th and Amsterdam Avenue, &#8220;and I like the wine store down on 107th, and I wander down that far all the time,&#8221; he says. &#8220;But we do spend a lot of time up here.&#8221; That occasional suffocation was one of the reasons why, after 13 years at 113th Street and Riverside, Richard Sacks moved his family to the suburban Bronx enclave of Riverdale. While Sacks acknowledges that Riverdale, with its concentration of elite private schools, can still feel like an &#8220;intellectual ghetto,&#8221; he no longer feels the need to re-route his walk home, like Cole admits having done, to avoid enemies within the university. Still, many professors are perfectly content being bound by what Cole calls &#8220;golden handcuffs,&#8221; even if in his case it may have required a &#8220;high tolerance for pain.&#8221; And pain there can be, especially if a professor has an untimely run-in with an academic opponent in Duane Reade. Eric Foner, who has lived on 116th Street between Broadway and Riverside for the past 30-odd years, feels blessed that his department, History, has a &#8220;live and let live&#8221; policy, but he acknowledges that if he was in &#8220;a department like English used to be, where people were at each other&#8217;s throats all the time, then it might get a little tricky to live in the same building as someone who is denouncing you as a scoundrel.&#8221; During his tenure as provost, Cole experienced his fair share of political messiness. &#8220;Lord only knows there must have been a lot of faculty members that didn&#8217;t like me, but I never thought of it as personal,&#8221; he says&#8212;just inescapable. What should have been a short stroll home&#8212;Low Library to 113th Street and Riverside&#8212;often became a portable office session. &#8220;I would run into 10 members of the faculty and students and I would stop,&#8221; he says, &#8220;whether I wanted to or not.&#8221; Foner adds, &#8220;Whenever you go to buy a quart of milk you&#8217;re likely to run into a student who wants to know what&#8217;s on the midterm.&#8221; Emma Stanislawski, the 17-year-old daughter of History professor Michael Stanislawski, knows that she has to allow herself at least &#8220;ten extra minutes when I&#8217;m walking to the subway with my Dad because he always gets stopped.&#8221; The inconvenience of continual pestering, especially for Columbia&#8217;s &#8220;top dogs,&#8221; as Foner describes them, often trickles down to professors&#8217; families. Some would rather live anonymously in other neighborhoods, but Emma Stanislawski gets a kick that her father is &#8220;famous whenever we get stopped.&#8221; Although Emma and her two siblings have all opted to attend college far from the &#8220;Morningside womb,&#8221; as Cole describes it, she loves her spacious apartment at 448 Riverside. Five of her best friends, all children of Columbia faculty, live on 116th Street between Riverside and Morningside, and commute together to their high school in the Bronx. They even have a &#8220;116th Crew&#8221; ad in the yearbook. The high schoolers often hold parties in their spacious Columbia apartments. The Stanislawski parents sometimes give the place over to the kids and their friends for the evening. Emma recalls one particularly raucous soiree that was broken up by campus police. The teenagers didn&#8217;t have to pay a fine; they simply moved the party to another Columbia-owned abode. In the end, the awkwardness of bumping into faculty that hate you and the students who worship you is, Foner says, &#8220;completely obviated by the fabulous convenience&#8221; of living so close to the Gates. And some run-ins are just priceless. One day, as Cole was walking home from work, he ran into Edward Said, decked out in his typical &#8220;sartorial splendor,&#8221; he says. Cole complimented Said on his particularly &#8220;gorgeous&#8221; cashmere sweater. Said pulled the sweater off and offered it to Cole, insisting, &#8220;In my culture, if you admire something, it&#8217;s only appropriate that I take the sweater off my back and give it to you.&#8221; Cole refused. Said again insisted. The tug-of-war on Broadway continued before Said thrust the sweater into the reluctant Cole&#8217;s hands and walked off. Cole later dropped it off at Said&#8217;s office. And so it goes in Morningside. &#8211;Eliza Shapiro &nbsp; 
 With baseball and softball already finished for the year, other sports teams are moving into their final competitions. Read last weekend's results, including men's golf winning the Ivy title, here. Rowing: After falling last weekend for the first time this spring, the heavyweight team has its final cup race, against Navy on Sunday morning. The woemn's team closes out their cup races against Northeastern tomorrow morning. Tennis: The men's tennis team has qualified for the NCAA Tournament, and will face the University of Miami on May 8. They'll bring with them four All-Ivy recipients, including Rookie of the Year Haig Schneidermann, first-team honoree Bogdan Borta, and second-team honorees Jon Wong and Mihai Nichifor. Archery: The archery team claimed 8 of 12 All-East spots, which is determined by adding scores from three different tournaments during the year. The eight members included all six spots in the women's recurve division, led by sophomore Margot Sturchin. Lacrosse: Although the women's lacrosse team finished 1-6 in Ivy play, a 15-14 win over Bucknell on Tuesday (behind four goals from Holly Glynn) gave the Lions an overall record of 9-7, the program's most wins ever in a season. Track &amp; Field: After several posting NCAA-qualifying times at the Penn Relays, the track and field team looks to build momentum at the Princeton Elite Meet today and tomorrow in Princeton, New Jersey, before next weekend's Ivy League Heptagonal Championships. - JCD 
 NOTE: Since publishing, it has come to Bwog's attention that this review only covered the first half of the play. Bwog sincerely regrets the error. Bwog's Shakespeare Under the Stars Expert Julia Mix Barrington turned out last night for King's Crown Theatre Troupe's production of Shakespeare's Julius Caesar and returns this report.&nbsp; Caesar's final performance is tonight at 8 PM. If you&#8217;re facing the dilemma of whether or not to show up at Low Steps for KCST&#8217;s production of Julius Caesar, the answer is clear:&nbsp; go.&nbsp; The show's deftly-executed concept creates a more-than-memorable experience and makes up for bombastic acting from all sides&#8212;for an hour or so, at least. Until the play begins to flag, it&#8217;s truly glorious.&nbsp; The director, Dan Blank, has a genius for mise en sc&#232;ne; first the milling crowd finds itself mildly captivated by the show&#8217;s Plebeian ensemble&#8212;a marketplace&#8212;milling and seething in front to Low only to be taken by surprise as Caesar, his entire retinue, some witches, and a small marching band stride in from behind to shouts of &#8220;make way!&#8221;&nbsp; Blank writes that he &#8220;wanted the audience to realize the relevance for themselves,&#8221; but I&#8217;d argue that what&#8217;s actually effected is a time-machine-perfect transformation of the audience of 150-odd Columbians into a true and volatile turba worthy of any of the Seven Hills of Rome.&nbsp; This magic trick continues to amaze for the next few &#8220;stops&#8221; of the play:&nbsp; the ensemble, banging trash cans and flashing strobe lights, ushers you through an impressive storm; plotters cast huge and ominous shadows over the brick of St. Paul&#8217;s; the semi-circle of audience and the trees in the inexplicable &#8220;garden&#8221; outside Schermerhorn delicately demarcate Brutus&#8217;s house, creating a sense of intimacy suitable to the dialogue&#8217;s talk of secrets.&nbsp; Unfortunately, it was around this scene that I stopped wondering at my transformation into a Roman and started paying attention to the acting.&nbsp; A great concept can only take a show so far, and Caesar&#8217;s performances don&#8217;t have the power to carry the show after the novelty wears off.&nbsp; There&#8217;s an air of contrivance and a sense of grasping to each scene which doesn&#8217;t mesh with the supreme realism&#8212;or at least consummate efficacy&#8212;of the traveling, open-air play.&nbsp; The problem with this Caesar is that it&#8217;s around three hours long, and, with no outstanding performances to sustain it, the novelty of feeling yourself a part of the Roman mob wears off as quickly as your pre-gaming buzz, leaving you cold, bored, a little confused, and with very sore feet.&nbsp; As Brutus&#8217;s fortunes wane, so does the crowd&#8217;s attention (I saw people slipping away even before Caesar was dead), and the clot of die-hards who witness Philippi is much smaller than the vast horde who started out hours before. That's the end, however.&nbsp; The captivating opening is by far a different story, and for its sake, go to see Julius Caesar&#8212;it&#8217;s an experience you don&#8217;t want to miss.&nbsp; Think of it, however, less as Shakespeare and more as the ham-fisted replica that&#8217;s a Renaissance Fair: completely fun and absorbing, but only for a finite amount of time.&nbsp; See Caesar, by all means, but don&#8217;t be surprised when you don&#8217;t feel like staying too long. &nbsp;-review and photo by JPMB 
As the senior class heads out into the real world, Bwog traditionally delays them a few minutes to get their final thoughts on their time at Columbia, and their advice to their successors. Our second installment is from ESC's Kim Manis. You can follow the rest here. Name, School: Kim Manis, SEAS Claim to fame: ESC Senior Class President, Commissioner Emeritus of CUAssassins Post-grad plans: Moving to Seattle and working for Microsoft. Every time you use spell check in Microsoft Word, think of me. What are three things you learned at Columbia? &#8226; The way to tell if someone is a robot is to ask them to climb up on a chair. &#8226; People will do ridiculous things for a cash prize. &#8226; It's best not to forget the things you've learned in a class after it's over, cause you pretty much always have to relearn it in another class. Justify your existence in 30 words or less: I can recite the film Clueless in its entirety. Favorite study spot? Uris group study rooms. If none are available, I like to sit in one with one other person in it and sneeze a lot or listen to loud pop music until he/she gets annoyed and leaves. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The hunger strike! I think ESC was the only campus organization to release a statement disagreeing with their tactics. We got flooded with emails from SEAS students agreeing with us and thanking us for taking a stance. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Dealing with the aftermath of the Winter Gala coat check rush of 2009. The woman working the coat check never came back to work! Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Ever since Bwog started running these senior wisdom posts my freshman year, I've been debating my answer to this question. Don't make me choose! Okay, honestly, I'm just saying that, so I don't sound like a perv, I'd give up cheese in a heartbeat. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Watch sporting events during the day at local bars and befriend the bouncers. Then they won't care about your obviously fake ID. Regrets? Never executing my plan to turn every level of Mudd into a different level from Super Mario Brothers. 
 Like many of you, last night the staff of the Blue and White attended the 115th Annual Varsity Show, "The Gates of Wrath." The Varsity Show should not be, as most people say, about collectively making fun of ourselves and our school. It's about collectively doing something&#8212;anything&#8212;together. And last night, at the premiere of the 115th Annual Varsity Show, we spent three hours doing just that. From 8 p.m. to 11 p.m., the hundreds who gathered in Roone for last night's sold-out performance met a cast of familiar Columbia stereotypes (a dishonest but well-intentioned i-banker, tragically underutilized SCEG types, etc.) as well as those who aren't such perennial Morningside fixtures (a marriage-crazed debutante, a would-be Broadway star cursed with a gift for physics.) In the past, unrealistic characters have been created with great success in Varsity Shows&#8212;recall the ritzy GS character in the 2006 show and the creepy old man who lived in Carman in the 2007 show&#8212;but this year, it just happens that they weren't funny imaginary characters (except for Patrick Blute's spirited and charismatic portrayal of a megalomaniacal Dean Quigley, who bears little resemblance to the real thing). Enjoyable moments came mostly from minor characters and small quips tossed in, but these moments of hilarity were largely independent from the plot and the characters. Still, stand-out performances from Yonatan Gebeyehu as President Bollinger and the Hallelujah Man (among other things), Giselle Gastell as the aforementioned theatrically inclined engineer, and Adam May, who nailed the few solid punchlines given to his troubled i-banker character, helped to salvage individual scenes. As one might expect from a three hour show, much of the material felt extraneous, particularly the inexplicable dance numbers "Satan is Coming to Town" and "Downtown," both of which solicited looks of confusion from audience members surrounding the Blue and White. Save phenomenal solo performances from Kendale Winbush (playing an earnest CCer looking to transfer to NYU) and Gastelle, much of the music was unmemorable, and what was memorable was clunky. For instance, the chorus to the "Please, Don't Go" was just bizarre: "Knees as weak as water/you make my heart stop its blood flow." However, last year's lovely show suffered the same dearth of show-stopping numbers, but it succeeded on the strength of the writing and the quick and lucid plot development. This year, the best one-liners were, ironically, ones that had little to do with Columbia: "You can't do anything with one bar," yelled at a white MacBook and a reference to NYU's "sexual reorientation" program were favorites among the staff of the Blue and White. Many of those zeitgeisty "it happened this year!" jokes felt tacked on and obligatory&#8212;as if the writers had a mental checklist and tried to make sure they hit every campus issue at least once. The show was also decidedly less crass than it was in previous years. A perpetually screeching and bouncing Barnard character seemed to be in heat (or something) but there was very little sexual innuendo compared to previous years. Accolades to this year's design team, for constructing the wittiest set in recent memory, especially for the interior design job done on Dean Quigley's lair, which was winningly monogrammed and festooned with tapestries and the Union Jack. But regardless of whether it used stereotypes, rehashed jokes, or spoke to your experience, the Varsity Show didn't do its job: it didn't entertain, and a large reason for this can be explained by its sheer length. There was a funny and enjoyable 90 minute production in there&#8211;we wish we just could have seen that show. &#8211;The staff of the Blue and White; illustration by Stephen Davan 
Documenter of All Things Butler Alexandra Muhler sends in this photo, taken in 603.&nbsp; It's like the Pagemaster, but this is real life. &nbsp; 
Outgoing Dean Austin Quigley is in the audience for tonight's performance of the 115th Annual Varsity Show. Below, an eager audience member is disappointed to learn that his English accent is not, in fact, faked. - Photo by ACM 
 Image via toyrific.co.uk Stop panicking about lil' piggy flu.&nbsp; We've found a way to make it politically incorrect. The only reason we have a potential pandemic is all those corrupt doctors.&nbsp; Free Viagra be damned, we want our vaccine! The 2013's are signing away their souls (on Facebook).&nbsp; Columbia has the fewest downsides&#8212;compared to Cornell. Hopefully they'll face better economic times.&nbsp; One Columbia graduate has found fame in, erm, illicit affairs. For the rest of us, Yankees' seats are becoming more affordable (if you were paying thousands of dollars to begin with). Leave all of that behind.&nbsp; If you're stuck at home because the big, bad economy took your job, rest assured that it's the best for your GPA. 
As the senior class heads out into the real world, Bwog traditionally delays them a few minutes to get their final thoughts on their time at Columbia, and their advice to their successors. Our third installment is from Nhu-Y Ngo. You can follow the rest here. Name, School: Nhu-Y Ngo, CC Claim to fame: VSA, APAAM, AAAPC, AdCo, being from Nebraska Post-grad plans: Researching U.S. immigration policy at a DC think tank, hopefully coming back to the City as soon as possible, some road trips and camping fiascos, then after that, I can has lawlz school? What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. The students are really passionate about what they do/believe in, and that drove me to pursue my own interests and seek collaborative projects. I have confirmed my belief that real institutional change on campus does come with student action. 2. Coalition building intimately involves emails. Tons and tons of email. 3. The concept of home as I remember it (and desire when I am homesick) does not really exist anymore, which has helped me come to terms with growing up and moving on. But some things remain the same, like my brother's willingness to watch BCS football championships with me every winter break. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Gchat master who kind of (not really) knows how to swim because of her 9am swim class (shout out to Jimmy Bolster). Favorite study spot? The Solomon R. Chao Memorial Party Room, until it was disbanded. Basically, it was just a bunch of my friends and I obnoxiously camping out in a Butler study room (sorry!), being insanely unproductive. Though, really, my favorite study spot is back in my hometown--it's a coffee shop named "The Mill" with free WiFi, great hot cider, an outdoor patio, proximity to a ice cream shop named "Ivanna Cone," and the occasional Midwestern hipster. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Hunger strike, especially as I believe it was so misunderstood. The organizers had legitimate goals and points, but had a tough time clarifying it to the student body. In my time here, I've learn not to immediately disregard student activism as selfish or misguided but dig at what the motivations and reasons are (and help out in any way that I can). And maybe when John Ashcroft came to campus. I found that hilarious. I wish he had sung "Let the Eagle Soar". Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? A few EC disbanded parties, I guess. I did awkwardly get sick at Winter Gala in front of some administrators. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Is my mother reading this? What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Transfer your Cubmail to Gmail. Believe the Mac is better over PC hype (I'm a recent and initially reluctant/misguided convert). Don't take Benadryl before an exam. And you know, go downtown and watch the sunset at Battery Park. That kind of stuff. Regrets? I wish I were a bit braver and less hesitant about some things. And I wish I could have met and gotten to know more people--I've overcome my introversion to some extent here, but there is definitely room to grow. 
Hiding in Butler, you've got six papers due in ten hours but you're engaged in a poke war on Facebook.&nbsp; It's time to buckle down and get some real work done.&nbsp; SocketHop is here to help. &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via Flickr Lose the Clutter There's a million ways to have distraction-free word processing, but Bwog has two favorites.&nbsp; Dr. Wicked's Write-or-Die is a website that allows you to set word count and time goals to keep you writing at a consistent speed.&nbsp; Should you fail to keep typing, the website will flash heart-wrenching colors and spout horrible music.&nbsp; Writer is a web application that provides stripped-down editing with .txt and .pdf file export options, as well as limited save options. Half of writing a research paper is, well, Googling other people's research papers.&nbsp; And reading all those random articles can be hard on the eyes.&nbsp; In comes Arc 90's Readability bookmarklet.&nbsp; A bookmarklet is a bookmark you can store on your bookmarks toolbar that performs a function (rather than just linking to a Web site).&nbsp; Readability removes all the clutter from your web-based reading and formats the text with clear fonts in narrow columns.&nbsp; All this can be customized, as well, creating a distraction-free reading environment. Save Your Eyes Late nights in Butler mean late nights staring at your bright, white LCD screen.&nbsp; That translates to red, sore eyes by morning.&nbsp; Enter F.lux, a small tray application (Windows and OS X) that solves this problem.&nbsp; In a nutshell, F.lux modifies the color temperature of your screen to match the time of day.&nbsp; This means that as the sun sets, your screen transitions from a blueish hue to a yellowish hue, matching the color of your fluorescent hell.&nbsp; It sounds like a strange idea at first, but once you become used to it, you'll never switch back. One more tip and a geek level-up after the jump. Block Facebook The major efficiency-stealers when you're trying to research and write are sites like Facebook.&nbsp; If you have enough self-control to inflict website blocking on yourself, there's a simple fix. The Hosts file on your computer (OS X and Windows) is where your computer looks first when it's trying to translate a website address (e.g., google.com) into an IP address (74.125.45.100) before it asks other computers on the Internet.&nbsp; You can exploit this gateway by having it point the addresses of distracting Web sites to, well, nothing. On Windows, the file is located in C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\Etc\hosts, and in Mac OS X or Unix, it's located in /etc/hosts.&nbsp; The file can be opened in any text editor (e.g., Notepad or TextEdit).&nbsp; You'll need administrative privileges to open it.&nbsp; On OS X, try going via the Terminal (Apps &gt; Utilities) and typing "sudo open /etc/hosts" without quotes. The files has two columns with numbers and names.&nbsp; At the bottom of the list, add 127.0.0.1 &lt;TAB&gt; facebook.com, where &lt;TAB&gt; is a press of the Tab key.&nbsp; This will redirect Facebook (or any other website) to your own machine, effectively displaying nothing on the page. If you want to block Gmail but still want to use Google, list "mail.google.com".&nbsp; It's important that you not remove "127.0.0.1 &lt;TAB&gt; localhost" from the top of the list, as this can break a lot of web and hardware-related applications.&nbsp; Use extreme caution when editing the Hosts file.&nbsp; Make a backup copy before making changes.&nbsp; The queasy can try this Firefox extension. &#8211;AB 
 &nbsp;Image via Salon.com The hidden forces around Columbia are readying themselves for the arrival of that mistress of madness Ann Coulter on Monday.&nbsp; But oh, twist!&nbsp; Conversio Virium, the BDSM campus group known for its sex toy demos, will be hosting author Kate Bornstein starting sixty minutes after the Coulter debacle.&nbsp; She'll be talking about when "the way you express yourself makes other people queasy." Quite the back-to-back billing. That touchy-feely liberal "victimization" might raise Coulter's hackles a little bit.&nbsp; The last time she sparred with Conversio Virium was two and a half years ago, when Fox News invited Coulter to comment on a report that Columbia has a lot of sex. A lot of kinky sex. Coulter told Fox, "omeone who needs to join a club at college to find a way to have sex, probably not your lookers...probably something a little wrong about them." It's so on. Bags and signs are forbidden at the Coulter event, but students do have a history of creative protest. 
Before they start working to pay off their student loans, Bwog humbly asks for departing seniors' thoughts and advice.&nbsp; Read the rest of this year's here. Name, School: Jacob Weaver, CC/GSAS Claim to fame: Former Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Politics &amp; Society and Treasurer of ABC Post-grad plans: I've been working on my MA in Statistics here at Columbia since graduating in December. This summer, I'll be traveling in China and then working for McKinsey in New York. What are three things you learned at Columbia? I learned how to speak Chinese (more or less), translate German, and write English. Favorite study spot? The fifth floor of Lerner is under-appreciated during finals, but I like studying at home. Potluck House in particular had great common rooms with friends, good food, and comfy chairs cast off by the law school. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I fully intend to survive and eventually reproduce. With luck I will find a way to help people while I'm at it. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The Ahmadinejad smackdown. It had the requisite relevance to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, ostentatious free speech, international publicity, and a great SNL digital short. What's not to like? Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Only secondhand: close friends with beautifully decorated walls had their suite forcibly repainted over winter break and were charged thousands of dollars for the privilege. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Oral sex. My dog's name is Brie. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Everyone loves to hate the Columbia bureaucracy, but think of it like one big training ground for all the frustrating real-world institutions you get to deal with later. If someone tells you that you can't do something, it could be because it's a bad idea, but it's often just because it's never been done before. If it's really worthwhile, you can make it happen if you're persistent. Regrets? I know it's a cop out, but I regret nothing I did and everything I didn't do. When I'm feeling nostalgic, I wish I had taken classes in all the majors I never even considered, met all the people I never even saw, and joined all the clubs at the Activities Fair. Sadly, I also never played Assassins. 
 "I was never supposed to be editor in chief of the&nbsp;Spectator." "I wasn&#8217;t supposed to end up in this place."&nbsp; There are fun things to do in New York City in the summer It's not a very good time for small businesses. You're not going anywhere, Crackdel.&nbsp; "I like Columbia."&nbsp; 
 Finally, blissfully, it's that time again. Today is the last day of classes for the year, and your professors should have something to say about it.&#160; As always, please send the sweet/sad/insane words they send you off with to tips@bwog.net or post in the comments thread. &#160;
 Today, from 12-2 on Low Plaza (rain location in Carleton), ESC will be hosting its annual end-of-year BBQ. The theme is "SEAS the Day" and you'll get free food, t-shirts, and SEAS pride in abundance. Plus, if you're a senior, you can enter the Senior Class Boat Building Competition and try to float a boat in the Low fountains. If you choose to accept your mission, as the Facebook event advertises, you can "prove to those CC kids taking their swim test that you can actually build a boat." Ah yes, the moment you've been waiting for these past 4 years. Also, the SAE will have its race car on College Walk from 12-5. Carpe diem! 
Our series continues with SGA President Sarah Besnoff. Name, School: Sarah Besnoff, Barnard College Claim to fame: Student Government Association President, Columbia Urban Experience Coordinator, Peace by PEACE volunteer Post-grad plans: Eventually: law school, local politics in Philly; Now: Looking for a job in New York and moving into an apartment with my CUE Co-Coordinator Stephanie Davidson What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) Developing "good time-management skills" really means learning to function on less sleep. 2) The kindergarten friend-making tactic (e.g. "hi, we both like troll dolls; will you be my friend?") is also how it's done in college/the real world. Now it's just called "networking." 3) The Barnard-Columbia relationship is confusing because Barnard students think we're part of CU and the Board of Trustees thinks we're partners with CU...And both are right. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. If I meet you once, I will continue to smile and say hi if we pass each other on campus. Favorite study spot? Really love Lewis Parlour. Comfy couches, free coffee. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The fear/anticipation of whether or not we'll name our student center "The Vag" was definitely the highlight of the past year. It was totally the donors' right to name it "The Diana," but I'm bummed that we won't have a late-night eatery called Va-JJ's. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Not really. Although, every month, having to watch cases of beer be poured out after Lerner Pub wounded my emotional stability. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? As a peanut-allergic vegetarian, I pretty much only eat cheese. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Do Columbia Urban Experience. In case you can't, here's what four years of CUE taught me: You have time in college to do community service every week. Take "Women and Leadership." Go to the Nuyorican Poets Caf&#233;. Don&#8217;t ever try to student-rush Wicked. Karaoke is always more fun and never as awkward as you think it'll be. Hewitt has the better food. Discussing Harry Potter consistently gets conversations started between nervous first-years. The best public restrooms in Midtown are at the Marriott on 46th. And if you take that elevator to the top floor without stopping, it feels like a rocket ship. Regrets? Probably should have gotten a fake ID. Never went to Hangama or Holi. Overall, though, I've loved every moment of being at Barnard. 
 The staff of the Blue and White kindly requests the pleasure of your company at our last general body meeting of the school year, tonight, at 9:30 PM in the catacombs of St. Paul's Chapel. Join us as we bid adieu to the class of 2009 (picture in formal attire at right). We'll provide the cause and accouterment for celebration, you provide the camaraderie and good cheer. &nbsp; 
The Visual Arts Class of 2009 will have a double celebration for their work and thesis exhibitions today. The most artistically inclined among us will be hosting Open Studios at Watson Hall at 612 115th Street and Broadway from 4-6. The Thesis Exhibition Opening will follow from 6-8 at the Neiman Gallery in Dodge. Remember to bring a discerning eye and the 14 ID's required to drink.
 Our heartiest congratulations to professors James Leighton and Mark Mazower, the newest recipients of the Mark Van Doren and Lionel Trilling Awards, respectively.&#160;The awards were doled out by the Columbia College Academic Awards Committee, which is made up of 10 CC students who have overseen the selection process throughout the year. Leighton is a Chemistry professor who teaches the infamously difficult Organic Chemistry class to undergrads. He has also done extensive research into strategies in asymmetric synthesis (eek!) and has already won the CU Lenfest Distinguished Faculty Award. Mazower, a History professor, earned the Trilling Prize for his eighth book Hitler's Empire: How the Nazis Ruled Europe. Both CULPA gold-stars will be honored in a ceremony in Low Library on May 7th.&#160; 
 The newest issue of The Jester will hit news stands tomorrow with a shocking title. Who knew there was a recession on? For the inside scoop, you can check out the pdf version tonight.&nbsp; You know what else is new? You're about to graduate from college! And even if you're not, the real world is out there, and it's coming to get you! (3, Jester's pages) The obvious solution is to become a professional businessman. (4) Or, if you think you'd be better at it, a skanky hooker. (5) If neither of those sound appealing, please fill out this job application form: &nbsp;- Question 1) What would you rather see a funny picture of, a beluga whale humping an insect, or an exorcism? (7) &nbsp;- Question 2) Would you rather be lame or awesome? (19-20) &nbsp;- Question 3) Find the economy on this drawing. Hint: it's wearing a white and red shirt and glasses. (12-13) Of course, you could forget about getting a job. Just live on coupons. (25) 
 Free Pizza! Now! Go! John Jay Lounge! For Freshman Academic Connection...? We'll take it!
 Bwog's James Rathmell reports from CB9's meeting. Earlier this evening, Community Board 9 unanimously voted against the passing of the $150 million Community Benefits Agreement for the Manhattanville expansion.&nbsp; Created to address several of the problems Columbia has run into with local residents, the CBA would have allowed for $150 million to be allotted in several categories, including housing, &#8216;in-kind&#8217; benefits, and a demonstration public school to be completed in the near future.&nbsp; Two members of the CB9 board (who declined to be named) debated the issue fiercely, focusing on the eminent domain problem and the &#8220;vagueness of the wording in the Agreement.&#8221;&nbsp; Much of the language, one of the members argued, was &#8220;watered down, diluted, and not the point we were trying to make.&#8221;&nbsp; One of the main concerns, it seemed, is that Columbia is still relying on the use of eminent domain to further the expansion. A man in a green sweater continually shouted from the back of the room for most of the proceedings; &#8220;This is the most important damned thing to come by CB9 in forever,&#8221; he said, &#8220;and this whole Eminent Domain thing has always been about one thing: taking property from people.&#8221;&nbsp; Due to this, many of the members voiced that voting yes on the CBA &#8220;would be inconsistent with what CB9 has always stood for.&#8221; Julio Batista, the president of the West Harlem Local Development Corporation (a local group specifically created to negotiate benefits with Columbia), countered many of these arguments.&nbsp; The simple fact, he said, was the Columbia already owns 80% of the land, and that failure to sign the CBA would result in the community getting nothing as opposed to the $150 million (plus an additional $150 million provided by the state).&nbsp; He stated that if the Public Authorities Control Board approves the Columbia expansion (which is expected to happen in the coming weeks), Columbia would not be mandated to provide any money to the community.&nbsp; The general consensus, was that the motion passed by CB9 would not have so great an impact on the CBA. The LDC (with two members of CB9 present) will vote on the agreement tomorrow night.&nbsp; &#8220;No matter what we say, it&#8217;s not going to make a damned difference,&#8221; one member explained, &#8220;Our only question is &#8216;Can they give up wminent domain, period?&#8217;&#8221;&nbsp; Members rallied behind this sentiment: &#8220;I don&#8217;t think we should vote on it just because it&#8217;s shameful.&nbsp; It&#8217;s outrageous, egregious, and shameful.&#8221;&nbsp; But a representative from the LDC settled on the fact that, &#8220;We think we&#8217;ve secured the best agreement we can.&#8221;&nbsp; &nbsp; Though the outlook is not good for CB9, their unanimous vote expressed as sense of solidarity for the board.&nbsp; As one member put it, &#8220; has become one of the best community boards in all of Manhattan.&#8221; 
 Dear underclassmen: When you get to be a senior, Columbia will start dong nice things for you, in hopes that those good feelings will be the ones that stick when you have more money than you need for basic survival. Senior dinner is one of those things, and this evening, many thousands of dollars went into an elegant if predictably mediocre meal to celebrate the class of 2009's last day of school. Twas a convivial affair in that circus tent on South Lawn, as roughly a thousand seniors lounged with good friends and rediscovered others who had fallen by the wayside. Embarrassing photos beamed onto the tent roof above, disproportionately featuring senior class president Mark Johnson, who received lackluster applause when he took the stage to say a few words about something. There was decidedly more enthusiasm for the Senior Fund announcement by a beaming Kristin Kramer: 90 percent participation, which surpassed the 86 percent record set by the previous record-holder! Guess half a year of threats, bribes, and guilt trips finally paid off. &nbsp; CCSC President George Krebs did his signature song and dance, but he was really only there to introduce the night's main attraction, dearly departing Dean Austin Quigley. No doubt slightly sauced himself, the ebullient Brit fairly leapt out of the Varsity Show throne installed for the occasion and into a routine based on his theatrical alter ego. Little too close to reality there, Sir! This, followed by a series of recycled one-liners ("Love makes the world go round, but alcohol makes it go round twice as fast!") platitudes ("This is the greatest Columbia College class of all time, and I am proud to graduate with you") and a few genuine pearls of wisdom ("The chief value of a Columbia life is the great company it allows you to keep.") After 14 years on the job, he can be forgiven for a few cliches.&nbsp; - LBD 
 Never shying away from a potential stage storming, the Bwog staff attended last night's speech by Ann Coulter. As the crowd shuffled in through the long security lines for Ann Coulter's visit to Columbia, the same&nbsp; question was on everyone's mind--would it get crazy in Altschul? Outside the event someone had dropped leaflets instructing the audience to start singing a new version of "We Shall Overcome" (no joke), and inside students chattered excitedly. The event organizers were apprehensive as well, urging students to &#8220;keep an open mind and show her the respect she deserves.&#8221; Well, no pies were thrown, and, aside from a few shushed heckles from the back, the audience didn't lose its mind too much.&#8220;I never expected a welcome as warm as Ahmadinejad got at this University!&#8221; she said after striding on stage. But the "radical" denizens of Columbia appear to have learned their lesson from two years ago. Rather than drown out Coulter, students went so far as to shush hecklers, leading to a surprisingly entertaining evening of sharp exchanges. Rather than the traditional harangue typical of controversial speakers, Coulter took a different approach, delivering one snappy anti-liberal witticism after the other. After chiding Obama for his Special Olympics joke, she followed with, &#8220;you think he&#8217;d be more sensitive...with Joe Biden as his Vice President.&#8221; And calling out liberals for taking offense at any mention of Obama's middle name while mocking Dan Quayle for the middle name Danforth, she finished with, &#8220;Clinton&#8217;s name was Jefferson, so he should have had a black mistress.&#8221; She continued with lines about media adoration of Obama, the liberalness of MSNBC and Guantanamo, which she called &#8220;the tropical resort Bush built while they waited for a Democratic President.&#8221; She noted that the average Guantanamo detainee has gained 20 pounds, adding, &#8220;This is a brutal POW camp? This is more like a freshman dorm" (Bwog assumes that, in this metaphor, JJ's is the torture...the delicious, fried torture). Her lecture was so much like a comedy act that she even had airplane food and mother-in-law jokes. &#8220;They don&#8217;t even feed us on airplanes anymore, you have to go Guantanamo to get that,&#8221; she said, followed by calling Guantanamo &#8220;Obama&#8217;s biggest problem&#8230;after his mother-in-law.&#8221; Unfortunately, Altschul did not have a drum kit for a "ba-dum-cha!" She finished with her thoughts on waterboarding, the stale nature of 'Hope and Change' rhetoric and the future prospects of the GOP. Citing a poll that found most Germans have a favorable opinion of Obama, she noted that &#8220;we all know how good the Germans are at picking a great leader." The evening then transitioned into the question and answer period, which went on far longer than her speech. And, though a good number of the questions were confrontational, the crowd kept relatively calm. Coulter, veteran of thousands of talks around the country, dealt with most of the questions confidently, if rarely to the satisfaction of the audience. In&nbsp; response to a question on gay marriage, she asserted, &#8220;I&#8217;m against gay marriage&#8230;It&#8217;s solely, exclusively to create an environment to bring children into the world and make them civilized human beings.&#8221; Adding that the whole marriage debate didn't matter anyway since "most of my gay friends" are against it and "most heterosexual men will tell you you want to be out of this one.&#8221; Next came a question on social issues and what Republican can do to reclaim the Reagan big tent, to which she said, "we win on the social issues... not having...kindergartners being taught fisting." Suspicious that the audience did not get the message, she repeated the phrase several answers later, prompting more howls of laughter from the audience. The Cornell graduate, successful businesswoman, and #1 fan of Sarah Palin went on to complain (sort of) facetiously that the &#8220;rash experimentation with women&#8217;s suffrage has gone too far" since "whenever women get the right to vote, government spending goes through the roof,&#8221; and she would &#8220;give it up if the rest of you do, but not my education or my guns.&#8221; Take that, Spar. It was pretty inevitable that ROTC was going to come up, but when it did, Coulter redirected the question to allow for maximum Columbia-hating, changing the subject to the missile defense system, saying "it should protect the whole country with pockets for Columbia and Hanover, New Hampshire&#8221; before the rest of her response was drowned out by laughter. Though the questioners acquitted themselves well, none had managed to fit in any good jabs at Coulter until the last questioner finished with, &#8220;at the request of the gentlemen behind me, could you explain your fascination with fisting?&#8221; Coulter replied, "it's the schools that are obsessed with it. They're teaching it!" Another question handled, another questioner left unconvinced, and with a speaker whose idea of unity is "come over to my side," it was remarkable that the evening went off as smoothly, and as entertainingly, as it did. - DJB, JCD, ARK, and ECS; photo by Michael Hannon 
 The start of Reading Week means the end of the Spectator. But not the end of the world! With finals looming and storm clouds brewing, what will we talk about to lift our spirits? Duh. Swine flu. In Mexico the spread is slowing, the restaurants are reopening, and everyone's sneezing into their sleeves. Is the need for a&nbsp;UK flu leaflet campaign encouraging? No. Is the cover of the UK flu leaflet hilarious? You decide. China doesn't discriminate against Mexicans. It quarantines everybody. Self-medication won't help, unless it's the suddenly super&nbsp;popular Tamiflu. The hell with your swine flu, it's Cinco de Mayo! 
 The Philolexian Society has put out its 2009 literary magazine, Surgam (Latin: "I shall rise") and boy, does that student poetry go down smooth! The whole thing is available as a PDF on Philo's website, but as always,&nbsp;you can find the highlights below. Confirmed: Manhattan is just as romantic and mysterious as your high school senior self thought it would be. (page 6) Either a diatribe against history class or a diatribe against cod. (page 9) Keep your recycling and your composting separate, dammit!&nbsp;(page 13) If this poem is at one end of the Tender Descriptions of Sex Spectrum, Poker Face is at the other. (page 15) "Impulse then psychotic adieu." No comment. (page 4) 
 It may be free, but it's hard-earned by the honest sweat of a SEAS student's&nbsp;brow. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers is giving out homemade&nbsp;ice cream today at 3:00 in the 13th floor lounge of Mudd. "Homemade?" you repeat dreamily, as your mind's eye conjures your mother in a&nbsp;frilly apron and a beehive, brandishing a rolling pin in one hand and a Madison Avenue frying&nbsp;pan in the other. Yup. Homemade with liquid nitrogen. Freaky, smoky liquid nitrogen.&nbsp;The cryogenically frozen Dippin' Dots didn't make it to the new Yankee Stadium, but we got your scientific sweet treats right here. So go chill with the new IEEE board. (Did you get that? Did you?) 
 Goodbye, spring semester, we hardly knew ye.&nbsp;Your professors' most worthwhile closing remarks to beguile and make you smile from Spring 2009. Caterina Musatti, Intermediate Microeconomics: "Let's have a pleasant last class...which means you obey!" James Shapiro, Early Shakespeare, after a student performance of Richard Curtis' Skinhead Hamlet: "Now, go try that with a group of sixth graders." Solomon Mowshowitz, Cellular/Molecular Immunology: "...and to everyone...this class rocks." George Saliba, Contemporary Islamic Civilization, on the perils of foreign language idioms: "I still don't know the difference between knock up and knock off." So many, many more after the jump. Ovidiu Savin, Modern Analysis II: "It was very good year that you put up with me and that I put up with you." Jeffrey Lax, Judicial Politics: "The journal rejected my article, saying that it did not contribute anything to the preexisting literature. So all I can say is that I'm sorry for making you all read that piece of shit." Murat Eyuboglu, Music Hum, to the class he took over from an ailing professor: "It was nice to have met you all, though ideally I never would have met you at all." Jae Woo Lee, Advanced Programming: " if you see me around campus...or in Pinkberry." Andrew Nathan, Chinese Foreign Policy, explaining the "Blue Sky" policy for positive Chinese growth: "It's the end of the semester, have a party, have a beer! What might really happen? Take the handcuffs off!" Then, on a potential "tipping point" scenario for China relations: "And then they're going to start flavoring McDonald's hamburgers with soy sauce, and that's the tipping point!" Photo via starpulse.com 
 We start the reading week of Senior Wisdom with the Columbia Democrats' outgoing president, Chris Daniels. Name, School: Chris Daniels, CC Claim to fame: Dems President, Former RA, Perpetual Intern Post-grad plans: Teaching For America in Philadelphia, then Harvard Business School What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Everyone here is really freaking weird. I'm still not quite sure why that just occurred to me this year. 2. 99% of them are worth getting to know anyway. 3. A significant number are truly brilliant, wonderful, and funny people who will change your life. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. "If you don't have grass stains on your knees at the end of the day, then you should seriously re-examine your life"(borrowed from Calvin and Hobbes). Favorite study spot? Studying? I'm not sure I understand the question... What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Hunger strikers, hands down. Nothing says Columbia like the philosophies of Gandhi and Marx boiled down to a ten-foot-long, blue, paper-mache octopus on South Lawn. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Let me tell you about the love letters I've received from Cristen Kromm... (see "Former RA", above.) Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? No contest. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? When you're deciding between going to class and doing something you'll remember for the rest of your life, skip the class. There's more to life than discussion section. Regrets? Never. &nbsp; &nbsp; 
 Dining would like to remind you that the heady days of freshmen's Columbia Points are no more. This year, the points were abolished in favor of Dining Dollars for all. Really! The dining website says so. Besides having a marginally less embarrassing name, the only advantage of Dining Dollars is that they don't expire at the end of the year. But that's a pretty important advantage. Freshmen, let it be known: you don't have to spend your 200 remaining dollars over the next ten days on an unhealthy amount of sushi and those godawful apple cinnamon rice cakes from JJ's. Save it for next year's sophomore slump, when choosing a major drives you to eat your stress away. Photo via quakeroats.com 
 Dear readers, &nbsp;As we head into Reading Week, we know you'll need all the procrastination help you can get. Bwog will be there for you with Senior Wisdoms, exam survival features, and a few other stories we hope you'll enjoy procrastinating with. Because we love you like that. As part of that, to thank you for reading us this past year, we're going to be giving away some prizes during reading week. More specifically, two prizes, and they will be going to the funniest reader comment during reading and exam weeks. Here are the rules: 1. Be funny. Puns probably won't cover it. 2. Leave your email in the email box - it's the only way we'll know who you are. 3. Again, be funny. The first competition will run through Sunday, and the second will run next week. Prizes will be announced with the choosing of the first week's winner (though, since we're desperately poor here, don't get your hopes up). Happy commenting! The Bwog Staff 
 No Spec means no QuickSpec. So this morning, Bwog gives you... FaureSpec? That's quick-speak for the Senior Wisdom of former Spectator EIC, Tom Faure. Name, School: Tom Faure, CC '09 Claim to fame: Started with SEEJ, volunteered at Postcrypt Coffeehouse for a while, and was Spectator Editor in Chief after years covering student politics shenanigans. My claim to substantive relevance may be that I publicized, I think for the first time, what the hell F@CU is. But my real claim to fame is I got this email from Bwog. Post-grad plans: Three nouns and three adjectives that have yet to pair up: journalist, novelist, and philosopher; failed, freelance, and broke. Favorite study spot: Some friends and I would shack up in Butler 303 for weeks, but camping is a little harder these days. Avery is nice, but inevitably the only place I get any work done is Butler 202. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) In the words of Poor Tom's a Cold: "The worst is not, So long as we can say, 'This is the worst.'" 2) I'd known the world was an infinitely complex puzzle beyond my full comprehension. What I never realized was how infinitely complex and interesting are the people that comprise that world. (Not to seem like a pedantic name-dropping twat, but Wittgenstein's phrase, "The limits of my language means the limits of my world," is basically the coda to my airhead liberal art studies. My addendum would be that the limits of my world mean the limits of my language. Good people can enrich one's vocabulary.) 3) For my friends, with love and affection: Ballz. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I think that I, unlike some, generally admit to the possibility that I am wrong. I play blues guitar. I'm a lightweight, hence a cheap date. Ballz. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The Minutemen was too real, the hunger strike was too personal, the Madonna Constantine was too harrowing...I guess my favorite controversy, oddly enough, would be the very muted controversy that is the never-ending wasteland of Lerner 6. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? I went through the disciplinary process and received a warning, even though at the time of the "bust" there were really only about 10 people in my suite (and hundreds of empty beer cans...). Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? As I am French I do not understand the distinction. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Before getting here: enjoy yourself--Columbia parties generally suck. Once you get here: you don't have to do the reading. While you're here: I never fully recognized this until recently, but no matter how many responsibilities are on your plate, you can make time for what really matters to you. Finally: for God's sake, whatever you do, nurture a hobby of some kind outside your academics. Read books for pleasure, volunteer, take up kite-flying, or grow illegal plants in your closet, but do something. Just kidding - no one reads books anymore. Regrets? There are many things I wish had turned out differently, but I hold no concrete "regrets." Except Roti Roll. 
 A sign posted in the window of Morningside Books this morning informs many a sad, staring pedestrian that their beloved local bookstore will be closing in June. As in, next month.&nbsp; If you take the time to read the announcement sign in the window, it will tear your heart out.&nbsp; There is no way to prepare yourself for the sweet, forlorn, and perfectly phrased lament of a quirky little corner bookstore. "We wanted to be the little bookstore that could," the sign reads. "We couldn't." In the end, the sign informs us, "it's about money - we never had enough." At least the management thanks not only the neighborhood but Columbia as well, so we can all feel a little less guilty about every purchase we ever made at the Columbia Bookstore or at Book Culture. What will we do without Morningside Books? Where else could you be sure to find a reasonably priced Aeneid only thirty seconds' walk from your LitHum class? Where will you find the newest addition to your "Books to read for fun, eventually" collection? And where, where, oh where, will we buy our vintage anti-Bush paraphernalia? Here's to you, Morningside Books. The last surviving truly independent neighborhood bookstore will be sorely missed. 
 The Daily News is reporting that a "doomsday scenario" for the MTA has been successfully avoided. Until today, the plan had been that the world would end on May 31st, when a fifty cent subway fare hike would go into effect and service cuts would slowly begin to take effect. But, assuming that the solution proposed by Governor Patterson and other Democrats last night passes the State Legislature, that fare hike will be cut in half, and the scheduled service cuts will be put on long term hold or canceled. So it seems like with some fancy math and a couple of extra taxes on taxi drivers, everything's gonna work itself out. Well, it probably won't work itself out. The MTA, like a gambling addict, will continue to run up debts no matter how many times you settle its credit. Plus, the fare hike may be half the expected amount, but $2.25 a pop will also mean twice as much awkward change in your subway riding life. You should also probably start mentally preparing for the frustration of having an amount like $1.75 left on your MetroCard. If you're ready for it, it can only make you stronger. 
 Columbia West Coast Connection will host a study break today at 3pm in the Lerner Piano Lounge. And because guac is so hella West Coast style, they'll be serving a lot of it, for free!&nbsp; The event is actually to celebrate "Seis de Mayo," which is pretty much Cinco de Mayo for lazy people. There will be Mexican music to make you think it's Cinco de Mayo, however. As if free homemade guacamole isn't enough of a distraction. The chips are also free, for the record. 
 PrezBo has decided to close the academic year with a less-than-cheery missive about the University's budget. Not surprisingly, the numbers have declined more since January: "For the first nine months of the University&#8217;s fiscal year ending on March 31, 2009, the value of the endowment declined nearly 22%, with private investments and real assets valued on the normal one quarter lag as of December 31." But, PrezBo claims, "while hardly good news, my sense is that this constitutes strong relative performance both compared to benchmark averages in the financial markets and university endowments nationally." As for cost-cutting measures, "meaningful expense reductions have been set in place.&nbsp; Additionally, many salaries across the University will be held constant." Additionally, as already announced in January, new hires will be "reviewed" across the university (read: will be significantly less likely), and no new "capital projects" will be started. And it looks as if creditors are satisfied so far: "last week both Moody&#8217;s and Standard and Poor&#8217;s reaffirmed their highest credit rating, Aaa and AAA respectively, for Columbia&#8217;s debt." Other revenue streams continue to remain strong, including tuition. Then again, Bwog suspects tuition will continue keeping you poor, but at least no one's going to be repossessing your room during finals. Full email after the jump. Dear fellow member of the Columbia Community: As this academic year closes, I want to provide a final update on where the University stands in the current economic recession. I want to say first how grateful I am to everyone who has worked so hard, sometimes under stressful conditions, to help the institution weather this economic downturn. While the University has not been as negatively affected as many of our peers, it is never an easy matter to address a world that has taken a sharp turn for the worse for a great many people. Just to review, earlier in the year I wrote to identify several steps we were taking in the face of the downturn. I noted that we would institute a process in the central administration to review any new proposals for hiring. Similar mechanisms have now been put into place in schools across the University. The goal has been to deal with the financial challenges as much as possible through attrition. I also said we would only proceed with capital projects that are underway, that are donor-funded, or that are essential to ongoing operations and safety. We have introduced significant budgetary cuts in each part of the central administration. All of these approaches have contributed to sustaining a stable financial position for the University. For fiscal year 2010, we set out to work with each school by planning for a reduction of 8% in the endowment support for operations. Since dependence on endowment varies across our schools, the impact also varies. In the annual budget meetings led by the Provost with the deans, various additional measures were developed to achieve balanced budgets for next year. Meaningful expense reductions have been set in place. Additionally, many salaries across the University will be held constant. I know these steps have called for difficult, but necessary, choices. As is widely known, public markets declined further between the time I wrote in January and the end of March which is our most recent quarter for financial reporting purposes. For the first nine months of the University&#8217;s fiscal year ending on March 31, 2009, the value of the endowment declined nearly 22%, with private investments and real assets valued on the normal one quarter lag as of December 31. While hardly good news, my sense is that this constitutes strong relative performance both compared to benchmark averages in the financial markets and university endowments nationally. It also helps in this context that we are less dependent on our endowment than almost all of our peer universities. Nevertheless, planning for an 8% reduction in endowment support for the 2010 fiscal year appears prudent as a first step in absorbing these endowment declines. Our view of fiscal year 2011 will have to await the close of this fiscal year and a view of the market conditions and investment returns at that point. Because of the measures we have applied, we have been able to maintain the overall financial health of the University. It is heartening news in the current environment that last week both Moody&#8217;s and Standard and Poor&#8217;s reaffirmed their highest credit rating, Aaa and AAA respectively, for Columbia&#8217;s debt. For the entire Columbia community, this provides reassurance that we are taking the steps necessary to protect the long term financial health and forward momentum of the University. It is also noteworthy that we continue to see growth in the majority of our most important revenue streams. Tuition, sponsored research, and patient care all remain strong across the University. As we expected, endowment gifts have slowed in recent months, but we are still ahead of projected gifts for the Columbia Campaign and the annual funds of our schools continue to hold up well. Again, I want to express my deep appreciation to all of you for the help, ideas, and patience in adjusting to the current extraordinary economic downturn. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger 
 Graduating this month? The new Fed's got great advice to help you through your transition over the next few weeks. You won't find the inside scoop on graduating from college anywhere else! Do not, by any means, let the stress of graduating affect your vigilance in the War on Hipsters. If we don't stop them, they'll be starting their own country any day now. It's probably a good idea to have sex in some outrageous place on campus before you leave. Once you're just a creepy grad hanging around, it gets a lot harder. If you're about to graduate with an Urban Studies major, well, don't do that. Academic jargon doesn't fly in the real world. Familiarize yourself with the hip lingo before you leave Morningside and make an ass of yourself. If you haven't had the nightmare about bagging groceries for the rest of your life yet, you should get on that.&nbsp; You should also probably start mentally adjusting to your shitty new job as soon as possible. Seek counseling in advance. Meth always helps, too. 
 It's still Wednesday, and you're probably still be in full blown procrastination mode. Bwog is here to help with a new Senior Wisdom from the political left, Andrew Lyubarksy. Name, School: Andrew Lyubarsky, CC Claim to fame: SCEG member, former Spec columnist, aspiring Andean peasant-farmer/Latin Americanist, post-Soviet subject, part of the Marginal, Radical Fringe that constantly tries to hijack debate on this campus Post-grad plans: In the short-term, working at a summer program at UT-Austin, followed by hopefully some sort of outdoor labor in the Western desert-lands of Manifest Destiny, followed by teaching English via Fulbright in Argentina next March. Long term, urban planning/housing work/international non-profit-industrial complex in Latin America? Favorite study spot? I never understood the phenomenon of studying in a communal pressure-pot, frantically looking for the few available spots in Butler while your cracked-out classmates lumber about like zombies. I must betray a fondness for the Butler Reference Room, however, whose monumental &#8220;MAN IS BUT WHAT HE KNOWS&#8221; (or something like that) has led me to brief spurts of inspiration. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. At the risk of clich&#233; &#8211; the world of knowledge is vast and we are still very young. I came into Columbia with a very arrogant perspective &#8211; if I could not fit it through my prism, then it was irrelevant or unworthy of engagement. Why study Econ when you can just take Anthro classes and hone your Marxian critique? I&#8217;ve sought to understand that there is more than one road to the Good, there are more mouths than there is food and I am certainly too foolish to have all the answers. But I don&#8217;t blame myself for trying. 2. Columbia isn&#8217;t better or worse than any other big institution. Whenever you have the size and the power to get exactly what you want in terms of your self-interest, even if it totally screws over thousands of people that don&#8217;t have that power that live, oh, ten blocks away, you&#8217;re gonna do that. And, if you&#8217;re smart enough (and nobody has accused Columbia of being stupid), you&#8217;ll put out a complex PR campaign that tells people that they are being screwed over for their own good. But the whole point is that its not monolithic &#8211; it is susceptible to change, it is a contestable space, otherwise there would be no point of protesting. Ultimately, that&#8217;s the hope &#8211; that the world is, in some way, redeemable. 3. A lot of people are wack; some people aren&#8217;t. Forty ounces of malt liquor can resolve most differences between the two for a couple hours at least. Unfortunately it doesn&#8217;t last. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Seeker of horizon. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Definitely the hunger strike. There is a great deal of revisionist history in people&#8217;s understanding of what happened, to the degree that its impossible to consider it seriously in any terms except those of a joke or caricature. Somehow, we forget in the &#8220;hunger-strike-is-ridiculous&#8221; narrative that the expansion was going through the approval process at the time, that there had been a four-year history of protest around that issue. We also forget that we had the explicit support of 3 of the 4 class councils (thanks, SEAS!), most cultural organizations, a lot of the leading humanities and social sciences faculty members&#8230; But, I digress. It was without a doubt the most interesting and educational experience for me at Columbia, failed as it might have been. I would change some things, yes, but I firmly believe we were correct in our convictions. I&#8217;ll never forget the community of support and struggle we built around those tents, fleeting as it was. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Somehow I&#8217;ve gone from Carman 904B to two years of StRuggles to EC with a plethora of parties but no disciplinary infractions to my name. In freshman year though, I did disappear into the Carman stairwells for hours and then wake up in my bed with bruises and no recollection of the occurrence. It was kind of like Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I share the predilections of the humble scarecrow, always in search. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Columbia will give you a great education in anything you want to do, but with the important caveat that the view it gives you of reality is extremely partial. You can have a perfect GPA and come out of here an over-educated idiot, if you don&#8217;t venture outside of the gates. You can learn a lot from being engaged with the Harlem community that no amount of social science reading isn&#8217;t going to give you. Don&#8217;t just do community service and don&#8217;t just do activism &#8211; do both. You have a lot to give and a lot to receive from the community, if you take them seriously. It&#8217;s not about charity, it&#8217;s about living. Regrets? Failing to compellingly model my lifestyle on Kanye West or Residente from Calle 13. 
 The Student Coalition on Expansion and Gentrification, which held a rally against stimulus bill money for the expansion this past Saturday, just unveiled their new blog. Now you can protest the expansion without leaving your computer. Just in time for finals procrastination! On the site, you can sign their "no-dough" petition, pledging not to donate to the University until the expansion is made "ethical." Bwog does not know if those among us too poor to donate (also known as students) can still take the pledge. The blog also offers an expansion timeline, an outline of the University's plan and a section on living wage. Welcome to the Bwogroll, SCEG! We add you to the lower right hand corner of our website with pride. -DJB 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;-Photo of Rinere via Harvard Crimson The long, tortured nonexistence of the sixth floor of Lerner is coming to an end...soon. Though the floor has been without residents (aside from a colony of mice, probably) since Lerner Hall opened in 1999, an administrative light has appeared at the end of the tunnel. In an email to students, Dean Shollenberger wrote that this summer "the sixth floor of Lerner will be renovated to house the Dean of Student Affairs&#8217; suite, the Office of Financial Aid and Educational Financing, and the Office of Judicial Affairs and Community Standards." This jumble of bureaucracy is moving up to the six floor to make way for a planned central Student Advising Center on floor four, part of the the University initiative to improve student advising. In that vein, Shollenberger also announced the hiring of Monique Rinere, who recently overhauled advising at Harvard, where her work received high marks. Rinere will lead the charge to improve Columbia's advising program. Full email from Shollenberger after the jump. &nbsp;Dear Students, In 2007, responding to needs expressed by students, a new plan for undergraduate advising at Columbia was developed. This plan addressed both resources and facilities, and while it would take several years to fully implement all of the pieces, providing adequate advising resources for undergraduates was a clear priority from the outset. Several overarching goals factored into our decision to enhance undergraduate advising: To provide each student with more individualized guidance. To build a seamless advising experience that provides greater coordination between academic, preprofessional, career, and other advising resources across the schools. To establish a single, highly visible, easily accessible advising center in a central campus location. By centralizing undergraduate advising and improving the overall structure, we will be able to provide a comprehensive advising program that addresses the diverse academic and personal needs of our students. The deans of Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science have played a pivotal role in guiding this reform of undergraduate advising. To ensure that we have the resources necessary to achieve these ambitious goals, alumni, parents and friends established the Austin E. Quigley Endowment for Student Success. Through their generosity, we will be able to enhance advising programs and services for undergraduates. I am happy to announce two significant steps toward the achievement of our goals. Appointment of Dean of Advising Our commitment to student advising necessitates strong and visionary leadership. After a national search, I am pleased to announce that Monique Rinere will be the new Dean of Advising and Associate Dean of Student Affairs for Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. As Associate Dean of Harvard College, Dean Rinere oversaw the development of the Advising Programs Office which served 7,000 undergraduates. Under her leadership, Harvard&#8217;s Advising Programs Office enhanced services for students by strengthening relationships with students, faculty and departments, developing a peer advising program, and creating innovative, web-based resources. I look forward to working with Dean Rinere and the expertise and leadership she will bring to the Center for Student Advising. Creation of a Central Advising Center The Center for Student Advising will be housed on the fourth floor of Lerner. Beginning this summer, the sixth floor of Lerner will be renovated to house the Dean of Student Affairs&#8217; suite, the Office of Financial Aid and Educational Financing, and the Office of Judicial Affairs and Community Standards. Once these offices have moved to the sixth floor early in the fall, we will begin planning for the expansion of the current Center for Student Advising. This expansion will provide a central physical space for student advising and is essential in providing students with streamlined, accessible resources. CCSC and ESC have been important partners in our discussions about the enhancements to advising and I know they share my excitement as we begin this important phase of our development. Dean Quigley, Dean Navratil and I have had an opportunity to provide a more detailed update about the overall plan with both councils and have shared with them the architects&#8217; proposal for the sixth floor space. We will continue to communicate regularly with the councils as we proceed with our plans for the fourth floor. In addition, we will discuss with the councils the best use of the space that will eventually become available in the residence halls when the advising centers move to the fourth floor of Lerner. Over the past three years, the commitment to enhancing student advising at Columbia has been shared by students, staff, the deans and alumni. The vision, evaluation, planning and resources that have gone into this have truly been a collaborative effort. Establishing one centralized location for the advising office and naming Dean Rinere as the head of that office are important steps toward honoring that commitment. I am thankful to everyone who has played an integral role in this effort and look forward to welcoming you to the new space. Sincerely, Kevin G. Shollenberger Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College/The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Student Life Arts and Sciences Columbia University -DJB 
A merry prankster appears to have set off the fire alarm in Butler, driving the huddled masses out into the pouring rain (UPDATE: students have been let back in now). Tipster Amanda Santamaria, though, stuck around long enough to record the rarest of sights: an empty Butler 403. And yet it probably still smells to high heaven. 
 In a shocking twist to the elections that about seven people voted in, three GSSC election results have been overturned by the GSSC Judicial Committee, overruling a previous decision validating the elections from the Elections Committee. University Senator (no longer) elect Paul Zachary, VP Policy winner Scott Jurkowski and fallen Academic Affairs victor Richard Adams have all had their victories revoked for campaigning on Facebook through their statuses after the campaigning deadline had passed. Just for some perspective, Adams was the only person in his race to receive any votes, and don't we all know that someone running unopposed can do whatever the hell they want? Plus, only 79 total votes were cast in Jurkowski's race, of which he nabbed 50. A lot of the possible positions didn't even have candidates to run for them. Apathy: because you can't commit voter fraud if there are not any voters. The three candidates will not be barred from attempting to regain their offices next year, when, according to a Judicial Committee report, "each of these candidates, as well as any other students who desire, will have the opportunity to apply for appointment to office when the GSSC reconvenes in the fall of 2009." The judicial committee added that "the importance and challenge of the work done by the Elections Committee cannot be understated, and as students and Committee members we are grateful for their service." We're just going to do the exact opposite of what they said.&nbsp; -DJB 
 Public Safety just sent out an alert that, "on May 6, 2009, at about 10:30 p.m. a student was robbed of his cell phone on Broadway near W. 114 St. The suspects, picture, approached the victim, punched him, and removed his cell phone," before fleeing. Both males are about 5'10"-5'11". "If you have any information about this crime or these suspects, call Det. Joy Lugo at the 26Pct. Detective Unit, 212-678-1318." Full email after the jump Columbia University Department of Public Safety SECURITY ALERT ROBBERY On May 6, 2009, at about 10:30 p.m. a student was robbed of his cell phone on Broadway near W. 114 St. the suspects, picture attached, approached the victim, punched him, and removed his cell phone. &nbsp;They fled south on Broadway and then east on W. 113St. &nbsp;If you have any information about this crime or these suspects, call Det. Joy Lugo at the 26Pct. Detective Unit, 212-678-1318. &nbsp;Please remain aware of your surrounding when talking on your cell phone. Both males are in their teens, and are about 5?10-5?11?. &nbsp; 
The tomb, also known as Butler, is not conducive to the strong, speedy wireless that's oh-so-helpful for Procrastination Week. So, for midterms, we marched around with our laptop trying to determine where the best signal would be. Signal strength is arbitrary (who knew?), so for finals we have taken it a step further. Bwog contacted CUIT to find out where, exactly, they're hiding all those wireless access points. They weren't very helpful: "Although it is policy to not publish specific locations of any infrastructure equipment, CUIT and the Libraries work together to make connecting to the wireless network as seamless as possible." Hand-holding fun aside, we decided to march through Butler one last time and mark down the locations of every wireless access point we could find in reading rooms.&nbsp; These diagrams even include access points that are hidden behind panels. The red dots indicate access points whose locations were visibly confirmed.&nbsp; The blue dots indicate suspected locations of access points, which were located by means of brilliant logic and magical software, be they in humming closets or hidden behind wall panels. Click on any image to reveal a larger version.&nbsp; You're welcome. &#8212;AB Floors 3-6 after the jump. 
More specifically, join the Columbia Marching Band at midnight in Butler 209 for loud music and hilarity at Orgo Night. To procrastination! UPDATE (11:37 p.m.): Students have trickle in, and a Public Safety officer is standing ominously in the corner. Also, Hillel's handing out stress balls. UPDATE (11:50 p.m.): 9 minutes before start time, people have begun climbing on desks, and the Hillel stress balls are flying through the air. Bwog's not sure that was their intended use. UPDATE (12:45 p.m.): Show's over folks - recap to follow shortly, followed by video tomorrow. 
A Bwog tipster notes that Barnard's Midnight Breakfast starts at midnight (11:30 for Barnard students) in LeFrak Gymnasium. Barnard administrators will be serving waffles, bacon, bagels, and that most breakfast-y of foods, ice cream!
 &nbsp;- An eager crowd awaits the band's entrance If you missed Orgo Night, fret not - the show was recorded and will be available tomorrow on CUMB's blog. Now, the Bwog review: After entering to the usual "Roar Lion Roar," the Columbia University Marching Band noted that, due to the recession, this year's show would be sponsored by the Columbia University Show. "We also thank the Varsity Show," a band member opined, "for lowering expectations for the past 35 years." As the Hillel-distributed stress balls flew in the air over the spectators (one eventually landing in a tuba sousaphone), many were still looking for seats, but the band told them not to worry: "if you can't hear the jokes, there'll be plenty seats open by intermission." Thus began one of the best Orgo Nights in recent memory, though, in typical marching band fashion, some of the jokes skirted the edge of tastefulness. Surprisingly, the end of the election and the departure did not dampen the band's taste for political humor- the first two segments focused on Ann Coulter (simply described as "fucking crazy" and Fox News respectively (with "Beat It" and "More Than A Feeling" mixed in), and mostly had fun at "Coultergeist's" expense, including asking "If she thinks kindergartners are being taught fisting in kindergarten, what are they being taught in high school? But the satire soon returned home, with bits on the "fun recession," new Dean Moody-Adams's secret plan to make Columbia more like Cornell, and a well-received, epic narrative of the band being dragged home by "The Diana." Jokes included Dean Cristen Scully-Kromm and her "eight hairy legs," a scuffle at the Winter Formal coat check over people attempting to "smuggle out fun in their pockets," and "The Diana" being described as "every Barnard girl: she was tall and short, slutty and a lesbian, fat and anorexic." Appropriately the tale of hooking up with the Diana ended with a spirited rendition of "Love Shack." The Cornell segment was perhaps the edgiest section, though, as jokes included "Columbia's new mascot - the Suicide Lion," and the building of a gorge on 116th Street where students can express their frustration and despair "the Cornell war: headfirst." The performance closed with a combination of the political and educational spheres, as the Marching Band took on Hillary Clinton, Barack Hussein Obama, and Eric Holder. Holder got the lightest treatment, his experience in Columbia College, Columbia Law, and the Board of Trustees making him "the only person Bollinger follows on Twitter." Clinton became fodder for another Barnard joke, as the band expressed surprise that Clinton would return twice in a year when "Barnard girls don't know how to make a relationship last more than three months." It was Obama, though, that led to a surprise, as the band announced that "Barack Hussein Obama, honorary member of the marching band, will be delivering the commencement address...in your fucking dreams." Continuing to draw inspiration from that beloved alum, the band continued "we are not a liberal Columbia, we are not a conservative Columba, we're just a mostly liberal Columbia" and, to even more applause, "we are not a white Columbia, a black Columbia, a Hispanic Columbia, or an Asian Columbia - we're a mostly Jewish Columbia!" With that, and a playing of "Jerk It Out," the band departed, but not before one final Orgo-inspired shot: "a long chain of molecules is called a polymer, and a long chain of the same joke over and over again is the Varsity Show." A final ovation followed, and, in Bwog's opinion, the band deserved it all. - JCD 
 Put down the Sparknotes, freshmen&#8212;Bwog has your cheatsheet study guide to the Lit Hum exam right here. No, we're not trying for a repeat of those fateful days of two years yore, but we are hoping to help you prepare for your Lit Hum exam with the best study device known to mankind: limericks. After the jump, Bwog has converted all several thousand pages of reading into 11 limericks, the perfect size for you to memorize in between sips of Red Bull and Pepsi Max. Only the required texts could be included, so if your instructor slipped some random book into the syllabus (Persepolis, anyone?), you'll be on your own, unfortunately. But, as you freshmen take a last-minute&#8212;and maybe first-time&#8212;glance over your Lit Hum books, Bwog wishes you best of luck. You've almost made it! &nbsp;AENEID&nbsp; (Vergil) Aeneas of Troy had grown tired Of fighting off gods who conspired. From Carthage he'd sailed, Fought hard and prevailed: To rule Latium was what he desired. &nbsp;KING LEAR (Shakespeare) There once was a man named King Lear With two daughters who were really queer Cordelia got kicked out While Edmund had a pout And 'Never' was the word we would hear &nbsp;METAMORPHOSES (Ovid) In this story the constant is change The transforming spans quite a range: Into birds, trees, and dogs, Circe's victims to hogs. Yet the poems survived, which is strange. &nbsp;DON QUIXOTE (Cervantes) I know what you think, this one's easy Dude thinks he's Prince Charming, fo'sheezy But his missions quixotic Look merely psychotic The end makes romantics quite queasy! CONFESSIONS (Augustine) Saint Auggie stole pears and loved sex. No one knew where his mind would go next. But he became Christian When in a garden he listened To a voice that Satan did vex. PRIDE AND PREJUDICE (Austen) A fripperous fable of Britain, The most the most elegant prose ever written, Where the worst kind of flirts Find out that love hurts. Pity Liz, with whom Darcy is smitten! DIVINE COMEDY (Dante) There once was an arrogant poem Where Dante through Hades did roam. He met friend and foe, Stuck Ulysses down low, And now we're stuck reading his tome. CRIME AND PUNISHMENT (Dostoevsky) Raskolnikov wielded an axe, Then found that he could not relax. A detective--Porfiry-- Made poor Rodion leery With his tireless hunt for the facts. DECAMERON (Boccaccio) Ten teenagers go gallivanting, In the countryside they start a'ranting, Devils in hell, On the roof for a spell, Frisky nuns they're still a 'panting. TO THE LIGHTHOUSE (Woolf) To the lighthouse James wanted to go, But his scholarly Father said no. Though his Mom said they might, She then died in the night, And the trip ten years later just blowed. ESSAYS (Montaigne) Imagination can fuck you up? And idleness totally sucks? What does it mean to repent? What about when years are spent? Montaigne will never shut up. &#8212;JYH, DYB, LDP, SV, JMB 
 &nbsp;John Stuart Mill, courtesy Wikipedia Bwog knows finals for Contemporary Civilization are approaching when she hears students asking each other in the hallway, "Do you know anything about Nee-chay?" So, to all sophomores about to engage with the harm principle, categorical imperatives, and the social contract: exercise your will to power. The birds of prey among you will soon be separated from the lambs. And, if you feel badly afterward about how you did on the test, just be thankful&#8212;at least you don't look like John Stuart Mill.&nbsp;
Just because activities have calmed down here on campus in observance of approaching finals, it doesn't mean that New York City isn't still popping! Friday, Saturday, and Sunday The Con Film Festival Film Forum, 209 W Houston St (212.727.8110) This series of cinematic odes to the bad guy will feature classic takes on criminals and their sexy dangerous lives. Escape from Alcatraz and Riot in Cell Block 11 will be notable features. Price: $11 Friday and Saturday Worshiping Women: Ritual and Reality in Classical Athens Friday and Saturday 10 a.m.-6 p.m., The Onassis Cultural Center 645 Fifth Ave. (212-486-4448) Just in time for those CC/Lit Hum finals, this exhibit promises to challenge standard opinions of the age. 150 rare archaeological objects make their debut in this exhibit. Price: Free! Friday Mono + Wordless Music Opera Friday 8 p.m., New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 W. 64th Street (212-874-5210) Japanese electric and a hybrid orchestra combine to bring a night of music to New York that no one will soon forget. The repertoire includes whirlpools of sound and velvety smooth sections of pure and blissful noise; check your expectations at the door. Price: $30 Saturday Graffiti and Break Battle Saturday 12-5 p.m., Riverbank State Park, 679 Riverside Dr The nations top graffiti artists go head-to-head, creating live art for the chance to compete in the Oakland, California finals later this year. Simultaneously, NYC's best break-dancers face off for a chance at cash prices. It'll be a pretty bad-ass way to procrastinate. Price: Free! Homebase IV Opening Saturday 12-8 p.m., 232 East Broadway This former medical facility turns into an artistic and cultural hub this weekend, featuring the work of artists from a variety of countries and cultures. It will become a place of vibrant cultural programming and will certainly be worth getting acquainted with. Price: Free! Sunday Tofu Takedown Sunday 4 p.m., Highline Ballroom, 431 W 16th St (212.414.5994) Since 2005, the popular NYC takedown events have taken on everything from chili to bacon. This weekend, vegetarians can finally participate in this classic mass orgy of flavor. Attendees are allowed to judge, so bring your appetites and help determine the first vegetarian winner! Price: $10 
 Name, School: Colin Felsman, CC Claim to fame: If four years of mediocre diplomacy have taught me anything it is that one should never attempt to publicly reflect on their fame, especially not when it will be footnoted by anonymous commentary. But like my senior cohorts I'll play the acronym game: President of CIRCA (formerly Model UN), COOP (Bop love), CCSC Senior Rep, EC1220, NEQ (The Nancy Elite Squad). Post-grad plans: International Organization for Migration- Fellowship based in Harare, Zimbabwe. After that I hope to land something rewarding(and paid) in Washington or New York. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Like texts from the Core, never prejudge Columbians as we have a funny way of impressing (or disappointing). For efficiency's sake prejudge everyone else. 2. Social time is rarely unproductive, Butler time often is. 3. JS Mill first tenant, basically one must accept that no belief can be proven completely infallible and thus the strength of any truth must be judged through competition in the marketplace of ideas. This is the most persuasive argument for life-long learning and for always maintaining an open mind. It is also a roundabout way of saying that I learned that I have a lot more to learn. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. When faced with daunting challenges I have trouble being concise (10 words) Favorite study spot? During the semester I adore the picturesque setting and camaraderie of Butler 301. But during midterms/finals, when Butler starts to smell and the camping crazies come out, the Lehman Library first floor reading room is a strategically secluded place where I actually get work done. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Without a doubt Ahmadinejad. From the slew of reporters to the aggressive protesters, for better or worse the event firmly placed Columbia in the international spotlight. It also sparked vibrant debate across campus and awkward student interviews with Fox News. I landed pretty great seats in Roone and distinctly recall Prezbo's controversial introduction and Ahmadinejad's largely incoherent retort as jaw-dropping moments. The controversy will forever be preserved by countless student eds, and by random publications that misquoted many of my peers. For those of you not lucky enough to be here, it is also conveniently on youtube. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Like Kim the 2009 Winter Gala Coat-Check debacle stands out. I do find that when wounded alcohol tends to disinfect. With this in mind I think there were some victories on 40 days, yet since these lines are meant to illustrate my wisdom I dare not divulge. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Drawing on a few wise forbearers faced with this very dilemma, the difficult conclusion can only be: I would give oral sex for quality cheese. (read: brie, goat cheese, fresh mozzarella, fondue, raclette, etc.) What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? 1. New York City is home to unbeatable restaurants and nightlife. Morningside Heights is definitively not. 2. A wise and undisclosed source once described Columbia as a series of micro-communities that interact and coalesce in interesting and unanticipated ways. Rather than a homogenous unit, we are a community fueled by the mutual pursuit of our individual passions. 3. Recognize that Columbia is an imperfect institution. Then instead of wasting energy on cynicism and bashing everything (for more details see commentary below), dedicate your time to improving and enjoying the things you care about with the people you care about. Regrets? Failing to recognize sooner just how fleeting time can be 
 Your last chance to have a class council foot your pizza bill begins in an hour. In celebration of the CC exam being finished, CCSC 2011 is hosting the final study break of the semester in the McBain lounge at 5 p.m. That means free pizza. Free soda will also be provided. Consolation for your exam performance, however, will not. &nbsp; 
 Bwog Vermin Control Czar Jon Hill was making the rounds in Brooklyn this week when he discovered a playground full of happy little children and their parents. All seemed well until he noticed the sign hanging outside the gate. 
 &nbsp;Image via Esquire.com What would you get if you fused the classic elegance of James Bond with the hip-hop style of Pharrell Williams? According to Dan Trepanier, you'd get... Well, him. Trepanier, CC '09, is a semifinalist in Esquire's "Best Dressed Real Man" online contest, where readers vote for their favorite 21st century Beau Brummell. He's running against men from across the country as well as a man who thinks it's okay to wear salmon-colored pants, a yellow vest, and a pink tie in public. You can vote for Trepanier&#8212;or, should we say, Dan T.&#8212;at Esquirebdrm.com. Plus, if you do vote for him, he'll share with you his secret to good grooming: "Skin lotion...got to stay smooth." 
 Name, School:&nbsp; Josh Mathew, CC Claim to fame: Editor in Chief of the Journal of Politics &amp; Society; former Middle East affairs correspondent for the Bwog; RA; Double Discovery Center; leading conspirator in the anti-hunger strike; local jackass. Post-grad plans: Lounging on the always classy Jersey shore for the summer and then returning to a consulting firm&#8217;s office in Dubai/Riyadh. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. There is no &#8220;return to roots.&#8221; 2. If you&#8217;re ever trying to push through a crowd to ask Al Gore to write for your journal, it&#8217;s not a good idea to shout out &#8220;Mr. Clinton.&#8221;&nbsp;It&#8217;s also not a good idea, when people then stare at you, to swear loudly. 3. &#8220;With so many dissonances in my life I have learned actually to prefer being not quite right and out of place.&#8221; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Bet I can make you smile when the blood, it hits the floor. Tell me, friend, can you ask for anything more? Favorite study spot? I crave natural light, and Columbia&#8217;s dorms have sought to deprive me of it repeatedly.&nbsp; We might all be happier if we had bigger windows.&nbsp;I used to love the business school&#8217;s library for its open spaces and plentiful windows, that is, until the b-school&#8217;s xenophobia drove it to close off the study rooms and segregate the wireless network.&nbsp;Whatever, I didn&#8217;t want their misogynist banter and perpetual dark jeans with black dress shoes anyway. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Definitely the hunger strike.&nbsp;My parents and I got a kick out of it when I heard that a strike organizer had referred to me as a Bobby Jindal.&nbsp;I&#8217;m tempted to digress, but I don&#8217;t think this is the appropriate place to discuss my reasons for opposing the strike. Also, I really appreciated working with the Pro-NROTC Committee.&nbsp;I realized the extent of the civil-military gap (not necessarily anti-military sentiment) on campus.&nbsp;I also got to know some of the really great ROTC cadets at Columbia. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun?&nbsp; I was an RA so I guess that makes me a belligerent? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese?&nbsp; I believe that I have a minor case of lactose intolerance. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? 1. Your being at Columbia suggests that you have something pretty remarkable between your ears.&nbsp;Share that gift with the less fortunate as soon as possible - there are countless volunteer tutoring programs here.&nbsp;&#8220;If you do, your life will be richer, and our country will be stronger." 2. I think a lot of people, myself included, waste a lot of time trying to find a niche, clique, or at least a group that resembles the Sweathogs.&nbsp;Appreciate Columbia&#8217;s diversity because you&#8217;ll probably never have something like it again.&nbsp;Try to jump amongst circles and see what they have to teach you. 3. Anonymous commenting is dangerous to your health, as there is not a clean divide between our real and online selves.&nbsp;To those ready to pounce and call me a tool below, know that the act pollutes your mind and soul.&nbsp;Also, this.&nbsp; Regrets? None.&nbsp; Just thankfulness. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo via Revart.blogs.com Spring is upon us (which does not explain the pumpkin in the picture, but stick with us here), and, hand in hand with the warm and the wet come a New York City tradition:&nbsp; flashers.&nbsp; Yesterday, Barnard Public Safety sent out yet another of its "Crime Alert" bulletins warning students of "Public Lewdness" in Riverside Park. According to Bwog's Unofficial Flasher E-Mail Counter (trademark pending), that makes three since warm weather began in late April. While Riverside Park has a better reputation than that park your mom made you promise not to visit, Barnard students have been falling prey to its seediness since March.&nbsp; Remember, girls and boys, that the best way to protect yourself is "CONSTANT VIGILANCE."&nbsp; Full email after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Dear Barnard Community, On Friday,May 8, 2009 at approximately 5:30 pm, two B/C students were in Riverside Park near West 113 Street when a male exposed himself. The students left the area and called Public Safety.BCPS notified the NYPD to respond.Any suspicious activity or incidents of this nature call 911 immediately. Garrett Doherty Barnard College Public Safety &nbsp; 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Photo by JPMB At this point it's safe to say that all of Butler has been divided up and that everyone's entrenched in their designated spots.&nbsp; For camping of a different (funnier) sort, however, you'll have to brave the pre-commencement landscaping and head over to the mini-lawn to the right of Alma.&nbsp; That's where Fruit Paunch is holding its annual 24-Hour Show. These rugged comedians have only a few hours left of their ordeal, and, when Bwog stopped by, they were fueling up for the final stretch with white bread, assorted lunchmeats, mustard, and canned whipped cream.&nbsp; Last night's rain didn't dampen their zaniness--in a moment they were back at the improv, much to the delight of both their audience and the small children playing in the fountain nearby.&nbsp; Check out more photos below. &nbsp;-Photos by Jason Patinkin and JPMB 
Those who did not crowd Butler 209 on Thursday night can now see the whole show over on CUMB's blog. We've embedded the first joke (about Ann Coulter) below as a preview. 
 &nbsp; Image via Parsons' home page Columbia physics professor John Parsons lectured Thursday night about the science behind the upcoming film Angels and Demons.&nbsp; Bwog sent our Fu Foundation Bureau Chief Sean Zimmerman, who actually understands these sorts of things, to observe and report. Hollywood and science aren't known to be fast friends, and explanations of "the science behind" often devolve into appopleptic panegyrics decrying popular conceptions of, say, cloning, or invisibility. Professor John Parsons, however, drily admired the whiz-bang world of the movies.&nbsp; Showing the trailer for Angels and Demons at the start of his talk Thursday night in Havemeyer, Parsons explained that the explosions and intrigue shown were part of any physicist's &#8220;typical day.&#8221; To summarize Dan Brown&#8217;s Angels and Demons: Antimatter is stolen from the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) run by CERN (that's the European Organization for Nuclear Research) and hidden in the Vatican City during the selection of a new Pope. The antimatter will soon explode if it is not found, and Robert Langdon, the hero from Dan Brown&#8217;s other novel, The Da Vinci Code, is the man called in to do the job right. Angels and Demons would have you believe that CERN gets its kicks from high-tech superweapons, secret underground bases, and fluffy white cats; Parsons, however, explained that although CERN is advanced, it is, in truth, anything but secret.&nbsp; Founded in 1954 and located on the border of France and Switzerland, the international facility hosted 76,000 visitors/tourists during its &#8220;open weekend&#8221; last year. CERN's scientific clout is publicly credited with the creating the World Wide Web in the late eighties and early nineties (maybe they let Al Gore help a little). From CERN, Parson went on to talk about Angels and Demons' portrayal of antimatter. Far from being, as the film asserts it is, a fancy new discovery, antimatter has been haging around in the brains of scientists since 1928; its existence was experimentally validated four years later. Parsons explained antimatter's behavior using an analogy with Tom Hanks: if we had Tom Hanks, and he met the Anti-Tom Hanks, they would annihilate each other and give off an enormous amount of energy. The film is correct in that CERN's LHC does, in fact, create antimatter, and also that enough antimatter (that is, about a quarter of a gram) could destroy Rome.&nbsp; However, the LHC produces only 2 nanograms of antimatter each year, so it would take 125 million years to stockpile the Rome-destroying amount. After showing how friendly antimatter can be, Parsons launched into a quick explanation of his role in the current particle physics work at CERN as well as that work itself. CERN&#8217;s LHC is the world&#8217;s most powerful particle accelerator, capable of slinging subatomic particles in a 17-mile loops at just below the speed of light. Once the particle has reached its top speed, scientists then add another particle to the reactor; the two particles smash together, and researchers like Parsons and his colleagues in the ATLAS program use their brand new detector to examine the debris.&nbsp; Their discoveries will, he asserted, &#8220;revolutionize our understanding of the fundamental building blocks of nature." Parsons went into some more detail about the ATLAS program, but that portion of the lecture veered into science that would be difficult to explain without some complex charts and graphs, and a PhD in physics. Parsons also admitted that yes, the LHC might create micro-black holes, but those of you who wake up in a cold sweat from dreams of your house, your pets, or your computer being sucked into oblivion, not to worry:&nbsp; if the little guys do show up, Parsons assures us that they will dissipate quickly and harmlessly, and we won't feel a thing. As for the future of particle physics at CERN, Parsons could only borrow an expression from Hollywood &#8211; &#8220;Stay tuned.&#8221; 
 Name, School: Gena Miller, CC Claim to fame: Member of the 2009 intramural floor hockey championship squad "Team Fulton"? Post-grad plans: Teach for America in NYC, allegedly. Favorite study spot? Sounds like an oxymoron to me. I usually study in my room. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Never invade Russia in winter. 2. If a professor has more than 7 CULPA reviews that all say the same thing, it&#8217;s probably true. 3. People at Columbia (and lots in NY too) are interesting, quirky and wonderful and worth knowing. See &#8220;Senior Wisdom 2009 style: Chris Daniels&#8221;. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I can type 57 words per minute. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Ahmadinafest, hands down. It felt like Ivy League Woodstock, or maybe even what bowl football is like at other schools. I had a great time hanging out on the lawn with a few thousand of my closest friends growing my cultural awareness in festival style setting. I just felt like the controversy had a lot of upside, namely the new genre of ahmadinewords (like the hawkmadineblog for all of you ornithographers out there) and the knowledge that there are no homosexuals in Iran (phew). Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Retired RA. &#8216;nuf said. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Melted cheese is the way to this woman&#8217;s heart so I&#8217;d keep the cheese. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Always bring an umbrella. Also, get that Duane Reade frequent buyer card or whatever first semester. True, you will never get the 45 seconds of your life back that it took to fill out the paperwork, but you will earn fabulous treasures like money back towards your next purchase and discounts. Thumbs up. Regrets? I got a barbecue sandwich like 3 weeks ago from M2M. That experience stands out as a blemish in an otherwise beautiful relationship. 
 &nbsp; &nbsp;Image via SFist.com If you didn't laugh your finals terror away earlier yesterday or today, there's another remedy for stress around the corner (as in, tomorrow night).&nbsp; It's a pillow fight! Choose your side--North or South lawn--before the clock tolls midnight (and the Scream beings), then rail on your enemies until you have no chance of forgetting the plot of the Iliad ever again.&nbsp; Here's to glorious, bloodless battle. 
 Name, School: Nicolas Alvear, CC Claim to fame: I'm the best Ecuadorian opera singer in all of Columbia's showers. Post-grad plans: Disenfranchising the orphans and the widows for two - three years in Wall Street, and buying myself a beautiful banana plantation in my home country with American tax payers' money... What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) Blondes definitely have more fun... with me ;) 2) Speaking in Spanish will get you a free raisin bran muffin and, occasionally, a cup of coffee at 10pm in Lerner 212 3) Grabbing a beer with a professor will increase your score by a third of a letter grade, at least Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Try the "15 minutes in Heaven" at Artopolis. A quasi-religious experience with a happy ending. Favorite study spot? My own quarters... wherever they are. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Ahmadinejad's visit to campus. After watching his speech, I decided to shave off my scruff more often. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? I started the War on Fun. Carman 8, baby... However, a firefighter did break into my room once while I was putting my pants on and yelled at me for sleeping through a fire alarm that I had been repeatedly warned against... hehe Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Given my views on foreplay... oral sex. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Love thy neighbor as thyself, if you live in the LLC... Forgive those who wrong you, if you live in John Jay... Thou shalt fornicate as little as possible, if you live in Carman... and Pray for your enemies, if you live in Furnald. Regrets? Wasting my entire freshman year in Butler Library... Not even my GPA went down on me then... ;) Cheers. 
 In high school, the bathroom was for smoking joints and frantically scribbling trig equations on the bottom of your shoe as the late bell rang. In college it&#8217;s pretty much for going to the bathroom&#8212;except during finals, when it&#8217;s for staring dead-eyed at yourself in the mirror, reciting the periodic table, and now, a study break! But which campus lavatories are worthy of a visit? Bwog Tongue-in-Cheek Expert Chloe Eichler investigates. Pupin Hall 10 (Men&#8217;s) After seven floors of ordinary gray tiles and squeaky stall doors, Pupin begins to reveal its hidden foppery. The top six floors boast alternating men&#8217;s and women&#8217;s lavatories with the best views and most inventive d&#233;cor of any public bathroom on campus. Archimedes, Newton, and Galileo can be found hanging above the urinals to provide that extra bit of inspiration, while fairly questionable prints of well-dressed Austenian ladies adorn the women&#8217;s. There are also desks, vases of bamboo, and the sketchiest-looking mattress this side of your old Carman double to be found. The tenth floor gets the win for featuring a wineglass full of water that&#8217;s probably been sitting there longer than you&#8217;ve been alive. Uris Ground Floor (Women&#8217;s) Of course the graduate students have the biggest, least-likely-to-take-your-crap-(not-that-kind-of-crap) bathrooms around. The ones on the ground floor, with their endless rows of stainless steel stalls, long marble counters, and actual working soap dispensers, might belong better in a fancy international airport, or the Taj Mahal as reinvented by robots. The women&#8217;s room has a separate changing room that&#8217;s nicer than your first three apartments will be. There&#8217;s even an extra faucet in one of the sinks that dispenses fresh drinking water. It&#8217;s enough to make one resentful of business students, if not for that bother about Wall Street in the news lately. Lewisohn 6 (Men&#8217;s) and Basement (Women&#8217;s) These bathrooms are more notable for the insight into the custodial world they provide. Peek behind the frosted glass doors in the sixth floor men&#8217;s room to discover the secrets of a genuine makeshift utility closet&#8212;See what that horrible lime green soap looks like in when it&#8217;s in a pouch! Take out the ladder and attempt to set it up! (It&#8217;s really difficult.) When you&#8217;ve meddled enough, hit the basement women&#8217;s room to study the building power switchboard that someone has foolishly left unlocked. One of the switches is marked &#8220;Men&#8217;s dressing rooms,&#8221; whatever that is, but the most emphatically guarded by far are the vending machine switches. &#8220;DO NOT SHUT OFF.&#8221; Who would?&nbsp; Earl Hall Basement Don&#8217;t try to get into the footbath room unless you&#8217;re in the MSA, &#8217;cause it ain&#8217;t gonna happen.&nbsp; Dodge Hall 7 Ladies and gentlemen: your ultimate refuge. Though spacious enough for two or three, this unisex bathroom holds only one stall, one sink, and one gloriously enormous mirror, bathed in light from the window overlooking College Walk&#8217;s blooming cherry trees. This entire floor houses the Music and Arts Library, which is low-traffic and displays books about Mozart and Eminem in the same case. And the trim is an attractive black tile! Lock the door, open the window, and settle in to&#8230;do whatever it is that so dreadfully requires privacy. 
 Okay, so you have been in Butler for three days straight, living off Cup Noodle and the occasional funny YouTube videos that your bored friends have been sending you. But the pseudo-soup, dramatic prairie dog and 'I'm on a Boat' are just not cutting it anymore. What is a poor finals studier to do? Bwog Slowly-Going-Insane Expert David Berke has some suggestions. The answer is to learn the golden lesson of extreme boredom&nbsp; from DMV employees: when the going gets tough, fuck with people. Spice up your soulless hours of study with these mind games...none of which we endorse or take responsibility for. The Larry Craig 2.0: While you're in a bathroom stall and a neighboring stall is occupied, slide your foot under the divider a little bit. Then slip a piece of paper under the divider that says, 'That means I want to have sex with you.' Ipod Madness, Option One: You know those Butler-ites who play their Ipods so loud that you can hear the song lyrics across the room . Play this song at their volume and see how people react. The Bad Steward, Option One:When someone asks you to watch their stuff, consent without looking them in the eye. Once they return, pretend you don't know them and accuse them of trying to steal the computer. The Cafe Bastard: Point to the muffin you want at Butler cafe, and, when the server leans in to grab it, say you were pointing to another one. Point to a different muffin. Then another. Then another. Only do this if you're willing to risk losing your overpriced muffin in a wave of Butler cafe fury, and if you're willing to admit to having no soul. The Dreamer: Pretend to fall asleep on top of your textbook but then say things in your sleep. We recommend repeating 'No, I mean that muffin...that muffin...that muffin' or mumbling the words to this classic. The Bad Steward, Option Two: When someone asks you to watch their stuff, shadily look around the room and not at someone. Then say, 'Okay, but you have to be gone for at least twenty minutes.' Ipod Madness, Option Two: Listen to Dead Prez and sing along. Also, try to be white when doing this. Coordination Vacation: Sit with a bunch of friends in the same room, and, at exactly 9:31 PM and 11:47PM, you all slam your fists on the desks. Damn the Mezzanine: Sit on the second level of any study room and throw paper planes at your friends below (probably not strangers, but I guess it depends how bored you are). 
 Congratulations to badanalogyguy, the first-round winner of the Bwog Comment Competition. Employing what might best be termed a "brute force" strategy, badanalogyguy hammered away with comment after comment until a witty one slipped through. It's sort of like when sperm besieges an egg until... Eh, we'll leave the analogies to him. Bwog selected badanalogyguy from all the commenters who posted using an e-mail address, so we can proudly award him with the grand prize package: First, he will receive a T-shirt proclaiming his honor in true 100% cotton, machine-washable style. Don't bother looking for these shirts in your American Apparels or your Banana Republics&#8212;not even Dan Trepanier can get his hands on one of these trendy tees. To cap it off, though, badanalogyguy will be taking home a copy of Snark, written by Columbia grad, New Yorker critic, and perennial UWriting exhibit David Denby. Bwog has tracked down a fine used copy (we blew all our money on the T-shirt), which we'll be sending out shortly. But the contest isn't over! Round two begins tonight and continues until exams are over. Remember to use your e-mail address when you comment to be eligible. 
 Thanks to one of the few female graduates in the early days of the law school, copyright law was blessed with the "fair use" clause.&nbsp; Here's to in-class movies and music. Measles, mumps, and rubella are frightening now, but as a child you would have preferred putting off your immunization visits to being saved from disease. A '72er (not to be confused with a '68er) has some words of wisdom for ambitious New School and NYU "protesters." The adults have found out about college kids' drug of choice.&nbsp; Run! Professors will get even less work done next semester.&nbsp; The world's largest collection of pop music since the 1950's will be available for use by Columbia professors soon. Image via TheRealBarackObama 
As mentioned last night, tonight sees the newest tradition on this fair campus: the Spring Pillow Fight. Bring your finest goose down, and hope a quill doesn't stick you in the eye.&nbsp; If hitting people without reprecussions is not your cup o' tea, then you can vent your frustrations verbally by participating in the Primal Scream. The rules, reprinted: If your clock's not auto-synced to the NIST's Cesium Fountain Atomic Clock (i.e. the Internet), make sure you've set it correctly. At midnight, open your window or go outside. . Loudly. Keep it short. If you're still screaming past 12:04, you're a tool. Just stop. Make yourselves heard. 
 The new issue of the Blue and White is on a Butler desk or newstand near you! Daniel Libeskind is one of the world&#8217;s most famous architects, having designed some of the most striking buildings of the past two decades, including Berlin&#8217;s Jewish Museum, the extension to the Denver Art Museum, and Toronto&#8217;s Michael Lee-Chin Crystal, which Cond&#233; Nast Traveler has called one of the &#8220;New Seven Wonders of the World.&#8221; Libeskind is also the master architect behind the new World Trade Center, a massive project that stands to revitalize lower Manhattan when its first stages are completed in the coming few years. Blue and White senior editor Jon Hill visited Libeskind at his Financial District studio to talk about the project, his career, and the future of modern architecture. The Blue and White: What first sparked your interest in architecture? Daniel Libeskind: It was not at first. I was a professional musician, in fact. But, I got interested in mathematics and the sciences, and I was always painting and drawing. I think I fell into architecture because, in a way, architecture combined all my interests. It&#8217;s visual music. It&#8217;s about proportions; it&#8217;s about geometries; it&#8217;s about precision and emotion. But it&#8217;s not as if I started at the beginning saying, &#8220;I want to be an architect.&#8221; I hardly even knew what an architect was. I had never met an architect until when I was in school. B&amp;W: And has that influenced your designs today? DL: Oh yes, absolutely. I think for many years I didn&#8217;t build not because I was averse to building or because I was a theorist, but because I took a different path to architecture. I didn&#8217;t apprentice myself to architects because I didn&#8217;t like what they were doing. And I didn&#8217;t like the whole idea of the office, this kind of nine-to-five idea. So, I thought, &#8220;I&#8217;ll do architecture in another way,&#8221; and to support myself, I taught. Students are very creative, very different from the commercial world where people have a narrow view of what is good and what is not good. B&amp;W: When you are designing a building, what is your driving force? Are you looking for beauty, efficiency? DL: That&#8217;s a very profound question. You know, architecture&#8217;s kind of a humanistic discipline, as I see it. Of course, there&#8217;s a lot of science in it and you have to be able to calculate, but it&#8217;s primarily a liberal art. It&#8217;s a spiritual art; it&#8217;s part of culture. It&#8217;s a way to communicate. So, what drives architecture, I believe, is its communicative aspect&#8212;the desire to tell a story about something that might not be available through any other building in the city. It&#8217;s not so different from poetry, filmmaking, being a composer, or being a storyteller&#8212;it&#8217;s partly all of those, but it&#8217;s such a grand art because it&#8217;s not spoken with words. B&amp;W: How did those goals shape your design for the World Trade Center complex? What was the story you were trying to tell? DL: I called the project &#8220;Memory Foundations,&#8221; the memory of that fateful day in which our world changed for the worse. We&#8217;re in a different era, and I wanted to memorialize that day not just abstractly, but because this was a place where thousands of people lost their lives. It&#8217;s a huge responsibility, creating such a &#8220;spiritual site.&#8221; At the same time, I called it &#8220;Memory Foundations&#8221; because I wanted to make it a foundation for a 21st century New York and a New York that will never be cowed by these attacks, that will never retreat, that will always be a city of liberty, a symbolic place, as well as a functioning place. I wanted to tell this story because the attacks were not against just this single site in New York just by coincidence. It was not some anti-capitalist protest; it was a statement about America and about the future of the world. So, I did everything in my power to shape the site in a meaningful way, not to build, for example, where the towers stood. It&#8217;s not an easy project to decide that, by the way, because if you have to put 60 million square feet of density on a 16-acre site&#8212;there&#8217;s 10 million square feet just of offices&#8212;it&#8217;s very hard to leave such a large portion of the site unbuilt. B&amp;W: Right, there is a lot of open space in the designs. DL: Exactly. One should never build where people perished. One should expose the slurry wall , as I have done, because you see the true experience of what happened when you look down to the bedrock through the tragedy. But, you also see arising from the dead something amazing, which is the towers, the cultural spirit, and the new streets. It&#8217;s a neighborhood, really. And I shaped the towers to echo the torch in Lady Liberty&#8217;s hand... Of course, it&#8217;s very practical still. There&#8217;s a lot of density and a lot of infrastructure. There&#8217;s subway trains and PATH trains, and all of that is a part of the complexity of organizing a site that isn&#8217;t &#8220;business as usual&#8221; even though it&#8217;s been conducted as &#8220;business as usual.&#8221; B&amp;W: How do you balance the technical and political problems in a project such as this? DL: There are a lot of architects who would prefer to build for totalitarian regimes. Some totalitarian gives them a free site and says, &#8220;Build us something beautiful, something tall,&#8221; and everybody loves it. But, I&#8217;ve always thought it&#8217;s better to work in the murky and difficult waters of democracy than to have a tabula rasa declared by the central committee of some country. I believe in democracy. Of course, I also believe it&#8217;s very difficult. Nobody said democracy is easy. This site is fraught politically: it&#8217;s controversial with the victims, with the families of the victims, and with the Port Authority, which owns the site and is leasing it through an investor with its own architects. It&#8217;s a huge constellation of forces. And yet, I don&#8217;t think an architect has the luxury to say, &#8220;I&#8217;m not doing it,&#8221; you know? You don&#8217;t win every battle. Sometimes you have to compromise. But that&#8217;s... the nature of living in a democratic society. B&amp;W: So that&#8217;s what keeps you going when you have to wrangle with these stakeholders? DL: It is. It&#8217;s very difficult. But I was brought up in the Bronx. We were not taught to be escapists--you fight for what you believe in. B&amp;W: One of those fights now is about what to name the main tower. It was originally going to be called &#8220;Freedom Tower,&#8221; but now it&#8217;s been decided that just &#8220;One World Trade Center&#8221; will be the name. What&#8217;s your reaction to that? DL: Look, people have all sorts of agendas, but for architecture, it doesn&#8217;t matter. I positioned the tower toward the Hudson River. I made it 1,776 feet high, which is the date of the Declaration of Independence. That&#8217;s a date that belongs to all people because it declares freedom for all. 1,776, standing where it&#8217;s standing at the apogee of the spiral crescendo of the towers. People can change the building&#8217;s name, but that&#8217;s the great thing about architecture: The architecture is what it is. B&amp;W: Speaking of changes, New York is seeing a lot of them as a result of the downturn in the economy. How do you think this will affect architecture in the city? DL: I think it will affect those whose business was luxury. That&#8217;s never been architecture. I think it will bring people back to the sense that architecture is far more than some lavish, garish, or &#8220;innovative&#8221; buildings. It&#8217;s about creating buildings that withstand the test of time and buildings that are culturally sustainable, which means they are not just fashions of the week. The economic crisis will bring back a new responsibility that architecture is a social art. It&#8217;s a field for the real world, which is what makes it so difficult and challenging. B&amp;W: Do you think anything will change in the World Trade Center design as a result of the economy? DL: It&#8217;s always changing. The design is dynamic. Even though my role is to make sure the master plan is implemented&#8212;it&#8217;s very close, actually, to what I drew&#8212;the project still evolves. And we&#8217;re struggling, of course, because we&#8217;re aware how vulnerable the site is at all times. You have to be an optimist that even the changes that you can influence can be very, very important on the large scale for the future viability, beauty, and meaning of the city. B&amp;W: Take me along your design process. Where do you start? DL: It&#8217;s almost an impossible question to answer because it&#8217;s not a linear process. You have to know the needs of the client, of course, but that&#8217;s only one aspect of it. The other aspect is how do you take all of those things and connect them with what you want to do. It has to be inspired, something that is interesting for me to do. And it&#8217;s also very personal. Some architects practice architecture as if it&#8217;s some sort of abstract machine that produces buildings, but I like it because it&#8217;s an art. B&amp;W: Of the buildings you&#8217;ve designed, which do you find particularly personal? DL: Many. I think almost every building I design I find personal, whether it&#8217;s the Jewish Museum in Berlin, whether it&#8217;s the Imperial War Museum, or whether it&#8217;s the Tower I designed for New York. People usually recognize that, even though I don&#8217;t try to be in the limelight. People always see the design as having a particular character that&#8217;s sometimes really against the grain. B&amp;W: How would you describe that character? DL: It&#8217;s doing something that you believe in that might even be controversial and might, to some people, be the wrong thing. It might reawaken all sorts of emotions. But I do think that architecture is a field not only of the intellect, but its primary goal is an emotional resonance to the soul, to the heart. It&#8217;s not just a theory in the mind; it&#8217;s how we see the city as having human characteristics. B&amp;W: How do you tap into these emotions? DL: You can read a book, you can listen to any incredible concert, you can look at the dirt on the subway wall. I mean, it comes from anywhere&#8212;anywhere you can see something inspiring, something fantastic. And it all goes together, actually. It&#8217;s probably not one or the other; it&#8217;s a cosmic constellation of things that, if you&#8217;re lucky to plop yourself into it, yields fire. B&amp;W: People are becoming more and more focused on designing environmentally friendly, sustainable buildings. How has that influenced your designs? DL: Tremendously. Sustainability has always been a word in the architect&#8217;s vocabulary. It&#8217;s not something new. The Egyptians knew it, the old Hebrews knew it, the Assyrians, the Chinese&#8212;the ancient architects knew sustainability. How do you orient the building? How do you avoid wasting money? They knew how not just to build marble facades and gilded buildings of gold, but how to build buildings that sustain themselves, that are well-built, that are easy to maintain, take advantage of nature, and at the same time, give human beings something more to think about than before. B&amp;W: So we&#8217;re returning to these old traditions? DL: We&#8217;re in an interesting era as human beings have exploited the world and ruined it almost: a new thought has arisen. Where are we? Why are we doing these things? Can we do something better than this? And I think in many ways people have returned to the old ways for inspiration&#8212;now, I&#8217;m not for the nostalgic return because I don&#8217;t believe in &#8220;Mother Nature.&#8221; Man has taken nature himself and has transformed it so thoroughly that I can hardly speak of nature as a mother, but we have to cooperate with what we&#8217;ve done to nature in order to create something that will sustain future generations in a world that is hopefully better and more just. B&amp;W: Is that the biggest challenge architects are facing now? DL: I think it is. As the world is becoming small through globalization, as people are exposed to the same things, we need the uniqueness of places to assert themselves again. Otherwise, everything&#8217;s going to be the same. And I think what is emerging is that people all over the world, because they are in the same world economically, want to celebrate their uniqueness, their culture, and their spot of earth that is not replaceable. I think that&#8217;s almost a spiritual rebirth because people see there&#8217;s something else besides economics and money that drives human development. It&#8217;s the human imagination and creativity, whatever the challenge is. 
 At around 11:45, eager pillow-bearers began to congregate on the Butler lawn for the 4th annual Primal Scream/Pillow Fight, which this year featured over a hundred combatants. One claimed to have "stretched all day for this," while several others wore capes. At about a minute before midnight, the two sides charged screaming towards each other, much to the amusement of the spectators who ventured from their campsites in Butler. Though at first two sides charging at each other like some medieval melee, the fight quickly broke down to every man and woman for themselves. Warriors quickly adopted the language of the battlefield, including cries of "push him into the bushes and hit him," "come and get me," and "we don't negotiate with terrorists!" The fun did not begin to die down for almost twenty minutes, before many of the combatants slumped down on the grass. As one tired observer said, "I've never seen so many people willing to beat the shit out of each other." Photo album after the jump. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - JCD, photos by SEV and JPR 
A tipster passes along the work of a Lehman Library jokester. &nbsp; 
 Have you heard about this new movie? We think it's called something like, "Star Trek"? In case you missed the $50 million marketing campaign that has included everything from fast-food "Kingons" to Trek-themed Eggo waffles, the New York Times gave you another chance to join in the hype this weekend with an op-ed from Columbia Journalism School professor David Hajdu. Hajdu, who is also the music critic for The New Republic, turns Star Trek apologist in the piece, calling the original 1960s TV show a pioneer of "cultural retro-activism." Star Trek, he says, synthesized elements of American pop culture history into a format easily understood by the younger generation, transmitting cultural heritage. The crew of the Enterprise explored not the future of humanity but the archives of Hollywood. Bwog admits to seeing the new Star Trek this weekend and can confidently say Hadju's brand of Star Trek is dead. This reimagining, while still an engaging adventure, avoids ham-fistedly plumbing the depths of Americana to develop a storyline. Some fans&#8212;perhaps even Hajdu&#8212;will lament this, but if the change means no more space hippies, space Yeti, or space Nazis, Bwog's not complaining.&nbsp; 
 But only if you're in the Law School or SIPA. Columbia's Office of Communications and Public Affairs announced the complete list of Class Speakers today, and joining Attorney General Eric Holder are many other famous names to prop up the 22 various Class Day and Commencement ceremonies taking place between this Saturday (the B-School) and next Thursday (Law School and Dental School). Among the big names: former California governor Gray Davis at the Law School graduation, former National Security Advisor Brent Scowcroft at SIPA's Commencement, Talking Points Memo's Josh Marshall at the J-School's Class Day, New York Times medical correspondent Lawrence Altman at the Med School graduation, and senior advisor to Hillary Clinton Phillipe Reines at General Studies's Class Day. Of course, some of the speechifying talent isn't travelling very far: professors Jagdish Baghwati and Jeffrey Sachs will be speaking at the Ph.D. convocation and the Dental School graduation ceremonies, respectively. Our favorite detail, though? Both J-School ceremonies are "closed to the media." Full list after the jump. Saturday, May 16 Business School Executive M.B.A. Recognition Ceremony Speaker: Bruce Greenwald, the Robert Heilbrunn Professor of Finance and Asset Management and director of the Heilbrunn Center for Graham and Dodd Investing 10 a.m., Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, Morningside Heights campus Sunday, May 17 Business School M.B.A. Recognition Ceremony Speaker: Robert Friedman, chairman and CEO of Radical Media 3 p.m., South Lawn, Morningside Heights campus Monday, May 18 The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Class Day Speaker: James Albaugh, executive vice president of The Boeing Company 9:30 a.m., South Lawn, Morningside Heights campus School of International and Public Affairs Commencement Speaker: Brent Scowcroft, former U.S. national security adviser 2 p.m., Riverside Church, 440 Riverside Dr. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Ph.D. Convocation 1 Speaker: Jeffrey Henig, professor of political science and education 3:30 p.m., St. Paul&#8217;s Chapel, Morningside Heights campus School of General Studies Class Day Speaker: Philippe Reines, senior adviser to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton 5 p.m., South Lawn, Morningside Heights campus Tuesday, May 19 Columbia College Class Day Speaker: Eric Holder, U.S. attorney general 9:30 a.m., South Lawn, Morningside Heights campus Graduate School of Journalism Day&nbsp; (Closed to media) Speaker: Joshua Micah Marshall, founder of Talking Points Memo 10 a.m., Miller Theatre, Morningside Heights campus Graduate School of Arts and Sciences M.A. Convocation Speaker: Anne Higonnet, professor of art history and archaeology 10:30 a.m., Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, Morningside Heights campus Doctor of Physical Therapy Graduation Speaker: Alma Merians, professor and chair of the Department of Developmental and Rehabilitative Sciences at the College of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey 1:30 p.m., Alumni Auditorium, Columbia University Medical Center Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Ph.D. Convocation 2 Speaker: Jagdish Bhagwati, University Professor and senior fellow in international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations 3:30 p.m., St. Paul&#8217;s Chapel, Morningside Heights campus Mailman School of Public Health Graduation Speaker: Paul Farmer, the Maude and Lillian Presley Professor of Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School and founding director of Partners in Health 3:30 p.m., New Balance Track &amp; Field Arena, 216 Fort Washington Ave., at 168th Street School of Continuing Education Class Day&nbsp; (Closed to media) Speaker: Rita Charon, professor of clinical medicine and director of the Program in Narrative Medicine at Columbia&#8217;s College of Physicians and Surgeons 5 p.m., Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, Morningside Heights campus Wednesday, May 20 Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation Professional Degree Commencement&nbsp;&nbsp; (Closed to media) Speaker: Mark Wigley, dean of the architecture school 12:15 p.m. (second professional degree); 2:15 p.m. (first professional degree), St. Paul&#8217;s Chapel, Morningside Heights campus Occupational Therapy Commencement/Convocation and Awards Ceremony Speaker: Penelope Moyers Cleveland, president of the American Occupational Therapy Association 1:30 p.m., Alumni Auditorium, Columbia University Medical Center College of Physicians and Surgeons Commencement Speaker: Lawrence K. Altman, chief medical correspondent for The New York Times 2 p.m., New Balance Track &amp; Field Arena, 216 Fort Washington Ave., at 168th Street School of the Arts Presentation of Diplomas&nbsp; (Closed to media) Speaker: Jerry Saltz, art critic and columnist for New York magazine 2 p.m., Miller Theatre, Morningside Heights campus School of Nursing Graduation Speakers: Donna Shalala, president of the University of Miami; and Phyllis Farley, founder of Doulas to Accompany the Dying 2:30 p.m., New York City Center, 131 W. 55th Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues School of Social Work Graduation Speaker: Diane Aviv, president and CEO of Independent Sector, the national leadership forum for America&#8217;s nonprofit organizations, foundations and corporations 3 p.m., Beacon Theatre, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street Graduate School of Journalism Commencement&nbsp; (Closed to media) Speaker: Alejandro Junco de la Vega, Mexican newspaper pioneer and publisher of Grupo Reforma 3 p.m., Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, Morningside Heights campus Thursday, May 21 College of Dental Medicine Graduation Speaker: Jeffrey Sachs, director of Columbia&#8217;s Earth Institute and Quetelet Professor of Sustainable Development 10:30 a.m., New Balance Track &amp; Field Arena, 216 Fort Washington Ave., at 168th Street Law School Graduation Speaker: Gray Davis, former governor of California 1 p.m., South Lawn, Morningside Heights campus 
 Whilst you sit in Butler wishing for a perfect storm to disrupt your finals, take comfort in the fact that such miracles can occur. This morning, the final exam for Physics V1202 (the second required semester of non-engineering general physics) was interrupted by a real live fire alarm in Pupin. &nbsp;Or was it?&nbsp; A prankster was responsible, reports the FDNY, and security is busy examining grainy camera footage trying to find the culprit.&nbsp; According to our tipster, the plaza outside Pupin turned into a "circus of cheating," so upon reentrance, the proctors passed out a "backup midterm" to be completed in the remaining time. Physics department chair Andrew Millis informed the students that due to the "unusual circumstances," the final would be weighted less heavily in the final course grades. It all goes to show that studying doesn't pay.&nbsp; Full email after the jump. &#8212;AB Photo via Modern Mechanix Dear students in V1202, As you know, a fire alarm occurred during the final examination for PHY V1202. We realize that this unfortunate occurrence added a level of disruption to the already stressful experience of taking a final exam, and are writing to let you know what we are doing in response. The New York City Fire Department has determined that the fire alarms were "maliciously activated by persons unknown". Tampering with fire alarms is a serious offense. We are working with campus security to prevent a recurrence and to identify the persons responsible. Because the security of the exam was compromised by the required building evacuation, an alternative exam was distributed. In determining grades the unusual circumstances and abbreviated nature of the exam will be taken into account , and quizzes, midterms and other work will be weighted more heavily. We are confident that from the information available to us we will be able to arrive at an equitable evaluation of your performance in the course. The deans and academic advisors of Barnard, Columbia College, General Studies and SEAS have been made aware of the situation and happy to meet with you if you would like to discuss the situation further. With deep regret for this unfortunate incident, Andrew Millis Professor and Chair Department of Physics Columbia University 538 West 120th Street NY NY 10027 email: millis@phys.columbia.edu tel: 212 854 3336 fax: 212 854 3379 
Available right now on Lerner ramps: free Red Bull as part of a promotion for the new Sam Raimi horror flick, Drag Me to Hell (stylized poster at right). Hey, it's got to be better than Spiderman 3.
 Name, School: Sherif Farrag, CC Claim to fame: National and international fencing, Co-captain Varsity Fencing, Turath VP, MSA OCM Post-grad plans: I hope to live my ambitions, conquer my dreams. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) I will not work on an assignment or study for an exam until the last possible minute. The subsequent pressure makes up for the lost time, and everything works out fine, except that I might not remember what I argued in that essay the next day. 2) We're all the same in a lot of ways, and our differences are only different shades of the same color. 3) No matter how much you wish that night's John Jay dinner might be good this time around, it will always disappoint. It's so bad. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I am one of billions of people on earth, and that's humbling. Favorite study spot? The high of staying awake for 3 straight days cranking out last minute papers - you start saying and seeing funny things. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Ahmadinejad. There was an incredible excitement in the air on the day of the visit. It was very interesting to see all the various parties organize themselves to make a statement on the day of his speech. I remember seeing students with signs advocating a variety of positions, from those against his visit, for his visit, for free speech, and some who side stepped the issue altogether and created signs presenting little-known facts that fought typical stereotypes on Iran. From the passionate anger to the calm attempts at reasonable dialogue, the environment inside and outside the gates represented the prism that is Columbia University. It was also fun working at the Columbia Calling Center during this time. I spoke with some alumni who were adamant at his visit, and a few who expressed anger at Bollinger's controversial introduction. I had one alumni say that it was terrible what the university did and that she would not give a penny to Columbia anymore. According to protocol, I responded trying to dissuade her from her decision and presenting various reasons why she should still give to Columbia. She cut me off and stated, "drop dead" before hanging up. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? You can never shut down the pants party. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I'll go with 2pac on this one, money over bitches. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Enjoy as many things that the university has to offer before you go. There is so much to do, so many people to learn from, so many perspectives to encounter. Don't be shy. But be contemplative throughout, and try to think about how these experiences relate to who you were and who you are becoming. Regrets? "The saint had his past, the sinner has his future" 
Try Teachers College's Library, where the second floor has a "collaboration room" with flatscreens and, for your dozing, a large, soft teddy bear. &nbsp; The man on the screen won't judge you, we promise (photo by ACM). 
Normally, Bwog sticks to free food, but we thought we'd make one cute exception: the Girl Scouts will be selling their famous cookies on Lerner Ramps starting at 4:00 p.m. They'll be selling all of the most well-known flavors, including Thin Mints, Samoas, and Tagalongs. No word on how many boxes the troops will have, but we're sure they'll be delicious.
We've received multiple tips about filming at 121st and Amsterdam for Sarah Michelle Gellar's new HBO show, The Wonderful Maladys. Also there is her husband Freddie Prinze Jr., and the requisite paparazzi. If you can't get out of exams to catch them, though, don't worry: the show, which also stars Studio 60's Nate Corddry and Deadwood's Molly Parker, is set in New York, so chances on it returning for more shoots are pretty good (photo via Wikimedia Commons).
If you prefer free ice-cream to slightly-overpriced-but-it's-for-a-good cause cookies, H&#228;agen Dazs is giving away free scoops of all its "Bee Built" flavors (i.e. the ones with honey ingredients that require bees pollinating). Promo runs until 8 p.m. so get in line. Then, you can enjoy it on the J-School's newly opened patio! The girl below is already dancing at the news. &nbsp; - Photo by AB 
 Name, School: Tina Musa, CC Claim to fame: Being a Peer Counselor/Advocate at the Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center (Consent is sexy!). Living in the IRC. Being a part of Filasteen, SPEaK and the Ethnic Studies Suite while they were around. Post-grad plans: Going to medical school, liberating Palestine, and traveling to New Zealand to find the Shire. Favorite study spot? My bed! Also my favorite sleeping spot coincidentally&#8230; What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1) Everything is a social construction. Even icecream. 2) The best dumpstering spots are outside of Milano and Absolute Bagels. 3) Butler Library has comic books. Look up "The Boondocks" on CLIO&#8230; Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I can cook pretty well &#8211; I&#8217;d say that covers it. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? When Matthew Fox was chosen to speak at class day. I still contend that there are better and hotter actors on Lost (Naveen Andrews) who could have made it out to New York City&#8230; Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Losing Casbah Rouge to Chipotle. And then hating myself for enjoying their burritos&#8230; Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Like that will ever happen. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Don&#8217;t start a David Project &#8211; that&#8217;s just pretentious. Leave campus and enjoy New York City. Don&#8217;t go dancing in 4 inch heels. Actually, go dancing in 4 inch heels and get a massage afterwards &#8211; from whomever you bring home with you&#8230; Regrets? Well I&#8217;m not done yet &#8211; ask me in a few weeks. 
 Name, School: Rob Trump, CC '09 Claim to fame: I co-wrote a couple Varsity Shows (113 and 114) and have done various other campus comedy things. Also, I am the reason for the existence of my admittedly vastly superior arch-nemesis, anti-rjt. Post-grad plans: I'm moving to L.A. to try to write sitcoms. Those are pretty easy jobs to come by, right? I'll probably have one in a month or two. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. The people who are happiest here are the ones who find something they like doing more than they like sleeping. I like sleeping a lot, so this was hard for me, but I found it. Even better: find something you like more than either sleeping or partying. 2. Whiskey goes with everything, tonic goes with everything, but whiskey and tonic together are disgusting. It's like gray and khaki. I learned this one really recently. 3. You can't do anything without offending someone. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I'm majoring in English and concentrating in Math. I literally studied reading, writing, and arithmetic. I am a student from a 50s PSA. Favorite study spot? Butler fishbowl. There used to be a tradition of people studying there loudly saying weird things every couple hours, and even when I didn't know the people who did this, I loved it. I said, "hors d'ourves" once. That tradition should come back. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Without a question, Ahmadinejad. The couple hours when James and I sat down to write the first draft of the V-Show scene parodying that were some of the most fun I've had here. Huge chunks of the dialogue were straight up copied and pasted from the actual transcript. It was a situation where reality was so ridiculous that you didn't really have to change much for it to be funny. Like, come on, people laughed OUT LOUD during the actual event. Life in general is pretty absurd, but rarely does it produce punchlines as good as, "We don't have any homosexuals in our country." Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Not really, but probably because I abandoned my sweet senior-year party room in Woodbridge for a Broadway single second semester. See, my roommate went abroad, and I thought I would be rocking a dingle for 5 months, but instead the university gave me a visiting foreign student from Germany. So now I refer to Woodbridge 5E as "Poland," Broadway 727 as "Israel," and the person who moved out of here and left the High School Musical poster behind as "the Palestinian." Sorry, Phillip! I don't hate you for moving in, really! I just needed some space of my own! Also, &#8220;rocking a dingle&#8221; sounds really gross for some reason. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Story time! My freshman year, when Bwog was doing Senior Wisdom for the first time, Zach Bendiner was going around to random groups of people and asking them what questions they would like outgoing seniors to answer. I volunteered this "would you rather," which somebody at my high school originally asked me. Basically, I'm just bragging about what a great suggestion this was and how I totally altered senior wisdom forever. And because you probably thought I was just being roundabout to avoid answering the question--oral sex. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Don't decide what you're going to get out of college before you arrive&#8212;let what you enjoy once you&#8217;re here guide you. When I showed up, I thought I'd be a hard science major and go to medical school. It took me a couple years to work that out of my system. Also, and sorta along with that, the fact that pretty much everybody was "the smart kid" in their high school creates a massive wave of identity crises your first year here, because now everyone is about as smart as you. After that clears, people realize how boxed-in they were by being just &#8220;the smart kid,&#8221; and start pursuing the things that actually make them happy. Regrets? I anonymously wrote one really mean Bwog comment a long time ago, then felt cheap about it and have always signed my Bwog comments since then. I mention this only because multiple people have brought it up to me as one of their favorite examples of the hilarity of mean internet anonymity. So I'm coming clean to them and everybody, now. It's this one. It was about Miriam Datskovsky, whom I actually do, for the record, think is a very talented writer. Another regret, on the same topic: there was a joke for 114 that James and I wrote but never saw the light of day because the creative team thought it was too offensive. I regret that we never even got to table read it. It went like this: Barnard sex striker: "But all the students have turned against us. I saw on the Bwog that people were calling us 'faggots.' That doesn't even make sense!" Shapiro: "Come now, that's just what Bwog commenters call people who have enough power to make them feel threatened! They said it about Bollinger, and they said it about Meghan McCain, and they said it about Matt Sanchez, and it didn't make sense for any of...oh. Well. Yes." One more regret, as I feel my time running out: I regret pooping my pants in a downtown Citibank my freshman year. This actually happened, and I have never talked about it to anyone. 
If you're reading this, you're either done with finals (congrats!), or more than halfway to the end! Plus, Nature sent us a rainbow yesterday. &nbsp; - Photo by Jay Chudow &nbsp; 
 PrezBo has handed down an email from on high announcing that Stanford's Dr. Claude M. Steele will be the next University Provost. Steele "is currently the Lucie Stern Professor in the Social Sciences at Stanford University, where he has taught since 1991. He also currently serves as the Director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences." PrezBo also noted that Steele is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society and the National Academy of Education, and has received numerous awards and honorary degrees. "He is a friend and colleague to many in the Columbia community," wrote Bollinger, "and it is a great moment to be able to welcome him here as Provost." We for one welcome our new west coast overlord. Full announcement after the jump. Dear fellow members of the Columbia community: I am very pleased to announce that I am appointing Dr. Claude M. Steele as the new Provost of Columbia University, effective September 1, 2009. Dr. Steele is currently the Lucie Stern Professor in the Social Sciences at Stanford University, where he has taught since 1991. He also currently serves as the Director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences. Claude is widely recognized for his dedicated and charismatic teaching, for his seminal scholarship, which has focused on questions of identity, group stereotypes, and addictive behaviors, and for his service to the academic community and beyond. He is a friend and colleague to many in the Columbia community, and it is a great moment to be able to welcome him here as Provost. Let me note just a few of the highlights of Claude&#8217;s distinguished career. As a leader in the field of social psychology, he currently holds memberships in the National Academy of Education, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the National Academy of Sciences. He is the recipient of several fellowships and prizes including the Senior Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychology in the Public Interest and the Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award from the American Psychological Association. His past leadership roles include serving as the president of the Society for Personality and Social Psychology, as the president of the Western Psychological Association, as the chair of the Executive Committee of the Society of Experimental Social Psychology, and as a member of the board of directors of the American Psychological Society. His extensive academic experience includes professorships on the faculties of the University of Michigan, University of Washington, the University of Utah, and in his current role at Stanford, where he has served as the chair of the Psychology Department. Dr. Steele received his BA from Hiram College and both his MA and PhD from Ohio State University. He has received honorary degrees from a number of prestigious universities, including the University of Chicago, Yale, and Princeton. Having earned the admiration of students and colleagues for his excellence as a teacher, researcher, and department chair, Dr. Steele is an ideal choice to succeed Provost Alan Brinkley, whom I thank again for his tremendous contribution to the University. I also want to thank all the members of the Advisory Committee for their care and insights in the process leading to this new appointment. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Claude Steele as the 21st Provost of Columbia University. Sincerely, &nbsp; Lee C. Bollinger &nbsp; 
 Alan Brinkley is busy these days: ending his term as provost, checking on the numbers of his many adoring Facebook groups, and being accosted by roving cable news reporters. But he's also had time to check out YouTube, and he's got some recommendations. Of course, being a famous name, Brinkley isn't just going to put them in his "Favorites" section. He's an eGuider on eGuiders.com, one of "your trusted voices who find and recommend the best original online videos and share them with you. Let us do the searching so you can do the watching!" Other eGuiders include Jerry Stiller (Frank Costanza) and Damon Lindelof (Lost's co-creator). Brinkley's only added two videos so far - JFK's Inaugural and an exchange between Ann Coulter and Al Franken - but perhaps stepping down as provost will allow him to add all those mixtapes he's been dying to forward you. 
 Name, School: Peter Valeiras, SEAS Claim to fame: President of the Engineering Student Council Post-grad plans: Teach For America New York. High School Physics... keeping some form of engineering alive! Favorite study spot? Avery Library... I'm probably the only engineer that knows about this place. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Engineers would probably not survive a huge flood or invasion because we do not have a swim test and really can't build a boat... or catapult... in a reasonable amount of time to escape. 2. You can always get free things at Columbia... examples being that I have gone a week without buying food and all of college without buying a single t-shirt. And now I even got a free USB Memory Stick. 3. John Jay trays make the sturdiest sleds, although they are a little small. &nbsp;Best sledding spots include: the steps, Riverside Park and the steps out to 120th by Mudd (although you need to make sure that you do not hit the wall). Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I think that I am supposed to be able to design a bridge... I can't... and therefore really can't justify my existence. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? When President Ahmadinejad visited and got torn apart on stage by PrezBo. Varsity Show did a great job incorporating this last year. Hunger Strike does come a close second. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Trying to convince the administration that we should have more alcohol at Glass House Rocks and then getting yelled at for it... at least I won't have to watch the mass dumping of beers after Lerner Pubs next year. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Nothing hits the spot after oral sex like a grilled cheese from HamDel, so I can't exactly give up one without giving up the other, but if I had to I would definitely stop eating grilled cheese....... oh, hi mom! What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Take advantage of all the activities on Columbia's campus... I know some people say not to do this, but sign up for as many listservs as possible, this way you always know where the free food is and can maybe make a few more Facebook friends! Regrets? I wish that I took the Core. Although people told me it was a bore. Now all I can write Is this limerick, so trite. And really, nothing much more. 
 Hawkmadinejad (or, more precisely, the Hawks-madinejad) has (or have) been keeping to himself (or...oh screw it) more this spring, but that hasn't stopped Hawkmadinebwog editor Courtney Douds from documenting some of the other fine flora and fauna of the neighborhood. The Animorphs would feel right at home in Riverside The paradoxically-named catbird! That tree in front of Philosophy is more interesting than you'd think. Hippos in Riverside as well? Now we've seen everything! 
 It's become a ritual for exam time: our Carsplit PSA. If you're headed to JFK, LaGuardia, or Newark by taxi in the coming days, use Carsplit to find new friends who are doing the same, thus saving everyone money. Once again: split a cab, save money. Carry on. 
 As seniors pack their bags, one Nobel-ballin' senior citizen is unpacking his. Yes, that's right, Kofi Annan, the former Secretary-General of the U.N., is coming to Columbia. This spring! Bwog thought spring was already over, but then again, Bwog has never been an expert on the equinoxes. In an email sent to the Columbia community this afternoon, President Bollinger outlined the Global Fellows program Annan will be joining, and hinted at all the hijinks he'll soon be up to with fellow, um, "global practitioners." A penny for whomever knows what those are. PrezBo's full email is after the jump. Dear fellow members of the Columbia community: It is my very great pleasure to announce that former United Nations Secretary-General and 2001 Nobel Peace Prize recipient, Kofi Annan, will be joining the Columbia community this spring. Mr. Annan already has deep professional bonds with many of our faculty (notably Jeff Sachs, Director of Columbia&#8217;s Earth Institute and Michael Doyle of the School of International and Public Affairs) and has done many things with Columbia over the years.&nbsp; He will now forge more formal links with our schools, faculty, and students. Mr. Annan will join a new program being launched by Dean John Coatsworth at the School of International and Public Affairs next year as one of the first group of Global Fellows.&nbsp; The Global Fellows program will bring students together with global practitioners to share firsthand knowledge of experiences in the life of an international or public figure.&nbsp; As Dean Coatsworth will be announcing today, the other Global Fellows in the program&#8217;s inaugural year will include Chee Hwa Tung, former and first Chief Executive of Hong Kong and Alfred Gusenbauer, former Chancellor of Austria. &nbsp;Mr. Annan will also participate in several of our other global initiatives, including the Committee on Global Thought led by Joseph Stiglitz, the World Leaders Forum, our recently launched Global Research Centers, and the Earth Institute. Mr. Annan presently leads the Kofi Annan Foundation and is an active chair of the board for the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa.&nbsp; His extraordinary contributions to the world are well known, and it will be a great addition to our community to have him with us. We are grateful to the generous donors who make it possible for us to create such fellowship opportunities for world leaders to be a part of the Columbia experience. Please join me in welcoming Kofi Annan to our community. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger 
 As the class of 2009 departs Columbia, the bright lights of New York will have at least one symbol of their achievements: CCSC has secured the chance for the Empire State Building to be lit up in light blue and white next Wednesday night. According to CCSC President George Krebs, the project was "spearheaded" by&nbsp;CC '09's Jenni O'Reilly-Jones (also president of CASO). Columbia joins&nbsp;several other organizations playing around with the lights, including NYU&nbsp;this past&nbsp;Tuesday, the FDNY this weekend, and Fleet Week starting next Thursday. 
In our last post before we switch to summer mode (more on that tomorrow), we present the Senior Wisdom of our graduating Bwog staff (sniff).&nbsp;Finally providing their own answers are former daily editors Anna Corke, John Klopfer, David Iscoe&nbsp;and Sara Vogel, and editors emerita Katie Reedy and Lydia DePillis. We'll miss you. Claims to fame: Anna: Former Bwog/Hawkmadinebwog editor, former B&amp;W literary editor, cellist and webmistress of the Bach Society. David: Was the editor of Jester, was in Egg &amp; Peacock and KCST spring shows, and played in garbage time at a few water polo tournaments. I also can speak loudly at times, which helps people remember me. John: If you asked ten people you would get ten different answers, none of them interesting. also wrote for Bwog. That's why I'm on this. Sara: Being on good terms with the good people of the Spectator, the Blue and White, and the Columbia Political Review simultaneously. Also, knowing about half of this year's freshman class. Katie: Naming the War on Fun; former managing editor of the Blue and White, Bwogger; Buffalonian. Lydia: Bwog Editor 2007 Post-grad plans: ALC: Fish husbandry/developmental neurobiology in a lab at the University of Washington, making pictures like this. DHI:&nbsp;That's up in the air. I'm training to be an EMT and writing video scripts for the Onion, but I need a job. But I'm in New York, I have a sweet apartment for a year. JBK: Working on switching&nbsp;St. Kitts &amp; Nevis&nbsp;over to electric cars. SEV: Teaching for America KER: Young American in the Foreign Service LBD: Lowly positions at Slate.com and then The New Republic in DC. What are three things you learned at Columbia? ALC:1. If you work hard enough, Columbia might give you your own desk. 2. You can do a million things you love, but there is a trade-off with spending time with the people you love. 3. I also learned how truly mysterious the brain is, and to love that mystery. DHI: 1. Nobody really knows what they're doing. 2. Libraries are mainly used for quiet study spaces in college; it's not about the books, even though college libraries have great selections of books. 3. The view out the west side of an East Campus high rise is better than the view out of any place you'll likely be able to afford for the rest of your life. JBK: 1. There is a giant throw switch under CEPSR that you can get to through Mudd. Top of throw to bottom, it is about the height of you or me. I've always wanted to know what it does. 2. Log rules and Lagrangians. 3. Evasion. SEV:1. Once you get the critical gaze, it's hard to turn it off, and that's OK. It's easy to find people here who are pondering the same questions as you. 2. The LLC...it's self-explanatory! 3. Unpopular, but true for me: 10-minute naps &gt; Red Bull and coffee KER:1. Overreaching theories and strategies relating to humans usually cause more harm than good. 2. It's unfortunate that journalism is going through a crisis, because the media is the glue that holds society together. 3. The world is young and urban. It's a wonderful place. LBD:1. Everyone is the Other sometimes. 2. Bylines. 3.&nbsp;Concision! Also exclamation points. Justify&nbsp;your existence in 30&nbsp;words or less. ALC: Once a frog tried to have sex with my hand. I tried to eat poop when I was little. If you squish my first name and middle initial together it spells Annal Corke. DHI: I'm a goddamn human. Some people are always hating on humankind but I think humans are pretty cool. This is a pretty aggressive question. Justify your existence, Bwog. JBK: Closet engineer. I can open your salsa jars and fix your whatevers. SEV: Can't drive, but there's a subway map in my brain and a MetroCard in my wallet. KER: The qualitative shall inherit the earth. LBD: Borderline hypergraphia, except in questionnaires. Favorite study spot ALC: My very own desk in my lab. :) DHI: I usually work in my room. JBK: Home. Or the big conference table in Lehman. There's lots of light and a water fountain nearby. SEV: There is a permanent imprint of my bottom in an armchair in the Wallach sky lounge. KER: I fondly recall the Alcove and the Ref experiences of yore. But really, for total seclusion, the language labs in IAB are great. During finals, people jimmy the doors so they stay open all hours. Great for paper writing if you can stand the abject fear of being alone in IAB at 4 a.m. LBD: Nowhere for more than three hours at a time. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? ALC: This, small but delightful. DHI: The Ahmadinejad speech was definitely the most exciting. At the time it was announced I was a daily editor for Bwog, so I actually posted the notice that he was coming to Columbia; when we got the link for ticket registration, I immediately registered and then posted the link on Bwog. On the day of the speech, I had a conversation with Marc, the key guy (who is one of the best people at Columbia to make friends with, especially if you keep losing your key), in the Schapiro elevator: "Are you going to see my brother Mahmoud? What do you think about him?" I said something about how Ahmadinejad's professional dishonesty. "Lies, yes, lies! Like a cheap merchant!"&nbsp; He was pretty fired up. That set the tone for the whole day. JBK: Sala-i-Martin v. Sachs.&nbsp;FC Barcelona&nbsp;v.&nbsp;MDG's. Muppets v. Angelina Jolie. It will still be a controversy when the freshmen of 2013 matriculate. SEV: Livebwogging the Minutemen melee with two dear friends -- I saw the kick as it happened! KER: Everyone so far has named Ahmadinejad or the hunger strike. Those are fine. But really, there are so many more worth mentioning: Cracker gate. Saigon Grill. Sundry hate crimes. Matthew Fox. The time all the freshmen cheated on Lit Hum. Ashcroft. But as far as the major controversies go, Minutemen fiasco beats the hunger strike hands down. LBD: Minutemen&#8212;it started out like such a normal day! Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? ALC: War on Fun? People have fun at this school? DHI: Like everyone else, I've been affected by it. What can I say? The War on Fun sucks. Was it Bwog that coined that phrase? Whoever it was, well done. JBK: My freshman year roommate was smoking a cigarette and uncorking a bottle of wine, once, when Jason Bello called in the duty RA. The RA told my roommate to pour out the bottle. So he tipped it back and drank the whole thing. I'm fairly certain we weren't written up. SEV: A reluctant ground troop of said War, I extend my apologies to the residents of Wallach 4A. KER: Not really. I do recall the days of 2005 and 2006, however, when there was almost no enforcement of any rules. Once I was drafted into an epic battle between Potluck and Metta houses (I think) where people were getting dunked in barrels of cider and whipped-creamed all over the EC courtyard. These days they'd probably raid rooms to find contraband whipped cream. LBD: Too much time spent prying information out of administrators about battle strategy. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? ALC: I have tried giving up both. Oral sex for around the first 20 yrs of my life. Cheese for two years (I was a vegan). I missed cheese more. DHI: Well it depends how optimistic I am. JBK: Refusing cheese is awkward. SEV: Cheese is a staple of my often protein-poor diet. KER: I must refer to the 5/7 episode of 30 Rock. Liz Lemon is curled up alone in her apartment, wrapped in a blue Snuggie, sampling from a large cheese tray and singing to herself, "Workin' on my night cheese," to the tune of "Workin' on my night moves." This scene encompasses my answer and my general philosophy. LBD: I could do without the gooey versions of both. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? ALC:1. Learn to seduce people with your cooking. This has worked for me several times. If you really can't cook, go to Pisticci's on Broadway and LaSalle. 2. Find a way to sleep as much as you need to. Even on nights before exams. 3. If &nbsp;you find yourself not enjoying the classes you take, switch majors - even if you've almost completed the first. DHI: I actually have a chance to tell some of them because they read this blog, I tell them this: don't worry about other people; make friends and interact with people but just don't worry about what they're doing or what they think about what you're doing. All that stuff changes anyway. JBK: 1. Professors want to know undergraduates. Visit office hours. Host professor dinners with your friends. Ask questions that don't involve the upcoming exam. You'll probably learn something interesting. 2. Math is taught pretty well if you're not taking introductory level courses. One guy I know in the department compares quitting math because of Calc I to quitting English because of University Writing. 3. With your Facebook profile, less is more. 4. Make the best of John Jay when it's still subsidized. Half the people you meet, and probably all of your best friends, will be your dinner buddies from John Jay. SEV: If you're thinking about the wacky inter-disciplinary major, just do it. And if you have a lot on your mind about something, grab a co-host, get a radio show on WBAR and just yak into cyberspace. KER: Keep reminding yourself you've only got four years, both when you're discouraged and when you're goofing around. Take lots of photos of yourself now, because you'll never look so good again. You're at the node of a gigantic network, be aware of where you stand. And, you girls especially, don't let this world get you down. LBD: Eat at Absolute Bagels at least once a week. Get a bike. Study on the Lerner ramps&#8212;it&#8217;s the nerve center. And if you really want to have sex in Butler, find the closet on the 9th floor of the stacks and shut the door. Regrets? ALC: Not spending a summer in NYC. Never making it to the end of a Subway party. DHI: There's a lot of stuff I should have done, but in general I'm pretty happy; I think if you go around regretting things you can just keep going with that. JBK: I wish I had majored in sociology. A couple of other people have mentioned this: there should be a joint sociology &#8211; economics major. I also regret not flipping a coin for Mandarin and Arabic and just taking one. That's all I can think of now. SEV: Not a regret so much as a promise -- I will leave New York again (the life-long New Yorker in me says probably not for good) KER: To quote Rick James' two-ton black granite gravestone, which is in Forest Lawn cemetary in case you're ever in Buffalo, "I've had it all, I've done it all, I've seen it all. It's all about love.... God is love." This should have been my maxim, alas. LBD: Failing at scholarship. But hey, if I did this all over, I probably wouldn&#8217;t do it any different.&nbsp; 
 The Journal of Politics and Society will give you food and beverages if you come read their new edition! Lerner ramps Outside Lerner, 1pm to 3pm.&nbsp; If you miss it, you can always fiind that charming little rag on the racks at Barnes and Noble. But then you get no cupcakes.&nbsp; 
 Dear readers, With the end of the exam period, Bwog is officially moving into summer mode. Stick around though: we'll be running a few more Senior Wisdoms between now and Commencement, plus coverage of the graduation ceremonies,&nbsp;and after that&nbsp;we'll be updating the blog at least once a day. In addition, we want to thank our readers for another successful semester. We've enjoyed keeping you informed, and we hope we've done a little bit to make your semester a little more enjoyable. Sincerely, The Bwog Staff 
 Name, Class: Jacob Taber, GS/JTS Claim to fame: SGB Vice-Chair, Dems Board &#8217;06-&#8217;07 (i.e. the year of the Minutemen), Baccalaureate speaker, general Jew-about-town Post-grad plans: Finance staff (fundraising) for a Senate race, and marrying my beautiful fianc&#233;e. What are three things you learned at Columbia? (1) You haven&#8217;t really made it on this campus until you&#8217;ve been torn a new one by Bwog trolls. (2) If you&#8217;re drunk enough, anything can be deep-fried. But use your own kitchen. (3) MoMA is far more persnickety about having an up-to-date semester sticker than anywhere on campus. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. &#8220;Jacob is best known in certain circles on campus for his role in setting up a giant inflatable missile on Low Plaza to demonstrate the scariness of the Iranian bomb&#8230;" Favorite study spot? The first time I witnessed the sun rising majestically over the brownstones of Frat Row, I was doing a victory dance on a table in Butler 403 after writing my first 15-pager in a night. So, let&#8217;s say there (or Sakura park when the weather turns). What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The Ahmadinemania carnival was the closest Columbia's ever come to a massive campus-wide outdoor concert (sorry Bacchanal), and was both short and sweet. Close second: Hungerstrike-topus. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Happily, JTS housing hasn't yet taken up arms in this struggle. I guess that&#8217;s the trade-off for four years without swipe access. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? If it&#8217;s kosher cheese, the answer&#8217;s obvious&#8230; What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? In the immortal words of Mr. T, &#8220;Be somebody, or be somebody&#8217;s fool.&#8221; Inventing and reinventing yourself is what college is all about, so own who you are. Study abroad. See ASSSSCAT 3000 at UCBT. And don&#8217;t graduate without spending some time in all 5 boroughs&#8230;or at least the top 4. Regrets? 8:20 a.m. class, three days a week, three semester in a row. Also, that I didn't strike up a conversation while peeing next to Brian Dennehy. 
Name, School: Justin Grace, CC Claim to fame: Fucked a chicken on stage at the UCB. Didn't actually, but it's a much better story that way (Thanks, Noam). Also, I run a comedy show downtown that no one goes to but somehow got nominated for a cabaret award. I think it might be a pyramid scheme. Post-grad plans: Making lots of money in I-banking. That's still a thing, right? Alternatively, becoming a doctor for sick pigs. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. John Jay? Totally awesome. Don't you fuckers like burgers? They're burgers. It is impossible to screw up a burger. 2. No matter how much you think you've outgrown your adolescent classism, it will never stop sounding like Mozart when wealthy kids complain about tuition. It is, however, bad form to start singing "Free Ride" immediately after. 3. "Depression" is just a fancy way of saying "I want to watch The Wire for a month and not have anybody call me out on it." Justify your existence in 30 words or less.&nbsp; Has only been in a Starbucks twice. Sings everywhere he goes. The two might be related. Favorite study spot? That room in Butler 3 with the interior balcony. Speaking of which, to whoever was sitting up there a couple days ago, I stole your pen. I just needed it real quick and I didn't have anything with me and when I went to put it back, your stuff was gone! It was not one of my prouder moments. I'm way sorry our relationship didn't work out any better. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The hunger strike. People starved themselves because they didn't think there were enough classes at a college. Huh. I admire the moxie, but, c'mon, guys...our grandfathers fought in WARS TO SAVE THE WORLD. We are like the shitty disappointing kids you just know Han and Leia had. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? Nope. Chances are any time 5-0 rolls up, I am already gone to the point where I ask if it's okay to poop in an elevator. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? This question is so played, Bwog. Congrats on having a Lipton-esque "what do you want God to say" trademark, but there are seriously In Living Color episodes that feel fresher than this. Homie The Clown all asking some white dude about Somali pirates... What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? Most of the lessons you'll learn in life have already been summed up better by rappers your friends only like ironically. So don't do that. Also, it is going to hurt a whole bunch to learn how uncool and unspecial and completely and totally dumb you are. It's worth it. (Plus I think it never stops?) Regrets? You and me, Bob O'Meally. We never quite could make this love thing work. 
 Seniors rolling out of exams and into Senior Week without a care in the world stumbled suddenly on Friday when they found out their ID cards had been deactivated. Even the cards of RAs weren't working, and students moving out with parents in tow tried to explain, to irrationally adamant security guards, that they had lived in East Campus, or Ruggles, or wherever, for this entire year. Said one guard to one resident, "You do not live in EC. This card says you do not live here." Seniors were directed to Hartley, where their cards were supposedly reactivated. But as of last night, at least in East Campus, these same reactivated cards were once again not functional. It's back to Hartley, for hopefully the last time. Columbia, can't you cut us a break? We promise we won't bother you again. 
 Name, School: Rachael McMillan, CC Claim to fame: Columbia's Ambassador to the South, Sorority President of the Year (and all-around Greek life enthusiast), Walking Contradiction (liberal, Jewish, and southern), Always in Costume, and chances are that I've returned your IR papers in the Saltzman Institute over the past four years. Post-grad plans: Teaching for America in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and not covering up my southern accent anymore. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Never underestimate the power of good manners and good posture. 2. There's a reason why African Dance with Maugette Camara is the most difficult class to gain entrance to--take it and you will not regret it. It got me in touch with my Sephardic roots. The trick is to wait until your senior year and register the semester BEFORE the new semester begins since it is the most difficult class to get into here. 3. For the most part, people here are surprisingly ignorant about the American South. The Civil War is over, ya'll, so butter my butt and call me a biscuit! I really encourage everybody to come and visit this region: the food is fantastic, the hospitality is always wonderful, and the culture will surprise you. Justify your existence in 30 words or less = Charlie Wilson x Tony Stark + Lady Gaga - Hard Drugs Favorite study spot? My room. I have seen some wacky things in Butler that, while entertaining, are incredibly distracting. Butlerfolk provide a sideshow circus of sorts. Once I was sitting on the 4th floor at a six-person table when one girl pulled out a king size tube of cookie dough and proceeded to eat the entire thing in 45 minutes. It was like an episode of (wo)Man vs. Food. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The Minutemen Debacle. While it certainly raised poignant points about free speech and the whatnot, I'm still secretly jealous of the dude that got made fun of on the Daily Show. Any battle wounds/war stories from the War on Fun? As a former ResLife employee and four-year Greek community member, I've truly seen campus life take a 180 degree turn. I've been through hell and half of Louisiana and I STILL can't figure out what freshmen DO on the weekends now. We used to just walk down to 114th street freshman year and walk into whatever party looked good, but now it's eerily silent, Nacho's is gone, and the West End is a chain restaurant. I've seen some friends go through truly bizarre disciplinary hearings and it makes me feel as though some higher ups have a social disorder in which they are completely unable to communicate with 18 to 22-year-olds, and it's going to come back to bite Columbia in the rear. This is the reason that I donated $1 to the Senior Fund and not $100. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? All I can do is refer you to a G.K. Chesterton quote: "The poets have been mysteriously silent on the subject of cheese." I'm sure there's a reason for that. What do you wish you could tell the Class of 2013 before they come here? As Kevin G. said in Mean Girls, "Don't let the hataz stop you from doin' yo THANG." These are truly words to live by: never feel the need to compromise who you are. Regrets? In March, I was set to perform "Juicy" at the Third Annual Notorious B.I.G. Tribute Karaoke Competition and win fame and eternal glory throughout the boroughs. But then I realized that I had my science teacher test in the Bronx at 7:30 AM the next morning, so I had to sacrifice my dream. I ended up failing the biology test (HELFAND--WHYYYYY?!) and I'm still fantasizing about the rap career that I could have had... Shout out to Professor Lax because I know he reads this. 
 The Class of 2009 has mustered under the aircraft hangar tent in front of Butler. 
 After last year's Social Security snafu and the weekend's ID mixup, it's safe to say that Columbia's tech people can sometimes mess up. We weren't automatically skeptical, then, when several Bwog staffers received an e-mail from a Columbia e-mail address with the subject line: "Please Update your COLUMBIA E-mail Account." Then we noticed that the e-mail asked for our passwords and dates of birth. Sadly, the efforts to disguise the spam fell flat beyond the subject line&#8212;Bwog thinks it has something to do with the return address being in the Netherlands. There were other subtle hints as well, such as the continued capitalization of "COLUMBIA," the mention of a "COLUMBIA Support Desk - Information Technology" department, and the threat that "Account owner that refuse to send this information after One weeks of receiving this warning will lose his/her COLUMBIA Web-mail account permanently." Somehow, we doubts that CUIT would does anythings so drastic. As for the Columbia address, a quick directory search revealed it belongs to an associate professor in the Department of Child Psychiatry. The lesson here is clear: don't trust Nigerian princes, overseas lotteries, and now, child psychiatrists. Full e-mail for your amusement after the jump. -JCD &amp; JYH &nbsp;&nbsp; From: Help Desk &lt;_______@columbia.edu&gt; Reply-To: checking.update@live.nl &nbsp;Subject: Please Update your COLUMBIA E-mail Account Please Update your COLUMBIA E-mail Account Dear COLUMBIA Web-Mail User We wish to inform you that we are undergoing slight maintenance and upgrading of our site also we are having congestion's due to the anonymous registration of accounts. And we are also using this medium in shutting down &nbsp;some accounts and your account was among those to be shut down We are sending you this email to you so that you can verify and let us know if you still want to use this account. If you are still interested please confirm your account details below.and you are required to send your account details for verification: E-mail Address:_____________ Password:________________ Date Of Birth(DOB):___________ DISCLAIMER!!! Account owner that refuse to send this information after One weeks of receiving this warning will lose his/her &nbsp;COLUMBIA Web-mail account permanently. Warning!!! it very important you update your email account within One Weeks of this update notification,We are sorry for any inconvenience will might have cause you, and expect our new mail features. COLUMBIA Support Desk Information Technology
 Hot off the presses from City Hall and Albany: Governor David Paterson (CC '77) and Mayor Michael Bloomberg expressed their support again for the Manhattanville expansion, after the project was approved by the Public Authorities Control Board.&nbsp; Paterson said the expansion "will enhance the vitality of both the University and its neighboring community, while meeting the long-term needs of its residents." Bloomberg added that it "will help solidify New York City as a world-renowned center for higher education and scientific research and enhance New York&#8217;s ability to attract highly-skilled talent." Both noted the predicted benefits of the expansion, including "a projected 14,000 construction jobs over the course of the 25-year build-out and 6,000 permanent jobs, the expansion will provide nearly 100,000 square feet of publicly accessible open space, enhance the area&#8217;s cultural activities, and activate the neighborhood&#8217;s street life with wide sidewalks and ground-floor retail uses." As for the PACB, its approval was the final level of state approval needed on the expansion (the PACB oversees the West Harlem Local Development Corporation, which made a final agreement with Columbia earlier this month). Barring a surpisingly successful lawsuit, Manhattanville may have crossed its last government hurdle. Full statements after the jump (image by the Associated Press). Statement from Governor David A. Paterson: &#8220;Today, the Public Authorities Control Board approved the General Project Plan for the redevelopment and expansion of Columbia University&#8217;s Morningside Campus. The expansion of one of New York&#8217;s oldest educational institutions will enhance the vitality of both the University and its neighboring community, while meeting the long-term needs of its residents. &#8220;While the national recession has led to a decline in development in New York, this $6.3 billion project will be one of the largest to move forward this year, resulting in 14,000 construction jobs over 25 years and 6,000 University positions. Recognizing the needs of our West Harlem community, the project also includes a community benefits agreement that will provide scholarships for local residents, medical facilities for school-age children and enhanced curricula for local secondary schools. &#8220;I am delighted that the work and cooperation of our partners at Columbia, the Mayor&#8217;s Office, and Empire State Development, as well as local elected officials and members of the community will help ensure that Columbia maintains its role as one of the foremost educational and cultural institutions in the world and a major New York employer.&#8221; Statement from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg: &#8220;Today&#8217;s approval of the General Project Plan for Columbia University West Harlem development plan serves as a testament to Governor Paterson&#8217;s strong leadership. The Public Authorities Control Board&#8217;s decision - the culmination of a long&#8211;standing collaboration among Columbia, City and State agencies, local elected officials, and the local community - will enable a critically important job-creating economic development initiative to move forward. &#8220;Columbia&#8217;s new campus in the Manhattanville section of West Harlem will complement the City&#8217;s investment at the recently-opened West Harlem PiersPark and planned streetscape improvements along West 125th Street, and build upon other initiatives in Upper Manhattan, including last year&#8217;s rezoning of 125th Street and the East 125th Street development. Columbia&#8217;s plan, which was adopted by the City Council in 2007, will transform 17 acres in West Harlem into a modern, academic mixed&#8211;use development with 6.8 million square feet of new state-of-the-art facilities that will help solidify New York City as a world-renowned center for higher education and scientific research and enhance New York&#8217;s ability to attract highly-skilled talent. In addition to creating a projected 14,000 construction jobs over the course of the 25-year build-out and 6,000 permanent jobs, the expansion will provide nearly 100,000 square feet of publicly accessible open space, enhance the area&#8217;s cultural activities, and activate the neighborhood&#8217;s street life with wide sidewalks and ground-floor retail uses. &#8220;I want to thank Governor Paterson for his tireless efforts to move this important project forward, and the other local elected officials, Community Board 9, the West Harlem Local Development Corporation, and Columbia University for working together to forge consensus on a project so vital to Upper Manhattan and the entire City.&#8221; 
The shadowy group only known as "Senior Underground" has sent Bwog a message (by carrier pigeon, of course) that there will be a senior class gathering tonight at the West End to celebrate "our last night at Columbia." Join your friends, and try not to send any texts you'll regret.&nbsp;
 For most of our readers, the graduation ceremonies have finished, and after watching all the webcasts, we still can't tell them apart. They all have graduates throwing things/falling asleep/not paying attention, administrators reminding said graduates about the opportunities that await them, and lots of light blue and school pride. The one area that does have the potential to make a ceremony slightly worth your time (besides the diploma, of course, and the post-ceremony family gifts) is the speech. But did this year's selection make people perk up their ears, or drop their heads? (photo from acordova on Flickr) SEAS Class Day - James Albaugh, Executive Vice-President, Boeing: Allbaugh started off nonchalantly, joking about the absence of the West End, and his lack of academic success while at Columbia (Albaugh recieved a master's from the engineering school in 1974). The first half of the speech focused on the problems Albaugh felt faced the new generation of engineers, including global warming, and he bemoaned how the United States is failing to keep pace in science education. The second half of the speech, however, could have been given to a new group of Boeing employees, as Albaugh moved through pieces of advice for anyone seeking a career in engineering. He even drew advice from how people become a "friend of Jim" at Boeing, and closed with a quote from a newspaper article about the first cross-country flight of a Boeing 707. In giving a thoroughly practical speech, Albaugh too often sounded like he was reading from a corporate memo. Grade: B- Barnard College - Secretary of State Hillary Clinton: The Barnard graduates greeted Clinton with a standing ovation, and she largely delivered. Noting that women are "reaching levels of achievement not seen before" (including a joke about Preakness-winning Rachel Alexandra), Clinton began with a short yet humorous retelling of Barnard's early years, including a Times headline "College Girls Are Healthy, Normal American Girls." The heart of her speech, though, focused on the "new era of diplomacy," which "requires a new commitment to global service." In particular, she urged the graduates to "support women worldwide who don&#8217;t have the resources you do, but whose lives and dreams are just as worthy as yours and mine." She closed by reminding graduates that their generation had a "a future that women in the history of the world have never been able to imagine, that you leave here empowered in a way that women and girls have never been before." Evocative without being overly dramatic, Clinton once again showed why she was such a powerful opponent for Obama. Grade: A-. GS - Philipe Reines, Clinton senior adviser: Reines began with several jokes, including how he hid his speaking engagement from Clinton, and a ribbing of PrezBo for the "low-profile" nature of the Ahmadinejad visit. The speech, though, became his biography, as he chronicled his path through several different schools, being Al Gore's TA, and assisting Hillary Clinton. His point was to debunk various bits of conventional wisdom, like "don't let people see you sweat" and "the shortest distance between two points is a straight line," but Reines meandered, and rarely brought the focus back to the graduates, except to say that they were probably like him in their "wandering" backgrounds. It was, however, shorter than the other speeches, which kept the schtick from wearing too thinly. Grade: B- CC - Attorney General Eric Holder: Holder started with the right amount of Columbia history, including his wacky roomates in Carman and his participation in the occupation that led to the creation of the Malcolm X Lounge. Acknowledging "that tomorrow will be the last day that some of you spend on an academic campus as a student," and that "you may never sit through another lecture or pull another all-nighter, fueled by nothing but caffeine and fear," he urged graduates to be "a servant for the public good." "The people who truly deserve our respect," he declared, the people who work hard and play by the rules &#8211; who teach our children, who minister to us when we are ill, who go to work every day in search of a better life &#8211; these people are too often ignored. Make sure they are recognized and find ways to help them." He concluded with various exhortations to help the "greater good," and a quote from Tennyson. It was a conventional speech, but well-balanced speech, with one interesting sidenote: One of Holder's first anecdotes, about a roomate who enjoyed "altering his consciousness," does not appear in the trascript on the Attorney General's website. Grade: B+ Commencement - Lee C. Bollinger: PrezBo began by recalling fondly how people gathered on Low Steps ("Columbia's town square") for both the presidential forum and the inauguration. The main focus was on freedom of speech, though why he chose the topic went unexplained. The Journalism School graduates particularly enjoyed this subject, roaring several times during his speech. Bollinger constructed a historical frame for his talk, connecting freedom of press and expression to the effectiveness of government. The speech began to sound like one given at a Washington dinner party, especially as he entailed specific proposals for increasing freedom in the global marketplace of ideas. Bollinger also bemoaned the end of print media as the death knell for serious journalism, a curious contrast to the rest of the speech's comfort with historical inevitabilities. Grade: B 
A student project at Temple reveals that our fearsome bird is now terrorizing Philadelphia. 
 Last night, Gawker posted about a strange petition circulating in the crowd at the J-School's graduation ceremonies. The petition attacked professor Samuel Freedman (pictured at right, from his Columbia page) for giving a student an incomplete grade, preventing the student from graduating. The specifics behind the incomplete grade, though, were unclear, until the student's original complaint surfaced this morning. Apparently, the situation is all a big content-sharing mixup. The student, Erin Siegal, says that she had had an arrangement with her thesis adviser and Freedman to use an excerpt from her work for Freedman's book seminar as her Master's thesis. However, her adviser urged Siegal to turn in her whole body of work (16,000 words), leading Freedman to give her an incomplete. As of now, it's still unclear if Siegal will be allowed to graduate, but hey, we're sure that she can dig around in the couch cushions for another semester's tuition. Ethics, teary students, and smarmy professors - what's not to love? You can check out the full letters over at Gawker.&nbsp; 
 We're a little late with this award, but congratulations to Michael W., the winner of the second-round of our commenting competition. Not only was his comment on our Pillow Fight photo album sufficiently epic, but he also showed great skill in actually leaving an email address, as per the rules. For his wit and competent display of reading comprehension, Michael receives our grand prize package: a cotton t-shirt declaring his victory, and a used DVD of Dane Cook's latest stand-up special (buying a second t-shirt has put us into chapter 11). Didn't make it this time? Stick around - the competition will resume during midterm week and finals in the fall. 
 The architecture firm behind the new geochemistry building at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory has won three design awards at the 2009 Sustainable Design Awards (building pictured at right).&nbsp; Xerox's new CEO, the first African American women CEO of a Fortune 500 company, is also a Columbia graduate. Her degree? Master's in engineering. Three more Columbia faculty members have been named to the National Academy of Sciences. Obama nominates a Mailman School professor to a Health and Human Services post. Perhaps this will help him get an award: a Columbia pre-med student is featured in a Times article about web sites for cramming. 
 The free-speech-on-campus group FIRE has released its new report on free speech at Columbia, giving the university a "red light" rating. FIRE took issue with the broad wording of the policy, which "defines 'sexual harassment' as 'any unwanted sexual attention.' Sexual harassment can also include a "hostile environment," which includes "love letters," "sexist jokes" and "sexual innuendos." Sexual innuendos? Somebody tell the Varsity Show! It's not the first time FIRE and Columbia administration have clashed over sexual harassment policy: eight years ago, a rewritten policy came under attack from FIRE and numerous other groups, who claimed that it did not provide for any due process for the accused. The fight eventually led to the resignation of Charlene Allan, the administrator in charge of the Office of Sexual Misconduct Prevention and Education, an office that has since been replaced by the Sexual Violence Prevention and Response Program Although FIRE said that the Health Services policy "is solely responsible for the university's red-light rating," they also expressed concern over the university's spam guidelines, calling them "dangerously broad." Columbia joins Brown, Cornell, Harvard, and Princeton in the "red light" catergory, while Yale has stayed in the "yellow light" category and Penn and Dartmouth remain in the "green light" category. &nbsp; 
 Hey, recent graduates, still having trouble finding a job? You're not alone. This morning on NPR's Morning Edition, CC '09's Emma Jacobs got four minutes to tell the nation about her&nbsp;struggles finding a job. The big problem, according to Jacobs, is her major: "A history major like me doesn't come with many specialized skills besides research. These days, it's difficult to convince people to take a chance on an entry-level hire," especially when the competition&nbsp;has "master's degrees and years of work experience."&nbsp;&nbsp; She admits that the process, including getting three rejections in one week, has been frustrating. "I'm not questioning my abilities," she says,&nbsp;"but I have been questioning my choices, knowing students with engineering degrees are still finding jobs. And many of the positions I am equipped to fill are disappearing." Score one for SEAS. 
 It's an old trick that saves both trees and money: printing flyers and rough drafts on already-used paper (by feeding the blank side in). Now, CUIT and campus group Green Umbrella have brought that technique to campus printers, converting one of the printers in Mudd's Engineering Terrace to used paper. According to Green Umbrella's Hannah Perls, the project began in April, and "the one-sided paper will be collected with the help of CUIT, SEEJ and Eco Reps as well as volunteers from other Umbrella organizations." They are particularly hoping that campus groups will use the printer for flyering, "to reduce paper waste on campus." As for expansion, Perls said, "We would definitely love to either expand or move the printer to a more high-traffic area if the printer sees a lot of activity." - JCD 
 Several New York blogs have picked up on an Obsessed TV interview with "Real Housewife of New York" Kelly Killoren Bensimon, and all seem to agree the best quote is about how she got into the School of General Studies: "A friend of mine said you should really go to Columbia, they have an amazing journalism department there. And so I actually went to the school and I said to them, I said, 'You know, if you take me, I, you know, you just gotta give me a chance, and if you take me, then I will be the best student, I will do whatever it is, whatever you need whenever you need it. I promise you, you know, I will not be a mistake.' And this man, the dean, was like, 'Who are you? Like, what? No, no, no. We have a process here. You have to fill out an application.' And I was like, 'No no no, It's nice you have an application, I've already sent that in, but I want to go here, and I really really wanted to go there.' And he let me in." Combined with the allegations against her for assaulting her boyfriend and stealing jewelry ideas, GS students everywhere haven't been this embarrassed since the last time they had to...oh screw it, the Varsity Show beat those jokes into the ground. But perhaps GS can claim Bensimon is simply dumber with age. In April 1996, she talked about balancing her studying, modeling, and charity work to the now-defunct Columbia Observer, saying "Columbia is like just one of my fingers. But being part of my body I treat it with the same respect that I do my work or charity or whatever I'm doing." Then again, maybe not. 
 If you're still in the neighborhood, you have approximate five hours to say goodbye to Morningside Books, which closes tonight at midnight. The New York Times spent some time at the store recently, and yesterday detailed both the store's lively final days, and its financial struggles, along with a slideshow. Many neighborhood residents talked about their disappointment over the store's closure - one resident said, "it&#8217;s not like losing a finger. It&#8217;s like losing an arm." Apparently, the store owners received over $60,000 in donations to pay the store's rent (approximate $9,000 a month, according to the Times). But the story also notes just how fiscally untenable the store's position was: $158,000 owed in rent, and the owners finally threw in the proverbial towel in April, after several revenue-increasing options (including opening a coffee shop inside the store) fell through. It's unclear what the space's future will be--the owner of Book Culture has entered a proposal to buy it, continuing the fifty-year streak of it being an independent bookstore--but for now, we are just sad it had to end. 
 It was this man's vision to lead SEAS, of all things. Columbia grads spawn from the east coast to represent the entire country around the world. Green monkeys.&nbsp; Chalfie's dream finally comes to pass. We're far too busy cleaning up to fix the problem. Back in the day, anti-Semitism was endemic. It's Ebola, but it's not ebola. This school may not have decent sports, but it offers solace to those who picked champion institutions. 
 Maybe next time he/she will remember the robes. The evidence outside the IRC: - Photo by JYH 
 A tipster has forwarded us a notice that "as a cost-saving measure," Columbia will be closing the physics, chemistry, biology, and psychology libraries a full year early. According to Physics Department Chair Andrew Mills, who sent the email, "I have received two conflicting reports of the closing date: July 1, 2009 and July 31, 2009." As for course reserves and other in-demand books, Mills wrote, "our course reserve materials will be held either in the Engineering library or in the Mathematics library until such time as the Science Library in the new science building opens. Some non-reserve books will be moved to the Mathematics library, others to an off-site repository. If you wish to access a book you will need to go to one of the remaining libraries (e.g. math or engineering) and check it out or request that it be extracted from the off-site storage facility." Bwog is checking on the new locations for other majors' reserves. In related news, there does appear to be progress on the new science building: as seen above, workers have begun adding outer skin to the building. Until it opens, affected majors, bone up on your offsite-ordering skills. - JCD, photo by JYH 
 Politico has an early copy of MSNBC reporter Richard Wolffe's new book Renegade, about Barack Obama's presidential campaign, and among his many tales is the following confrontation between Joe Biden and John McCain during the ServiceNation forum (presumably in Lerner). When Sen. John McCain wouldn&#8217;t return the phone calls of Sen. Joe Biden, the never-subtle Delawarean sought out his longtime colleague. In New York City with Obama and McCain where the two were both appearing at a public service event on the anniversary of 9/11, Biden was rebuffed by McCain&#8217;s aides backstage when he asked to see the GOP nominee. So, Wolffe writes, Biden went to McCain&#8217;s green room door and knocked. &#8220;&#8217;John McCain,&#8217; he shouted, according to Wolffe. &#8220;'It&#8217;s Joe Biden. The next time I phone you, take the damn call.&#8217;&#8221; And here we thought Ol' Joe was calm and collected in his word choices.&nbsp; 
 And when you think of style, you think of our good friends over at CO&#214;P. Registration for the hiking/biking/rafting orientation experience of your dreams is up and running, with a deadline of July 20. After you complete that, start planning on how to smuggle a cell phone along - it's what all the cool kids do. UPDATE: The coordinators of Columbia Urban Experience (CO&#214;P's community service counterpart) wrote Bwog to let us know that registration for that program ends next Wednesday, June 10th. 
 It may be summer, but the hunt for truth, justice, and free food never ceases. Today, we have a free food opportunity for much of the United States: Krispy Kreme and Dunkin' Donuts are celebrating National Doughnut Day with a free doughnut for every customer. And that's delicious. One minor catch: Dunkin' Donuts requires a purchase of a beverage for your free doughnut. Just another reason why Krispy Kreme is better (yeah, we said it). 
 An incoming 2013er whose father is incarcerated writes about her path to Columbia. James Franco drops out of speaking at UCLA's commencement. Jeff Sachs wants the US to send water, not money. Will cities of the future need "vertical farming?" Two Columbia professors say "yes." David Helfand has said that a meteor could bring down a plane. Did it bring down Air France 447? Hamid Dabashi: "The first 100 days over, Obama is looking more and more like Bush" 
 Over the weekend, the Los Angeles Times covered former Dems president and current White House staffer Josh Lipsky, CC '08, and his trip to Buchenwald as part of Obama's team. Lipsky, who worked on Obama's advance team during the campaign, did not volunteer just to get out of the Visitor's Office; rather, he wanted to visit the camp where his grandfather had been a prisoner: "By the time Lipsky got to the camp last week, its caretakers already knew of his connection from other young staffers already there. Within hours of his arrival, the information began to flow...A guide found a letter from a prisoner, telling of a camp cook in the later years of Buchenwald who used to line his clothing with potatoes and sneak them to the hungriest... Later, someone from the camp's foundation came to him with his grandfather's check-in slip, on which the young cook had signed his name -- in a manner bearing a striking resemblance to the way Lipsky writes his own signature." Our modus operandi is to make a snarky comment here, but in this case, just read the whole thing (photo by Chris Usher of the Times). 
 What are your travel plans for the summer? All proud of the money you saved to travel to the country/continent of your dreams? Well, Ryan Johns CC '09 will see your trip and raise you: he's traveling across Europe, and staying in shape! Yes, Johns, a former cross country team member, is running across Europe."I intend to average about 20 miles a day," he says on the trip's website. "As a collegiate runner, I find myself frequently running around a hundred miles a week...yet every morning I wake up in the same place. I want to try running something other than loops for a while. I like to travel, why not put this free transportation to some good?" A wonderfully logical answer. Johns will return to hitting the books (grad school in architecture) next year; in the meantime, you can follow his trip on his blog, which appears to be updated almost daily, and covers such important topics as shin splints and trespassing brewery grounds (photo from Johns's Flickr photostream). - JCD 
 Remember that husband-and-wife pair who stole almost $200,000 from Columbia? John Bzdil, former manager of the Pediatric Neurosciences Department, and his wife Heather Rinehart were accused of defrauding Columbia out of thousands with fake bills. Well, those who thought this Bonnie-and-Clyde story would not get any better did not anticipate a good ol' slice of Law and Order: SVU suddenly showing up. According to the Daily News (via Gothamist), the husband has pled guilty, but now claims "he bilked $180,000 from the Ivy League school to punish officials who brushed off complaints that a male boss was regularly groping him." "Subconsciously," he told the judge, "I was trying to make them pay attention to my situation and protect me from . I felt deep shame for what he was doing to me and my inability to make him stop." The accused, then-finance director Cesar Rodriguez, has denied the allegations. Regardlesss, Bzdil faces 21-27 months in prison. Also, the case is no longer a couples affair: charges against Rinehart were dropped after Bzdil said she had nothing to do with the theft. Now, Rinehart is filing for divorce; we wonder why... 
 A Siberian location and even chillier service appears to have put yet another Morningside Heights business on ice. Caf&#233; Fresh seems to be the latest victim of These Economic Times. With its windows covered over with butcher paper and all signs removed for the exterior, the brusque coffeeshop&nbsp;looks vacant from the sidewalk. Some patrons also report the caf&#233; closing unusually early Saturday at noon, which may have been a very last last call.&nbsp; Strangely enough, a Craigslist ad was spotted last October offering for sale a coffeeshop that matched Caf&#233; Fresh's description. Though managers denied the ad was their doing, a little Internet wheelin'-and-dealin' may not have been such a bad idea in retrospect. Let the calls for a Five Guys or Chick-Fil-A begin. UPDATE (10:30 a.m., Monday): Did sanitation violations kill Caf&#233; Fresh? A patron tells Bwog that the caf&#233; may have succumbed to its ongoing battle with the NYC Department of Health. Records show Caf&#233; Fresh pulled an Amir's back in February after inspectors slapped 47 points worth of violations on the coffeeshop (the average score is 16), reopening once it passed re-inspection with a 5-point score. But that's only the latest in a series of stomach-churning inspections for Caf&#233; Fresh&#8212;it was shuttered in 2008 and 2007 for similar violations, which include lack of soap, improper food storage, and employees not washing their hands after using the bathroom. Caf&#233; Fresh management could not be reached for comment. &#8212;JYH 
 We're a week behind on this one, but we hope that the hippies among our readers will appreciate the news nonetheless (and that everyone else will be amused). Last Tuesday, the Daily News reported that a "aging hippie with tenuous ties to Columbia University" was arrested on drug selling charges the day before. 49-year-old William Delp "is accused of selling undercover narcotics detectives LSD, Ecstasy and pot, sources said. He was charged with drug sale and possession....Delp is listed as a casual employee at Columbia University's Visual Arts Division, where he was an artists' model, but never an instructor, sources said." Columbia is refusing to comment, citing the "ongoing" investigation. Of course, no tale of a neighborhood dealer would be complete without the disbelieving neighbor."I'm totally shocked,"&nbsp;his neighbor Jonathan Perez, 27, told the Daily News. Then again, it's also true that "he was always a pretty cool guy. He'd always give the peace sign." Mr. Perez, we're not children of the 60s either, but...c'mon. 
 Yes, the endowment may have taken a plunge in recent months, but you may have noticed the news was largely lacking in stories about spending cuts around Columbia. Contrast that with our friends in places such as New Haven, Princeton, Ithaca, and (especially) Cambridge, all of whom knew long ago that cuts were on the way. Now, the New York Times reports that, despite a 22 percent hit on the endowment, Columbia's budget will increase spending 0.4 percent. That's still a decline after adjusting for inflation, technically, but, as the Times puts it, the amount is "is essentially flat and avoids the severe cuts faced by its peers." How is Columbia making it through relatively intact? According to the Times, "Columbia does not rely on its endowment nearly as much as its peers do; about 13 percent of its annual operating expenses are met with income from its endowment, which was valued at $7.1 billion on June 30 last year." By contrast, Princeton has relied on its endowment for 45 percent of expenses. This is not to say that cost-cutting has been non-existent, "but mostly the university has slowed the pace of hiring, creating panels to screen all appointments. Many of Columbia&#8217;s schools are not raising faculty and staff salaries for next year." As a result, Columbia has maitained its AAA credit rating, something that institutions like Dartmouth have been unable to do. Turns out all those years of a struggling endowment did have an upside. 
 Turns out Morningside Books isn't shuttering up so fast after all.&nbsp; "Yes, we are still here," proclaimed a sign posted outside the store, "many of you are wondering 'what is going on?' So are we." Yes, tell us more, Morningside Books, tell us more! Basically, neighborhood folk have begun to make pledges to the bookshop to help the owner raise the $158,000 he needs to pay rent. An employee informed us that they have raised nearly $60,000 in pledges so far, but that the civil court judge is asking that those pledges be turned into cash. Morningside Books is surving on a "day to day basis" that depends on the sympathy of the judge and the amount of pledges the owner recieves. As long as the store remains open, most books are half priced and the shop will most likely extend its opening hours to allow for more business and pledge-making. While one neighborhood denizen surveying the bargain bins outside noted that the whole operation "sounds like a bakesale," you can still do your do-goody part by buying and pledging. The owner, Peter Soter, finished the note hanging on the window by stating, "the whole affair has only made me more aware of how special a neighborhood we have." Damn the Man, save the Empire! &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -ECS 
Ornithologist-about-town Jon Hill sends along the remains of the meal. But we're left asking: where's the beef? &nbsp; 
 You may have heard that SEAS is&nbsp; bringing in an outsider, Feniosky Pe&#241;a-Mora, to be its next dean. This may bring a tide of change for the oft-forgotten school on the windiest corner of campus, which has been governed for the last two years by a fatigued physics professor. Certainly, in his last email, PrezBo assured us he's qualified, but will he fit in?&nbsp; The New York Times caught wind of it and, wide-eyed, spilled the beans on this mysterious figure. First, we ensure that he is a proper engineer.&nbsp; At the age of 7, he used Popsicle sticks to bridge his sister's Barbie world with his own.&nbsp; "Feni" then grew up to work on the Big Dig in Boston.&nbsp; Real-world impact?&nbsp; Check. Second, we verify that he has some donor-pleasing personality quirk.&nbsp; The Gray Lady informs us that when naming his children Feni "employed an algorithm that factored in such characteristics as the parents&#8217; and grandparents&#8217; names, the children&#8217;s birth weights and the months of their conception and birth."&nbsp; Offspring who will never forgive him?&nbsp; Check. Last, PrezBo loves him.&nbsp; Always eloquent, he mumbled something to the Times reporter about "upward trajectories" before saying, "He came to the last meeting with a PowerPoint presentation."&nbsp; Bureaucratic conformity?&nbsp; Check. Welcome to SEAS, Feni.&nbsp; We're pretty excited.&nbsp; You know, for Columbia. &#8212;AB 
 If this new-fangled Twitter thing is to be believed, there's some big things a-poppin' in Iran, and the world media has been calling up Columbia professors for their reactions. The man with the most screen time this time around has probably been Professor Gary Sick (at right), which is not surprising given that he was the "the principal White House aide for Iran during the Iranian Revolution and the hostage crisis." That's the kind of bullet point that gets attention, and Sick has been quoted all over the media, including the BBC, The Daily Beast, the Washington Post, and Politico. Plus, somewhat fittingly, you can follow him on his Tumblr account. Other professors are getting in on the act as well, including Hamid Dabashi, Phillip Bobbit, and Richard Bulliet. The most creative commentary, though, has come from Ph.D. candidates Alexandra Scacco and Bernd Beber, who argued in Saturday's Post that the election results were likely rigged because the numbers did not look random enough. Trust us, it makes sense. In non-Iran news, one group of Columbia professors have discovered two brain systems used to accurately predict others' emotions, and another group has found that the subway is 15 decibels quieter than it was three years ago. Also, Meghan McCain appears to have dedicated her post-election career to one proposition only: embarassing herself as much as possible.&nbsp; 
 There's now a drugstore option for your Flex points, but you'll have to walk to 96th Street (aka "the ends of the Earth") to use it. According to an email from Student Services's Michael Novielli, the CVS at 96th and Amsterdam will be accepting Flex "by the end of July."&nbsp; As for other, closer options, Novielli wrote, "We realize that other neighborhood drugstores are popular with students, but they have not responded to our invitations to join the program so we wanted to have at least one drugstore option for you on it." Novielli declined further comment on why chains like Duane Reade and Rite Aid did not step up to the plate. Perhaps they feared being unable to handle Flex's lightning quickness. Still, at least the faraway land of 96th and Amsterdam is now under the domain of Flex. But beware, traveler: Bwog hears that the natives don't even have an opinion on GS students. The horror. 
 JustJared claims to have uncovered proof that Emma Watson, aka Hermione Granger/face of Burberry, will be attending Columbia University. This follows rumors linking the actress to Yale, Harvard, and Brown, but, using knowledge of Ms. Watson's many other names ("her birth name is Emma Charlotte Duerre Watson"), they say that the directory entry at right corresponds to her. We know what you're thinking: "The School of Continuing Education? That's not an undergraduate college!" Well, yes and no: the School of Continuing Education (the youngest of Columbia's schools) does not offer any undergraduate degrees. It is, however, open to non-matriculated students, including students who want to take classes between high school and the start of college; these students can effectively take whatever courses they want while enrolled. If this is Watson's entry, though, she would have to enter another school to get a degree. Somehow, though, we doubt this "degree" issue would prevent Wikipedia users from claiming her for Columbia. UPDATE: A commenter points out that there is already a Charlotte Watson on LinkedIn who is enrolled at the School for Continuing Education. Sigh. 
According to City Room and the New York Post (whose take on the story is fittingly more sensationalist), two workers suffered serious burns this morning at Columbia University Medical Center. One worker suffered burns over 70 percent of his body, and was in critical condition at Harlem Hospital. The fire took place at 9:44 am this morning. According to City Room, the workers were cleaning pipes leading to a hot water tank, when a halogen lamp was turned on, causing a fire as it interacted with the cleaning solution. The man with the most critical burns was taken to Harlem Hospital after "taking a turn for the worst," an official said. Bwog hopes to have more shortly. 
 A few days ago, we reported that the CVS on 96th Street and Amsterdam would be using Flex, partly at least because, according to Student Services, other neighborhood drugstores "have not responded to our invitations to join the program." However, when Bwog checked in with Duane Reade's manager, we learned that there may be hope yet for Flex at a closer drugstore. According to the manager, "Students have been coming in and telling me about Flex," for awhile, and he "sent in the paper work about a year ago." As for the paperwork going through, "apparently they're going to be using a lot of Flex next semester so it'll hopefully be ready by fall." In sadder retail news, JAS Mart at 110th and Broadway has shut its doors, according to a sign on said doors, and Morningside Books, after a temporary donor-induced respite, now has signs saying "We are ACTUALLY closed this time." - JCD, ECS, and JYH 
 In the most noticeable cost-cutting measure so far, Lerner Hall Operations Executive Director Honey Sue Fishman announced in an email to the student council presidents that, "given these extraordinary economic circumstances," Lerner Hall hours will be reduced, and the computer lab and Cafe 212 seating will no longer be open all night. "All departments and schools," Fishman wrote, "have been asked to identify opportunities to reduce expenses and lower the overall budget. Our goal is to make reductions with the least impact to academic business, student life and the broader campus community. After careful review and consultation with elected student representatives, it has been determined that changing the operating hours and services of certain buildings will have a significant impact on efforts to contain costs across campus." The changes: The Cafe 212 seating area, the Citibank ATM, and the Lerner Computer Lab, once open 24 hours a day, will now close overnight. Closing time will be at 1:00 a.m. Sunday-Wednesday, and 3:00 a.m. Thursday-Saturday, so most of your drunken late-night ATM visits will still be possible. The building will open one hour later in the morning (8:00 a.m.) The package center will open at 10:00 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and will be closed on Saturdays. Lerner will only remain open 24-hours-a-day during reading week and final exam periods. No other buildings were mentioned as being considered for reduced hours, but perhaps closing 403 for 6-12 months will finally get rid of that stench. Fishman's email after the jump. - JCD (photo: Samat Jain/Flickr) Dear Student Leaders: The University continues to look for new ways to operate more efficiently. All departments and schools have been asked to identify opportunities to reduce expenses and lower the overall budget. Our goal is to make reductions with the least impact to academic business, student life and the broader campus community. After careful review and consultation with elected student representatives, it has been determined that changing the operating hours and services of certain buildings will have a significant impact on efforts to contain costs across campus. Accordingly, effective July 1, 2009, the following changes will be made to Lerner Hall operations: Hours of Operation During the academic year, Lerner Hall will open one hour later. Academic year hours will be as follows: Sunday &#8211; Wednesday, 8:00 a.m. &#8211; 1:00 a.m. Thursday &#8211; Saturday, 8:00 a.m. &#8211; 3:00 a.m. Currently, the building is operating on a summer schedule through September 8, 2009: Sunday &#8211; Saturday, 8:00 a.m. &#8211; 8: 00 p.m. Off-Hours Building Access Effective June 30 at 11:59 p.m., when the building closes at the end of each day, the entire building will officially be closed. There will no longer be access to the lobby from the campus entrance. As a result, the seating area in Caf&#233; 212, the Citibank ATM and the 2nd floor computer lab will also be closed. This change will be in effect year-round. Reading Week and Final Exams Lerner Hall, including the computer lab, will be open 24/7 during the reading week and final exam period. For up-to-date information about services in Lerner Hall and hours of operation, consult the website at www.columbia.edu/cu/lernerhall. COMPUTER LABS Hours of operation for computer labs in undergraduate residence halls and Butler Library 24-hour labs are unchanged. However, the Butler lab is currently operating on a summer schedule. To accommodate students seeking 24-hour computer use during the summer, the Carman Hall cluster will be open to Columbia University students from 8:00 p.m. &#8211; 8:00 a.m. Students will be required to check their University ID card with Public Safety at the entrance for computer use. Visit http://www.columbia.edu/acis/facilities/labs/locations.html for more information about computer lab locations and http://www.columbia.edu/acis/facilities/schedules/ for schedules. PACKAGE CENTER AND STUDENT MAIL SERVICES As another cost savings measure, the Package Center and Student Mail Services will now open at 10:00 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Additionally, these businesses will no longer be open on Saturdays. For more information about the Package Center and Mail Services, visit www.mailservices.columbia.edu We appreciate your understanding given these extraordinary economic circumstances. If you have any questions or concerns, please let me know. Thank you. Sincerely, Honey Sue Fishman Executive Director Lerner Hall Operations 
 The Hermione-to-Columbia rumor machine continues to be more active than anything ESPN Insider has to offer (yes, that was a sports reference - just move along). Previous rumors (which we and our commenters were skeptical of) were based an entry in the Columbia University directory, but now British tabloid The Daily Mail is reporting that, in the August issue of Elle, Watson confirms that she will be headed to Morningside in September. Unfortunately, the article, in typical British tabloid tabloid fashion, doesn't actually quote any excerpts saying she's definitely coming, and quick check of the local magazine racks turned up no copies of the Elle issue in question. But fans may continue to live in hope. 
 Every year, the various governing boards show off cool Power Points and generally grovel before the Funding at Columbia University committee (known by the almost-scandalous abbreviation F@CU) for a nice cut of your student life fees. This year's numbers were just released, and the various allocations are as follows: Activities Board at Columbia: $366,303.61 ($413,607.22 $473,527.31 requested, $307,516.00 allocated last year) Student Governing Board: $184,109.54 ($217,636 requested, $189,620.62 allocated last year) Club Sports Governing Board: $176,821.57 ($221,580.00 requested, $198,661.25 allocated last year) Inter-Greek Council: $18,254.20 ($34,970 requested, $23,565 allocated last year) Community Impact: $68,571.09 $68,511.09 ($104,055.00 requested, $79,917.15 allocated last year) Sources also tell Bwog that there was an across-the-board cut of 15.08% from F@CU's original recommended allocations. Letters justifying the various allocations should be on F@CU's website soon are now on F@CU's website. UPDATE: Bwog has received a second tip, this time from CCSC VP for Funding Nuriel Moghavem, correcting two inaccuracies in the numbers we originally received. Most notably, ABC's request was about $60,000 higher, meaning that they were not given more than they requested before the across-the-board cut. As for that 15.08% cut, Moghavem explains, "we added up all our recommended allocations for the governing boards -- $958,582.36, looked at the amount of money that we (CCSC, ESC, GSSC, SGA) were able to contribute -- $814,000.00, and cut all GBs evenly at 15.08%." - JCD&nbsp; 
