 Bwog staffer Juliya Butareva reviews Alexander Valdman's show of contemporary painting at the InterArts gallery. Alexander Valdman’s wife tells a story about how, while waiting to meet a friend on a street corner in Manhattan, she and her husband were suddenly accosted by a cop. As she politely answered the policeman’s questions, Valdman suppressed a fight-or-flight response that would have been appropriate, even necessary, in his home city of Odessa. After graduating from the Soviet Union’s most prestigious art college in 1980, Valdman worked as one of his country’s top illustrators. Having had his fill of the questionable associations that came – and still come – with success there, he moved to Amsterdam. There, he rode a wave of popularity that Russian art enjoyed at the time, but criminal acquaintances and friction with the police, reminiscent of his days of Russia, soon followed. When he came to the United States ten years ago, he had not lost his skepticism or his street smarts. The instability and sordidness of contemporary Russia life characterize Valdman’s works, like the two from his New Russia Series that are on display at the InterArt Gallery. In “Negotiation,” one unsuspecting, leather-clad thug leans against a wall while another approaches him with a gun. A baby carriage stands almost out of sight. Splattered paint, like lurid drops of blood over the sharp black-and-white drawing, foreshadows the inevitable conclusion. In “New Car,” the gleaming Mercedes sedan could still be on a showroom floor, but the broad, bulging criminal types beside it and the paint splashes all around warn of the car’s violent future. One thinks of blood, rain, and bullet holes – the usual wear a car suffers in the new Russia. This sense of impending doom takes on a sexual character in the Red Light District Series. The prostitutes and their male admirers are bathed in garish neon light, but the feel of the works is oddly dark and claustrophobic. The prostitutes display themselves in closed windows and the men stand in narrow alleys. The men’s cruelly caricatured faces seem damaged – pitted and scarred, with blank mouths and eyes – as if just looking is enough to infect them with some disease. Perhaps the most interesting works are those in which Valdman turns his eerie vision on the American experience. “Highway,” in which a cow’s skull watches over a big rig that seems to disintegrate as it hurtles along a mountain highway somewhere in the Midwest, suggests that these American symbols are doomed. There is no permanence, even in the roads and trucks of the long-since-won American West. Wide highways, free of Russian thugs, are no guarantee of anything. To get there: take the 1 train to 23rd Street. Walk three blocks west to Tenth Avenue, then half a block north. InterArt Gallery 225 Tenth Ave (between 23rd and 24th streets) Gallery hours: Tues.-Sat.11:00 am-7:00 pm 
On a sign posted by the NYPD in Koronet: iPods and Cell Phones- Crime Prevention Tips: If you choose to wear your iPod, cell phone, or PDA clipped to your belt for all the world to see as some kind of 21st century status symbol, remember that may not be the best safety practice. The NYPD: just a gang of frustrated hipsters.
What's the theme of this year's GS Spring Formal? "50 Years in One Night...1900-1950." Spectacular. As if the phrase "50 Years in One Night" weren't funny enough in connection with my fellow GSmates, they manage to pick, of all the possible 50 year spans of time, the one most likely to inspire stories that begin, "Well, you kids may think you're something, but when I was in one or both of the Great Wars..." - Cody Owen Stine
When one industrious Bwog staffer googled our name, his search revealed: a. a blog about puppies b. Bloody Wall of Gore c. Bible is not the WOG (word of God) d. The Elmer Fudd "dialectizer" (see: 'why this site is not racist') When that same staffer felt compelled to search "BWOG porn" he found, on page 2, Dave Barry's Blog. Go figure.
Heard outside a nightclub in Time Square: Jewish female A: What do you call a Jewish dilemma? Jewish female B: What? Jewish female A: Free pork. PAUSE Non-Jewish female (in a confused tone): Oh, I thought you were going to say the Holocaust. That's a dilemma, right?. Right? - Lauren Zimmerman 
Overheard while entering Labyrinth bookstore: ï¿½If worse comes to worse, i'll just go to law school.ï¿½ The speaker was definitely an underclassman. 
From Bored at Butler: I believe that pretty much all the guys at columbia are secretly gay and just don't know it yet. Metrosexuals are halfway there. 01/30/2006 @ 11:33:44 PM Somewhere on campus, Chris Kulawik readies a rebuttal. - Mark Krotov 
Turns out cell phones, email, aim, blogs, google video and facebook weren't enough to keep us from the books at Butler. Thank God some clever SEAS students (we can only assume) came up with BoredAtButler.com, where we can all leave our anonymous 50&cent; worth. Check it out quick; the site's only been popular around 12 hours and already the discussion has descended from disquisitions on whether Barnard girls are actually heavier (one poster claims 2 lbs. so) to random shouts of "PENIS!" UPDATE: Well, that teaches the Bwog to assume. There, it's just one CC student behind the site. Some of us spend our $35 on booze. Apparently SigEp boys spend it on domain names. - Beth Milton
From an e-mail by Tim de Swardt, CC' 08, president of the newly formed Scholars Governing Board, regarding the "non-official" reasons to apply for membership: NON-OFFICIAL REASONS: Let's be honest, it'll look good on your resume. Also, life is about who you know, not what you know. and if you join the SGB, I guarantee you'll make some pretty amazing connections very soon, e.g. with the Speakers at our events, and with our Board of Advisors. By and large, these guys are rich, smart are themselves usually pretty connected. Plus, from a purely realistic and pragmatic perspective, it's really not all that much work for a whole heap of benefits, if you join.
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia's lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. After working on global AIDS and tuberculosis (TB) in a developing country this past summer, I am convinced that I am interested in a consulting career. In the second place, wiretapping by the government will not ensure U.S. citizens a free-terror zone. Terrorist are very resourceful; when one door closes for them the will find a window. In present day, terrorist have religious motives that would make them stop at nothing. In order to gain eternal glory they would not care the means to it. In addition, most of the terrorist are illiterate. Sam's friend KEITH is running up Washington Street, looking left and right. He sees something – shouts out: "Hey!" We pan fast to Sam who is leaning against a building, looking very distraught. Keith runs up to him – embraces him. "I heard Sam. I'm really sorry. I know you loved John Lennon." Sam starts crying. He explains that everything is fucked up – the whole fucking world. "It's not so bad," says Keith. Sam says things were bad enough but he went and made it worse by calling his first love and getting reminded once again of how it was all just fantasy. "You called Louie?" Sam nods. "He was a Beatle fan. We used to talk music all day and all night together." Keith looks at him skeptically. "But he was straight, right?" "I know. But I used to think maybe he was like John Lennon and I was like Stu Sutcliffe. You wouldn't understand." "So you called him. What happened?" "I got his mother." I felt claustrophobic. Ironic, that I was always dreaming of big, strong guys being this close. And then, there I was, and I wanted him, but I wanted him to be someone else, and I wanted him to give me an inch to breathe, but I wanted him to stay this close. I hopped off the counter, pushed by him and let the dog in. Unfortunately in the middle of all of this I was diagnosed with psoriasis, which is simply irritating and not serious in the least, and had to return to Chicago for treatments etc since I was a bit of an extreme case and covered from head to toe. I considered staying in Chicago since I was having a great deal of trouble trying to find my niche in the ridiculously expensive city that is New York City but did not want to give up yet. ”I really didn’t like the reading, it made my mind wander off to other aspects of my life that seem to have no real order, and try to see if the absence of order is order. It pretty much just messed with my head though. ...Or maybe I wasn’t meant to find these things interesting due to the fact as a child I hated math because my brother and mother loved it, so I automatically write off anything mathematically related. Maybe the butterfly effect is true...and it’s just an extension of fate. Hmmm...something to ponder." "What makes you think---" I began to say, but he was already moving away down the bank, his buttocks shifting side to side, his arms flung wide for balance. The river absorbed him soundlessly and I set off back the way I'd come, to the house where my mother and father were sleeping. COYOTES!
 Don’t get us wrong. The Bwog is all for modernity, progress, and the decline of awkward social customs. Sometimes, though, we do miss a bit of stifling courtship. Right now, Columbia’s dating scene has about as much life in it as the Bollinger marital bed... but the Bwog has a plan. Every Wednesday we’re giving you FULL ACCESS to profiles of eligible bachelors and bachelorettes, all of whom have undergone the Bwog’s rigorous personality and STD testing. Someone look like the guy or gal of your dreams? Email bwgossip@columbia.edu with the single's name in the subject line, put in a sentence or two about yourself, and if our bachelor or bachelorette picks you out of the teeming hordes, the Bwog will spring $10 for a coffee date. That’s at least a Venti frap each. Possibly with a croissant to share. Concerned? Intrigued? Vaguely aroused? Check out the two profiles below or nominate yourself or a friend for next week by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu (by the way, straight as an arrow or bent 180&deg;, we take all sorts). Girl for Guy Guy for Girl Name: Shira School: Barnard Year: 2006 Major: Philosophy Hometown: Atlanta Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Daniel in the Lion's Den - Bessie Jones and Group Sweet Home Alabama - Lynyrd Skynyrd Death or Glory - The Clash Flight, invisibility, or freezing time? ...the song 'Top Top' by Os Mutantes will put hair on your tan, Brazilian chest. Then you will not need superpowers. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. My favorite pair of underwear is hanging from the handlebars of my bicycle. It's 10 o'clock on a Wednesday night-- where can you be found? This Wednesday night, you'll find me drinking beer and listening to my friend Perrie read entries from her middle school diary to a group of (hopefully) amiable hipsters in Brooklyn. Complete the sentence: True love... True love mates... or grates? Blue or White? You're talking about Chanukkah cookies. The color of the icing doesn't matter, you should just look for the ones with lots of sprinkles. Shira! You're the one for me! Name: Cody Hess School: College Year: 2006 Major: Computer Science but it's only a concentration Hometown: Southlake, Texas Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Bombshell Rocks - Microphone Bad Religion - Supersonic Bombshell Rocks - 1.80 Down Flight, invisibility, or freezing time? Flight. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. The ones fresh from the dryer at home. It's 10 o'clock on a Wednesday night-- where can you be found? Watching a West Wing marathon with my friends or hustling at a comedy club. Ideal partner OR ideal date in three words or less: ebullient, incorrigible, callipygian Complete the sentence: True love... True love waits. Until you're 50. Blue or White? Blue. Cody! Cody! Cody!
Bwog staffer Brendan Ballou sat down with Columbia junior Jamie, a writer for the Fed, the former singer for the F-Holes, and current Suicide Girl to discuss knitting, pornography, and why the Blue and White is too pretentious. Don’t I know you from somewhere? Well, I’m naked on the Internet. I feel that it’s something not a lot of Columbia people get paid to do. Most of the modeling I do is for money. And it is work, and it’s a job like any other job. It can be boring. It can be hard. It can be creepy. What is Suicide Girls? It’s a cool website full of pin-up style photography and alternative looking women who don’t fit the normal notions of beauty—although some of them are skinny and white and have big boobs—but not all of them, and that’s a common misconception. But it’s fun for me. It’s a community, and a lot of my friends are Suicide Girls. Are there other suicide girls on campus? No, there’s only one other suicide girl who’s gone to Columbia, and she wasn’t very involved in campus life either—probably even less than I am. She taught me how to knit the other night. She’s kind of my mentor. What are you knitting? Well it’s the first thing I’ve ever knitted. It’s not really, well it’s –I told my boyfriend it was a ball cozy for him so his balls don’t get cold when he’s running. Wouldn’t that get itchy? Well, it’s probably going to be scarf or something. How do you define yourself sexually? I don’t define myself. I’ve always been open to new things. Is this just exhibitionism? Well obviously any time you put naked pictures of yourself on the Internet there’s going to be an exhibitionist aspect to it, unless you’re being totally exploited and you need the money—which I don’t, although it is nice. It’s a fun thing to do, I like the pictures, they’re very tasteful. I’ve been lucky to work with some of the site’s best photographers. $300 for every photo shoot I send in, which can take anywhere from half an hour to a few hours. You can send in a few a year depending on how good your photo shoots are. I got to go to Italy this summer, they rented us a villa. How do your parents react to all this? My dad must never know. He doesn’t even like it that I have tattoos. But my mom knows, and she thinks it’s cool. She used to model in New York in the 60’s and 70’s. There is this one time that I don’t really recall when I was younger, when I apparently found some naked pictures of my mom that my dad took of her on the beach in the south of France. And I got all excited and was like, ‘Ooh, naked pictures!’ and I showed them to all my friends and I was like, ‘look at my mommy!’ And she was like, ‘No Jamie, that was bad, you shouldn’t show those to people. There’s nothing wrong with being naked but…’ How old were you? I must have been about three. It was at the dawn of memory. She was a pretty prolific model. She had her picture in the MoMA. You went to Kingswood Oxford prep school in Hartford. Is it true that your main athletic rival is the American School for the Deaf? I don’t know—well mind you, I didn’t have a terrible amount of school spirit but I do know that we used the American school for the Deaf swimming pool for practices because we didn’t have one. But no, we didn’t actually play against the deaf children. That would have been unfair because they can’t hear. I’m going a little bit deaf myself, I’m going to have to start wearing earplugs…I’m in a band. The F-Holes. It broke up. The F-holes. What happened? I showed up to practice about a week ago, like normal. We’d just had a great show at Asterisk, a really cool venue in Brooklyn. The Deli magazine wanted a CD from us and we didn’t have one yet. And this guy from Serious Records wanted to produce our EP. And then I show up to practice and everyone’s been there for like an hour already which is strange. And Jim’s like ‘I don’t want to do the band anymore’ and I’m like ‘What the Fuck’ because I thought the band was going great and he says he doesn’t think our sound is going anywhere…and it’s not what he wants to do anymore and everyone agreed with him and I thought it was a little too easy. said he didn’t want to be associated with a porn site because he’s a teacher and he was afraid he could lose his job, which is utter bullshit... And I think my guitarist probably had a crush on me, or that’s my theory anyway. So I said ‘ok’ and I gave them my key and I left and I fucking cried for hours because I loved their band. But, but, I found their ad for a new singer on Craigslist, which strikes me as a little suspicious. So they pretty much lied to me and they’re not my friends anymore and they never were. That really sucks. Losing a band is like a break-up, except more people saying they don’t like you. I just want them to call me up, and say they made a mistake. Yeah, it broke my heart. I loved that band. But I’ll find a better band. You write for the Fed. What can the Fed to that Spectator can’t? Well, mainly we’ve got chutzpah. I’d have to say our balls are probably a little bit bigger. We’re not afraid of being arrested for the sake of journalism or to take down corrupt politicians in power. But we’re just better. And we’re dorky too, and you guys are dorky too but you’re just afraid to show it. I remember I took my boyfriend to a Fed party and then we stopped by a Blue & White party, and he’d never been to either type of party. And he was like ‘wow you know, your friends are pretty dorky, but at least you guys are real. Everyone was trying to play grownup cocktail party. And people at the Fed party were like watching anime and wrestling with each other and drinking stupid drinks, but it was fun. But don’t you think the Fed is offensive? Well, I try not to be offensive just to fill space. I mean, I am especially critical of things I care about, such as Columbia, such as the Fed even. And I like to point out the things that are ridiculous in a humorous way that will disarm people so people won’t say, ‘you’re just being a negative Nancy.’
Bwog staffer Lydia Ross spent a day in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Canarsie exploring the hidden gems of Rockaway Blvd. Despite a history of racial tensions, Canarsie—located near the southeastern shore of Brooklyn—is today home to an incredibly diverse population of Europeans, African-Americans, and Caribbean immigrants. In search of cultural history and potential adventure, I took the L train to the end of the line and began my exploration. Discounts, Discounts, Discounts! (10:30) I step off the train onto Rockaway Parkway, the busiest shopping street in Canarsie, and am overwhelmed by signs advertising discount merchandise. My first stop is Stella’s Wholesale Liquidations, which has everything from the Smart Edge Bilingual Laptop for kids to framed copies of Impressionist art. Next I proceed to one 99-cent store after another, buying more cheap shit than a girl could go through in a dozen lifetimes. “I Got a Horse Right Here, his Name is Paul Revere…” (12:00) Further down Rockaway I see a placard for Off the Track Betting, a legal but shady looking establishment with long dark curtains in the storefront window. Inside, I find one of the most interesting examples of Canarsie’s cultural diversity: there are Jews, Latinos, African-Americans and Italians, all with strong accents, all old. This is a place of business, but it also seems like the social hotspot for the “over sixty” crowd. The youngest guy in the room turns as I leave and says with his thick New York accent, “Look, a lady in here. Yup, there she goes. No more ladies in here.” A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (12:30) Continuing down Rockaway I pass a slew of restaurants with the word “Yummy” in the title followed by their food type (“Yummy Chinese Restaurant,” “Yummy Taco,” “Yummy Jamaican Restaurant and Jerk Center”). As yummy as these places seem, I head towards Avenue L, the neighborhood’s other major shopping street. Known affectionately as “The Heart of Canarsie,” it provides a sense of history, with stores that have been around since the ‘40s. As further proof that ethnic and religious groups now coexist peacefully in Canarsie, the Holy Family Roman Catholic Church, Temple Beth Eloheim, and the Premiere Haitian Baptise, covered in French writing, are all on the same block. 100% Playground (2:30) When I see at sign outside a Jewish deli advertising their “Manna Burger,” I just can’t resist. Its taste, unfortunately, was about as bland as its title was amusing. On Glenwood Road I find a park with the greatest name ever: “100% Playground.” I pick up a hot chocolate from a nearby street vender and sit down to read and watch the Canarsie world go by. Across the road, I see an auto repair shop with an old painted front reading “First Carriage Repairs”—it fixed horse-drawn carriages back in the day! Brooklyn Public Library, Canarsie Style (3:00) I had read that this tiny, run down library was one of Canarsie’s main attractions, but at first I’m not sure why. As I make my way around, however, I stop to appreciate the hanging inflatable fish, whale, frog, and fleur d’elis. I sit down for a bit to read a copy of the Jewish Press, one of the many cultural newspapers they offer, and thoroughly enjoy a piece entitled “Who Created the Miracle of Jewish Existence?” A miracle indeed. To Bella’s (3:45) I stop in Bella’s Bakery back on Rockaway, and for $1.50 I’m in carrot cake heaven. Savoring each bite, I discuss with the lady behind the counter the pros and cons of working in a bakery when you detest baked goods. Time to Depart (4:15) Anticipating the long ride back and, quite frankly, having run out of things to do, I head back to the busy train station and wave goodbye to Canarsie as the L pulls me back to Manhattan.
Just last semester the Bwog discovered how to get an unlimited supply of free dvds delivered to the building across the street complete with a friendly reminder to come get your movies and a one-week renewable loan period. Follow along and you'll never pay retail again. 1. Get a public library card. Apply for one online and have it mailed to you in two weeks or just walk into the Morningside Branch with a piece of mail adressed to you and get it on the spot. If you don't know where the Morningside Branch is, you actually need less dvds and more time out of the house. 2. Log into LEO, CLIO's ugly sister. 3. Go to the catalog and search for movies. Poke around and you'll discover that between its 80+ branches, the New York Public Library has pretty much anything you could want. If they don't, you didn't really want it anyway. 4. Take the plunge and click on "Request Item." Don't let a small number of "Reservalbe Copies" and a high "Number of Holds" deter you-- movie requests stay good up to a year. Think of the surprise when you get an email next September telling you King Kong just came in. 5. Tell LEO to send the movie to Morningside Heights and to notify you by "MAIL". Apparently, MAIL is New York Public Library for email. 6. Lather, rinse, repeat. Put as many movies on hold as you want. Just know that they show up rather fast-- 2-4 days if a copy is free-- so don't commit yourself to watching too many. 7. When a movie comes in, you'll get an email from the library saying so. Appear at the checkout desk with library card in hand and be sure to mutter a quiet "Screw you" to Netflix under your breath as you walk out.
Girl to Boy: "Craigslist? What's that, a monster?" No, but the internet can be a scary place.
This is the first installment of Morningside Lows, an ongoing series about cheap and local goings-on. $150 in credit is frozen on your Mastercard. African security guards constantly peer over your narrow shoulders. Dirty staffers give you dirtier looks when you ask where you can find High Fidelity (Directors section, under F, for "Frears, Stephen" -- duh). That's right, you rent from Kim's. And if you do, there's a good chance that you pay $2.50 to take out videos overnight. But Bwog, in the interest of saving you a non-swipeable dollar, would like to make an impassioned plea for one of our neighborhood's best bargains: the same-day movie rental. Though the ol' Mediapolis recently raised the same-day fee from $1.25 to $1.50 -- a 25-cent hike as sad as Koronet's decision to increase the price of a jumbo slice two years ago -- it still remains a great deal. You get to pick from Kim's terrific selection of obscure and foreign titles, and in the process, you'll save a full $13 -- counting the subway rides -- over a "matinee" at the Loews at 68th. Movies aren't due back until 11:30pm the day you rent them, making this a perfect value for any Columbia student bored during a weekend afternoon or early evening. Just be sure to check the director's name before you go. - C. Mason Wells 
Man. It's so very very sad when minors (or near-minors) exploit themselves. Or guess wildly at the going rate for porn. Or haven't yet figured out people can have multiple email addresses. Broke freshman, the Bwog salutes you, but next time have a chat with Jamie to find out how it's done first. UPDATE: Seems like Craigslist keeps taking the ad down. Good thing the Bwog is in the habit of saving things to its desktop. See the full ad after the jumpCollege Student with a proposition for you - w4m - 19 Reply to: pers-130466532@craigslist.org Date: 2006-02-01, 6:25PM EST hey guys. okay, here's the deal. I'm 19, good looking, nice body, and most importantly a struggling college student. I want to be upfront and say I have a boyfriend, but he is cool with what I'm doing. We've been together about 6 months, and we've taken some pics together in that time. I've got about 35 of them on my computer right now. if you send me $5 through paypal I will send you the pics, and you can do whatever you want from there. i've got a boyfriend, so we will not be meeting, so please dont ask. i just need to get through the next coupla months and this is about my only option at this point. here's how it'll work. you email me so I can make sure you're not someone I know.. it's always a funny joke in a movie when someone answers a personal ad and it turns out to be their dad. wouldn't be so hilarious here I think. also, i wont send to anyone at an email address from Columbia. Sorry, but I'm not going to risk sending to someone I may see in class someday. i will write back with a g-rated pic and maybe a PG-13 one, and if you're interested, then you just send $5 through paypal to the address I'll write back to you with. after you get my pics we go our separate ways. well, thanks for looking at my ad. hope to hear from you. * this is in or around downtown * no -- it's NOT ok to contact this poster with services or other commercial interests
 In which Bwog staffer Mark Krotov familiarizes us with the places where you can find him when he's supposed to be in class. When I took chemistry in high school, I sat in front of a sink that I regularly turned on and off to prevent myself from falling asleep. When Columbia students take chemistry, they take it in the most beautiful lecture hall on campus, 309 Havemeyer. As any General Chemistry student could tell you, to call 309 a classroom is akin to referring to calling Low Steps a back staircase. The hall is mind-boggling, both in its scale and its slightly archaic beauty—it seats 330 students and is adorned with beautiful (and pleasingly unrenovated) dark wood paneling. Like an early twentieth century “stadium-seating” amphitheater, 309 has ascending rows of seats in the middle, in addition to balconies near the top and on the sides of the hall. While the cold fluorescent light probably makes Blue Books seem even more unappealing, casual moviegoers see the hall for what it really is—a thing of beauty. Why casual moviegoers? Because 309 has been featured in films as diverse as Spike Lee’s Malcolm X, Barbra Streisand’s A Mirror Has Two Faces, both Ghostbusters films, and, most recently, 2004’s Kinsey. And while General Chemistry may be a bit less compelling than a lecture on unconventional sexual habits, 309 is far more pleasing than either event. 
Your parents are paying $40,000 a year for you to sleep through class, your hipster jeans cost more than rent on a studio apartment—but now the Bwog offers you a way to see the city: for free. Some of our favorite haunts: Highline Beginning around 34th Street near 10th Avenue (which used to be called Death Avenue until the Highline was built in 1934, thus removing train traffic from ground level), this over-ground railroad bed continues south for about 22 blocks (just over a mile). Going there is free because it's technically illegal, but if you manage to get on and avoid the trespassing fees, you’ll get one of the greatest views New York City has to offer. Music For those looking for a cheap way to impress a lunch date: Julliard has free concerts almost daily during the school year at the Lincoln Center. Concerts usually begin at 1 p.m. Call 212-769-7406 or visit Julliard's online calendar for more details. Kayaks The Downtown Boathouse offers free kayaking weekends and weekday evenings. The Boathouse is entirely volunteer-run and is funded exclusively by donations. Pier 26 is in TriBeCa halfway between Canal and Chambers streets. Pier 64 is in Chelsea at West 24th Street. Ice Skating When it finally gets cold again, throw on your skates and head to Sixth Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets. Byrant Park, once full of drug dealers and shady dealings, now offers free ice skating (though not free to those who don’t own skates). - Amanda Erickson
Bwog is proud to bring you gossip from abroad - because everything is funnier when it's not American. While doing his time in the 'Nam, your loyal correspondent noticed the following exchange gracing the guestbook in the museum at the former US marine base of Khe Sanh: Intruders are doomed to be kicked out, no matter in North Korea, Vietnam, or Iraq. -Wang Y, China What about Tibet? -, UK - Nick Frisch
My first Spectator column of the year came out Monday, and I proved myself to be a royal idiot. Soon after, I sent a mea culpa to the Spec sports staff, the athletic department, and a few angry student athletes -- see after the jump. But before the jump ... please don't call me a racist and resentful of economic diversity. Just say I'm insensitive to athletes or an asshole or something resembling the truth. Earlier this week I wrote a column that assailed lower academic standards for athletes and the notion that winning teams were crucial to fundraising. I argued this patronizes and isolates athletes, resulting in academic underperformance and a more splintered community. Or so I intended. But the column I wrote, "The Dumb Jock Factory," came across as an attack on athletes, not specific policies. For starters, the title was a bad idea. I wanted to drive home that Columbia's policies expect athletes to do poorly in school, resulting in systemic underachievement. This, combined with pre-existing stereotypes, encourages the existence of "dumb jocks," though jocks aren't. I did not mean that athletes are stupid, but for a reader there's no escaping a first line that screams "Columbia wants dumb jocks." My column criticized reflexively treating athletes like idiots, but it mainly indulged and amplified those stereotypes. The worst offender was comparing a coach's attitude to a zookeeper's. I wanted to depict unnecessarily low expectations; instead, it implied that athletes are monkeys. To make another strained metaphor, the grenades I threw exploded in my face. I reject the claim that sports must be overhyped to boost endowment. I believe it regards student-athletes as mere fundraising tools. Yet my tone had discredited my argument even before I told dissenters to "stop bitching." I asked, "why do the wrestlers sit together at the same lunch table all the time? This applies to everyone. Why do Jews? Asians? Columnists-who-write-before -they-think? Comfort level matters: we (read: I) find friends with similar worldviews, despite plans to expand our horizons. Crossing that worldview gap is hard. We want school to impart skills, not make life awkward. And soon a cycle of stereotyping begins. My column reinforced that cycle. That is my fault. But I stand by my argument: Columbia's policies also reinforce it. Both of us are in the wrong; I'm just the bigger jackass. 
An elderly Lifelong Learner -- in a discussion section she's not required to take -- when asked about the week's readings: "I'm having a hard time with them because every time I read it feels like I forget everything right after." -C. Mason Wells 
Dear Bwog, A wise man once said, "You're not hardcore unless you live hardcore." Even the fact that I'm quoting Tenacious D should give it away - I'm the least hardcore person to ever exist, ever. I'm politically lukewarm; I like whatever music my roommate likes; I can barely put pepper on my food, let alone Tabasco. You're a ballsy site, Bwog, so how did you get that way? How do you develop some taste, or a backbone, or one single opinion? Please like me, Bland Ambition Blandykins, You've no reason for shame. Many of the strongest opinions at our age are simply affectations adopted for purposes of identity, a la middle school, or emergency outlets for Howard Dean inspired passion after that great man has passed . Nor is their shame in your roommate's looooooooooove for the Arcade Fire and messenger bags as (s)he tries to be all college and indy. AF is a good band, messenger bags are practical, and it's our job to try on identities - at least until we graduate, at which point one must have their life fully and inflexibly planned or they're fucked and three months away from homelessness and drug addiction. Welcome to life on the streets. The only opinion necessary for a passionate life is, "This rocks." If you worry less about what is good and more about what is AWESOME, you'll find something. Look outside traditional venues and find your own Howard Dean. And realize you can change a passionate opinion any time without looking stupid because no one else cares about your opinion anyway. Another idea: Buy some buttons. Pin them to the shoulder strap of whatever bag you use. When you're confronted about any, look and see if you actually care. If you do care, you're a douchebag. There's an identity. Tenacious D rocks, politics aren't for everyone, your roommate might be tasteful, but you need to ball up with the pepper. Try starting with Louisiana Hot Sauce. It has a great salty taste with mild vinegar but doesn't approach the burn factor of Tabasco. Cholula is also good, if you want some culture with your spicy. Bwog listens to Maroon 5 when nobody is watching.
In which film savant Iggy Cortez gives you something to watch this weekend when you ask the cute girl from CC to your room to "watch a movie." By the fourth week of school you know there is no turning back, and what better way to take refuge but in the movies? Fellni’s exuberant films are the perfect antidote to how small life can sometimes feel. The master of organized chaos, his surrealist worlds are always fantastical yet firmly planted in a recognizably unpretentious sense of existential angst. While less celebrated than his masterpiece, 8&frac12;, La Dolce Vita makes the perfect introduction to a body of work as irreverent as it is profound. Set in Rome in the 60s, at the height of Italy’s economic rebirth, Fellini’s famous alter-ego, Marcello Mastroianni, plays a tabloid journalist wondering aimlessly from one decadent party to another, his unbearable sense of emptiness occasionally pierced by archetypes of beauty. And Fellini’s sensibility for beauty, of course, is unrivaled precisely because of his thorough grasp of the base and vulgar. It is impossible not to fall in love with Anouk Aimee’s perfect portrayal of the bored, European bourgeois, or with the innocent girl screaming inaudibly to Marcello at the beach at the film’s conclusion. Even the movie’s most iconic (and clichéd) scene,, in which Anita Ekberg wades through the Trevi Fountain in her Rubenesque glory, remains bewildering at each viewing. Narrow minds have condemned this film as moralistic, a remarkably short-sighted remark since Fellini clearly condemns and participates in the hyperbolic vignettes he creates. He draughts his caricatures with the bitchiness we all have for the social circles we hate but can not do without. And as always with Fellini, it is the beauty, not the moralism, that endures. We will all certainly feel that “there is more to life than this,” at some point in the semester, and entertainingly and unsentimentally La Dolce Vita can restore your sense of the world in all of its messy abundance. 
Students are currently giving out blue and white t-shirts on College Walk. You might want to pick one up if you're comfortable with the message: Front: "Our bodies are temples...." Back: "Reform Jews are HOT" The Blue and White: Now using sex to sell Judaism.... -Lydia Depillis
Or, to be more accurate, Dean Colombo knows that you have a first name. It's a start, Chris, but something to keep working on, along with just how many spaces the word "graduation" has (hint: zero). From: ccolombo@www.studentaffairs.columbia.edu Re: Important Graduation Information! Date: February 2, 2006 2:51:51 PM EST To: xxxx@columbia.edu Dear %First Name%, Believe it or not, graduation is just around the corner! The Dean of Student Affairs Office has pulled together a number of resources regarding Class Day and graduation into a website called Gr aduation Zone ... 
Bwog is proud to bring you gossip from abroad - because everything is funnier when it's not American. Overheard in a Edinburgh University library cafe: Girl 1: So yeah, I'm impervious to water. Girl 2: You're what? Girl 1: Impervious. To. Water. Girl 2: So you can't get wet..? Girl 1: Oh no, I can get wet, it just doesn't destroy me. Girl 2: ...You're a fucking idiot. (Bwog thanks reader Nina Bell for the sharp ears)
It may remind people of their grandma's apartment, but you heard it here first: Tab - the Betamax of diet soda -- is on its way back. Go to Morton Williams and buy a 6-pack. Then, listen to the jingle.Your calorie-free caffeine will never be the same. Update: Shit. It's caught on.
 Columbia says: Middle School Girls Experiment With Science Day Before you know it, they'll be building meth labs.
Early Wednesday morning, Bwog correspondent Nina Bell found herself a Bored at Butler Celebrity, if by fame you means people posting, "I just printed a pic of NIna off face book, went to the toilety and jerked off on her nose." But, in the end, Nina fought back. And won. Excerpts from the (WAY TOO LONG) dialogue after the jump. 1245 AM -- Nina's Screenname is posted: "******* and ******* are actually sex buddies>> hooray for pale, pasty sex." 1251 AM -- her facebook profile is posted: "and it's not just a girl, it appears to be a cute girl" 1256 AM: " is willing to give head." 105 AM -- horny Barnard girl, go seek threesome: "barnard girl. call david druckman and nina bell." 106 AM -- a voice of reason: "this is the stupidest shit i've ever seen. whoever posted that 'these people are willing to give head' go play on ebaumsworld or something, and stop stalking other students." 106 AM -- that lasted long: "Shut up and do your work you fucking lamo" 112 AM -- bored at butler discovers its calling: "lol no it's to publicize people like david druckman and nina bell and hopefully prevent others from becoming like them out of fear of similar fates." 113 AM -- ...and then doubts itself: "let's just hope none of us ever meet the poor assholes." 117 AM -- her fame is announced: "everyone facebook msg nina..." 122-123 AM -- the crowd gets vulgar: "Nina needs dick" "Does Nina hav a fat ass" "Nina's Ass is sweet like peanut butter and curry rice" 123 AM -- her fame is acknowledged: "Wow. Famous on Bored at Butler without ever even posting on it. That's fabulous, terrifying and really just odd." 124 AM -- vulgar, again: "Lets run a train on NINA" 5x 125 AM-142 AM -- vulgarity continues. 143 AM -- Nina fights back: "if any of you crazy people want confirmation that I have been reading this the whole damn time(altho I did not post my screen name), facebook message me if you're prepared to admit who you are. - Nina" At 150 AM Nina changed her facebook profile, calling out all the haters at BAB. 152 AM: "nina....can i get an autograph?" Nina: 1, Stalkers: 0
Every night you spend drunk at the Abbey causes the same existential crisis: lazy as you are, you really do need to get out of Morningside Heights. Now the Blue and White offers you a no muss, no fuss approach. A four stop, weekly walking tour. Print, follow, see a little, and come back to Carman feeling like you’ve accomplished something—then head to the West End. After all, you deserve a celebration. In honor of how few Columbians have actually walked past Teachers College, we bring you a chance to bound through the streets of our northern neighbor’s neighborhood. Inspired by the Autobiography of Malcolm X, this tour takes you to some of the less known but more interesting sites in West Harlem. None of these sites are found on any tourist maps, and we like it that way. Stop where we tell you, take a look around. It’ll be more fun then getting brunch at Deluxe again, we swear. 125th Street, in front of the Apollo Theater: This first site is a little bit of a trick. Actually, you aren’t looking for anything except the street vendors: African men at tables packed with books in Arabic, bundles of incense, and bottles of liquids—Islamic paraphernalia that harkens back to Malcolm’s days as a preacher on the Harlem streets. 126th and Adam Clayton Powell Blvd: This is what you’re looking for: a sign reads, “Allah School in Mecca Street Academy Outreach Center for the Growth and the Development of the Youth. And Copy Shop (signs painted.)” Above it, notice the big 7 on top of a star and sickle painted on the side. Though currently a dusty copy shop, this was once the Temple Seven, Malcolm's base of operations while he organized for the Nation of Islam. 147th between Convent and St. Nicholas: While the front basement apartments look like those on any other street, check them out—the Autobiography says Malcolm used them as a base for his drug-running operation in his hustler days. 135th and 7th: Find the IHOP (pancakes anyone?) then close your eyes, squint, and imagine a bar called Small's Paradise, the bar that was Malcolm’s second home, sitting in that very spot. See if you can find any signs of him while pouring syrup on your Belgian waffles. 
He must've been talking shit about Interpol. - Adam K. Raymond, NYU '07
In which staffer Mark Krotov reveals his cinematic snobbery to the wider world (and gives you a list of what's playing at select nearby theaters). AMC Loews 84th Street Six 84th and Broadway Annapolis Pay money to watch a commercial for the Navy, except this time it’s not in the trailers. With the guy that played James Dean in a TV movie. Big Momma’s House 2 America’s #1 movie. Enough said. The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe It’s not too late to get your Christian mythology on. It features a horsey. Also Playing: Underworld: Evolution Hoodwinked Last Holiday AMC Loews Lincoln Square 68th and Broadway Imagine Me & You The Cave’s Lena Headey and Chasing Liberty’s Matthew Goode star in a British exploration of what happens when good-looking women fall in love with each other, despite their familial obligations. It’s like Brokeback, but not, you know, gay. Munich The movie that no one is talking about. Directed by Steven Spielberg, but fortunately free of both aliens and Dakota Fanning. Nanny McPhee I have no idea what this movie is about, and I don’t feel that bad about it. The New World Terrence Malick’s first movie in seven years is beautiful, intelligent, and very widely ignored—you will probably be the only person in the theater, but don’t let the absence of companionship dissuade you. Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story The smartest movie of last year and probably this year, this brilliant film-within-a-film-within-a-book (or something) is far, far better than any verbal description can attest. Features Steve Coogan, and a large womb. Also Playing: Brokeback Mountain Glory Road Good Night, and Good Luck Harry Potter: Large and in Charge(Note: This may not be the real title) The Matador Match Point Memoirs of a Geisha Roving Mars Syriana Walk the Line Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Caché Directed by the brilliant Michael Haneke, this socially astute thriller shows that French people are scared of everything—even videotapes. The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada Tommy Lee Jones directs a western about illegal immigrants, which won Jones Best Actor at Cannes. Guillermo Arriaga (of Amores Perros and 21 Grams) won for best screenplay. Capote A movie this good should not be nominated for a Best Picture Oscar. Catch it before the Academy realizes its mistake. Also Playing: Mrs. Henderson Presents The Squid and the Whale Why We Fight
Overheard in a Columbia finance class: Professor: So, some companies reduce their tax costs by shipping inventory around the country when auditors come to the warehouse. Idealistic Columbia Student: Wait, isn’t that illegal? Professor: Of course it’s illegal, but who cares? Ah, Columbia, preparing the next generation of white-collar inmates. 
Prior to tonight's Glass House Rocks festivities, 64 people signed up for the Texas Hold 'Em poker tournament in the Satow room. 56 people actually showed up. None of them were women. We can only assume they were too busy taking part in the DDR tournament. - Lydia Depillis photo by Mark Krotov
 Everything is Illuminated All the lion wanted was a wristband. All the freshmen REALLY want to make their own waffles Is it just us, or is this lion about to poop? photos by Mark Krotov 
 Caution: Dancing in Unison It's good to see the ramps getting some use Free Waffles: The Aftermath The one that got away photos by Mark Krotov
In which we give you your morning news round-up, saving you time for Sudoku-solving. •Glass House rocked, food tables ravaged, lights eeried out, Student Council congratulates self. •$15 million to hire diverse professors but 'not every diverse candidate to come through the Diversity office.' Diverse! •Hey, Pa! Take the kids 'cause I'm movin' to NEW York City •John Jay is a granola cruncher, or at least easily swayed by them.
In the information age, Rome can be built in a day. Here are some highlights from our first week of existence: - Bored at Butler: enemy, or groupie? - The Definitive Guide to Butler Sex. Seriously. - Middle School Girls Experimenting. But not with each other. - Rent Fellini! For free! Or, get almost-free almost-porn! - Interview with Columbia's resident almost-porn star (spoiler: she doesn't like our magazine). - Koronets and the NYPD hate your ipods. - Bonus fun facts: Columbia is elitist. And impersonal.
From Bored at Butler: So looking at a hot celebrity is emotional cheating? My gf and I love eachother, and the only emotions I feel when I look at an attractive girl are physical ones. The reason it's not a problem is because we know that our relationship is so strong in every aspect, there is no way we would ever cheat on eachother, because it's not worth throwing that away for physical pleasure. Communication is THE key. In other words, don't throw away the feelings you have with your girlfriend for hot wild sex with a celebrity you'll never meet. Unless she is a former Secretary of State. 
Normally the Bwog isn't one for TV watching, much preferring online trash talking, but we might make an exception tonight. At 8 and 11 the Discovery Channel (channel 28 on campus) is screening Werner Herzog's 2005 documentary Grizzly Man with repeats at the same times tomorrow. An impressive number of critics agree this is one of the funniest and saddest documentaries in recent years. Delusion, washed up, and strung out former actor Timothy Treadwell high tails it to Alaska to protect bears from imaginary poachers. Makes friends with the bears. REALLY makes friends with the bears. Eventually gets eaten by a bear friend. All narrated by inimitable German director Werner Herzog who is intent on both mocking, upstaging, and completely exploiting Treadwell.
Posters for the Taiwanese Student Association’s spring general meeting (with seductively posed Asian women): Haiku – ‘The Freaky feeling’ She gives me a look Sweating, I walk towards her Damn yellow fever. The haiku is a traditional Japanese form of poetry, making the TSA’s statement either a capitulation to the imperialist force of Japanese culture, or a more subtle attempt to turn the form on itself and subvert the dominant paradigm. In unrelated news, The Columbia Department of Public Safety recently confiscated two full-length, ornate samurai swords in decorated scabbards.
 &nbsp; 
So far, only a few advertisers have realized the power of Facebook to reach extremely specific demographics: today Maharishi University of Management joins their ranks. Organizers of their David Lynch Weekend seem to be banking on the hope that Columbia is the place to reach kids who are both indie film fans and potential cult members. School of the Arts students take note: we're pretty sure the Scientologist have better Hollywood connections than the Maharishi-ists. Not as good vegetarian food, though.
Meet the new kid on the block.
Last week, city health inspections revealed that Barnard and the Law School have no hygiene, fulfilling the dreams of cheap shot artists everywhere. But they weren't the worst the neighborhood has seen; that honor went to campusfood.com staple Giovanni's last November, which was awarded a whopping 58 points for mice, roaches, mold and insects. Closed and then re-opened by the health department, BWOG recommends a large pie with pepperoni mystery meat. Full, awesome list of violations after the jump. (Hat tip: Specblogs, yeah yeah.) GIOVANNI'S 1011 COLUMBUS AVENUE, Manhattan 10025 212-663-7000 Current violation points: 58 Inspection Date: 11/15/2005 Establishment Closed by DOHMH. Violations were cited in the following area(s) and those requiring immediate action were addressed. 1.) Evidence of flying insects or live flying insects present in facility's food and/or non-food areas. 2.) Hot food not held at or above 140°F. 3.) Evidence of mice or live mice present in facility's food and/or non-food areas. 4.) Evidence of roaches or live roaches present in facility's food and/or non-food areas. 
Not an insignificant number of Columbia security guards are hovering around the front door of Butler, claiming on that there has been an "incident." For the Bwog's readership's sake, let's hope it's a good one. Update: Interest seems to be swirling around one middle-aged woman... witness? culprit? Please not another public diddler.
Gothamist discovers the Splogs And, yes, we've decided to re-christen the Spec Blogs the Splogs. Any objections?
From "Revealed Preference Determinants of Mate Selection: Evidence from an Experimental Dating Market": "We find that male behavior is very well explained by a simple model date-quality maximization. By contrast, we find a number of patterns in female choices that are inconsistent with this model." No wonder they call it the dismal science. Funky abstract after the jump. (Hat tip: Splog) We analyze mate selection behavior in an experimental 'Speed Dating' market. Since our data allow us to observe all acceptances and rejections of mates, rather than just matches, it provides an ideal testing ground for theories of mate selection. We begin by examining some of underlying determinants of individual preferences, and go on to analyze how choices are influenced by 'strategic' behavior. We find that male behavior is very well explained by a simple model date-quality maximization. By contrast, we find a number of patterns in female choices that are inconsistent with this model. We suggest two possible extensions of the basic model: (1) a quality-quantity tradeoff in mate selection; (2) rejection aversion to avoid damage to self-esteem; we report evidence that is more consistent with the explanation based on self-esteem. Collectively, our results provide empirical guidance on the functioning of dating markets, and our results on self-esteem specifically provide some evidence of the idea that individuals strategically avoid learning information that is costly to self-image.
In an official announcement on Columbia alums nominated for Oscars: Brokeback Mountain has been the film to beat this awards season. Aside from its Oscar nominations for best director, best actor, best supporting actor (Jake Gyllenhaal, CC '02) ... He was supposed to graduate in 2004. He didn't--he dropped out to play a gay cowboy. Which is fine, but it means he DID NOT GRADUATE, unlike, say, his sister or his uncle the man who used to be married to his mother. Update: The October issue of The Blue & White chronicled the sad lives of Columbia failures like Langston Hughes, Alexander Hamilton, and the gay cowboy himself. See his entry after the jump. Jake Gyllenhaal 2002 Dropout Failed Actor Reasons for Quitting: Already living in the shadow of his far more talented and attractive sister Maggie—a proud Columbia graduate herself—Jake had a difficult time getting acclimated to Morningside. He was especially upset that his talents never matched those of the Columbia performing arts scene. To wit, he was rejected by CMTS, Nomads, The Varsity Show, King’s Crown, Orchesis, and every single a cappella group on campus. He did land a part in a single student production, but most audiences found his Vagina Monologue to be “uninformed.” Post Columbia “Career”: Bubble Boy. The Day After Tomorrow. That gay cowboy movie.
West Campus is the place for Superbowl mooching. Kick-off is at 6:30 pm with the free food starting in River's basement at 5:00 pm and then switching over to Hillel at 6:00 pm. While the West End and Nacho's seem to have the alcohol advantage, we can't imagine it's too hard to sneak a little Manishevitz into Kraft. Go Steelers! Um... and Seahawks?
Henry Coleman, former Columbia Dean, passed away last week at age 79. Coleman was at the center of two of Columbia's most troubling events: in '68 he was taken hostage by students upset over planned expansion and in '72 he was shot five times by undergrad suspended for poor academic performance. While Coleman officially left the University in 1980, he remained his classes' correspondent for the alumni magazine up until his death. Columbia and New York Times obituaries here. (Picture from NYTimes)
Marvel Comics and the Travel Channel have put out together a Superhero's Guide to New York City which includes our fair Columbia. Doesn't answer the question whether Daredevil and Spiderman ever bumped into each other, though. (Hat tip: Gothamist)
Last night Lerner's Black Box theater, Egg and Peacock offered the amusement of 10 plays which hadn't existed 24 hours prior. Led by Abigail Broberg and Rosalind Grush, playwrights converged at 8pm Friday, burned the midnight oil, and left their directors at 6am Saturday with a play to read, cast, rehearse, and present by 8pm. While the production was hampered by too quiet acting, too dim lights, and too sober an audience, the bwogger would like to see one of these every year - a perfect post-break use for a theater space when students haven't had ample time to rehearse.
A Craigslist posting under Women Looking for Men: Beware: Academics are Players Date: 2006-02-05, 1:07PM EST Watch out for these self described nerd types. It is a front. They are unusually cunning individuals due to their intellect and can use incisive language at the wrong time (like in the middle of sex). They look to screw with common people as a release and when they are done with you they tell you to fuck off they have papers to write. Check Craigslist w4m and m4w, that is all you see is Columbia, NYU, Phd. I reply and some have been on here for over a year. They are serial daters and not into relationships just term paper deadlines. When people ask why they broke up with you they will say you are stupid or dumb because you did not finish college. These people had to grow up fast and most had a bad childhood due to their nerdiness. They are robots who kill at the thought of failure or being subpar. Their self-esteem is based on a GPA and the letters A,B,C. They are snobbish perfectionists too. This is from a reformed nerd girl lover. They are so sexy but bitches. this is in or around Columbia no -- it's NOT ok to contact this poster with services or other commercial interests. 
• The verdict on Columbia recycling is that some of us try, some of us don't. •Columbia basketball loses to Harvard and Darmouth... but not by so much. •In related news, CU's basketball promotions impersonal, impossible, cheap. •Miriam Datskovsky presents: An entire column on the benefits and acceptability of anal sex, which, as she admits in the first paragraph, she refuses to try. And finally, if you want pictures to go with your story about erotic cake baking in Wien, you can find them on the Splog.
Everyone knows the Superbowl is about the commercials so let's all thank Google Video for aiding the marketing cause and putting them online so quickly. Recommended viewing after the jump. Of the 17 Bud Light ads, we liked Secret Fridge and Save Yourself best. Still, when is the Bud Bowl coming back?The ads NOT to watch unless you want to make yourself a little sick are Budweisers' Clydesdale American Dream and Dove's Campaign for Real Beauty. Since when did tiny little ponies and befreckled girls go with gridiron?Emerald Nuts get points for sheer creativity and Burger King's Whopperettes gets points for sheer choreography.And a final message for Go Daddy: we think it's kind of cheating to submit five ads you know will get rejected just to create hype. Or at least, it's kind of cheating when they aren't that good in the first place.
An empty puff piece on South Asian studies at Columbia ("Of Columbia's many ties with South Asia, India is probably the strongest") ends with a dazzling flourish of geopolitical hubris: "the buzz about Columbia's newly revitalized South Asia program will soon be spreading all over the Subcontinent." Just like militant Islam! Um, the world is flat?
Bwog has just received a tip from a reader that all prospective salad-eaters at Uris Dining Hall now must fill out a form to complete their order. Help us figure out what's going on before it's too late by sending your tips -- pictures are appreciated! -- to bwgossip@columbia.edu.
A girl spent the majority of today's Introduction To Photography class ignoring the lecture, choosing instead to peruse Facebook photo albums on her laptop. Next period: Introduction to Irony.
A man in the field reports that while he was making a mess of trying to put together a John Jay 'fajita' with Dining Services' rather weak tortillas, a fellow behind him remarked to a friend, "You know, more people really ought to smoke weed. Then they'd know how to wrap these things properly."
The February issue of the Blue & White is out and about and in a dorm near you. In a special section on "Race at Columbia", Josie Swindler discusses the lack of minority staffers on campus publications, David Plotz tries to get some answers about affirmative action, and Hector Chavez reassures you that you're not the only one with racist grandparents. Thanks are due to the Office of the University Chaplain and the Office of Multicultural Affairs for their support for this issue.The Blue & White welcomes feedback on any and all of its articles. Letters to the Editor can be addressed to bweditors@columbia.edu or comments can be left on the Bwog.
•All you have to know about Nexus, the new Barnard student center, is that it is the anti-McIntosh. •Columbia might nab now-defunct Metro Theater at 99th and Broadway. •New wave of undergraduate magazines appearing (and B&W; giggles over name appearing in print). •Eric Foner greatest thing since sliced bread and penicillin.
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. This reading was a little daunting. My familiarity with mathematics separated me quite completely from the subject matter, due in part to my own repulsion to the terminology. I really didn’t like the reading, it made my mind wander off to other aspects of my life that seem to have no real order, and try to see if the absence of order is order. It pretty much just messed with my head though. It's true the University of Virginia wasn't meant to be a fitness club, but it shouldn't be a labor camp of learning either. Every black homeowner, in hanging pictures of family members or whatever was important to him, was actively pursuing his own voice whether conscious of it or not. The idea of sites of resistance literally gave Southern blacks home-field advantage like photography gave them a very powerful weapon. While maybe victory is a long way off, armed with these resources, damage to white supremacy could indeed be done. I find it hard to sympathize with Aeneas in the family aspect. I see him as an irresponsible and immature baby. The International Section features conflicts between Israelis and Palestinians, between Americans and everyone. Save from perhaps a predilection for Russian food and the sporadic cursing in Russian, no one would ever guess my inner conflict. It had to be the money and fame because it sure couldn't be my charm, good looks, or hot body. I didn't have any of that. I wondered when they would begin to notice that. 
Oh, snap! Gothamist hates on Barnard's new student center. We don't think it's that ugly-- do you?
- After placing an order on Campusfood, a voice started talking and thanking me. The speaker was female, and sounded terrifyingly like Skynet. Combine that with killer-omniscient washing machines, and giving life to an online entity named "the Bwog" seems a little reckless. - Why don't vending machines -- EXCEPT for the soda machine next to Tasti-D-Lite -- take Flex anymore? WTF? Is this a wack-ass ploy by CU Snacks to get our credit card numbers? - What ever happened to the toiletry vending machines in EC and the LLC? Today, Bwog wanted an old school shave, but couldn't, and was forced to take the dulled three-blade route.
A poster of the Graduate Students Employee Union in Mudd claims "According to the Living Wage Project at Penn State University, the minimum living wage for a single person's very basic budget in New York City is $21,272." A visit to the poster's cited Living Wage Calculator reveals the living wage estimate for a single adult in New York City, NY to be $16,050 before taxes. The Bwog hopes graduate students put a little more care into grading our papers (and writing their theses).
In the East Sky lounge of the Broadway dormitory a keen observer will find exposed wires protected by the pen-written text, "Tampering will knock out AC/Heat." Violations will result in electrocution and a slap on the wrist.
Working in a Butler computer lab, Bwog's computer was ambushed by an announcement THAT EMERGED FROM WITHIN THE COMPUTER proclaiming "this PC will run an update at 3:00 AM" Those campaigns for free wireless are starting remind Bwog of that genius give-guns-to-Osama-Bin-Laden-to-fight-the-Soviets idea. Find other instances of cyber-dominance (har har) here; documentary evidence of the Butler Ambush after the jump. 
Residential Programs Associate Director Hikaru Kozuma during RA interviews: Guys, Doritoes are like orange crack, they are so addictive. Innocent RA: How do you know about crack? Ah, Columbia. Grooming the next generation of Washington D.C. mayors. - Nishant Dixit
One Bwogger weighs in on Columbia's possible downtown expansion... Is Columbia aware that it has the opportunity to purchase a piece of (cinematic) history in the 99th Street Metro Theater? Before he took off for London, Woody Allen was never shy about highlighting some of his favorite Manhattan locales in his movies--yep, that's the Hungarian Pastry Shop in Husbands and Wives (and Columbia's campus makes appearances in several of his films). But rarely does an actual New York landmark play a more important role than the Metro does in Hannah and Her Sisters, when Woody's character, Mickey Sachs, having just failed in a suicide attempt, wanders in. He sits down and begins to take in the movie--Duck Soup, as it happens--and the film makes him realize that life is worth living after all. So, Columbia: purchase the Metro Theater. And give us Marx Brothers and Woody Allen film festivals. Even if it doesn't end up saving any lives, you're sure to find an eager clientele for such events on the Upper West Side. -Marc Tracy
Spotted in the Butler 4th Floor Reading Room: 
•St. Luke's not the idyllic egalitarian paradise we all thought it was. Damn. •Starbucks workers are the new grad students when it comes to hopeless unions. •Student-run erotic journal Outlet to come out online, all the better for secret viewing. •Paid testimonial for South Beach, we can only assume.
 Welcome to Week 2 of the Bwog's Personals-- a good one for Sufjan Stevens fans!Every Wednesday we’re giving you FULL ACCESS to profiles of eligible bachelors and bachelorettes, all of whom have undergone the Bwog’s rigorous personality and STD testing. Someone look like the guy or gal of your dreams? Email bwgossip@columbia.edu with the single's name in the subject line, put in a sentence or two about yourself, and if our bachelor or bachelorette picks you out of the teeming hordes, the Bwog will spring $10 for a coffee date. That’s at least a Venti frap each (assuming the Starbuckers don't go on strike). Concerned? Intrigued? Vaguely aroused? Check out the two profiles below or nominate yourself or a friend for next week by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu (by the way, straight as an arrow or bent 180, we take all sorts). Guy for Girl or Guy Girl for Guy Name: (Allen) Chanani School: CC Year: 2006 Major: Architecture Hometown: Newton, MA Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: John Wayne Gacy, Jr. - Sufjan Stevens Nightmare by the Sea - Jeff Buckley Cello Song - Nick Drake Flight, invisibility, or freezing time? What do you mean? I can already fly. I'm SUPERMAN! I guess freezing time would be useful. For papers. And studio projects. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Boyshorts (on you, not me) It's 10 o'clock on a Wednesday night-- where can you be found? Drunk off my ass on my way back from ski practice. Alternatively in the library starting my work. Ideal partner OR ideal date in three words or less: Bulldog/Alaskan Husky Complete the sentence: True love... True love mates... is old people screaming at each other. Blue or White? Always blue! Allen! You're the one for me! Name: Emily School: CC Year: 2006 Major: History Hometown: Washington, D.C. Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Une année sans lumière - Arcade Fire Banquet - Bloc Party The Transfiguration - Sufjan Stevens Flight, invisibility, or freezing time? Freezing time. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Out of my 'Days of the Week' series, I'd say Thursday is my favorite. It's 10 o'clock on a Wednesday night-- where can you be found? Nursing a hot toddy over a little competitive canasta. Ideal partner OR ideal date in three words or less: Dance, Dance Revolution Complete the sentence: True love... True love is... cookies. Blue or White? Color is a social construct. Emily! You're the one for me!
A Bwog correspondent sent the following in-- is it too much to ask if anyone has pictures? There was a man on the median at 113th and broadway this afternoon wearing Adidas sneakers, pink socks, green pants, and a double breasted blue blazer with the words "Officer COOL" written on the back in what appeared to be white chalk, doing some sort of erratic dance while jumping from cement barrier to cement barrier all the while talking to himself and gesturing wildly with his hands and throwing a massive bright yellow down jacket around. It was both astounding and terrifying to watch.
A Bwog correspondent relayed this email. It's not a joke. Ye Olde Dorkery Abounds at ye CUSFS tonight Ever wondered what "Ye" really meant? Like to fantasize about wearing the clothing of ages where comfort hadn't been invented yet? Want to pick up a sword and start swinging in a somewhat more legal setting? Come to Ye Exciting Renaissance Faire Meeting! Wednesday, February 8th, Megan (our chancellor of the exchequer) will be bringing her period garb -- and some other goodies -- and talking about the fun to be had at renfaires. Dragons! Wenches! Chainmail-making demo! Don't miss it, 'cause we'll be partying like it's 1599.* *Minus the drunken brawls.** **Unless you ask very nicely. Time: 8:00 on Wednesday (today) Place: East Ramp Lounge in Lerner What: Everything you wanted to know about Ren-Faires and more No word on whether funnel cake will be served.
Undergraduate history theses were originally due April 15, until the department realized that day was Good Friday. The due date is now April 13 ... which is the first day of Passover. Good job, goys.
... Columbia is the 7th best university in the country. Take that, U.S. News!* *They ranked us 9th.
Everyday the Bwog finds a new reason to love Craigslist. Thanks to reader Anna for tipping us off to the site's Haiku Forum and for sending us a few choice selections. Fun with Dick and Kitty < lovepoet > 02/08 12:44:5 remember that game we played - hide the salami... that was so much fun! (I crack myself up!) Blowback Mountain < corn_nut > 02/08 13:56:36 my top pick for best earth science comedy 'bout pissing in the wind scoop < ioareies > 02/08 11:18:37 headache hurtin now headache hurt three hours past scoop it out start new How!...such bad subject verb agreement, whities? < Amoresdiablo > 02/07 17:37:17 Why do haikus sound like cowboy-western Indians with bad English skills? Tourettes < instantugly > 02/06 20:47:56 What a lovely day! Shit piss fuck hell damn crap ass Let's go to the beach!
Does anyone have an explanation for the horned silver bus parked outside of Lerner at 114th Street? 
•Head of Office of Multicultural Affairs to go from Associate Dean to Vice-President, just not at Columbia. •Couple didn't realize better bars just a subway ride away, gets caught spending their fake $100 bills at the Heights. •Don't be mean to the military guys or they'll get all administrative on your ass. •Foner not actually Jake Gyllenhaal's uncle, immediately stripped of superhero status.
In which the Bwog apologizes for getting a couple facts wrong: - In the February issue, Brendan Ballou wrote that "Rebel With Uranium" Ken Hechtman and his merry band of anarchists "were the first to reach the Low Library roof, and as far as we know, the last." Correction: They were not the last. - On February 4, the Bwog moaned about Jake Gyllenhaal's fake alumni status: He was supposed to graduate in 2004. He didn't--he dropped out to play a gay cowboy. Which is fine, but it means he DID NOT GRADUATE, unlike, say, his sister or his uncle . But, as Quick Spec pointed out this morning, Professor Foner is notour fakest alum's Uncle. He just used to be married to the gay cowboy's mom. The Bwog just couldn't imagine that their superhero professor has an ex-wife. Discover the sobering truth after the jump. To the Editor: Thank you for running the “profile” of me (“Professor Eric Foner’s View From the Top of the Scholar’s Ladder,” Feb. 8, 2006) and especially for the accompanying antique photograph that makes me look twenty years younger than I actually am. I do feel it necessary, however, to call your attention to an established principle of journalism: checking your facts. Contrary to what the article reports, I am not the uncle of Jake Gyllenhaal. His mother is my former wife, not my sister, and therefore I have no relationship to him other than as a movie-goer. Spectator corrected this mistake when it first appeared in your pages a couple of years ago, but I guess institutional memories are short. There is a lesson here that all students should bear in mind—do not believe everything you find on the Internet. Eric Foner DeWitt Clinton Professor of History Don't take his last bit of advice seriously. For our sake. Please.
New Yorkers! Rally thy selves around political art. This weekend and coming week offer a wide selection of fascinating proposals for your movie viewing pleasure. Film geeks, proceed after the jump with care. Museum of the Moving Image in Queens is hosting a film series known as Black Light, subtly related to Black History Month. This weekend's top selection is a preview screening of Tsotsi, a "breakout hit on the international film circuit," following the story of a thug from Johannesburg who cares for the child of a woman he has murdered. Sure to be quite a ride, Friday February 10th at 7:30pm. Still at MMI we have some classics: The Yakuza at 2pm on Saturday February 11th, The Brother from Another Planet on Sunday at 2pm, and several other key hits. MMI often invites interesting speakers, and is well worth checking out. Next down the line, the African Film Festival is headed to Harlem this coming Thursday February 16th. Director Nicolas Rossier of Baraka Productions will make an appearance at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture at 515 Malcom X Boulevard and 135th St. for a screening of his film Aristide and the Endless Revolution, a discussion of the political crisis in Haiti and, of course, US foreign policy. The film features Aristide himself, Roger Noriega, Maxine Waters, Danny Glover, and Noam Chomsky. In a related story, if you missed Columbia's preview screening of Why We Fight, the new documentary by Eugene Jarecki, it's playing at the Angelika Thursday February 9th, and he'll be there. Film Forum, standard-bearer of the fight to bring back funny old movies, has been reviving Boris Karloff all week with screenings of his movies: two of his lesser-known films, Targets and The Haunted Strangler are playing Thursday February 9th in the afternoon and evening. While we're nowhere near exhausting the supply of ridiculously themed film events NYC has to offer, I'll close with the well-known Independent Film Center. Their Lars von Trier festival is now featuring his newest film, Manderlay, which addresses the imposition of a Yankee woman into the way of life of slaves following the end of the Civil War. They're still playing the fantastic archived footage of Ballets Russes (Russian Ballets), and have now begun a series of Rainer Werner Fassbinder screenings, beginning with Effi Briest. -Natasha Chichilnisky-Heal
Wednesday night we reported on the appearance of Destroyer! bus on 114th alongside Carman. Since Tuesday signs have been up saying parking on that side of 114th is prohibited today. The Question of the Day is... is Destroyer! bus exempt from parking regulations? Is there no parking on account of Destroyer! bus? Does the NYPD think Destroyer! bus poses a threat to cars parked nearby?More pictures after the jump for the lazy ones who don't want to investigate themselves. 
In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Curious George An amazing children’s book gets the animated treatment, sans crappy CGI. With the calm, seductive voice of Will Ferrell as The Man in the Yellow Hat. Final Destination 3 A provocative inquiry into roller coaster safety in the United States, with the tagline “This Ride Will Be The Death Of You.” Seriously. Something New There’s an important holiday coming up on Tuesday, just saying. Hoodwinked Unfortunately, not Spike Lee’s sequel to Bamboozled. Also Playing: When a Stranger Calls Big Momma’s House 2 Underworld: Evolution Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Cache (Hidden) Juliette Binoche stars in an important film from one of the most important directors, Michael Haneke. Creepiness included in price of admission. Capote As noted last week, any day now, the Academy will understand its error and oust Capote from the Best Picture nominees for being too good. For now, enjoy a totally unique approach to a biopic, with the second-best performance of the year from Philip Seymour Hoffman. Mrs. Henderson Presents Presumably, the nudity that earned this film its R rating has nothing to do with the presence of Dame Judi Dench. Why We Fight Once upon a time, Dwight Eisenhower noted the dangers of the “military-industrial complex.” Unbelievably, this is a documentary, and not a fantasy film. Also Playing: The Squid and the Whale The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Firewall Paul Bettany is a very attractive man. Also starring Harrison Ford. The Pink Panther From the director of Just Married, and Cheaper by the Dozen and the star of Bowfinger and Cheaper by the Dozen 2, comes a sequel to movies that starred Peter “the best actor in the universe” Sellers. Also starring Beyonce Knowles, whose name on the marquee pretty much makes this a must-see. Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story Still one of the best movies of last year and the best movie currently playing in the city. Go now. There’s a big fetus in it. Syriana Get your oil on! One of the best movies of last year is still playing, which means you have another weekend to gaze upon the legendary, elusive mystery man known as “Fat Clooney.” The New World Please go see it. It’s beautiful. Really, really beautiful. Also Playing: Nanny McPhee Roving Mars Glory Road The Matador Match Point Munich Brokeback Mountain Walk the Line Good Night, and Good Luck
•Basement of Milano Market home to unhappy Mexicans, ex-cons, and toe fungus. •Anachronistic Gentleman Rental Service tries to bring anachronism to Columbia, fails. •Rock climbing and surfing approved as two newest club sports, waivers available for pick-up. •In an odd space-filling move, Spec writers recount dates they've gone on with each other.
Last night some bastards stole the antlers off Destroyer! bus! Unacceptable.
Our correspondent tells us that there is free pizza in the Scholars & Fellowships Office at 101 Carman Hall. ---------- Forwarded message ---------- From: Tara Spencer Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:39 PM Subject: Free Pizza...come and get it! To: xxx@columbia.edu Hey Scholars... We have a lot of left over pizza in the office...come get it and bring it back to your room...or heat it up here and talk to me. Come now. 1, 2, 3...GO! HAPPY FRIDAY Tara M. Spencer, Assistant Director Scholars & Fellowships Office 
The Bwog knows how much construction delays can suck, especially when it involves something as vital as bathroom renovations. But when shit happens, so to speak, we lowly undergraduates are used to having our bitching go unheard. That's why it kind of warmed our hearts to see Student Financial Services caring about their employees in light of the devastating bathroom closures that have been afflicting Kent. The full announcement - sent to the department this morning - is after the jump. -----Original Message----- From: Pam Kelly To: xxxx@columbia.edu Sent: Fri Feb 10 09:44:03 2006 Subject: LATE UPDATE ON REST ROOMS MEN: Although it is too late for you to reduce your intake of fluids in preparation, I have just been informed that the workers need to close the facility in Kent again today. WOMEN: Kent Hall rest room will be closed again on Monday. I pass on the information that I get. Sometimes it's too late, and sometimes it doesn't turn out to be what was originally thought. Two points: 1. Don't shoot the messenger. 2. Be prepared for the unexpected during renovations. Have a good weekend! Pam Pamela T. Kelly Student Financial Services Columbia University
In which film savant Iggy Cortez gives you something to watch this weekend when you ask the cute girl from CC to your room to "watch a movie." After the decidedly uneven Swimming Pool, with 5X2 Fran&ccedil;ois Ozon makes a triumphant return to form with a film that is playfully sardonic but also unapologetically moving. Intelligent, irreverent and beautiful to look at; in the best possible way, it fulfills the fantasy Frenchness has for the precocious (and pretentious) at Columbia. 5X2 shows five turning points of a failed marriage in reverse order – from the icily cordial divorce settlement, to an uncomfortable dinner party, to the birth of the couple’s child, to their wedding and ending with the first awkward attempts at flirtation. The reverse narrative (also employed by films like Memento and Irreversible) is not a particularly radical practice in art, but in Ozon’s hands it eludes the gimmick and provides a genuinely crucial framework for a complex portrayal of modern day romance. Compassionate but distant, the film doesn’t perform anything so shallow as to gradually gather evidence of the couple’s inevitable doom. Instead, Ozon shows the latency of grimness and decay behind our happiest moments, not fatalistically, but as to suggest that the fantasies we have of the past are never as immaculate as we envision them to be. Nor is the end of love neatly unentangled from its opposite. Again Ozon proves he is one of cinema’s most gifted subversives, turning clichés on their heads – draining the sacred, pointing out kitsch’s potential for depth. He most subtly applies this sensibility where otherwise tired conventions of French cinema – drunk, sexually charged dancing or nostalgic songs from the sixties – acquire a whole new set of implications and nuances. Succinct and to-the-point, Ozon is also a particularly gifted director of short films, and 5X2 should be read not simply as a story told backwards, but as five short films – five independent worlds – that amplify in meaning when set against each other. Similarly to another spectacular film from last year, Miranda July’s video-installation inspired Me and You and Everyone We Know, 5X2 succeeds not only as narrative but as an intimation of cinema’s unending formal potential, effectively intruding a “lesser” cinematic art form into the feature-length film. 
On Tuesday, we reported the latest scourge to hit the Columbia campus. But almost as soon as the dust settled on the DEA raid of Morton Williams, there appeared to be a new epidemic in town. Our agent overheard the following conversation in Wallach: Boy #1: Was it you who tried to snort pop rocks? Boy #2: Yeah. My nose started bleeding and I had a headache for hours. - Sara Vogel
Sign on a lamppost at the corner of Broadway and 115th: Could this be the same Tyrannosaurus Rex that was "found" in our December issue? If so, was he lost...and found again? We have emailed a certain Jason Ruff with questions, and will keep you abreast of any developments.
Friday's New York Times has a strange article which reports that law school applications have been declining across the board for the first time since 1998. For Columbia, that meant 335 fewer people got in line this year for a chance to spend 120K burning the midnight oil at Diamond Law Library outlining briefs like Ass v. Viacom. The cause of this decline? Boston Legal. Seriously.
Kent has apparently turned into some sort of EALAC consortium night club for this eve of February. There were grad student types lounging around in the library. On the elongated table that runs the length of the room were empty containers of take-out (possibly Chinese) and people dancing. Yes, that's right, adults were dancing on tables in the Kent library. Maybe they were escaping the hideous blizzard, maybe they were anticipating a grad student strike, who knows. I witnessed revelry and too many dark, square-framed glasses to count.
The Sunday Times recommends Morningside Heights restaurants on Amsterdam. It's like a Bizarro Broadway-- just replace drunk undergrads with sober SIPA students, Riverside Park with Morningside, and bad food with good.
- Orientalism is declared hot while EALAC grad students get their freak on in the library. - Uris Dining Hall's new Salad Bureaucracy induces shortage of tiny yellow no. 2 pencils. Related: John Jay workers too sober to fold up fajitas. - Barnard unveils its new student center to which architecture majors and Gothamists cry, "FUGLY!" - SDA says Doritoes are like orange crack. Others wonder if the Columbia Insurance plan covers osteolytic sinusitis. - The Destroyer! bus invades Broadway and is summarily destroyed. - The Blue and White launches its February issue and we learn that campus publications are cliquey, while alarm clocks are radioactive.
As Manhattan gets ransacked by the biggest snowstorm of the year, College Walk is transforming into a stage for the surreal. Our correspondent reports: If someone has a digital camera...he or she should head over to the Low Steps...some CAVA kids are using stretchers to sled down that glorious snow... Also--in the midst of a snowball fight, a golden delicious apple was thrown. CAVA sledding sounds like a sight to watch, but the Bwog would much rather watch Project Runway reruns and sip hot chocolate in her bed; so if anyone else sees strange things going down on her behalf, please send them to bwgossip@columbia.edu.
After braving the mountainous snowfall to end up at the Manhattan Jewish Community Center on 76th St. at Amsterdam, one Bwog correspondent found her urge for ground chickpeas unsatisfied. The Center promised to set a Guiness World Record today with a 12 ft. wide, 500 lb. plate of hummus. Upon arrival, she was told the hummus was trapped on Long Island. There goes both the world record and this gentile's support for Israel. Give me hummus or I'll take Hamas! - Josie Swindler
A writer at the Brown Daily Herald has alerted the Columbia College Student Council that, for a year between 2003-2004, CUIT sold our emails to Columbia panopticists, er, sociologists, Gueorgi Kossinets and Duncan Watts for this Science article. The study, which discusses the formation and evolution of social networks, did not name the "large university" whose electronic communications were analyzed. Two weeks later, tech gazette eWEEK.com decided to state the obvious in a January 20th post. 'Twas us who was snooped! In the name of science, Columbia University behavioral scientists recently dissected every e-mail sent by every Columbia student for a year. During the year it took to procure the e-mail and the ensuing months of research on the 14 million or so missives, the 43,000 correspondents never knew they were the subjects of such a grand experiment. The Bwog supports the "advancement of science" and understands that gains in knowledge often require sacrifices. But we would like to remind the Columbia Institutional Review Board that next time they enlist us in one of their little "experiments," we'd like our $10, thank you very much. After all, uncompensated exploitation was precisely why the Bwog dropped her psychology major.

2006 beat 1947 by 0.5".
A CC teacher to her earnest student, a young sophomore in search of himself: "It sounds like you either need to see a shrink or work for a Jewish agency." - Bari Weiss
• Mother Nature Takes a Big Dump on New York City. Ski Jumps, Igloos, Slushee Stands Erected. • Dean Zvi Galil Subs for Snow-Stranded E-Weeks Opening Speaker. Discusses Dermatology, Retirement Spots. • Disgruntled TA Takes Cigarette Break to Bitch About the Bitching Over ROTC. • Cops Faced With Hole in Donuts Case.
Gothamist points the way to some snow videos, including a time lapse one of College Walk.Poke around a little and you can find an entire page of Columbia time lapse videos, all seemingly shot from Butler, including a nice sunrise, and the fastest graduation you will ever see. Update: Thanks to "Seth Low" for pointing out that the date of the video is a little questionable. At least we know now that Columbia is no longer recording our every trek to class.
Cookies and Fruit at the Lerner reception desk! Sorry, boys and girls. All gone.
An excerpt: WHAT A GREAT IDEA! We provide a concept that will allow anyone with sufficient life experience to obtain a fully verifiable university diploma. Bachelor, Master or even a Doctorate. Think of it, within a month you too could be a college graduate. Many people share the same frustration, they are all doing the work of the person that has the degree, and the person that has the degree is getting all the money. For no good reason, Bwog suspects this is all the CCE's fault.
 In dress reminiscent of Maggie Simpson's blue starfish sleepclothes combined with the little brother from A Christmas Story's winter-wear, this baby stole hearts on college walk when her parents posed her for next year's Christmas photo. Find a cuter picture. We triple dog dare you.
The Office of the Dean has created a Valentine's display in the lobby of Hamilton with enough streamers and shiny hearts to make you sick. Aiding your cause of "crush the pain of loneliness by candy-induced stomach ache" are two large bowls of chocolates.
• Some of us get hitched. Early. • Overwhelmingly, SEAS kids refuse to get flashed by Barnard. • Spec sez: Safer sex week should cater to virgins. • CUIT's schizophrenic meanderings continue as department splits in four. Campus shrugs in apathy. • The fencing dynasty has apparently crumbled while we were passed out at the football tailgate.
This Friday, 10 pm, at Mona (between 108th and 109th on Amsterdam) is the party you've been looking forward to all year. Lucky for us it's still February. Come join us as we celebrate the Bwog's official launch. Cheap website, cheap friends, cheap drinks. Blue and white attire is optional but attendance is not.
Andrew Stinger reports: For any fans of 'America's Next Top Model' or of beautiful women, KAHLEN from Season 4 (the runner-up) is now a BARTENDER at Nacho's. She's training on Thursday. This information comes courtesy of the cool bartender last night during a "love sucks" toast.
FREE FOOD! NOW! For once, Columbia demonstrates some awkward love toward its students...with a chocolate fountain and fruits to dip! Soft classical guitar will accompany your Valentine's Day wistfulness. Sigh... Location: Lerner Piano Lounge--NOW.
The Bwog missed the first round of chocolates, Poland Springs mini-bottles, and possibly cupcakes given out by the undergraduate deans in Hamilton's lobby but it's going on again 3:50 to 4:10pm. It's like Halloween all over again, but pink!
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. First thing I have to say is that you must lose the word kaleidoscopic. It just starts poking me all over, like an annoying sibling. I stare into the soup and watch the stringy noodles dance on their circular stage. "We should have tried harder in school," I imagine one noodle lamenting, struggling to find solace in the commiseration of his companions, the cheap but universal consolation of proximity. Those who do not abide will be excluded from the community. Therefore, the recent addition of a course titled "Frontiers of Science" not only represents a flaw in the Core Curriculum education but in American national identity, as well. For while students are left ignorant, they also feel that they have a grasp of scientific concepts. In discussions, students debate the ideas presented to them in lecture as if they have the slightest grasp of the concepts, which of course they do not. After coming to Columbia and talking to my new friends about their existential crises and struggles of self-definition, I realized that my level of introspection is truly lacking. ...And the tarzanic language at the end. I think consistent imagery would help. Also, is it really the bargain hunter that is wanted? Isn’t it the object of sale, of black Friday? This is definitely a possibility as so many people everyday make decisions like these. Ruining someone's career because it makes you happy does not make it morally right. Mortal women are the last of the suspects. From my bed I scan the audience of stuffed animals that watches me from their diverse world on my windowsill, where penguins and polar bears live alongside bears and monkeys, with cartoon characters and aliens sprinkled among them. Trying to escape the fixed gaze of each creature, I contemplate the smallness of the space they are forced to share with creatures entirely different from themselves. In this respect, I suppose, they are very much human. After we hang up, I keep thinking about all the tiny interactions that fill our lives. Each day is an endless series of exchanges, both central and marginal, and these come to dominate our consciousness. Whatever meaning we ascribe to our life is nothing more than our own effort to impose an overarching narrative on these ceaseless interactions, to bestow upon a string of vignettes a sort of epic grandeur.
Not to be outdone by Blue and White writer Christopher Beam's guide, the Butler Reserves Desk has posted its own Definitive Guide to Butler Sex in room 209. Maybe CLIO can help us find the clitoris.
A Blue and White correspondent was killed today during the game of "assassins" when she received a fake flower delivery call. Dubious but curious, she was shot in the back with a water pistol when she went to verify. Don't mess with the Bwog. The hearts of first-years are not fair game. You'll pay.
In which Bwog staffer Mark Krotov familiarizes us with the places where you can find him when he's supposed to be in class. The first time I came upon the Lehman cubicles, I felt like one of those schoolboys who discovered the Lascaux caves. Although hardly prehistoric in the traditional sense, the Lehman cubicles are relics of another era. They sit on the bottom of floor of Lehman Library, a building equal parts anachronism and mystery. I imagine students sitting there in the 1960s, studying Soviet maps and reading Pravda, eagerly plowing through documents that would bring them a little closer to these mysterious ‘International Affairs.’ But today, Lehman, which sits below the International Affairs Building, behind evening swipe access, and away from the undergraduate studying mecca of Lerner-Butler, is like an infinite private study space. And nothing in Lehman is more private than the cubicles. One has to walk down the spiral staircase, turn around, walk to the back, and suddenly, there they are, embedded into nondescript walls, next to stacks with texts describing Estonia’s recent economic progress. Rooms without doors, they seem far more private than such a description suggests. Indeed, one could easily fall asleep there (which I may have done), sit there for ten hours straight (which I’m fairly certain I’ve done), or sneak in pounds of snacks from the well-stocked vending machines upstairs (which I’ve not done, as far as the Lehman staff is concerned). Each cubicle has two chairs and power outlets, but only one has a series of poems, scrawled in black ink on the wall, detailing the connections between realpolitik and Lil’ Jon. Such a creation seems entirely appropriate. In the anonymous, lonely liminality of Lehman, inspiration is everywhere, even on the cream-colored walls. In one cubicle, someone wrote: “Wake up. Enjoy your solitude.” As far as Lehman staff is concerned, I did not write that.
• Miranda moves on, proving that there is life after sex. • Do you know Miss Dee? Well we don't either. • Athletic fan club tries to bring fans to games, fails. • Pop Quiz: Which Spec columnist voted for Al Gore in 2000?
Our correspondent Jimmy Vielkind found the following on Overheard in NY: Wednesday One-liner Cotton to Book Learnin' Professor guy: I was going to give you all a quiz today. But then I realized that it was Valentine's Day. You're supposed to do something for the people you love on Valentine's Day. And of course, I love all of you very much. So...I decided to give you the quiz on pink paper instead! --Columbia University First person to identify "Professor guy" gets leftover Valentine's chocolates from the Bwog! Update: Too late! Contest over in a disturbing two minutes as "anado" claims the prize!
The Bwog knows all about your post-Valentine's Day hangover. The best cure, though, is a shot of the dog that bit you. Or the hair of the drink that you drank. Or something like that. To aid you in your recovery, this week we've got the lovely Kate. Does she look like the gal of your dreams? Email bwgossip@columbia.edu with a sentence or two about yourself and if our bachelorette picks you out of the teeming hordes, the Bwog will spring $10 for a coffee date. Better yet, for this week only, the Bwog will spring $10 for drinks at our launch party if you two show up together! Concerned? Intrigued? Vaguely aroused? Check out the profile below or nominate yourself or a friend for next week by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. Girl for Guy Name: Kate School: Columbia Year: 2006 Major: MEALAC Hometown: Wayne, PA Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Came as a Rat - Modest Mouse Sigara - Chehade Brothers Tuesday's Dead - Cat Stevens Flight, invisibility, or freezing time? Flight. Definitely flight. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Pink flannel...what? They're comfortable! It's 10 o'clock on a Wednesday night-- where can you be found? Let's be honest, we both know I can always be found in Butler. Ideal partner OR ideal date in three words or less: Chocolate ice cream (that's both) Complete the sentence: True love... True love mates... requires more wit than I have on hand right now. How about coffee? Blue or White? Is the blue Columbia blue or more royal? Kate! You're the one for me!
 Gothamist, the Bwog will have Butler Sex with you anytime, any stack. Now, are you coming to our party?
• 'Cause masturbation is the safest sex (after abstinence of course)! • Columbians become alums before they even graduate. • Motherfucker, motherfucker. • Did you know: Salmonella is a fantastic way to lose weight.
Sara Vogel says: Just in case you didn't know, they're shooting Law and Order up at 116th and Broadway right now, the trucks and trailers extend past Barnard!
On a recent snow day, our correspondent Ady Barkan found the definitive proof that going to business school is a whole load of cock. 
Bwog staffer Kabir Singh reviews the Metropolitan Museum’s exhibit featuring Emperor Akbar's lavishly illustrated Khamsa (quintet of tales). Although a little hard to navigate at first, I grew to love the true to its provenance right-to-left organization of Pearls of the Parrot of India: The Emperor Akbar’s Illustrated 'Khamsa,' 1597–98. Spanning this one-room exhibition at the Met are the pages and cover of an illuminated manuscript from the Indo-Persian Mughal Empire, the power that built the Taj Mahal. The curators have set out magnifying glasses, so you won’t miss any detail of the exquisite miniatures and calligraphy. The poems of the Khamsa, or Quintet, are the work of the thirteenth- and fourteenth-century poet Amir Khusrau Dihlavi, the self-proclaimed “Parrot of India.” Several centuries later, the Mughal emperor Akbar ordered the creation of the manuscript that appears at the Met in his royal workshops. The best place to begin viewing this exhibit is the gold and lacquer-coated front and back covers, decorated with parts of the narrative that lie within. Continue around the room counterclockwise to view excerpts from each of the five poems of the Quintet in order. Of particular interest is the second to last poem, entitled the A’ina-yi Sikandari (the Mirror of Alexander), which recalls episodes from the life of Alexander the Great. One spectacular illustration from this section of the Khamsa done in ink, opaque watercolor, and gold on paper, which curators name, “To the Surprise of Alexander, the Chinese Warrior-Maiden Kanifu Sheds Her Armor and Tells Him of Her Destiny to Marry the Man Who Defeated Her in Battle.” Portrayed in the center is Alexander, just as a Mughal emperor might be depicted, wearing a full beard and crimson robe over an azure tunic, while crowned in a white turban topped with an exotic feather, and seated on a hexagonal sandalwood throne. Alexander looks down to Kanifu, whose attendant removes her armor revealing that she is indeed a woman. The gentlemen of court, while expressing their surprise at Kanifu, are each fashionably dressed in a different colored gown. The detail given to non-essential elements in this narrative is its most compelling aspect. A peacock is seen nonchalantly walking on the roof of Alexander’s quarters, with castle and mountain scenery fading away at his left. The carpet beneath Alexander’s throne is done in a floral pattern, said to be of both Chinese and Iranian influence. A red sandstone wall in the bottom fourth of the painting blocks the entryway into Alexander’s quarters, with an arch opening incidentally reminiscent of the arch from mid-seventeenth century Delhi that opens into the next gallery. A horse outside the wall wears a saddle decorated to match the carpet beneath Alexander’s feet. In another illustrated episode of Alexander’s life, “Alexander Visits the Sage Plato in His Mountain Cave and Is Told of His Own Imminent Death,” Alexander and Plato are assimilated to the traditional theme in Mughal literature of a king visiting a hermit. Given how prevalent Orientalism has been throughout the history of Western art, this Occidentalism, as it were, is quite refreshing. Through March 12, 2006 To get there: Take the 1 train to 86th Street and transfer to the M86. Exit on Fifth Avenue and walk across the street to the main entrance. Once inside the Met, enter the Asian galleries from the North side of the Great Balcony, and walk toward the back of the permanent Indian art gallery until you reach a faux red-sandstone staircase; ascend the stairs. The Metropolitan Museum of Art (at 82nd Street) Hours: Fridays and Saturdays: 9:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays, Sundays: 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Closed Mondays.
Bwog, So suppose someone has left you candies and such on your door for Christmas, Valentines, etc. Problem is, you don't know who this person is, and you have a strong suspicion that the candies aren't actually intended for you, but someone else with a very very similar name. What should you do? ~Anonymously Confused Hey Nony Nony, You're lying about some things. For starters, your name isn't Anonymous. For those on an intermediate level, the certainty with which you dismiss ownership of the candies and and how you know just how very very similar the intended recipient's name is to your own tells me you know more than you let on. But continue to feign ignorance and keep the candy. If the person leaving the candy hasn't the courage to leave a name or return address, there's really nothing to do but eat the candy. People like people with confidence, and an anonymous candy-giver deserves nothing. (Notice how Bwog, being aesexual, shows no heterobias.) Intelligent steps to maintain others' perception of your ignorance and defend your right to the candy: Start a Facebook group for people with names similar to your own. This, group #1, is stalker bait. Start a Facebook group for people with crushes on people with names similar to your own. Have everyone in group #1 join this group to get the admirer's eyeballs. (He'll be lurking on one of their profiles.) Start a Facebook group for people who love giving candy as gifts. The intersection of the two final groups will reveal the stalker admirer. Beat the information of the truly admired out of that person and take their wallet. Don't tell them they're misdelivering the candy. That last bit is really only to punish the admirer for their misdelivering stupidity. Pat yourself on the back, you well nourished instrument of justice. Share the love, Bwog
The Bwog is freaking out! Why is the Bwog freaking out? Because in 24 hours it makes its social debut. All we can hope is that our dress doesn't rip, the boys from the local military academy don't get too drunk, and we can remember everything we learned at Junior Cotillion. Want to be there for the awkwardness? Come witness the train wreck tomorrow night, 10pm, at Mona Lounge (b/t 108th and 109th on Amsterdam.)
In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Date Movie Screenwriter: It’s like Scary Movie, for romantic comedies! Get it? Movie studio executive: Yes. Screenwriter: Get it? Movie studio executive: Go ahead and get started on a sequel. Big Momma’s House 2 Because you can always have a bigger momma. When a Stranger Calls The Babysitters Club is all over this one. Also Playing Curious George Final Destination 3 Hoodwinked Something New Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Cache (Hidden) Remember the Paris riots? This film vaguely predicted them. Sort of. The Squid and the Whale Park Slope, a beautiful house, and a whimsical approach to semen. No, not the new Jonathan Safran Foer novel. The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada Recovering from the movie about the cheerleaders, Tommy Lee Jones directs a western about illegal immigration. Cheerleaders not included. Also Playing Capote Mrs. Henderson Presents Why We Fight AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Brokeback Mountain A nominee for Best Picture that everyone, including late-night talk show hosts, takes very seriously. Eight Below Paul Walker, Jason Biggs, and some sled dogs star in a misguided, Antarctic-themed sequel to Brokeback Mountain. Freedomland An astute analysis of American racism, from the director of Revenge of the Nerds II and Christmas With the Kranks. Good Night, and Good Luck The last words you hear out of Dick Cheney’s mouth, before he shoots your ass. Munich See it for the moral ambiguity. Stay for the most awkward sex scene since that other guy from Mötley Crüe released a home video. Match Point Woody Allen – characterization – solid dialogue – astute psychological insight + Scarlett Johansson’s hotness = critical favorite! Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story You know how they say that all independent movies have depressed gay cowboys eating pudding? This one has none of those things. Also Playing: Firewall Glory Road The Matador Nanny McPhee The Pink Panther Roving Mars Syriana Walk the Line 
• Bambi II discovers machismo, farts, offends. • Finally, some good news for campus bookies. • At the southern frontier of Columbia's eminent domain, a new outpost is erected. • Student telemarketers make money, answer "weird specific questions about MEALAC or whatever."
Etched into a John Jay dining tray: IRAQ WAR PROTESTORS ARE TRAYTORS - Marc Tracy
Do you know how pumped we are for tonight's Bwog party? DO YOU KNOW HOW PUMPED? We are this pumped. 10 pm, Mona, b/t 108th and 109th on Amsterdam (Thanks to WFMU for letting us express how pumped we are.)
Anna Corke sez: A chem major just told me that if you plug your computer into an ethernet port in Havemeyer, you can share music over iTunes with undergrad chemistry Professor Leonard Fine! His collection includes such favorites as Madonna's "Like a Prayer," The Killers, and Bruce Springsteen. Meanwhile, the Bwog continues to listen to Maroon 5 when nobody is watching but has since discovered Nickelback.
While prettying herself up for her launch party this evening (AT MONA on Amsterdam b/t 108 & 109), the Bwog has been pondering her place in history, especially as it related to the rise and fall of Fascism, which, it turns out, Columbia is not so far removed from. Casa Totalitarina By Jacob Jacobsonian One of Columbia’s tour guides recently confided to a group of tourees that the Casa Italiana – the structure that today houses the Italian Academy for Advanced Studies in America – had been an outpost for the dissemination of fascist propaganda prior to the Second World War. At first, one might consider this to be a bit of propaganda itself, like so much of the Columbia trivia garbled over gargling at the West End. (And for the record, Wien Hall was not built to house the criminally insane). Having heard this particular rumor repeated far too often, and vowing never to let hapless tour guides upstage us, The Blue and White decided to investigate further. Research in the archives unearthed an anonymous article in a 1934 issue of The Nation, alleging that the Casa had become “an unofficial adjunct of the Italian Consul-General’s office in New York and one of the most important sources of fascist propaganda in America.” The rumors, apparently, did not begin in the Admissions Department. One of the most serious allegations made in the article was that Columbia’s Italian Department had sponsored a dissertation speciously linking Giuseppi Prezzolini (then the director of the Casa Italiana) and his publication La Voce to the political precursors of Fascism. Any such connection, the author argued, was nothing more than a “hoax” and thus proof of the “special pressure” exercised by Fascist influences on the intellectual climate of the Casa. The Nation article argued that this was an instance of the Casa sponsoring false revisionism; Prezzolini, they insisted, had been a devout liberal in the period prior to 1922’s March on Rome – when the Fascist party took control of the Italian government. Supporting their claim, the authors pointed to the frequent attacks, in La Voce’s early issues, against “the intellectual bombast of the prewar nationalist movement, which later became the very keystone of the present fascist doctrine.” Prezzolini’s sudden and complete reversal of position, they argued, was thus a clear indication that he was acting under political pressure. The Nation authors further alleged that both the faculty of Casa and the publications it produced demonstrated clear signs of pro-Fascist bias in their treatment of Italian political and social issues. In the same issue’s opinion pages, the editors of The Nation addressed Columbia President Nicholas Murray Butler, demanding that he take action consistent with his liberal reputation and ensure that the Italian Department observe “academic standards of free inquiry and discussion.” Such allegations, it turned out, were not all that original. As early as 1928, the New York Times published an article bearing the headline “Charge Mussolini Wields Power Here,” which made similar claims about the Casa, even going so far as to point out that Mussolini himself agreed to donate furnishings for the building following its completion in 1926. But although it may have been true that Casa’s faculty, like many Italian intellectuals of the day, did indeed hold certain Fascist sympathies, the accusation that the intellectual climate of the University was somehow shaped by the Italian government during Mussolini’s rule seems rather far-fetched. Recent scholarship links Futurist views, like those espoused in La Voce, to Mussolini’s early rhetoric, thereby undermining the notion that Prezzolini’s treatment of Il Duce was entirely independent of his earlier criticism of the pre-war nationalists – a critical point for substantiating the Nation’s allegations. All this, admittedly, fails to touch upon the larger question – why we find Fascism so fascinating that we would publicly proclaim Columbia’s distant ties to totalitarianism, be they real or fictive. Perhaps, as Susan Sontag suggested in a 1975 essay, it is precisely the failure of past generations to discuss Fascism that makes it so intellectually (and tourically) appealing, as an element of “the exotic, the unknown.” Or perhaps, as the beamingly conspiratorial tour guide later whispered, it’s because the Fascists have just switched departments. This originally appeared in the March 2004 edition of the Blue and White.
People coming out of Mona, 11:20 PM: Guy: Was that a life size cutout of Jeffrey Sachs? Girl: Yeah, I think so. Guy: What the fuck?! - Lydia DePillis
For all you Bwogomaniacs out there, a recap of our launch party, by the numbers, at least as Bwog remembers them: ONE life-size cut-out of Jeffrey Sachs, Columbia’s sexiest sustainable developer. TWO strains of mono. THREE ungraceful moments of, how shall we say, upchuck? SEVERAL socially awkward moments with that guy from Gawker. HUNDREDS of terribly attractive people. TWENTY EIGHT pretty pink and red balloons. ELEVEN virginities preserved, much to their chagrin. ONE legend in her own time, Bwog. Thanks, all.
True love may be foreign to the Blue and White, but the quest for it is not, as evidenced by our staffers’ personal ads in the February edition. Well, our quest may soon come to an end. One eligible bachelor on staff was such a hot item that he demanded two personals: Long snaky tongue, velvety hands, and no sense of smell. I was built to pleasure a woman. 2480 I’m going to end up with a Jewish girl and that makes me sick. 2480 Well, guess what? Our not-so-genty gent has just received a response from a secret admirer! The note, on beautiful, elaborate pink stationary (maybe scented, but the recipient isn’t sure), reads: Gentile with no gag reflex thinks you’re cute. By “straddle my tension,” do mean get coffee sometime? --Figure it out. Follow the large purple flowers made out of acetate. The big question is---sodium acetate or cellulose acetate? Regardless, we will have her!
A rumor swept across campus this afternoon that Tom Selleck, star of Magnum P.I. and champion of mustachioed men everywhere, was at The West End, enjoying a burger and fries. After much investigation, Bwog regrets to inform you that it was only a Tom Selleck look-alike. Sigh.
According to an article in New York magazine, the Bwog won't have to worry about money after graduation, because we'll be making bank with this newfangled web log, so long as we completely uppend the Blog power structure, that is. We'll take all y'all on, blogitches!
The Varsity Show's strange little website has just put up an equally strange little trailer. Apparently, this year's Varsity Show features nothing more than block letters in front of a black background and what sounds like the theme from Backdraft. Intriguing, at least in a Phillip Glass minimalist sense, but the Bwog hopes the producers can find some actors before the late-April show dates.Varsity Show super-fans-- and everyone knows one-- can go catch previews tonight at the West End, 9pm and 11pm. Event followed by drinking with the giant letters.
Word from a Varsity Show source is that set-up for tonight's West End preview displaced a group of mourners fresh off a memorial service. The dearly departed was none other than Grandpa Munster himself. Grandpa reportedly lied his whole life about earning a Columbia Ph.D. so we'll assume he wouldn't mind sacrificing a little dignity for his pseudo-alma mater.
In a recent Class Council email: New York Times Study Break Sunday Feb. 26th/ 9:00pm Alfred Lerner Hall As a part of our FREE New York Times program, we are partnering with them to bring you some great events. On February 26th we will be throwing a NY Times Study Break with tons of FREE food from Carmines. There will also be lots of FREE NY Times giveaways like T-shirts, bags, and FREE subscriptions to Times Select. Don't miss this opportunity! To which Times' Nicholas Kristof sez: the food may be FREE, but China isn't. 
Bwog is proud to bring the first installment of "Lecture Hopping," in which correspondents go to speeches, lectures, and public displays of erudition so you don't have to. Monday February 13 Religion as a Natural Phenomenon: Daniel C Dennett in conversation with Robert Thurman Miller Theatre With his luxuriant white beard and paternal stature—minus the professorial polka dotted tie—philosopher Daniel C. Dennett vaguely resembles Moses as he gestures to his power point slides in Miller Theater. An ironic association, perhaps, for one who denies the existence of God. That’s not the main point of his talk, of course—no one would be hired these days with the charge of proving God doesn’t exist. Instead, as the Director of Tufts University’s Center for Cognitive Studies, Dennett focuses on something even more unsettling for religious people: the idea of religion as a biological phenomenon. A virus, actually, infecting the human brain and driving us to sacrifice ourselves for something we can’t even see. Hallelujah! I nearly shout to the audience. It’s a breath of fresh air to hear someone who views spirituality as a human quirk, not as a way of adding meaning to our lives. Although Dennett admits that religion can help people make decisions, he takes umbrage at the idea that people need religion to be moral, and calls the practice of exploiting the human desire for goodness to find converts “the greatest con job that religions have accomplished.” Enter Professor Robert Thurman. He’s been lying in wait in his large puffy armchair, taking notes and politely considering Dennett’s presentation. I expected the usual fawning interviewer, lobbing softball questions to keep the conversation flowing. But Thurman, the first American ever to be ordained as a Buddhist monk (and yes, Uma’s dad), is a formidable opponent to Dennett’s worldview. This is a duel, not an explication. Thurman, who is a professor of religion at Columbia, begins benignly enough, telling Dennett about the Columbia’s proposed Center for the Critical Study of Religion. It’s intended, he says, to foster moderates and liberals within religious traditions. Look how enlightened I am, he means. Not like one of those old-world anti-intellectual zealots. (A façade of reasonableness is key in academia). The two pace mental circles around each other, taking jabs and then fading out. They argue over the implications of explaining religion through biological processes, and what happens to us after death. When Thurman accuses Dennett of propagating the “dogma of materialism,” his argument reveals itself: belief in science’s explanatory power is in itself a religion. He tries to trap the increasingly exasperated Dennett by asking if he would take a supernatural being seriously if it presented itself to him. “Of course,” Dennett says, not taking the bait. The debate ranges into obscure topics such as the relativity of consciousness and the physicality of mind, but the audience stays at attention, drawn in by the clash of secularism and spirituality unfolding before them. At the end of one of Thurman’s especially metaphysical monologues, Dennett pauses for a half second. “I confess that I simply can’t fathom most of what you just said.” Applause. Thurman is ultimately trying to argue that God must exist, because without one, there would be no basis for morality. Dennett’s “religion of scientism,” Thurman says, has “made Western culture irresponsible.” You almost feel sorry for the man. He just needs it to be true. Near the end of the talk, Dennett finds a moment to explain the new terminology for atheists and agnostics. They’re called “brights,” modeled on the appropriation of the label “gay” by the homosexual community. Atheists: American’s last “persecuted minority?” Thurman protests. “What are we? Glum?” Theists get a name too—they’re “supers,” as in “supernatural.” “Two happy words,” Dennett says of his new nomenclature. Thurman doesn’t quite know what to say to that. The two stand up and shake hands. I’m far back in the orchestra, but I can take it on faith that Dennett left with the barest of smiles. - Lydia Depillis
Rumor has it that two CC sophomores, both gay, are getting married -- or maybe, got married this past week (not quite sure which). The reason? Columbia offers better financial aid and free summer housing to married students. Looks like Facebook needs a new relationship category: marriage of convenience. -- Donna Loffredo 
Movie filming at Columbia! No, the Olsen twins aren’t making their glorious return—yet—but Columbia may catch glimpses this Wednesday of Robin Williams, that Felicity girl, hottie Jonathan Rhys Meyers, and that cute kid from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory filming August Rush. The movie poses that most important of questions: if you were separated from your parents at birth, what would you do to get them back? Sing and dance, of course, silly goose! According to killermovies.com, the film follows August Rush, a young musical prodigy performing on the streets of New York trying to find his long-lost parents. Yes, it is a musical/fantasy/romance. And no we don’t make this stuff up. The Mayor's Office of Film and Broadcasting has closed 114th Street for all of this Wednesday. Thanks to Arnold Park for the tip.
Upright Citizens brigade in Roone Arledge from 6 to 8 PM. Free admission! Thanks to SEAS! God Bless Engineers!
Overheard in the SGO: Columbia College Student: I don't like how you guys don't have public elections. Anonymous Engineering Student Council Member: Yeah, whatever, we're fascists. And proud of it. SEAS fascists to world: F u. 
Jeff Sachs, with you and me together, why, we could end world poverty by Christmas!More party photos after the jump. Mona: Where Valentine's Day comes to die. True story.Incoming B&W; Editor-in-Chief Avi gazes adoringly at lost twin, Gawker editor Jesse.We weren't drunk. The bar was just blurry.Editor-in-Chief Zach's chest hair does best Tom Selleck impersonation.Publisher Hector does best to ignore.
Seen on a Student Government Office computer during the weekly Fed meeting: The Wikipedia entry for "Slash Fiction." What is Slash Fiction? Slash fiction is a type of fan fiction in which one or more media characters are involved in a homosexual relationship as a primary plot element. These gay pairings are often described in explicit detail, and largely occur outside the canon of the source. ... It is commonly believed that slash fiction originated within the Star Trek: The Original Series fan fiction fandom, with 'Kirk/Spock' stories first appearing in the late 1970s. This should not be surprising, as modern fan fiction as a whole owes its start largely to the popularity of Star Trek. The Fed is ... alternative? For more Fed stuff, click here and here. P.S.: This was written as Fed staffers awkwardly walked by Bwog correspondents. They may now know our correspondents' identities. But it was worth the heavy cost.
 Now, we all know that lackadaisical first-years are prone to getting locked out of their rooms. Or sexiled (Yes, sex does occur at Columbia. We estimate at least five instances of sexual intercourse since September—-all coming Saturday night after Columbia’s last second victory over Princeton in basketball). But Bwog just learned of a different kind of upset: someone on the sixth floor of Carman is locked in his room due to a lock malfunction. The fire department is on its way. Well, we suppose it’s still better than being “sexed-in,” when a roommate in the innermost room of a walk-through double is blocked from exiting (and sometimes even from the bathroom) because of his roommate’s amorous activities.
• Columbia basketball actually won a game. Make that two. Important ones. • We’re mad as hell, and we’re not going to take such measly financial aid anymore! • Amibigously named departments like University Systems, Enterprise Systems, Technology Infrastructure, and Client Services control our lives, e-mail. Which might be a good thing. • “Fuck-buddy communication looks more like a solid red 1000-piece jigsaw puzzle.” 
Current Columbia homepage headlines: Music Is a Major Key to Reviving the Musical City Learning to Think Strategically Is Harder Than It Looks This just in: Falling Brings You Closer to Ground. Also, a quote from the music article: “The suicide rate in New Orleans appears to be rising long after the floodwaters receded, according to several speakers. They described the effects on elderly people of being cut off from their communities, perhaps forever... But for all the tales of devastation, conference participants took time out for music, including rousing jam sessions.” --Matthew Harrison
 Bwog staffer Julia Butareva reviews the Marian Goodman Gallery‘s exhibit featuring William Kentridge’s preparatory drawings for his production of the opera The Magic Flute. In Mozart’s The Magic Flute, Sarastro, priest of Osiris and Isis and champion of the Enlightenment, triumphs over the mysterious and irrational Queen of the Night. Sarastro is first presented as a malevolent figure: he has kidnapped the Queen’s daughter, and the prince Tamino is enlisted by the Queen to rescue her, in exchange for her hand in marriage. When the prince discovers that Sarastro abducted the princess to protect her from her mother’s poisonous influence, he is won over by Sarastro’s mildness and wisdom and becomes his disciple. Choosing knowledge and reason over superstition helps him overcome multiple trials and win the hand of the princess. Now, what is a South African artist living in the modern world supposed to do with that? How does he stage an opera that celebrates the Age of Reason in the West? Well, if he is William Kentridge, he uses it as an opportunity to treat his favorite theme – the uncertainty and contradiction inherent in Enlightenment ideals. On display at the Marian Goodman Gallery is a working model and a series of drawings Kentridge made in preparation for his production of the opera. The model includes projections and sound, and the drawings incorporate charcoal and collage. The drawings are amazing. Many of them are of birds and cages, a reference to the bird-catcher Papageno who befriends Tamino, but also to irrational forces that are locked up under the Enlightenment. One drawing shows a bird flapping in a cage, but the cage has been partially erased and the flapping wings are almost entirely gone. The viewer can’t be sure whether the bird was, is, or will be caged. “Preparing the Flute (Traces of Bird Flapping I – III)” shows what it’s title indicates: a bird in different stages of flapping its partially erased wings. Like photographs, they are indelible physical recordings of an event – the act of drawing – that took place over time. Another, “Preparing the Flute (Landscape with Dead Trees),” shows a barren landscape, and a partially erased gallows. The gallows is a ghostly, eerie element. And the landscape looks like the African veldt, hardly the most likely setting for an idealistic German opera. The territory of the Queen of the Night, on the other hand, looks like a simple, generic jungle landscape. It’s confusing at first that Kentridge would draw such a thing. It looks naïve – the jungle according to someone who’s never seen it, though without the symbolist element – until you notice the ferns. They’re cycads: living fossils, contemporaries of the dinosaurs that are found in South Africa. Kentridge weaves a complicated web of associations between the Queen of the Night, the irrational, and the non-Western. He challenges the legitimacy of Flute’s ideals even in his stage design. Since this is stage design, it’s easy to dismiss the strange numbers and dotted lines that slice and circumscribe the drawings as just part of the plan. Look closer, however, and you find that many of them are not quite straight or elliptical. The numbers, on closer inspection, turn out to be meaningless. And then you come to the drawing of birds smugly sitting on a ruler. It seems solid, but the illusion collapses on closer inspection. Reason fails and falls in this world’s indistinct structures and vaguely malignant birds. Kentridge is South Africa’s most famous artist, known for his wonderfully creepy charcoals and his subtly allegorical short films about poor, harassed Soho Eckstein. His interpretation of The Magic Flute can’t be seen in New York, but it’s clear that he pulled off the project. Even as he takes down the Enlightenment in this show, he reminds you that Mozart’s music – and art, beauty, and mystery – is still tenable. William Kentridge: The Magic Flute: Drawings and Projections On view until February 25th Marian Goodman Gallery 24 West 57th Street 1 to Columbus Circle, then walk east along 57th Street Hours: 10am-6pm Mon-Sat
-Jeffrey Sachs and Gawker partied hard with Bwoggers. Grandpa Munster couldn’t make it. Well, even without his help, we may get some action, and from a sweet-smelling gentile, no less! -Do you remember that huge fockin’ blizzard? We forgot until we saw a giant phallus in the snow. Seriously. God knows how this traumatized impressionable, star-shaped children. -If you’re ever locked in Carman, you can always watch homo-erotic Star Trek montages. -Fascism and attractive, fourth tier celebrities are integral to Columbia life. Third-tier, mustachioed celebrities are a bit out of our league. -Butler librarians are definitively sexy. And if CLIO can’t help us find the clitoris, Gothamist appears more than willing.
 We can't make this stuff up. A number of SIPA groups are collaborating to present "the very first public tasting in the US of Kyrgyzstan's favorite drink." Today. 6-9 p.m. 6th floor Student Lounge, IAB. Be there. "Kyrgyz favorite drink kymyz is made from horse milk which is poured into a special leather bag - and is then stirred with a special wooden stick which is called 'bishkek.' The name of this stick is given to the current capital of the Republic." Beyond the fermented horse milk, the evening's menu includes borsok (fried pastries), chak-chak (sweet dessert), batyr-nan (traditional flat bread), and ikra (caviar). The schedule of events is a brief presentation on the health benefits of drinking horse's milk, a picturesque slide show, presentation of traditional Kyrgyz music, carpets, and handicrafts, a costume show, and finally, the eating.
Last week, B&amp;W staffer Brendan Ballou sat down with Dan Okin, commissioner of CUAssassins, to talk about deceit, cunning, and how assassinating targets can make you a better person. Also, Tao Tan’s early years. Should we be teaching people to assassinate? I mean, life isn’t always about what you see in front of you. So I don’t see anything wrong with teaching students to use of all of their wits in trying to sneak up on someone. Sometimes it’s the best business strategy. Sometimes it’s the best strategy in life. How does the game work? Teams of four are assigned to kill other teams of four…they only know who they are attacking. So anyone could be attacking them. You’re given 72 hours to complete this mission. If you don’t complete this mission in 72 hours, you become what’s known as disavowed. And we use ‘disavowed’ because we definitely try to keep that clandestine, CIA operative kind of thing, and so we’re disavowing all knowledge of you and you’re now a public target. So once you’re disavowed your picture is published to everyone— your picture, your codename, and your residence hall, so anyone can kill you if you’re on the disavowed list, it makes the game a whole lot more interesting. So there’s a really strong incentive not to get disavowed. What was the best way someone got assassinated? I know that someone did track their person down and did something really sneaky; it’s the CAVA story. Three years ago, a kid got killed and was made a police officer and one of the members of the disavowed list was on CAVA and he was on CAVA. So they both went down to Baltimore for a conference on medical ambulatory serves in colleges and universities. They slept in the same room together, they were roommates. And this guy slept in the same room with him for a night, they spent 14 or 15 hours together, consecutively, without this guy saying anything, and at the very end around 7 PM around their final cocktail hour, this guy jumps up on a table and says, “in the name of commissioner David Stern, I assassinate you” and this guy is taking a sip of his drink, and the kill report is still one of the funniest things I’ve ever read, and the guy is just like stunned that this could happen, and rightfully so, this is just absurd. What trips people up? What trips people up? It’s all over the place. The game is so intense that one or two mistakes and you’re screwed. My freshman year there was one kid with 12 or 13 kills, he was definitely in the league, running it up, made one mistake, came out of a door by mistake, so that a guy was standing behind the door, and the guy shot him. And that was it. In a lot of ways this game mimics life in some things. Because you’ll be going along, going along, going along, and you’re doing really, really well and then one mistake and you’re dead. But we try to reward students even if they make a mistake if they’re doing really well. The prizes are 400 bucks for the winning team, 100 bucks for the second place team, and 100 bucks for whoever has the most kills. While for the last two years the person with the most kills has been on the winning team, it’s not inconceivable that it would be another person who has the most kills. How far are people willing to go? How much time do they put into this? So much time. I say this is equivalent to two 4 point classes worth of time. It never ends, you’re never safe. I imagine that the people who put more time into it are more likely to survive. The crazier people aren’t always more likely to survive. Is it possible to be both a student and an assassin? It’s possible, but the best assassins are only students in class. But it’s hard to be an assassin and let your guard down so unless you’re one of those scholarly people who spend a lot of time between Butler and class, you’re going to be exposed a lot, and so it’s important to maintain that assassin attitude, which is always looking behind your shoulder. I think it’s very doable to be a scholarly assassin, I’ve just never seen anybody do it. The best assassins I’ve ever seen are freshmen and seniors who never have to give a shit about their work. What makes a good assassin? A good assassin is someone who is creative in their methods in luring their people into some kind of trap. They are a resourceful individual who uses every person they know in an effort to surprise their target or any kind of thing that they have that’s special they use. So a lot of people here don’t sleep, god knows why. Or this school’s filled with people who keep really weird hours, and they use that to their advantage…it’s about using the skills they have to their advantage. And what makes someone a bad assassin? A bad assassin is usually someone who doesn’t care. There are a lot of people who sign up who don’t understand how crazy the game really is. A bad assassin is someone who’s a little oblivious, a little overconfident in some ways. They would think ‘no one would ever find me, I would never get attacked.’ And so they have this strain of over-confidence that’s probably very prevalent among Ivy League individuals in their ability to win, and they usually die pretty quickly. Two years ago this kid was like ‘I’m going to kill everybody, I’m going to be the best assassin ever. I’m living in the tunnels during the game.’ Nope. Tao Tan is a cop, right? Yeah, actually he’s the kid I was just talking about. Two years ago Tao Tan was like “I’m going to be the best person ever. I’m going to be the best person in this game.” So he calls me about all this shit, like ‘Oh Dan, can I attach a giant water tank to my back and go around shooting people?’ Remember when I was lecturing you guys about how you can’t modify guns? He is the sole reason why you can’t modify guns. He asked if he could use a giant water pack and we said no and he said that he had a pressurized system that would enable him to shoot someone standing in front of John Jay from the roof of Low Library. And I was like ‘You’re nuts for suggesting it.’ And second of all, why? And third of all, have you seen these guns? You put any kind of pressure in them and they’ll explode in your hands. So basically Tao Tan was the single-handed reason why we discourage people from modifying their guns. And so was he eliminated? Oh, he died on the first day. How? He made one mistake. 
 First, it was New York and Vanity Fair. Now, the very eminent and very British Financial Times analyzes the blogging zeitgeist. The FT dares ask of bloggers the ultimate question of any Englishman: WWOD--What Would Orwell Do? For our own part, we've always insisted that all blogs are equal, but Bwog is more equal than others. Answers after the jump. “We’re sure Marx and Orwell would have blogged,” said Heather and Jessica of gofugyourself.com. “When it comes right down to it, blogs reach the greatest amount of people in the least amount of time, and they reach the very people Marx and Orwell wanted to speak to most.” “Orwell, definitely,” said Instapundit’s Glenn Reynolds. “Marx would have had to acquire a bit more ‘snap’, I’m afraid, to have made it as a blogger.” “Orwell maybe,” said Cox. “Orwell was pathologically productive. He never doubted himself, that’s for sure. And maybe he shares that trait with many bloggers.” The question was, of course, rigged. The great critic and editor Cyril Connolly fell into despair over the prolixity of Orwell’s wartime writing: “Being Orwell, nothing he wrote is quite without value and unexpected gems keep popping up. But O the boredom of argument without action, politics without power.”
Jessica Cohen reports: Wondering what time Tom's Restaurant closes on Thursday evenings, I searched for the famed diner on Wikipedia, and I found these interesting few sentences: "Tom's Restaurant...would later become a site for pop-culture pilgrimage due to the use of its exterior for the diner in the popular television sitcom Seinfeld where Jerry and his friends regularly ate. Early episodes showed the entire neon sign; to avoid royalties, later episodes crop out "Tom's", showing only the "RESTAURANT" wraparound." That night, after my meal there, I sought to corroborate the claim of the anonymous writer with one of the owners who had been working the cash register. In a thick Greek accent, with much more than a twinge of anger in his eyes, he declared, "We would have never asked for their money!"
Word has it that it costs the university 15 cents in used energy every time you press the handicapped button to open the doors into John Jay or Butler. Tuition for a full year is about $40,000, which equals 266,666 door openings. If you figure that it takes the door 5 seconds to open and close, it would take you 370.37 hours to use up all of that money, or about 46 days of pressing the button constantly from 9AM to 5PM. This wouldn’t get your money back, though. You can only do that by 1. Stealing toilet paper. 2. Telling the clerk at Ferris it's regular cream cheese when it's really the expensive kind. -Lydia Depillis & Beth Milton
Will Snider reports: Part of an email ("South Field Soundbites") from Amanda Atkinson, Assistant Director for First Year Housing: In this issue you will find information about: First Year Series Events Discussion: Abortion in the Caribbean 
A Barnard tour guide reassuring a parent: "Well, actually, many students get accepted by Columbia and rejected from Barnard."
After years of tumult, Larry Summers, president of Harvard will step down at the end of the semester. Remember, Bollinger was #2 for the Harvard job a few years ago. Certainly more on this story soon.
From Astrology.com: Horoscopes for February 21, 2006. Larry Summers (Born: November 30, 1954, Saggitarius) Daily Extended: If any sign is famous for always being game to try something new, it's you. But right about now, the universe is just about insisting that you try something, believe it or not, when it comes to finances. If you've begun thinking about making a bit of cash on the side, be sure it's by doing something you consider fun. With so many diligent, hard-working astrological energies on duty now, you're set. Just tell the powers that be that you're ready. Lee C. Bollinger (Born: April 30, 1946, Taurus) Daily Extended: Now is the time to let go of all the 'what ifs' you've been allowing to hold you back from doing exactly what you really want to do. You're just about guaranteed to be smart enough to only take well calculated risks, so whether it strikes you that this would be the perfect time to try sky diving, bungee jumping, telling that long-distance lover that you want them to come home now, or something equally precarious, if it feels right, do it. You can't win if you don't play.
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. I've never had the urge to punch a seventy year old man, and I didn't then, but I couldn't believe what I was listening too. I was one of the very few, if not the only child in my neighborhood of the Bronx who could say they attended a number of Bar Mitzvahs and had white best friends. What is not debatable is those women are indeed different than men. Women have different body types and physical characteristics. Perhaps the largest difference is that women are equipped to give birth to children. While none of these differences to those of the males make the women inferior but what it does do is make woman unique, which is commonly referred to as feminism. It makes me think of a person licking their lips and shaking their head before having to do something that they don't want to, or that they know is going to be a downer. Except in this case, it is the last thing that the man will ever do and its outcome won't have the chance to give him the blues because it is final. I really liked that. To lick and to electrify, or a lick and electricity, should never happen concurrently. They're potentially dangerous enough to be a life-threatening combination. We all know that. ...Maybe it's not what you'd intended, but they definitely stick out to me on the page in a good, shocking way where you've paired them. When my students see me, they think of me a "cool", and not "white-washed" and I use that to show them that you do not have to give up yourself and your ways to have an education and to have a good paying job. I soon found myself feeling helpless, trapped and depressed, on Koren's behalf, by the permanent shield alcohol had created between her true self and the world. It was like an abusive boyfriend that was preventing her from being who she really was. The donkey's journeys are varied, at the beginning he is smothered with love by Marie and lives in the farm then he works carrying bread for delivery (his tail is set on fire), later he smuggles goods (and it is shot at), he helps in the farm turning a wheel for a miserly man, he falls in the hands of a wanderer rider and among other travails he goes to the circus (where we discover his special mathematical talent) and ends up back to the fields. The figure of the donkey evokes Christian mysticism spirituality as well as pagan eroticism. His silly nature, big shoes, and over-the-top gesturing helped me to buy into his fantasy world and appreciate the plot. ...how is it that I, a modern film viewer, can derive such pleasure out of a film that seems so simple? Smiles appeared on all of their faces of those who surrounded me. All they wanted was to hear that my experience was great. I am not saying that it wasn't the best two years of my life. That really depends on your definition of what good is.
Oh, how the Bwog loves drama. And trivia. Even better: trivial drama. So in the name of saving you from having to read this is the morning, the Bwog is happy to present interesting facts gleamed from Washington Post's and the New York Times' coverage: You know Larry Summers is out, but did you know Derek Bok is in, at least for the interim? Lee C. shouldn't worry too much, though; while Bok was Harvard's president 1971-1991, he's already 75 and probably not up for too long a term. While Bok had a reputation for driving himself around in a Volkswagen bus, Summers had a repution for being driven around a black limousine with the license plate 1636 (the year of Harvard's founding, natch). Not hard to understand when you consider his base salary was $563,000 for the 2004-5 academic year, minus perks.Undergrads aren't so against the guy-- only 19% want him out-- and reportedly get all hot and bothered by Larry's surprise appearances at dances and study breaks (Lee C., take note). Maybe what he was most beloved for, though, was marching around campus autographing dollar bills that bore his signature as Treasury Secretary for students. That, Bwog readers, is the type of egomaniacal service Columbia is missing.
One would think that oscar-winning documentarian Ric Burns, C 78, had satisfied his propagandistic and masturbatory urges with his documentary for CU 250 festivities, Columbia: A Celebration. Not so! He’s back for more, producing what’s being pitched as a “reality-like” film, about his Alma Mater. And it’s going to be narrated by Brian Dennehy! Yay! But not in a clown costume! Boo. On Friday, a film crew will be shooting at the men’s basketball game v. Brown university. They’ll be conducting interviews with students, and Columbia admins have been sending out crazed e-mails to get ultra positive people to show up and spout platitudes about "your unbelievably POSITIVE Columbia experiences, your nostalgic times in Morningside Heights… We’ll get you on camera and if you are energetic, have good junk to say, and most importantly, you look good, you get your 5 seconds of fame and film credit.” After the jump, the complete e-mail: "I apologize in advance for the short notice, but on Friday, February 24, a film crew will be on campus to conduct shooting of a new "reality-like" film about Columbia. We will be doing the first shoot this Friday at the Men's Basketball Game v. Brown University. Before and throughout the game, we will be conducting "on the fly interviews" with select Columbia students. The filming and interviews will be part of an upcoming film, entitled "Columbia," which will be a film narrated by Brian Dennehy and produced by Oscar-winning documentarian, Ric Burns (who is also responsible for award-winning documentaries on the Civil War, the World Trade Center, New York City and an upcoming PBS special on Andy Warhol). I will be at the Brown game with the film crew and I am sending this e-mail to you because I know you and think you'd be a good representative for Columbia because either A.) you are incredibly good looking B.) you are incredibly intelligent and articulate or C.) BOTH! If you would like to be interviewed for the film (about your unbelievably POSITIVE Columbia experiences, your nostalgic times in Morningside Heights, and the unrivaled opportunities you have taken advantage of in New York City), come to Friday night's game swingin' solo or with all your rowdy friends and look for me and the camera crew. We'll get you on camera and if you are energetic, have good junk to say, and most importantly, you look good, you get your 5 seconds of fame and film credit." --Thanks to Rebecca Kelly
The Bwog's personal ads have been up just three weeks and already dates are underway. Full reports to come soon but so far we can promise you sweaty hands, broken hearts, caffeine jitters, and tons of gore. It's not too late it's never too late to play along so check out today's ads.If Jean or Dave looks the guy or girl of your dreams, email bwgossip@columbia.edu with the single's name in the subject line, and plead your case. If our bachelor or bachelorette picks you out of the teeming hordes, the Bwog will spring $5 for a coffee date. That’s two coffees at the Hungarian or five coffees and five doughnuts from the coffee cart at 114th and Broadway. Remember that we're always taking nominations for new singles; just email bwgossip@columbia.edu on your or your victim's behalf. Guy for Girl Girl for Guy Name: Dave School: College Year: 2006 Major: History Hometown: Washington, D.C. Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: I'll Be Your Mirror - The Velvet Underground Mercury Poisoning - Graham Parker & The Rumour Aquellos Ojos Verdes - Ibrahim Ferrer You're trapped on a desert island with three foods-- what are they? Grapefruit juice, manchego, and beer can chicken. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Anti-gravity. Or the kind you buy to avoid doing laundry. It's 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon-- where can you be found? Hurtling through New Jersey on a red and yellow bicycle with "COLUMBIA" emblazoned across my ass. Nightmare ideal date in three words or less: Won't bite back. So, what are you doing after college?It's pretty sweet, actually. I'll be working as the personal assistant to Mark Warner, former Virginia governor and 2008 Democratic presidential candidate. Really? No. Complete the sentence: When I first came to Columbia I thought... Carman kinda looked like a prison but Lerner Hall was cool (oops)... Men's Curling or Women's Hockey? Ski-and-shoot biathlon. Dave! You're the one for me! Name: Jean School: Barnard Year: 2008 Major: Psychology Hometown: Asheville, NC Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Paper Bag - Fiona Apple Rodeo Clowns - Jack Johnson Dixieland Delight - Alabama You're trapped on a desert island with three foods-- what are they? Hershey's chocolate, cheddar cheese, grits. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Pink flowers. It's 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon-- where can you be found? Probably the social work library. Nightmare ideal date in three words or less: Awkward silence. So, what are you doing after college?Umm, law school with everyone else. Really? Who knows. Complete the sentence: When I first came to Columbia I thought... I would never figure out the subway system. Men's Curling or Women's Hockey? Women's Hocky. Jean! You're the one for me!
 Kwame Spearman on---yes, you guessed it---Kwame Spearman. And figure skating! Illegal immigrants have more rights than grad students. Lee C. does a song and dance all the way to Harlem. Then trips. While evaluations force professors and various other advisers to curb rudeness and inefficiency, advisers can get away with behavior that would otherwise not be tolerated. Wait—are you talking about the four professors who actually read their evaluations? Catch ya on the flip-side, Larry. 
 It’s academia’s equivalent to The 50 Most Beautiful People. And it’s put out by that most discerning of polemicists, David Horowitz. With all the appropriate pageantry, he presents us withThe 101 Most Dangerous Academics in America. Danger is sexy! And guess what? Columbia is the sexiest! Nine of the Dr. Dangers teach at Columbia. Eric Foner, Todd Gitlin, Rashid Khalidi, and Joseph Massad are among the elite bunch. Sorry ladies, most of them are already taken. "I was flattered to be included, despite the inaccuracies and false innuendos, although I didn't and don't feel I have earned the right (either as a professor or a clear and present danger) to be on such a list," a Columbia journalism professor who is the editor of the Nation and chairman of the Columbia Journalism Review, Victor Navasky, told the NY Sun in an e-mail message.
Our sincere apologies for Bwog's absence yesterday...but our server went apeshit. Now we're back and ready to satisfy your needs for snarky, yet thoughtful commentary on Columbia happenings. Thanks for sticking with us.
A prank caller has been terrorizing first-years as of late. When the gullible first-year answers the phone, he is asked what his favorite fraternity is. Then the caller claims to be a Pledgemaster from that fraternity. As we all know, pledgemasters can often be rather demanding. Even if they are fake. Requirements for initiation are quickly shared. Among them? Penis sword fighting. How people have fallen for this, Bwog has no idea.
Recent CU appearances on Overheard in New York: More Like a Hater Girl: So was he, like, a player? Guy: Who, Charlie? Girl: No, that Genghis Khan guy. --114th and Amsterdam The Philosophy of Being…Ignorant Guy: Do you know what the word “ontological” means? Chick: Yeah…I have seen it before… Guy: Yeah. Me too. Chick: Is like an orange? Guy: Yeah…Well, it’s something weird like that. Chick: I know what you mean. --Hungarian Pastry Shoppe If You’ve Seen One Imperialist You’ve Seen ‘Em All Chick: I was in the Peace Corps down there Woman: Oh, I didn’t know that. Chick: Oh, sorry, not the Peace Corps; Club med. --Le Monde, 112th & Broadway
The following picture and caption ran on the front page of today's Spec next to the article "Professors Scoff at CULPA": Well, we know Prof. Moyn. Prof. Moyn is a friend of ours. And that, sir, is no Prof. Moyn. This is Prof. Moyn's picture on the History Department website: So who is the man in the picture? Why, it's Professor Michael Golston: We'd only add that all of this confusion could have been avoided by a look at our old friend The Facebook, where Prof. Golston has a fan club and Prof. Moyn has his very own profile as well as a group he started, Merleau-Ponty Rules!, to which we can only respond: yes, yes he does.
It apears that Larry Summers may still have a fruitful career ahead of him, not in economic modeling, but in rap. At least, that’s what this video would suggest. Picture at right: LL Cool J gives a shout out to Larry. A comment from the film's maker, Molly Wilson, H '06: "Some people seem to be kind of confused - I didn't in fact make the clip in response to his resignation. I just somehow randomly thought it would be funny... and then the whole women-in-science thing went down, then the no-confidence vote, and now this! For the record, he thinks it's hilarious. He actually looked me up and called me one night to let me know I had his blessing :) 
Overheard in the Carman computer lab: "No, I mean, there's more pollution and sometimes it smells like maple syrup, but it's pretty much the same." -Ashley Nin
Heard outside Math, a young woman explaining to a friend how a professor just didn't get it: "No, I was like, 'you don't understand the difference between a B- and a C+. If you give me a B-, my life is NOT over."
Bwog is proud to bring the second installment of "Lecture Hopping," in which correspondents go to speeches, lectures, and public displays of erudition so you don't have to. Find the first installment here. Tuesday February 21 New Yorker Nights Series: Malcolm Gladwell Miller Theatre This lecture has been left untitled on purpose, says Malcolm Gladwell; it was not until that afternoon that he had decided on a topic at all. "Tonight, I will unlock the secrets of Fleetwood Mac." The audience laughs loudly. A banner reading "The New Yorker" is hung over the stage, properly ushering in the best-selling author of"The Tipping Point" and "Blink.” He begins with a long-winded history of, yes, Fleetwood Mac - they started as a blues band in 1960s England, migrated to the San Francisco hippie scene, found themselves gaining and dropping multiple members, experimented with lots of drugs, etc. etc., and did not have their breakthrough album nor truly define their style until they had produced 49 other records. "Rumors," Gladwell says, had been their 60th. The Eagles, by contrast, had an individual sound from the beginning. Don Henley assembled his band without much to-do, hit success almost instantly, and they fell hard and fast. The first four rows are marked as VIP, such as to be littered with members of the literati. Gladwell, who ranges around the stage like a stand-up comedian, wears dark jeans, a blazer, and conspicuous black sneakers with bright yellow stripes. He looks like the product of a night of lovemaking among Macy Gray, Carrot Top, and Keanu Reeves, with a voice one octave too high for his body. He cites the work of the University of Chicago economist John Galveston, who believes that creative artists can be divided into those who peak early and those who peak late. According to Galveston, Fleetwood Mac was Picasso, and the Eagles were Cezanne. "Picasso's" are prodigies with clear, well-realized ideas. They are able to simplify their field and work quickly and systematically. "Cezanne's," on the other hand, are slowpokes. They are experimentalists, constantly tweaking their work and seekin aesthetic improvement. And, just like in both of his books, Gladwell illustrates his point with numerous quirky examples; in this case, he’s showing that creativity can be divided into these two categories. His examples: Alfred Hitchcock was a Picasso, Orson Welles a Cezanne; F. Scott Fitzgerald a Picasso, Mark Twain a Cezanne; American car manufacturers a Picasso, Japanese car manufacturers a Cezanne. And so on. While expounding the theory, Gladwell juxtaposes phrases like "biological determinacy" against phrases like he was a good dude." And for more on Fleetwood Mac, he tells us, we must consult VH1's "Behind the Music." He's tapped into the inside joke that we're all obsessed with pop culture, and knows that everyone loves hearing a writer of the nation's premier literary magazine reference LSD (2 times), cocaine (5 times), and condoms filled with milk hanging from the tuning knob of a guitar (1 time). The theory seems to be at least superficially compelling, even if the line between late- and early-bloomers is blurry. Enter Gladwell’s social commentary. He claims that our hyper-competitive society leaves little space for Cezanne, who take their time and often cannot provide technical explanations for their plans. In 2006, no record producer would ever stick with Fleetwood Mac long enough to allow their creativity to flourish. And then there’s the SAT: our system of evaluating intelligence with such finality at the raw age of 17 may be starving us of many brilliant minds. By simply illustrating the model's properties with easy examples, like he does in his books, Gladwell fails to provide us with any clear ways to apply his wisdom to -- if you don't mind my saying so -- the real world. His books are self-help books that are (brilliantly) not marketed as self-help books, and even if they were, they are too detached and passive do us any real good. Questions from the audience mostly attempt challenge the substance of the Cezanne/Picasso dichotomy. Everybody gets a little anxious. He half-jokingly asks for a substantial question. "Are you more of a Picasso or a Cezanne?" someone in the balcony asks. "I'd like to say I'm a little bit of both. When I was 21, I was probably a Picasso. But as I'm getting older, I think I'm turning to more of a Cezanne." And everybody laughs again. -Jessica Cohen
They're handing out free hoola-hoops at John Jay Dining Hall. Now!
In which film savant Iggy Cortez tells you how to spend your weekend. Find previous installments here and here. Columbia students may have forgotten the glory of Fridays with their Thursday night weekends, but universally Friday night is the space for unwinding, allowing a certain exuberance away from weekly monotony. Claire Denis runs away with Friday’s metaphorical possibilities in this voluptuously beautiful anti-narrative of a young woman whose one-night stand represents both a last dance to the single-life and, contrary to what our over-structured weeks would lead us think, an acknowledgment of life’s possibilities for transformation. While it is simplistic to make crude generalizations of French versus American film codes, one can only imagine what Friday Night would have become in the hands of a hip American indie director; if it took place in New York instead of Paris, and its taciturn ambiguity were replaced by sharp conversation and analyses of motivations. The result, while probably beautiful and engaging, would stand against everything that makes Friday Night so successful. The film is minimalist, stingy with conversation and gladly lacking in narrative cinema’s obsession with character development. And yet this dream-like film isn’t austerely conceptual, on the contrary it ranks amongst Denis most unabashedly aesthetic. Languorously beautiful, it ranks as Denis’ most accessible, and openly seductive work. Although not as defined an auteurial perspective as Beau Travail, it is equally rewarding. Like the perfect one night stand it is anonymous, vivid in details, intelligent but uncomplicated, and unconcerned with post-coital ramifications. For those of us who are resentful that our budgets will not allow exotic travels for Spring Break, Friday Night is pretty much the most satisfying vicarious experience for a trip to Paris. Second only to Fellini’s Roma, it conveys that sense of infinity that comes with existing in a European capital at night by capturing the melancholy of its lights, the sense of wanderlust its interlocking streets inspire and the infinite intimations of other lives framed within glimpses of car and apartment windows. Do yourself a favor: ignore the Stend today and rent Friday Night. Like all movies about identity, it is best experienced in the solitary confinement of your room with your lights off, as it ends as it begins, with the heroine electing to participate in society, but to enter it alone.
Rabbi Yonah Blum has invited you to a dinner party hosted by Chabad @ Columbia. Who: Chabad @ Columbia What: Going Mental on Shabbos When: Friday, February 24 Where: Chabad at Columbia University
Eight years after Katie Holmes decides to permanently defer enrollment at Columbia, Daddy Holmes decides he wants his $500 deposit back. Is the Scientology wedding really turning out to be that expensive?
 In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Doogal An animated film about doggies, diamonds, and deep-freeze, voiced by Ian McKellen, Judi Dench, Kylie Minogue, and Jimmy Fallon. Clearly, this will appeal to the crucial demographic that enjoys British actors paired with Australian pop stars and American morons. Final Destination 3 The third time around, the destination better be pretty f***in’ final. Dirty Los Angeles. Crooked cops. Cuba “badass” Gooding Jr. This movie also serves as the combined to Boat Trip, Snow Dogs, and Radio. Tyler Perry’s Madea’s Family Reunion This is the sequel to Diary of a Mad Black Woman. It stars Maya Angelou. Yes, that Maya Angelou. Also Playing: Date Movie Curious George Something New Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Tsotsi Oscar-nominated for best foreign film, but there must be a Holocaust movie this could lose to. Cache (Hidden) Juliette Binoche? Great. Ambiguous ethnic tension? Priceless. Capote Because this film addresses a gay man in Kansas, it is safe to say that the state’s new-and-improved science classes probably won’t be using it as study material. Mrs. Henderson Presents An innovative new film that involves Britishness, whimsy, nudity, and Judi Dench playing a crotchety old woman. Also Playing The Squid and the Whale The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Running Scared Because sled dogs were not enough of a challenge, Paul Walker tries to master the art of performing oral pleasure. Firewall Did you know that Harrison Ford turned down the lead in Traffic? And that he thinks they’re still making an Indiana Jones 4? So, Firewall’s just a stopgap, really. Munich A documentary about a city known for its heavyhandedness, moral ambiguity, and gratuitous 9/11 references. The Pink Panther A remake of a Peter Sellers movie that stars Beyonce Knowles makes irony very, very difficult. Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story Post-modernism and Al Pacino imitations, all wrapped up in an irresistibly British package. And bad teeth. Definitely bad teeth. Also Playing: Brokeback Mountain Eight Below Freedomland Good Night, and Good Luck Match Point Roving Mars Syriana Transamerica Walk the Line
 The University Senate debates whether or not sexual assault is bad. Since Columbia isn’t famous, it should be nice to its students. And Harlemites. And Guatemelans. Bollinger’s blue ribbon committees aren’t as much fun as they used to be. Get away from it all with tales of …Gangsta Romance! Drug Lords! Incest!
So, Bwog was busy late into the night looking for a suitably sexy photo of Lee C. Bollinger to blow up for our currently Bollinger-less dorm room wall. And that’s when we came upon an old Gothamist post that proves, inconclusively, that Lee Bollinger and Polish director Roman Polanski were separated at birth! It’s uncanny…though Lee’s a bit bustier. And he’s not a pedophile.
-When Columbians aren’t busy drinking fermented horse milk from Kyrgystan, they’re assassinating people---people like Tao Tan. -The stars aligned, and Larry Summers got axed. He’ll no doubt rap to cope. Those Harvard faculty sure were mean to him. But according to David Horowitz, Columbia’s professors are the naughtiest around. Basically, they’re terrorists and/or communists. -You know what’s expensive? Handicapped doors and Tom’s Restaurant royalties. -It’s official: eight years after her acceptance to Columbia, Katie Holmes ain’t coming. And she wants her deposit back. But now she’ll never be able to spout platitudinous crap for documentaries produced by Admissions office cronies! Everyone’s wondering though, was she ever admitted by Barnard? And when is Katie popping out that kid? She hasn’t been in the Caribbean lately, has she? And at the right, a rubber rat that was tucked in a corner in the Wien basement all afternoon. It's gone now, but Bwog was definitely scared and poked it with a pole.
There's a girl on the fifth floor of Lerner right now looking at hardcore pornography. Well, at least it's not cumsplatter.com.
We all just got sold out to the man. As "'required by U.S. law (Title 13, United States Code, Sections 141, 193, and 221),'" Columbia Housing and Dining has turned over the names and addresses of two dormfulls of students to the Census Bureau. Expect the men in black to come a'callin' tomorrow. Fun fact: Census takers can't argue with any self-reported information. Tell them you're a 65-year old black woman and have a chance to screw-up New York City demographics for good. Original email after the jump. From: Columbia Housing and Dining &lt;ws22@columbia.edu&gt; Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:09 PM Subject: U.S. Census Bureau / Columbia University Residence Halls To: hdec@cuvmc.ais.columbia.edu Cc: corp@columbia.edu Dear Residents: The U.S. Census Bureau has asked Columbia University to provide the names and phone numbers of student residents in two of our residence halls, "under the authority of Title 13, Sections 141, 193 and 221, of the United States Code." They further stated that Columbia University is "required by U.S. law to respond to this survey (Title 13, United States Code, Sections 141, 193, and 221)." The U.S. Census Bureau has sent a letter stating, "In addition, the data collection is compliant with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) in terms of requirements for disclosing information. Under these conditions, colleges and universities can disclose directory information from student records, without prior consent of the student or his or her parents, to the organization collecting the data (34 CFR Part 99)." The U.S. Census Bureau will be in your residence halls Saturday, February 25, 2006 conducting random surveys. Feel free to contact us directly if you have any questions or concerns. Yours truly, Columbia University Housing and Dining
Overheard after Columbia's ten-point victory over Brown in Friday's basketball game: "Too bad for them you can't pass/fail in basketball." --Gautam Hans--
If the Bwog had one wish for February, it would be for the owner of the Schermerhorn bike to come forward. At least they've found a better use for PVC pipe than some people.
For real. Information Session Thursday, March 2, 6:30 p.m. RSVP online at The School of Continuing Education website.
 Anna Corke reports that yesterday afternoon Dodge Hall had to be evacuated due to an electrical fire. The fire was caused by an art studio class on the fourth floor that had plugged in over a dozen electric heaters to keep their nudes from getting cold. No word on whether the nudes were allowed to dress themselves before evacuating.
The Bwog would just like to say that the "Chuck Norris Anti-Defamation League" posters showing up around campus (we blame Fiji) are playing off a joke so stale it's time to make french toast out of it. Even Chuck Norris doesn't care all that much and just wishes you'd buy his book. Now, a Chuck Norris watercolor... that, Brandon Bird, is original.
Bwog, in a fit of teary-eyed, second-semester senior nostalgia, decided to attend our first ever Columbia sporting event last night, the men's basketball game against Yale. And while we lost in a heartbreaker, JJ Jumper still managed to provide a moment of amusement. Not to be confused with Roar-ee, Columbia's own lamely named mascot, JJ Jumper is an all-purpose, all-annoying NCAA mascot that appears at different Division I, II and III games. He must've been tired from all the traveling last night, because during a round of backflips, he crashed into the live CTV halftime broadcast. Well, at least the 2000 people at the game watched it happen. UPDATE: Thanks to the Splog, we've got footage!
Maya Rudolph - the Barnard first-year, not P.T. Anderson's baby's mama - had a very funny list published over at McSweeney's last month. Further proof that Columbia kids can bring the snark with the best of 'em.
CU Snacks is kind of like that spaghetti pot they sell on TV with the drainer built into the lid: it's a good idea but it solves a problem you never really had. Plus you're pretty sure only White trash orders it. Don't believe us? Fresh baked cookies delivered to the West End. Kind of makes sense... until it doesn't. From CU Snacks' (bi-)weekly email: Also new this week; Snacks @ the 'Stend. No one likes to put the party on hold because of hunger, neither do we. Now you can get delicious snacks like Smucker's Uncrustables PB&J;, Ben and Jerry's ice cream, fresh baked cookies, and 5 cheese grilled cheese sandwiches delivered to you at The West End. Just deposit munch money before you go out, then call 212-853-FOOD from The West End, and we'll deliver. It's the most convenient way to snack at a party.
Last Friday, after years haggling over bullet points, the University Senate was finally scheduled to vote on a new sexual misconduct policy. Unfortunately, nobody showed up. Well, at least the professors didn't. The Bwog has learned that the resolution could not come up for a vote because more than half of the senators played hooky. According to our friends in high places, most of the student senators were present. It was the professors, preoccupied with their heavy Friday courseloads that all Columbia students must endure, who failed to show. Balanced news. Fearless views. The Bwog. (And the Philippine Daily Inquirer, too.) Update: Bwog got some of the facts wrong. Professor-senators did show, and voted on a new definition of "sexual misconduct." They just left before the senate could vote on changing the disciplinary procedures. Provost Brinkley and Professor Bollinger were among those who left without a hall pass (Read the whole story in the Spec).
"Kula kula kula van sola sola sola..." --Multilingual EC security guard, K. Davis, communicating in Cantonese with the Wai Lee delivery man, 2/26. -- Neeraj Pradhan --
This isn't the first time Columbia and J.J. Jumper's stars have collided. A Columbia Journalism Review reporter did a bittersweet profile of the homeless frog for Slate almost a year ago. It seems like J.J. takes it more than he dishes it out so maybe we aren't so mad at him for destroying $6,500 of CTV equipment.
Quorums kill. In the battle of the back handsprings, it's Beth Katz 1, Amphibians 0. Bollinger continues to evade, slices white bread. Plus: The rise and fall of Michiko Kakutani...
When reached for comment, Felix Gillette, CJR Daily reporter and author of the Slate profile of J.J. had the following to say: "I'm concerned that the long hours, endless travel, and lack of a stable home life may finally be catching up with J.J. Jumper. This latest incident looks like nothing less than a cry for help. I think NCAA officials need to step in, pay CTV for the damaged equipment, and get J.J. into counseling. Pronto. Otherwise, this kind of passive aggressive behavior is only going to get worse. After all, it's a slippery slope from dancing to 'Lil Bow Wow to smashing up court-side cameras to drinking one's life away on the streets. My thoughts are with J.J." As are ours. Last of the J.J. posts, we promise.
Get yourself down to the vending machine in Lerner right by the entrance to the Party Space and you, too, can swipe an iPod shuffle. Only three left, though, so hurry. 
Overheard in an EC elevator: Girl #1: "You have insomnia?" Girl #2: "No, I have wind ensemble." We prefer to view this exchange not as an example of mishearing, but as one friend inquiring about an ailment, and the other friend expounding on its cure.
In a move that went entirely unnoticed this week except by the Splog and college freshmen, the Facebook let high schoolers and college students be friends. Lydia DePillis weighs in. In the beginning, there were two worlds. And then they were one, and the Lord rested. I hope. This whole high school kids on facebook thing is a little too much for me to handle. It's only been up two days and I've been friended by like 8 people. I suppose they've had it for a while, but at least I didn't have to SEE how pathetic the average high schooler's life is, and now I yearn for that precious veil of ignorance. Selected wall postings: YESSS facebook is finaaly coming together! me and claire have been awaiting this moment... this is like facebook day extreme! did all you kids get together or something? YAY sophie has facebook! My life is complete, you complete me. I LOVE YOU! slash MISS YOU! slash is this comment kind of annoying? I swear, there really is a separate high school diction. I see huge potential for statistical analyses and other things I don't understand on the interaction patterns between high school students whose highest aim in life is to act like college students. You can tell they've been waiting eagerly for this for so long. It kind of makes me want to cry.
First Brendan Ballou felt bad about breaking a Lerner turnstile. Then he didn't. I can't believe it. I really can't believe it. People are still swiping their cards at the turnstile that does not exist. They stop before going through, bend down and swipe, then walk through, as if they still needed some permission to go through. Never be stopped by turnstiles, whether in Lerner or within your own heart. Right. Any traffic jams and you can blame him.
Possible Watt arson may be fraternity related...but Bwog thinks LUL stands for Love U Lots. ESC member resigns; conspiracy theories unleashed. Who said Valentine's was over? Admin sez: Beer + Moz Sticks + First Years = Illegal.
At 17 Lingxi Kong was named one of the Top 10 inventors in Wu Han province. By 20 he was in jail as a Chinese political prisoner. This week Lingxi talked with B&W; staffer Brendan Ballou about classical history, the world’s fastest bicycle, and how President Bollinger won his freedom. You run a website, Pax Sinica. What is it? Pax Sinica is a newsgroup distributing newsletters about China and articles about humanity subjects for promoting academic performance and intellectual experience in an extended community. I started it because my goal is to promote academic experience and interactive performance in the extended Chinese community. By extended Chinese community I mean my friends, who are interested in the topic of China and the humanities. What are the general messages about? They are about China. Current news, insightful news. Almost every article I write my own opinions. You know, we are choked by news but starved by opinion. If you see CNN and read the New York Times you see a lot of facts and many unimportant facts. Most of the facts are irrelevant to creative man. So I send selective insightful articles and I also add my own opinions because, as I said before, I read both Chinese and English articles, so I have the ability to write about them. I know you have a great interest in Western history. Can you explain why? My reason to study history is plain: History tells how men have behaved in the past several thousand years. Anyone who has access to that record is in large measure protected against the illusions and disillusionment of his own time. If history is well-written and properly learned, we can know more about nature of man and the trajectory of human civilizations than any other disciplines. Also, history is an art and a philosophy - an art by establishing a meaningful order in the chaos of materials, a philosophy by seeking perspective and enlightenment, in which we try to see the part in the light of the whole. I also gradually equipped two qualities that no historian and philosopher is complete without: understanding and forgiveness. You’ve also been an inventor for many years, correct? I developed a great interest in invention since I was fourteen. I have around 40 inventions and twenty of which I applied to patents in China. Some great ideas I chose to keep in mind without applying to patent rights until I have the resources and capacity to develop by myself. I invented the world’s fastest bike . When you ride this bike, you do both pushing with your legs and lifting with your hands. When you push just with your feet your bike makes an ‘S’. but with this bike there’s symmetry, and you go in a straight line. I invented this when I was 20. Besides the world's fastest bike other interesting inventions include (of course not exclusively) a Multi-function Knife, which has more than thirty functions and one hundred usages absolutely surpassing the famous Swiss Knife. (By the way, I use a unique structure fundamentally different from the Swiss Knife; don't get me wrong by imagining some more pieces attaching to a traditional Swiss Knife.) I also invented the world's most advanced mechanical lock (invented in the jail after studying lock-picking technique under a famous thief in China), which allows a user to both reprogram the key and the lock body. The lock itself is unable to be picked by any thief, and the key is also made universal, drastically enhances the stability and security, and reduces the cost of each lock. You were in jail? I wrote articles about political reform. I was 17. The government considered a harmful person so they quarantined me. They government blocked every opportunity. No job, no college. No anything. I was sent to jail for about 4 months, then house arrest for about 6 months. The government wanted to jail me for several years but my father managed to contact Voice of America. It’s a radio program broadcasting to suppressed countries. The Voice of America broadcasted my case and the government was afraid so they decided to release me. After I was released I applied to colleges into colleges in the US. After I was admitted in April 2004, I applied for a passport. It’s your identification card as a Chinese citizen. The government didn’t want to give it to me. Actually they wanted to arrest me again, because in Chinese law if they arrest me then immediately release me, nothing happens to me in China. I can go wherever I want in China, but as I am suspected I cannot get a passport. So if they arrest me and release me immediately, my freedom is not infringed, but my citizen's right to have a passport is denied. So when they didn't give me a passport, my friend, her is a high official in my city. So she heard that they were going to arrest me, so when I heard about that, I just ran away. Then I went hiding in Shang Hai and then some other provinces. So I tried to change my residence from Wu Han to a remote province, Xang Xi province. So if I did that I could apply for a passport in Xang Xi. They wouldn’t be able to track you? No they can, so I bribed the officials so they could create a fake person with a real ID. Actually I managed to do that successfully. In the meantime I wrote a letter to Andrew Nathan, a professor at Columbia, and an expert on China. I told him about my situation. He told Bollinger about that, and Bollinger wrote several letters to the highest authorities in China. And when my local government discovered that I had already done that they recoiled. They told me that if I came back they would give me a passport and nothing would happen to me. So I think maybe because of my own endeavor and Bollinger’s letters co-produced the thing. So when I came back they gave me the passport. So with the passport I applied for a visa, very smoothly. When I came back to my hometown Wu Han with the visa, the government arrested me again. This time they were not going to put me in jail but they wanted to make a deal with me. They wanted me to be an agent or something, I don’t know. I was very stubborn, I didn’t betray my beliefs at all. The first interrogation lasted 19 hours without stop. Three groups of people kept interrogating me. Was there a threat of violence? No, no violence. They just talked to me. What happened at the end of the 19 hours? I didn’t compromise at all. Maybe they knew that I wasn’t going to compromise, so they let me go home. They said I should come back to talk to them again the next morning. Otherwise I could not get a plane. So after five days interrogation no compromise was made and eventually I came here. Do you go home? When I came to Columbia, I didn’t do anything considered offensive to Chinese officials. I can write editorials, but I’m not doing anything open, because I’m concentrating on my academics. Most Chinese people are like me. We’re influenced my Taoism and are moderate. I don’t really want to get famous. My inventions were widely reported in China before I went to jail. I had a lot of inventions, and the media loved to cover it. After I went to jail my name was blacklisted, so no single report about me came from China. The government didn’t allow me to attend invention fairs. After that every single opportunity is blocked. Nowadays, it’s not necessary to put you in jail, the government can just block all your opportunities. Are you ever going to go back? After law school I’ll go back to China. China is changing rapidly, I believe the government will either change of fall in several years. So after my law school graduation that’s the time for me to do real things.
Bwog reports! Someone decides! The Spec reported earlier today that Adam Goldberg, E'06, founder of Ye Olde Campus Network and former Engineering Student Council President, quit his position as ESC Director of Technology last night at an ominously named "constitutional review session which was closed to the press." It was unclear why Goldberg resigned. Until the Bwog, bored and wandering around Lerner 5, found a piece of paper on the floor titled "Proposal for External ESC Executive Board Elections." (Right now the ESC is internally elected -- only 30 people can vote -- and closed from public view.) The document -- see it here -- is from an email Goldberg sent to ESC Vice President Dan Okin. Okin copied and pasted it, presenting it as a resolution. Most interesting excerpt: 1. "There is no time to change from internal to direct elections this year!!" a. This is completely false. There is already an elections timeline in place for the direct elections of every other council memember. b. I approached the e-board 2 months ago with this issue so that there would be adequate time for discussion. I was told to wait for constitutional review. Bwog contacted Goldberg, and he said that the proposal played a part in his resignation, but he had class and would call back later. (Update: Goldberg called back, saying he wants to keep the focus on the need for direct elections, and not personal beefs.) ESC President Tom Fazzio said there were no plans for external elections, but ESC would solicit student feedback. The more intrigue, the better. Tattle on your neighbors and elected officials by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu.
March is almost here and the theses have begun their looming. Blythe Sheldon forwarded us the following email from an anonymous anthopology student. While the fetishization of childhood books is never a great idea, they've still got a clever idea. in other news, i'm naming my thesis. so that my away messages will sound better: "in the stacks with Matilda", or "out all night with Matilda" etc. I'm leaning toward Matilda, in honor of Dahl and his Matilda (lovely book which still makes me smile everytime i read it) -- but am open to suggestions on what I should name it. Oh, and twin/sibling names are better since I have another paper/thesis. But no references to the olsens please.
Feeling the heat from the indignant masses who have been protesting the Facebook's decision to contaminate its virgin collegiate domain with the abbreviated ramblings of high school students, Mark Zuckerberg finally broke the silence with a response: Hey, Facebook understands that some of you may be upset that high school and college students can now interact. We did this because a lot of people asked for it and we wanted to make it even easier for you to communicate with your friends. We realize that friendship is not restricted to a particular stage of school and we decided to stop dividing people based on what grade they were in. One Bwogger realized today his 14 year old sister was interested in "Men." Not boys, but "Men." Sometimes, separate but equal really IS separate but equal. But then again, now Bwog won't have as much trouble finding a date. Hat tip to Bwog correspondent John Klopfer. Full text of Facebook's response after the jump. Hey, Facebook understands that some of you may be upset that high school and college students can now interact. We did this because a lot of people asked for it and we wanted to make it even easier for you to communicate with your friends. We realize that friendship is not restricted to a particular stage of school and we decided to stop dividing people based on what grade they were in. This does not affect the security of Facebook. There are several measures in place to ensure that the high schoolers are affiliated with the school that they actually attend. First, they must either register with a school email address or be invited to join by a friend at their school. Second, anyone at a high school can report someone else that does not attend their school. Facebook monitors these reports very closely to make sure that there is no abuse of the site. It’s important to remember that you are ultimately the person in control of what information you choose to share, and who sees that information.. The only people who can see your profile are still those who are your friends, go to your school, or have been friended by you. If you want to control who can find you in searches and see your profile, we encourage you to adjust your My Privacy Settings. As added privacy control, Facebook has introduced a “Limited Profile” feature (available on the My Privacy page) that allows you to limit the profile information that selected people see. As an example, you can hide your photos and contact information from particular people. Facebook helps you share information with your friends and helps you control who sees that information through the settings on the My Privacy page. You might experience difficulty searching for your high school friends because we do not provide a list of high schools for global search. Don’t worry though, this inconvenience is just temporary. In a few weeks, Facebook is going to introduce a revamped search tool that will make it easier than before to find your friends. In the interim, bear with us. I assure you that it will be worth the wait. Please do not respond to this message as this email account is not monitored. If you would like to ask any additional questions, please contact info@facebook.com. Thanks for using Facebook! 
The Chronicle of Higher Education has a long article about Harvard's Larry Summers. We don't care. The article also has a list of 6 possible sucessors. That we care about. No. 2? Lee C. Bollinger President of Columbia University since 2002 Mr. Bollinger, 59, a former dean of the University of Michigan Law School, was a finalist for the Harvard job when Mr. Summers got it. While he was considered by some at the time to be the leading candidate, it was speculated that his lack of Harvard credentials may have weighed against him. Another big question is whether Harvard would poach a president from a fellow Ivy League institution. Mr. Bollinger has had a tough year, negotiating a dispute that arose over allegations that professors in Columbia's Middle Eastern-studies department had intimidated pro-Israel, Jewish students. How come it's never a lack of Columbia credentials that makes the difference? Oh. Right. Not Harvard.
SEAS democracy looms on the horizon. And now, the time has come to raise the specter of FlexLife. "Pundits" attack, "progressive" voices scream "diversity," They're usin' "adversity" to transform our uni-versity into a bastion of "liberal" "perversity"... ...'Cept hate ain't fine, so when it comes to Finkelstein, We'll overcome these polarities and stand in solidarity with the Co-llege Dem-o-crats. PEACE. - MC CK
One success story already and we know you're just waiting for your turn. The Bwog Personals will never stop in its noble quest to get our readers some and this week we deliver unto you elusive Floridian Steve. Does he look like the guy of your dreams? Email bwgossip@columbia.edu with a sentence or two about yourself and if our bachelor chooses you, we spring $5 for a coffee date. Nominations are still being taken for new singles. Emails of inquiry on your or a friend's behalf should be addressed to bwgossip@columbia.edu. Rock. Guy for Girl Name: Stephen School: SEAS Year: 2006 Major: Electrical Engineering with a Philosophy Minor Hometown: Jacksonville, FL Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Do I have to answer this? It's embarassing. Carrie Underwood has been playing all week. Say Anything - Wow, I Can Get Sexual Too Her Space Holiday - The Weight of the World Bear vs. Shark - Entrance of the Elected You're trapped on a desert island with three foods-- what are they? Chocolate Peanut Butter Cup Ben and Jerry's, Sun Dried Tomato Wheat Thins, Porterhouse steak. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. I have a really sweet pair of green swimming drag shorts that I run around our suite in. It's 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon-- where can you be found? Still in my underwear making pancakes. Nightmare date in three words or less: Thomas Friedman's mustache. So, what are you doing after college?I'm going to design medical devices and settle down with a nice Jewish girl. Really? Yes really. That or be an ice cream man. Complete the sentence: When I first came to Columbia I thought... Jewish girls were mythical creatures, kind of like unicorns. Whole wheat or rye? I'm cutting down on carbs, my mom told me I was getting fat. Stephen Wang! You're the one for me!
Bari Weiss reviews Bridge and Tunnel, performer-writer Sarah Jones' theatre tribute to the immigrant experience. It’s hard to knock a female solo performer headlining packed houses at 29, especially when Meryl Streep has called her “a member of the tribe.” But Meryl Streep’s blessing can only get you to the Village; it takes audiences to land you on Broadway, where she now does her thing nightly at the Helen Hayes. It’s the people who have spoken loudest: Sarah Jones is as good as hell. A graduate of Bryn Mawr, Jones came onto the New York scene as a slam poet at the Nuyorican Poets Café, but she made a name for herself in 2001 with her feminist hip-hop song, “Your Revolution.” The song was censored by the Federal Communications Commission (ironically, given its anti-chauvinist lyrics) until Jones sued and won. Bridge and Tunnel, Jones’ third solo play, is a showcase of what she does best: characters. It is set at the fifth annual I.A.M.A.P.O.E.T.O.O. poetry showcase (don’t ask what it stands for), in which fourteen poets, from places as varied as Mexico to Moscow, perform at the seedy Bridge and Tunnel Café. Otherness in America is not a new story. What’s new is Jones and her ability to perform such a political play without seeming preachy or heavy-handed. Though each of her characters experiences a host of difficulty in this country, what is most profound is not their suffering, but their thick-skinned humor. The showcase is hosted by Muhammad Ali, a Pakistani Muslim with a penchant for bad jokes. Intermittently, he is interrupted by calls from his anxious wife—the government insists on performing a “background check” on him. It’s nebulous, but we get the point: Ali is no terrorist. We are reminded that such xenophobia is nothing new for immigrant Americans as the play moves directly from Muhammad to Loriane Levine, Jones’ spot-on Eastern European arthritic Jewish grandmother from Long Island. This juxtaposition reminds the audience that now-staples of “American culture” (think: Mike Myers’ Coffeetalking Linda Richman on SNL) were once considered dirty immigrants. From Levine she transforms into Bao, a twenty-something Vietnamese-American who angrily insists that his poem is not about “crouching tiger and hidden drycleaner, or rice, or flowering lotuses.” The audience gasped as Jones transitioned from her high-registered eleven-year old Latina girl to Monique, a sultry performance artist from Australia via Brooklyn. Jones became Juan Jose, a Mexican-American worker relegated to a wheelchair, and Boris, an elderly Russian. Jones doesn’t just “do voices,” she embodies people. With every prop she dons to signify a new character, her six-foot frame seemed to morph in front of our eyes. Perhaps the most moving character is Mrs. Ling, a Chinese-American from Flushing, who speaks from behind thick glasses about coming to terms with her daughter’s lesbianism. Jones conveys, in a perfect Chinese accent, her deep struggle with her daughter’s own “foreign” lifestyle. One gets the feeling that Rashid, a black hip-hop performer who is the only non-immigrant character, is a stand-in for Jones herself. He uses self-deprecating humor to connect with the mostly immigrant crowd: “Black people, you know what I’m saying, we get imported, you get deported.” He even throws in a terrorist joke: “Obama. See, our man is only one consonant away from being a terrorist.” Though some critics will inevitably contend that the play is a little too naïve and reminiscent of an ACLU ad, the fact remains that Jones is a great talent, and her characters have resonance. As an African-American, Jones reminds her audience of our commonality: at some point, we all were -Americans.
Girl on College Walk: "I make out with Sig Ep a lot. Cause they're, like, right next door." - James Williams
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. Theses feces reese’s pieces After reading "A Vindication of the Woman’s Rights" I couldn’t help but feel somewhat confused about the mixed message. Women have different body types and physical characteristics. Perhaps the largest difference is that women are equipped to give birth to children. While none of these differences to those of the males make the women inferior but what it does do is make woman unique, which is commonly referred to as feminism. Many people claim the people do too much taking about racial problems and not enough action, and others will claim that people don’t do enough reflecting of planning. It allows one to accept people not only from different cultures, but also those who are different in social, economic, and moral wayssss. Boooooo change this. Great literature can be sexy. Still, when I say literature is sexy I’m not referring simply to the way Janie Mae Crawford’s hips sway beneath a forget-me-not colored skirt in Zora Neale Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God. Sure, we forget her not, but what’s infinitely sexier than her physical form is the caress of the words as Hurston describes a blossoming pear tree—a metaphor for Janie’s self-actualization. Think of Jay Gatsby tossing silk shirts onto his bed, that is sexy literature. But as I read and reread, the satisfaction does not diminish; the stories do not become old, nor does the language wrinkle and sag. This changed when I was introduced to literary criticism that, as it was practiced, was nothing more than high-brow pornography. When I was eight years old I wandered into the “adult video” section of our local video rental store. My mother was talking to the cashier and didn’t notice my absence for several minutes, and when she did, she dragged me into the daylight by the hood of my jacket, blushing furiously at the store owner’s critique of her maternal instinct. More than a decade later, I can still describe the shocked faces that stared at me from the video jackets. The women were open-mouthed, predatory, and yet incredulous that I’d caught them in the act; the men were…well, I honestly don’t remember the men. I stared back, too curious to look away. Gone was the subtlety, here was pornography. Before I took her class, I had acknowledged the occasional pornographic moment in literature, as one might come upon a sex scene in a movie, but I was always more entranced by the literary cinematography than whatever occurred between bed sheets. It was like when the postal service introduced the Sacagawea dollar and no one told me, so I threw it out. She thought I was shallow and cynical and had a mind with the acuity of a single chopstick. To say that a sentence existed for stylistic purposes or to further the plot was to reduce the work, as though in porn a pizza deliveryman couldn’t possibly just deliver the pizza. In its highest (that is to say, lowest) form, overdone literary criticism cloaks each nude, each text, in a burka—in theory. The new pornography, the literary pornography, has found it more effective to suffocate expression and language beneath a shroud of criticism, whereas pornography is too obviously porn. It bares all. All we need do is un-tart the whore. It’s much like the refrigerator magnets that allow you to dress a nude in several outfits. Literature does not need a facelift. Unlike pornography, the stories do not get old because with each reading comes different appreciation and meaning. They were tan boys with short haircuts, both younger than me. They were shooting paintballs at a stringy white dog wearing a homemade helmet. I loved it when Phil drank. This tiny fat-man dance hid just under everything he did. I walked in and Marianne was under the bed. I couldn’t see her, but I knew that she was under the bed because she wasn’t in the bed or on the toilet.
Bwog is proud to bring the third installment of "Lecture Hopping," in which correspondents go to speeches, lectures, and public displays of erudition so you don't have to. ID: The Politics of Intelligent Design February 27 Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall Few titles herald a more dismal evening than “The Politics of Intelligent Design,” a panel hosted by the Columbia Political Union on Monday night in Roone Arledge Cinema. Fortunately, CPU had the good sense to invite a crazy person. But first, a brochure, handed out the door, called “A Non-Partisan Guide to I.D.” Its ‘he said, she said’ summary of the topic highlighted the problem with hosting such a panel in the first place: CPU had apparently given “intelligent design theory” credit for being intellectually legitimate just because it exists. It isn’t, and in the absence of substantive controversy, I couldn’t see what there was to talk about. I prepared for two tedious hours of ideological shadowboxing. The panel began with an introduction by moderator Joel Cracraft, trained biologist and Lamont Curator of Birds at the American Museum of Natural History. He introduced the topic as “intelligent design creationism,” saying, “I’ll call it creationism because that’s what it is.” On that note, Cracraft launched an impassioned defense of rational inquiry and the social importance of science. The audience applauded enthusiastically. Next up was Nick Matzke, Public Information Project Director for the National Center for Science Education, and an advisor to the plaintiffs in Kitzmiller v. Dover, 2004’s highly publicized Pennsylvania Supreme Court case on intelligent design. With the help of Powerpoint, Matzke established that the modern intelligent design movement is directly descended from the “creation science” of the 1970s and 80s. One slide showed the audience a draft of an intelligent design textbook in which “creationists” had been incompletely replaced by “design proponents,” yielding “cdesign proponentists.” It must have been a great courtroom moment, and I laughed with everyone else, but I couldn’t help but wonder if public debate would be better served by a thorough refutation of intelligent design’s claims, however specious their origin. Barbara Forrest, who had been an expert witness in the Dover trial, followed with a brief profile of the modern intelligent design movement, listing its connections to various right-wing politicians and think tanks. It was nothing new to anyone who reads the papers, and as she detailed Rick Santorum’s flip-flopping on the issue, the discussion began to drag. Apparently our government hands out—get this—agriculture subsidies to red states. After Forrest had finished, Cracraft introduced, with open contempt, the evening’s pièce de résistance: Reverend John Rankin, Harvard Divinity graduate and president of the Theological Education Institute, an organization he founded in Connecticut. From what I can gather from its website Rankin is a kind of evangelical Don Quixote, whose life’s work is to do battle with modern skepticism using old-fashioned, “radically theological” weapons. He didn’t use Powerpoint, and he spoke clearly, if quickly. At first I was entranced: where the other panelists had told given dry, straightforward lectures, Rankin said things like “Yahweh Elohim is greater than space, time, and number.” He alluded to esoteric Hebrew scholarship and asked more than once what came before the “hot Big Bang.” He didn’t talk about the politics of intelligent design. Instead he delivered a rapid-fire, ten-point lecture on the theme that all human knowledge and morality can be derived from—and only from--the Book of Genesis. He betrayed a peculiar fondness for formulaic repetition: each point began, “Only Genesis has a positive view of … ” The things of which only Genesis has a positive view include, but are not limited to, God, communication, human sexuality, science, “hard questions” and human rights. Rankin concluded by joking that God had made the dinosaurs to help the Smithsonian fundraise. The question-and-answer portion of the program was, as one might guess, anticlimactic. Many of the questions for Rankin sounded like they’d been prepared before he’d given the fiery speech, and no one took up his ideas. One questioner asked—sensibly, since the issue had been almost completely neglected—why intelligent design isn’t science. The last question brought us back to the surreal: an elderly man of the cloth asked Rankin if he’d heard of the fundamentalist website Answers in Genesis, which claims that the world was created in seven literal, twenty-four hour days. “I can demonstrate conclusively that’s not the case,” Rankin said. If you had his knowledge of Hebrew, you could too. &mdash;Brendan Pierson
 Bwog staffer Julia Butareva reviews the Freight and Volume Gallery’s exhibit featuring works by Alexia Stamatiou, Elizabeth Huey, Todd Herbert, Daniel Rich, and Scott Anderson. Elizabeth Huey’s painting “The Inquisition” easily dominates the small space that is the Freight and Volume Gallery. The gallery really is tiny and makeshift: two employees sit at their computers in a darkened nook about the size of a bathroom, and carelessly stored artwork spills out into the exhibition space. Among the glossy, simplified suburb-scapes, Huey’s imposing collage can’t help but stand out. It’s a landscape with a Gothic mansion atop a mountain. A town full of rustic houses can be seen in the distance. The sky is gray. In accord with the exhibition’s title, “We Build the Worlds Inside Our Heads,” Huey’s giant collage is a bizarre amalgam of people, places, and things, with no obvious unifying principle – rather like the exhibition itself. The sky has squares of varying shades of blue on it, as if it is remembering all the other colors that skies have been. Some of the houses look like they belong in fairy tales, others in conservative suburbs. The Gothic mansion is dilapidated and spooky at the top, but at the bottom it bears a closer resemblance to a marble castle. An angel in a corner looks as if stepped out of some expulsion-from-Eden scene—it brandishes a sword and its mouth is open in an angry cry. But its sword is some sort of ninja weapon and it wears a distinctly science-fiction costume. It also happens to be attacking a fox…which is standing upright. Up the hill from this duo, a magician conjures a desktop computer. It’s a game in free-association, and all the players are familiar, but the very familiarity of the references is nauseating. It’s gimmicky, irredeemable kitsch. The same can be said for Alexia Stamatiou’s cloying drawings of jungle creatures. They are cute humanoid things with cartoon penises, small crosses on their throats, and brightly colored patches of hair on their chests and armpits. They inhabit a jungle of multicolored leaves that seem to float in the air independently of one another and of the trees. The gouache paintings have quasi-religious connotations: one is called “Palm Sunday” and another, “They Had Found It,” shows the creatures gathered around a blue cross on the jungle floor. The undulating shapes of the flat trees and the utter lack of illusionary space evoke Matisse, but they also bring to mind Rousseau’s naiveté and Gauguin’s trick of transposing religious allegory in exotic locations. And it is a trick. These drawings are cloying, small, neat, and banal. If you’re were in the mood for innocently empty charm, you might like them. Otherwise, don’t waste your time. Huey’s painting dominates this disconnected show by virtue of its sheer size. There’s no discernible organizing principle. Try another show, one that doesn’t require such a trek through the cold. “We Build the Worlds Inside Our Heads”: works by Alexia Stamatiou, Elizabeth Huey, Todd Herbert, Daniel Rich, and Scott Anderson. On view until March 4, 2006 Freight and Volume Gallery 542 West 24th Street To Get There: Take the 1 to 23rd Street, then walk a block north and about three blocks west.
An exercise in homelessness, but WHY? Prezbo, people are still pissed, yo. And we're still talking about this? Concentrate, concentrate! Plus: The culinary careers of political science majors.
Professor Alfred MacAdams on the translation of Latin American texts: "All of this is like trying to learn sex from a manual and using a blow up doll. There are some things you just can't learn from books." -Ana Ortiz
To save further students the indignity of heading off to class, finding their favorite gate locked, and realizing class just isn't worth the extra 10 yard walk, know that the following entrances onto campus have been closed since this morning: * 120th Street Gate * Earl Gate * Chapel Gate * Lerner Gate
Lionel Trilling Seminar series: Does History Teach Any Lessons? 23 February 2006 The Rotunda, Low Library As last stragglers filed into the Rotunda, a man in a suit informed some two-hundred fifty people, “This evening’s seminar opens vistas of thought.” Never trust man in a suit. Gordon Wood’s lecture was a reality check. He came to tell us history’s not all it’s cracked up to be, and we abuse it. Did you think Brown’s star American History professor came all the way to Columbia to teach history lessons for an hour? Heck, no!—we’ve got Foner. Warm and energetic, he looks twenty years younger than his seventy-two. For a friend of rare-book dust bunnies, a scholar of the revolutionary period, he is incongruously spry and impudent. If anybody, knowing Wood’s brilliant scholarship, hoped he would inform the state of the union with revolutionary lessons, the professor’s opening statement must have been a crushing blow. “My topic tonight,” he told us, “is: are there lessons in history?” “No.” For Wood, historians “ought not to be using history as a source of lessons.” Barbara Tuchman, he said, was the ideal historian. Not for her Pulitzers, but for her storytelling. She captured the complexity of any situation with impartiality and sympathy. Trained as a journalist, Tuchman criticized academics for sucking history dry. Wood agreed with her that, seeking utility, the ‘historian’ will create something nobody wants to use. Ironically, Wood declares, when academic historians abandoned instrumentalism for narrative (c. 1980), Tuchman decided in The March of Folly to perpetrate the same crimes she once prosecuted: caricaturism, speculation, dismissiveness—stupid Trojans and their goddamn horse! degenerate Britons! silly Japs! Could have done better… Here, Professor Wood unobtrusively delivered his main argument: lessons from history misguide us. Tuchman’s book sold the British, amongst others, short. They did the best they could to restrain the American colonies, and it’s no use calling them fools for not seeing the future. It’s no use, he said, but it’s the American way; it is a peculiarity of our nation’s youth, James Polk commented, that we alone find our history in the future. Wood then defiantly calls the American revolutionaries “obtuse.” The ignorant, he observed, take heart in self-deception, like horses wearing blinders. Learned men hesitated to revolt, perhaps contemplating Mytilene as the Founding Fathers thumbed their noses at mother England. The sagacity of the Thucydides scholars, Wood asserts, was not our saving grace. Our freedom, therefore, is owed in large part to folly. “Can we learn lessons from the mistakes of the past?” Wood put on his mock-pensive face. “I think we can make a case against this.” He reversed the old adage: the more we learn of history, the more we repeat its errors. For example, Dean Rusk, Kennedy’s Secretary of State, ignoring the differences of the two situations, invoked Munich in his decision to invade Vietnam. According to Wood, our simplistic ‘lessons’ make history the instrument of unpardonable sins: “anachronism,” “ruined integrity,” “subversion of the truth.” It teaches the wrong facts, and sometimes none at all. A certain well-intentioned sociologist, reproved for teaching secondary students the Native American origin of Constitutional ideas, suggested that his curriculum could be taught in elementary, but “surely not in middle school!” The present should inspire historians, but it shouldn’t alter or filter the record. “History,” Wood declared, “deepens and complicates,” transporting us into chaos. The historian just gives us the bird’s eye vantage and oversight. Wood offered an example: Fabrice, in Stendhal’s Charterhouse of Parma, finds himself lost at Waterloo and can’t say whether he’s fought in “a real battle,” though he (unwittingly) passes by Napoleon on the field. In the fray, we can’t know what’s happening. A “historical sense,” Wood explains, saves us from the error of certainty, and teaches us few other lessons. We can know the “pastness” of the past, skepticism, and prudence. A historical sense tells us “things will change and continue to change, but not in ways that we may understand, or want.” No lessons? No palm-reading, no tarot, no horoscope of history? No, that’s all, Wood concluded unhelpfully—“This kind of historical sense . . . will give us the best guide for groping our way to the future.” We can’t do better. - John Klopfer
Sunil Gulati on exchange rates: "Stay away from the health club, you want pounds." Lag from the class. Laughter. - Ana Ortiz
Major Declaration time is here! And earlier this week, the B&W; posted its first ever "Disillusioned Majors Guide," advising students to avoid History, Classics, Comp. Lit, and nearly everything else. There is only one proper recourse for the liberal arts major: don't major in anything. At all. (Note: This was not included in the upcoming March issue. It is an online EXCLUSIVE!) For those who just can’t decide what to declare, or don’t enjoy, ummm, too much learning, consider a concentration. Just a concentration. You should be able finish up the requirements for something in the next couple of years. What will you lose by not majoring? Nothing. Concentration is a minor on steroids. You usually need to take nine classes in your field, at most. You also get the mythic liberal arts education. May your schooling range wide and far, and not get artificially pigeonholed into a restricting discipline! As long as you take real classes outside your concentration—don’t take Surfaces and Knots three times—grad schools aren’t going to care, and you will be happier that you don’t have wackass requirements wrecking your schedule. If you are eyeing graduate work in, say, English, surely a concentration is fine as long as those admissions officers see all those crazy history and physics and film classes you took. Or future chemists can say “Look! I concentrated in chemistry! And I took lots of math on the side! And I speak Russian!” It’s not just for hippies. Columbia College Dean of Academic Affairs Kathryn Yatrakis is a well-known fan of the concentration. While Columbia students race to finish their Economics-English-EALAC three-thesis triple major, she just wants us to close our eyes and concentrate. There’s a big school out there, she must be thinking, and it wasn’t made for those damn majorettes. It was made for those who want their education comprehensive, expansive, and made of 100% concentrate. 
In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Dave Chappelle’s Block Party Any attempt at sarcasm goes out the window when confronted with a movie directed by Michel Gondry (of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind), starring Dave Chappelle, and featuring performances by Kanye West, Talib Kweli, Mos Def, The Roots, and the Fugees (!), among others. Ultraviolet Rather than attempt to summarize this masterwork, I will defer to my friend Sam Ryan, who, in response to a recent posting, noted, “ULTRAVIOLET: MORE LIKE ULPOOPVIOPOOP.” Indeed. Doogal Ian McKellen: No! I will not do a voiceover for an animated film that features Jimmy Fallon. Harvey Weinstein: I own you. Ian McKellen: Alright, but only if Dame Judi does it with me. Harvey: Yes, yes I like it. Ian McKellen, Judi Dench, Jimmy Fallon, and… Bob Weinstein: Whoopi Goldberg? Harvey: YES! I love it! Final Destination 3 The name of the movie, and the feeling I get when I realize I have to fly out of Newark. Again. Also Playing: Curious George Date Movie Running Scared Tyler Perry’s Madea’s Family Reunion Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Cache (Hidden) It’s Amélie, without the whitewashedness, the accordion, and the redemptive power of love. The Squid and the Whale A movie that shows us that writers make bad parents. James Frey, please take notes. The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada Not a commercial for a Spanish-speaking funeral parlor, but it would be quite a payday. Tsotsi There are very few jokes that can be made about a film about gang activity in Soweto…Oh, did you expect a joke, anyway? Sorry. Also Playing: Capote Mrs. Henderson Presents AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway 16 Blocks He’s fought a lot of tough guys in his life, but now, Bruce Willis takes on his biggest challenge: The New York Commissioner’s Plan of 1811. There won’t be a single block left by the time he’s done with them. Aquamarine A film about a mermaid that washes onshore and tries to adapt to modern tweendom. This has to be some sort of commentary on rising sea levels, right? Right? Deep Sea 3D Kate Winslet and Johnny Depp narrate underwater adventures. Hopefully, they do not discover any tween mermaids. Good Night, and Good Luck If you thought cigarettes couldn’t get any cooler, check this out. Stars beautiful, radiant cigarettes, with cameos by David Strathairn and George Clooney. Tristram Shandy: A Cock and Bull Story I will continue to pimp this movie until someone decides to pull it from theaters. But for now, please go see it. It’s the funniest post-modern mockery of post-modernism since Aquamarine. Also Playing: Firewall Munich The Pink Panther Brokeback Mountain Eight Below Match Point Roving Mars Syriana Transamerica
 Oh, bejesus. Jeff Sachs is on the Colbert Report tonight at 11:30. Update: Excellent analysis in the comments, by the bye.
Overheard in an econ class: Person A: "I have a million things to do" Person B: "I think that's probably a hyperbole" Person A: "What's the opposite of hyperbole? Hypobole?"
Sup grrrrl? Haul booty 2 the Lerner desk right now 4 a sample of Maybelline Pure Makeup. K? Gr8! 2 bad it's not at BC cause they def weren't born with it. Holla!
Just four beers? But this is America! Finally, a publication dares to take on the Danish cartoon issue. Foner, Gitlin, and Navasky (or is it Navansky? Oh well, they'll let the readers figure it out) are pissed at David Horowitz.Yeah, we know, we told you so. Ten days ago. With the Nielsen ratings coming to Columbia, it looks like CTV can finally make its voice heard! Or not. SOA alums rock the Oscars, SOA students watch the Oscars
In which Bwog staffer Mark Krotov familiarizes us with the places where you can find him when he's supposed to be in class. On Friday nights, the entrance to East Campus is a stampede of excited drunkards and impatient Barnard girls, all waiting to enter a monolithic structure that is an almost mythical haven for parties of all kinds. But for some visitors to East Campus, neither their entrance nor their final destination is the least bit dramatic. These visitors, either conference attendees or parents who want to stay very close to their children (like my mom, who visited last weekend), get a sleek blue pass key that the guards swipe without hesitation, and which opens their rooms on the sixth floor of EC. When I first entered my mom’s hotel room (while the official title of the space may be Conference Housing and Guest Accommodations, it is unmistakably a hotel), I was taken aback. Here, crammed between floors of partygoers, and only across the hall from a row of doubles, was a space that looked far more like an expensive Holiday Inn room than the exclusion suites located above it. The rooms are one and a half floors tall, meaning that one has to walk down a set of stairs inside the room, giving the place an epic ambience. There are two huge full beds, overabundant white towels, an automatically flushing toilet, a TV with HBO, a coffeemaker, and a mini-fridge. All of this, with daily housekeeping services. The strangest part of the setup is the rooms’ disjunction from their immediate surroundings. The rooms have the same view of Harlem (with the looming ConEd plant in the background) as any other room on the east side of the building, the elevator that one takes to get to the room is still emblazoned with “VACHINA?” and when you walk out, you can still buy an energy drink downstairs. But the presence of this clean, sterilized space, right in East Campus, is a bit unsettling. Each year, we spend a lot of time decorating our rooms in order to to make them our own. That there are rooms in EC dedicated to total transience is odd in itself, but it is a little sad to know that those hotel rooms will be there far longer than we will.
-Now that you’ve declared your major, regret your decision for the next two years. Or, you could take the Yatrakis-approved path and concentrate. -History does not teach lessons, says Brown professor Gordon Wood. Unless of course, they’re Biblical lessons, and the history is Biblical history. -Lost on Lerner 5, we found a piece of paper, which led us to break GoldbergGate. We were so happy about our discovery, that we rewarded ourselves with an iPod Shuffle that we bought in a Lerner vending machine. -Stephen deserves your romantic attention, and will probably get it, because of our superb matchmaking skills. -An awkwardly-named mascot that does backflips and breaks camera equipment definitely deserved our attention.
It's hard enough to be an undergraduate, but how can you possibly go to class if all the buildings look the same? To let you know where you stand, Bwog presents a quiz that challenges your Columbia knowledge. Is it Havemeyer? Is it Hamilton? No, probably not. Building names have been blurred to protect the innocent, and scroll to the end for the answers. Building A Building B Building C Building D Building E Building F Building G Building H Building I Building J Building K Answers: Building A: Lewisohn Building B: Schermerhorn Building C: Journalism Building D: Dodge Building E: Philosophy Building F: Hamilton Building G: Fayerweather Building H: Avery Building I: Havemeyer Building J: Kent Building K: Mathematics photos by Mark Krotov
Today's Headline: Recycled is the Paper of Choice at Columbia. In other news, food is the eat of choice. Just another day of the obvious on the Columbia homepage.
See Clown's sign. Then see Playboy touting the 'Stend as the center of the universe. Update (1:45 pm): When this Bwog correspondent showed up at the 'Stend to take some Beer Carnival pictures, she was quickly informed by the Manager that, this being a Saturday, everything was running a bit behind schedule and to come back in a few hours when things would, she assured me, be hopping. Sneaking a quick peak at the untouched buffet on the way out, this correspondent couldn't help but noticed that the few attendees milling around didn't even have beers in hand.
In which film savant Iggy Cortez tells you what to watch on Oscar’s eve. Joining the ranks of Fellini and Kurosawa, Robert Altman will receive a life-time achievement award during this year’s Academy Awards. Although the Oscar’s prestige has considerably diminished in the past few years, Altman’s recognition should be universally lauded, as he is arguably the best living American director and certainly one of the most consistently inventive. He has a rare gift of both exploiting the potential of the genre movie while subverting it from within. Because face it, no matter what enjoyment you may get from a Western or Noir, if performed unimaginatively, the genre movie is the ultimate platform for reifying roles, presenting moments that may shine on their own, but that collectively impose a certain oppressive system of belief. Out of all his movies, Gosford Park is certainly one of the best and also one of the most misunderstood, particularly by supposed cinephiles who rather stupidly dismiss it as an exercise in glamour, disregarding its aesthetic profundity simply because Altman does not perform existential back-flips and pirouettes. Playing with the genre of the detective story, Altman creates an organic portrait of class identity and universal misery, but more importantly he creates an aesthetic object that manages to suggest complete and utter flux. Purposefully structuring his film along a meaningless story line, Altman seduces with the strength of his actors’ performances, his perfect orchestration of a constellation of interweaving subplots and a subtle cinematography that, like a master’s brushstroke, has both grace and muscle. Anglophiles will also enjoy this film’s remarkable cast that, rather ironically for a film with declassification and anti-snobbery at its heart, confirms the long-standing suspicion of the British star system’s superiority over America’s. In particular, Helen Mirren gives the performance of a lifetime as Mrs. Wilson, the stoic governess and “perfect servant” who haunts Gosford Park. A master of eloquent micro-economy, her performance shines in a movie filled with outstanding portrayals that come to life, full blooded and compelling, with even the fewest of lines.
Graffiti from the 600 113th St. dormitory's basement bathroom after the jump. Bwog found it to be quite instructive. DO NOT OPEN THIS POST ON A PUBLIC COMPUTER Favorite parts include the clever incorporation of cigarette stub marks (or was that the original inspiration?), the labelling of "ME", and our man in the rear's four legs. Also, the lucky lady's scary toes.
Overheard in New York's humor generally relies on the fact that readers are missing context. One of yesterday's posts, however, relies on the fact that any Columbia student worth their salt knows exactly who they're talking about. Guy #1: Which one did you make out with? Guy #2: I dunno, I can't tell the difference. Whichever one is Jessica. --Pearl's, Amsterdam Avenue
The Blue and White’s Rob Wile sat down with English Professor Michael Rosenthal to discuss his new book recounting the exploits of the man who built Columbia, or at least served as its president from 1902-1945.. In Nicholas Miraculous: The Amazing Story of the Redoubtable Nicholas Murray Butler, Rosenthal documents the evolution of a man who went from being a Nobel Peace Prize winner and “president of everything” (with the notable exception of President of the United States, which he lost in the 1920 race to Warren G. Harding), to a WASPish relic whose only lasting legacy was to have Columbia’s library/singles center named after him. He was Columbia University Blue and White: What inspired you to write this book? MR: A friend of mine who’d liked my book on the Boy Scouts had discovered that the Butler archives had just been opened—I guess they’d been closed for a long time. And she thought that I’d be a good person to write about Butler, and I was actually looking for a big subject to involve myself in; and I had no idea that Butler hadn’t been written about a lot. So I said, ‘Oh, that sounds interesting.’ So I launched myself; it took only one phone call, actually. BW: I read that it took you 10 years to make it through the more than 600 boxes and 144 volumes of pure stuff on or written by Butler. MR: That was just the beginning; I could have spent five more years sitting in there; I had no idea what I was getting into, that’s why it took a dozen years to get out of it. But I decided that that’s what I was going to do, and that it would take as long is it would take. I just soldiered on. BW: Could you talk about the title? MR: ‘Nicholas Miraculous’ was a term used by many people to describe Murray Butler, particular Teddy Roosevelt, who was a very close friend of Butler’s and admired Butler hugely until they had a catastrophic breakup in 1908. BW: Going in, did you have any preconceptions about this guy? MR: Not at all, that’s what was fascinating in the research; I knew he’d obviously been a huge presence at Columbia, but I had no idea about the way he was connected to the culture, the way he had in fact dominated the culture of the first half of the 20th century. So what was exciting for me is to discover this extraordinary figure about whom people knew very little. As I encountered Butler I was aware that he was extraordinary in many ways, and in many ways awful. Empire builders tend not to be modest, self-effacing people; and so Butler had a very healthy ego and narcissism which finally can grate on you…but he used it in the service of both himself and Columbia. BW: You discuss Butler’s policy to limit number of Jews who got admitted to Columbia. Were his efforts on par with what similar schools were doing at the time, or was he particularly aggressive? MR: Columbia was at the forefront because of its position in the city of New York; obviously there were more immigrant Jews applying than in other places. But all the schools were concerned about the possibility of being inundated by Jews. And so they all were trying to find ways to shade the admissions policy. Butler, I dare to say, was in the forefront of that, but he was doing nothing that the other schools didn’t do; until finally this whole creation of Seth Low Junior College , which was the unique feature of Columbia’s attempt to handle the Jewish enrollment. He was anti-Semitic, but not in a rabid way. He probably shared the prejudices of people of his class; there were people who were far more hysterical than Butler. Butler’s concern was that Jews were aggressive and vulgar and loud and so on. Those were commonly shared assumptions—not obviously by everybody—but certainly by a lot of the people with whom he dealt. BW: What was the effect of his having won the Nobel prize, both personally and on the University? MR: It was certainly a crowning piece of his career, and gave luster to Butler and luster to Columbia. But it also made it difficult for Columbia, when he began to fade in the late thirties, to find a way to summon up the courage to ask him to leave, because you don’t ask a formidable character who’s won the Nobel prize and done all sorts of other things to just go away. His ego couldn’t have been inflated more—it added just another piece to his ego. BW: He seems to have been a kind of international sensation; a kind of unofficial American ambassador. Was this unusual for a University president at the time? MR: Well, if you think about all the things he did while being University President—running for the Presidency, being the president of the Carnegie Endowment, winning the Nobel prize—yes. It was an extraordinary career, kind of unrivaled; people just didn’t do all those things; he was truly miraculous. BW: Do you think his “disappearance”, as you call it, from the country’s collective conscious after his death had anything to do with the fact that he was an early supporter of Fascism? MR: He supported Italian fascism at a time when many people did, but the notion that he was a Fascist is absurd—I certainly don’t claim that at all. He saw Mussolini—as many American intellectuals did—as the possible answer to European disarray; they thought Mussolini could control Hitler. But when Mussolini invaded Ethiopia, I think Butler understood what he was dealing with. He simply lived past his relevance. That’s a terrible thing that happens. I mean it’s great to live a long life, but by the time he was in his late 70s and 80s he was feeble and infirm and no longer had the energy to direct the place; the values that he’d stood for had eroded; his own capacity to keep himself in the press began to diminish. Also, people just didn’t like him; and so part of his disappearance was that no one wrote a book about him.
Interesting question: did last month's Spec coverage of Columbia's Anachronistic Gentleman Dating service turn a non-story into a story for the NYT to cover or is this still something no one actually cares about? The Bwog votes for the latter, romanticism be damned.
In addition to gentrifying Manhattanville and coiffing his hair, apparently PrezBo also has time to run 4-6 miles a day. Check out Runner's World's interview with the man on the subject and notice how he name-drops the Core's greatest capitalist.
From the CU Snacks midterm mass email: Take a study break and relax with a pint of your favorite Ben and Jerry's ice cream. A pint of Cherry Garcia contains only 22 grams of Saturated Fat. (That's 110% of your Recommended Daily Allowance.) At least you get 4% of your Vitamin A. CU Snacks to World: Hey Fatty! 
Feeling guilty about being suckered in by the Oscars? Ease your guilt! Read about how once upon a time, film screenings meant something. From the March issue of the B&W.; I Can't Believe it's not Goulash Roger Ebert likes to wax nostalgic about the old days. In a favorite story of his, he stood with a crowd of eager moviegoers outside Chicago’s Three Penny Cinema for hours in the pouring rain, anxiously awaiting the next sold-out screening of Jean-Luc Godard’s post-apocalyptic Marxist treatise Weekend. There is a certain false nostalgia here. But Ebert and company does get something right: at that point in world history, going to see a movie in a theater meant something. Film screenings were an event. It’s strange to complain about a time when a Columbia student can acquire elusive and difficult movies by Theo Angelopolous or Hou Hsiao-Hsien by walking to Kim’s basement or to the Lerner mailroom and watch them on his laptop. Steven Soderbergh has let his Bubble burst, and its much-discussed distribution strategy—simultaneous release in theaters, on video, and on cable—points to a general trend in the culture: accessibility. But before the advent of home-video technology, theaters weren’t just the best way to see a movie, they were the only way. And so, in the last three decades, film screenings have lost the unique power of concerts or museum exhibitions, one-time-only events that can never be replicated. The only movies that retain this special quality of spectacle seem to be the most extreme ones. Case in point: Béla Tarr’s Sátántangó, a Hungarian film about swindlers, collective farming, and peasants. A leisurely paced, non-linear masterwork shot primarily in long takes, it has a running time of seven-and-a-half—yes, 7.5—hours. Given that it’s subtitled, black-and-white, and four times the length of most other films, with few cuts and a confusing structure, Tarr’s epic frustrates every commercial expectation. Indeed, it does so with deliberate defiance: it opens with a shot of a herd of cows slowly walking across a farm. For ten minutes. But it’s these qualities that ensure a reputation as big as the film itself and guarantee Sátántangó’s status as a curio and a classic. Screenings are exceedingly rare, so when the film played an unprecedented six-day run at the Museum of Modern Art in January, New York’s most discerning critics, from the Voice’s J. Hoberman to the Times’ Manohla Dargis, touted the event as a must-see. On a rainy Saturday afternoon—the kind invented for gray and dour films—MoMA managed to pack its theater full of viewers eager to take this legendary test of cinematic stamina. Hitchcock’s dictum that the length of a movie should be correlated to the endurance of man’s bladder went out the window. During the two fifteen-minute breaks, everyone rushed to the bathroom or outside to eat bag dinners, and camaraderie developed between the filmgoers. Everybody knew this was not just a movie, but a shared experience. Apparently, a DVD release of Sátántangó is in the works—a sad thought for any fan of the film. Yes, cinéastes across the world will finally have the chance to see and debate the merits of this stunning work of art. The formalist magic of Tarr’s film, how ever, will not easily transfer to a television or computer. It develops its spellbinding potency precisely from exhaustive duration and repetition, from the viewer being forced to sit in a single space in real time. (This is why the films of Gus Van Sant, whose Elephant is a loose remake of Sátántangó, fail to attain the heft they so obviously aspire to: they usually run under two hours.) But perhaps more importantly, a DVD release will end the film’s force as a cultural event, as an unusual way to bring movie buffs together for a moment—or seven hours—of celebration. —C. Mason Wells
Bwog did a double-take when it came across this photo: Surely this was putative Republican presidential candidate (and Columbia dad) Sen. John McCain? But then what was it doing in a photo essay on Academy Award winners? He'd probably like to tell you, but we'll have to on his behalf. Answer after the jump. Update: Readers have expressed confusion. The above is not actually a picture of John McCain. Who is it? Check after the jump. It's Charlie Chaplin!
 Last Weekend B&W; staffers Lydia Ross and Brendan Ballou talked with Mimi Vang Doren, the pre-eminent pet portraitist of the East Village. Ms. Vang Doren has traveled around the world as a pet portraitist—here she talks about her inspirations, her clientele, and the fall of the New York art scene. What are your influences? Every painting I ever looked at, I suppose . And I grew up in New York so I always had the advantage of going to museums. I started with family portraits. I started because my father was a photographer in the Bronx, he had studio there for 55 years, he did portraits of people. But I think I just carried it a step further…I’ve done about a hundred of people in their environment. Families with their pets in their environments. But then seeing so many pets out on the street here in New York in the village I started to do some pet portraits… I’ve been to Barcelona to paint three cats. I’ve been to California. Switzerland. Is it repetitive doing animals over and over again? No, no it’s not repetitive. Not for me, maybe for you it is. If you do a still-life with fruits and you move the apple or the banana or the pear it’s a different painting. You could look at ten Cezanne’s and they’re ten different still-lifes even though they have the same fruit in them. It’s what the artist does with the objects in the painting to make it exciting for the artist and hopefully for the looker. But especially for the artist. We’re painting because it interests us, it excites us. So if I do that dog Basil with the shoes, I could do another dog with a shoe and it wouldn’t look anything like that painting. Because all the elements change: different dog, different chair, different rug, different shoe, different everything. The elements change Can you draw the personality of the dog? Of course! It’s why I’m in business . Because none of them have the same personality. It’s the same as portrait paintings. What’s your process? See what the colors are in the home because it should be color coordinated to a degree. If you don’t like purple you don’t want to put purple in the portrait. If your house is black and gray you might tone it in that direction. See if the person likes bright colors or dull colors. Lots of patterns or not. And then you just find out a nice composition or element to put the pet in or on or next to. And then you personalize the portrait with things that mean something to the owner or the pet’s toys How long does it take you to do a portrait? It varies tremendously. It could take a week, it could take a month. Do you spend time with the animals? Yeah, I spend time with the pets. I go up there and, you know, spend two hours with them in the house. If it’s done outside we go outside. play with them, watch them, see how they sit, see how they run, what they do. Then I talk about it with the people. We talk about what’s typical, how the pet should be remembered. It should be remembered in a typical way. Then I take a lot of pictures. And then I work here from all those photos. I put together the painting from all the photos, which are information. You know, the paws, the tail, the head. Whatever. The cats are reclusive, but the dogs are all goofy. They’re always coming up to lick the lens. Dogs are fun. So are pet portraits harder than human portraits? No, I don’t think they’re harder. Not for me they’re harder. No, no, it’s much harder to get a person to sit because no one has time anymore. Is there a pet portraitist community? I don’t know any, because I don’t have the Internet. Are you connected to the larger art scene? No, not at all. I mean I go to museums, I look around, but I’m too busy painting. If you’re overly connected to the scene it means you’re not painting too much. You're sitting in the Cedar Bar drinking. I don’t think exists much for artists now. Because you don’t have studios for fifty dollars a month where artists are all in one spot and they really know each other and know what they’re doing. Now everybody knows what everybody’s doing in every country and every museum because of media. You know instantly what everybody’s doing. But is that a bad thing? No, I don’t think it’s a bad thing. But some people might jump on the bandwagon before they’re ready. Artists might be picking up other people’s styles, other artists’ styles, either because it’s saleable or because it’s been shown somewhere. And perhaps you don’t really develop your own style, which takes about fifteen years, generally. In the work you do, how much of these portraits are about the pet and how much are about the owner? It’s both. I mean just the fact that you’re ordering a portrait of your pet says something about you as a person. To me it says you love your pet. It’s simply a thing of love. 
Newsflash! Columbia basketball loses two close games! Newsflash! 1968 was 37 years ago, and Columbia students are apathetic! Newsflash! Columbia treats international students on financial aid like shit! Student forum on expansion is created. And, of course, "It’s not just that guy or girl you fucked last week, but the first one you fucked before thinking about an actual date."
Update: Unexciting pictures after the jump. Film trucks for August Rush have returned to campus. As Bwog reported the other week, the film stars Robin Williams, that Felicity girl , hottie Jonathan Rhys Meyers, and that cute kid from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. We've learned that the film is a musical-fantasy-romance (everyone’s favorite!) that involves a musical prodigy performing on the streets of New York trying to find his long lost parents. Sounds like some lefty Hollywood propaganda to us---promoting homosexuality and vegetarianism, no doubt. Bwog is working tirelessly to arrange an awkward reunion between Williams and his Jack co-star and Columbia junior Mario Yedidia, the shaggy poet featured as a campus character in the February edition of the Blue and White. At least some of the filming will be happening on the fifth floor of Lerner. 
At about 12:45, all 70+ students lunching in a packed Cafe 212 were treated to a soaring gospel rendition over the loudspeakers of "Jesus Loves the Little Children," a favorite with Sunday Schools the world over. Basically, the only words are a repeated loop of "yes, Jesus loves me, the Bible tells me so." Probably not the same Muzak they play in Cafe Nana. 
Yo. Natalie Portman decided to show up to Bwog's Terrorism and Counterterrorism class. If you're in Hamilton, you might be able to catch her as she leaves. The action is on the 7th floor. Update: It turns out that Ms. Portman's cameo in Professor Stuart Gottlieb's Terrorism and Counterterrorism class was part of a MTV-U promotion for her latest flick, V for Vendetta, in which her character mounts a revolutionary campaign against a totalitarian government and generally blows shit up. A sampling of the truths Ms. Portman imparted in the 20-minute Q&A; session following a somber Frontline documentary on Al Qaeda, Guantanamo and the CIA's counterterrorism tactics: - "My immediate reaction is that torture is wrong." - "I don't think it's right to take down the Twin Towers." - "Censorship is bad." In other news, the Bwog suspects Ms. Portman and Prezbo share the same hair stylist. Her hair. never. moved.
In CCSC's weekly email to the Columbia College student body: ______________________________ ___________________ 1. FREE FOOD tonight 2. Dean's Day Closing Reception 3. Run for Student Council 4. How do you feel about Coke? 5. CC/Lit Hum Graduate Student (Preceptor) Teaching Award 6. Columbia College Days is coming. . . 7. Housing Satisfaction Survey 8. Party For a Purpose ! Join the RELAY FOR LIFE 2006! ______________________________ ___________________ If you wanna know how I feel, it's overpriced and gives me sinus problems all day.
"So colonial America's two greatest exports were sugar, which destroys your teeth, and tobacco, which kills you. Thanks." --Trademark Eric Foner digression in lecture today. Just don't get him started on The Great Boston Molasses Massacre.
Yes, we are aware that is listed on the right, but to reiterate, FREE PIZZA RIGHT NOW! OUTSIDE THE PIANO LOUNGE! The Bwog will be fed. Update: It's all over. A line that stretched the length of Lerner has been satisfied, and other forms of procrastinating can resume.
Bwog staffer Julia Butareva reviews the Whitney Museum of American Art's exhibit featuring drawings by Raymond Pettibon. As I walked into the Raymond Pettibon exhibition at the Whitney, a well-dressed mother walked in with her toddler. The kid babbled and squealed while I was trying to watch the video. “If you want culture,” I thought, “this is not where you should take your kid. Try the Museum of Natural History, or maybe the Met.” But after a few minutes of listening to several narrators making declarations like, “ ‘T’wasn’t me,’ quoth the raven,” and, “‘The world is big!’ ‘The world is small!’ ‘With a big enough O, you can swallow it whole!’” I began to relax. The kid was all right. It was all about subjectivity and polyphonic narration when confronting symbols of power. Pettibon got his start making album covers for local punk rockers in LA in the early 1980’s. Soon, he became known for his works on paper and his skill at merging the avant-garde and the vernacular. Of late, he has included text, collage, and video in his work. This show at the Whitney includes several gouache drawings on paper as well as an animated film done in the same cartoon-like style — confident, rather dry brushstrokes. The sources are all familiar: there are baseball players, 1950’s pinups, porn stars, surfers, and penguins. Recurring images seem to be those of power, like that of a black hole, an ocean wave, a cathedral, and a train. The film is a non-narrative series of absurd yet vaguely familiar vignettes narrated by several characters who sometimes seem to be conversing, but at other times appear not to hear each other. A pedantic narrator who sounds as though he is reading something profound is interrupted by a chirpy-voiced woman: “Do you think I should wear my blue eye shadow?” Or a man is shown standing in front of a speeding train while someone dispassionately observes, “It’s all in the timing.” Mundane snatches of everyday dialogue are interrupted by what sound like passages from a romance novel. The captions on the drawings are the same way: there is no central voice. All seem taken out of context, sometimes to rather unsettling effect. Some are clever and self-referential. “Untitled (He Waddles From)” shows a penguin, and a caption says, “He waddles from post to post, stopping at each work long enough to pose with it, like a magician pulling incongruencies out of his hat.” It’s impossible to know whether that refers to the viewer or the artist, and the effect is to make one suddenly conscious of how he behaves in a gallery. Similarly, the various drawings of cathedrals and the individual voices that accompany them stop us from seeing these as symbols of monolithic religious authority; Pettibon exposes them for the personal symbols they are, meaning something different to each believer (or nonbeliever). Beneath all the cleverness with which Pettibon undermines cliché (“…like Jack and Rose on the Titanic, out love is here to stay”), there is something truly good here. Powerful symbols can stand, he seems to say — we just need to look at them from all sides. Raymond Pettibon at the Whitney Museum of American Art On view October 8, 2005 - February 19, 2006
Hurrah! Huzzah! The March print edition of The Blue and White, the last under Editor-in-Chief Zachary Bendiner, is officially released tonight! If you’re in a Columbia dorm, look for an issue at your door within the next 24 hours. But for those of you who desperately need your B&W; jolt right now, here are some choice selections from this month’s issue: -The Conversation: R. L. Stine Who knew Fear Street was on the Upper West Side? -Letter to the Editor The Spec responds to the Feb B&W; article "The White Pages." -Campus Characters Thomas Reardon and Kate Berthold, these are your lives. -Yo! MTV Sucks! How reality television MADE me into a douche. -Character Wars A conflict made in China (or Taiwan) invades classrooms. -A Gutter Pirate's Life For Me Washed-up dope fiend philosophers in Tompkins Square. -Epcot Columbia The ultimate pan-Columbian experience. -Professors' Kids—They're Just Like Us! Free riding FacBrats have their own lessons to impart.
 A recent item on Salon.com gave us pause: The Harvard Gazette reports that researchers in Australia have now successfully grown a complete, functioning breast from a single stem cell. Though the experiment, set up by Kaylene Simpson, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Medical School, was performed on a mouse, experts are confident that the study's findings can also be applied to humans. "Until now, no one has been able to take one cell and make it do everything involved in a fully-functioning, milk-producing breast," Simpson tells the Gazette. "There were lots of technical obstacles to overcome and it was very difficult to attract funding at first." Indeed, the breast project took five years to complete. But once similar human breast stem cells can be isolated, scientists are determined to try to grow a human breast in a laboratory. There’s hope for SEAS students yet.
Boredatbutler.com has a nifty new feature that lists the top 100 words used on the site. As expected, raunchy words dominate the list - Bwog is especially fond of the delicious liaison between the latest top 5 words "sex" (1), "butler" (2), "people" (3), "fuck" (4) and "need" (5) - but there are some notable exceptions. For one, we have no idea what a "heavyweiner" (28) is, and why anyone would be playing with "fire" (87) in the library (it must be all the Lolita references...). In the end, there's not much that one can do with such a list, until you realize that this makes for a very nice Columbia-themed Magnetic Poetry kit. We took a few liberties with tenses and prepositions, but here are our creations: need to find dead seas looking for commandments jewish students help pretty working girl, midterms and studying or hot love and sex? lonely hub of heat cusnacks ice cream best help must buy blown up ass lonely midterms night people need blow to study fucking gpa Think you can do better? Post your own BoredatButler magnetic haiku in the comments.
 Once upon a time, Columbians dared to dream. Musicals in Butler Library. Silent dance parties on South Field. Pornography clubs at Acivities Day. Those dreamers constituted Prangstgrüp. And it pains Bwog to learn that few Columbians today are aware of the sauciest avant garde prankster group to ever mock Columbia. True, most of Prangstgrüp's members graduated in 2003, but still---do we have no institutional memory of really important shit? Thank goodness they’ve kept www.prangstgrup.com up and running---with videos of their clever campus antics. Stop studying for midterms. Now. Watch these videos. Now. And if you want the back story, check out this ancient article by a Bwogger before he was a Bwogger. In the words of one of Prangstgrüp's founders, “It was like, art, dude.”
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. I thought about cloud formations, wild edibles, and how I could teach the girls to pitch tents and chop wood—all of which I thought would matter, none of which did. As a predominantly suburban, white community, we had romanticized the idea of urban escapism, which, in reality, is nothing more than covert racism and classism. In saying that nature is a temporary refuge Hund converts the girls into refugees whose summers were charity-based evacuations. Although the mission statement never said as much, as a counselor my job was to sell the wilderness and, in so doing, to sell white culture. I will now use security-related tropes favored by certain government employees to instill and inspire in you the need for vigilance: We must not let our guard down. If we let our guard down, THEY will win. security is everyone's responsibility. It stayed straight when the FM74 turned off, but it curved back behind the cabin like capillary of life cutting through the summer grass. Phil was balding a little, and he shaved every other hair off, so the white circle of his head – that incidentally, shared a certain texture with Gouda cheese – contrasted with the abyss of the night against the window… Between the rubbery cheese in the middle of the table and the area around Phil’s head, I had no place else to look beside the can of beer to my left. “By refusing to correct this flaw, you are betraying the universe, Phil.” Sam looked up. “The universe is pink.” The “Welcome to New York, fuck you” attitude is as commercial as Woody Allen’s romanticism. It’s really not about sexuality. He demonstrates this through the symbol of the maggots and the worms that feed off of them. The worms benefit from their pain with apathy. By having the prince hold kitchen utensils instead of swords, and trying to balance a large chicken pie on his head, in addition to fighting with a pig's head, two cooked birds, and a pair of sausages as ammunition, the craziness of the meat lover's is well described. The mosquito must be on either the left or right hand side of me. Since it says that the hammock is placed precisely in the middle of the room (halfway to the ceiling and halfway from either side, I determined that the mosquito would be moving on one of the sides. This is what I concluded because it seemed much more difficult to catch a mosquito that is underneath the hammock. This mattered because, although it is my friend and not I who is catching the mosquito, I felt that myself and the hammock (the nucleus) would be less of an obstacle is the mosquito were moving to one side. Wenn die Spiegeleier fast fertig sind, legen Sie an die Brotscheiben.
If the Columbia Political Review is good for nothing else, the March issue has a rather valuable coupon on the back cover good for a cup of coffee and a bagel from Morton Williams, midterms week (March 6-10) only. First person to tell us if that includes cream cheese gets... well, a coupon good for coffee and a bagel.
Wouldn’t these midterms be bearable if the weather were at least half-way pleasant? Maybe. And where is the weather pleasant? South America. And what South American nation does Columbia have a kinship with? Colombia. That’s why we should move there. And that’s exactly what Anand Venkatesan pondered in this December 2002 Blue and White article: If Columbia Moved to Colombia As Columbia searches for new spaces to expand its physical plant, The Blue and White urges the Administration to consider a South American satellite campus, where the Stanford-like climate and atmosphere will lure boho bums to attend CC in the sun. In anticipation of what student life would be like, we have compiled some likely scenarios for the Administration to study. Hope this helps, President Bollinger. Student 1: Hello, can you tell me where Lerner Hall is? Student 2: I’m sorry, but I don’t understand. You see, in Colombia, we speak Spanish, not English. Student 1: Oh, I see. My apologies. Student 2: Not at all.* Student: Hi, I’d like to pay my tuition for the semester. Administrator: That will be 9,283,202,202 pesos, por favor.* Student 1: Do you want to get a drink at Nacho Mama’s? Student 2: What are these nachos you speak of? Student 1: They are a delicacy found in 7-11 stores in America. Student 2: Oh. What a stupid name for a bar. Student 1: Si, senor.* First Passerby: Hola. Second Passerby: Hola.* Student 1: Where can a fellow get a good cup of coffee around here? Student 2: There are three Starbucks within walking distance.
It's just been announced that U.S. Senator John McCain (R-Arizona) will speak at Columbia College Class of 2006's Class Day in May. His daughter is a junior in the College. Bwog applauds seniors Nicholas Cain and Ciel Hunter on securing such a strong speaker. McCain's no Obama, but he's also no New England Patriots owner Bob Kraft (who used every cliche known to man in his class day speech last year), so we'll take him.
The Bwog never knew that bedbug infestations were treated so seriously. One student's description, though, “It was horrible,” Bettelheim said. “They would bite me and then I would get huge rashes. It looked like a miniature tumor. I still have scars on my stomach.” makes us think the John Jay kids should get a container of kerosene and some matches, not $25 for laundry. Gothamist is on the story, too.
The Bwog got a mysterious email earlier today claiming that Alma had been attacked with red paint. By the time we made it over to Low, all the Bwog could see was this guy cleaning up: While the red fingers socialists as the culprit, we think it's more likely architecture students sick of Columbia's dull color palette.
It seemed like something was going to happen in the hubbub filling Roone Arledge Auditorium a few hours ago, just before Norman Finkelstein, author of The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering, started his speech. Two hours in, Finkelstein is still going, after saying at least 15 times that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is completely uncontroversial and taking jabs at academics from Alan Dershowitz to Lee Bollinger. Referring to PrezBo’s statement that the analogy of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to South African apartheid is “grotesque and offensive,” Finkelstein said, “It’s a sad day for a great institution when its president subjugates the pursuit of truth to the pursuit of fundraising.” Huge applause from certain sections of the audience. “Not to say that he’s the only one, but Larry Summers lost his job.” More Fink quotes after the jump. "I'm in awe of the Butler Stacks. Although I'm afraid of what a perverted professor might do there." On Elie Weisel's Peace Prize: "Why he got it, nobody knows." Boos from the audience. "I guess somebody does know." On the night he discovered that Joan Peters had fabricated much of her book, From Time Immemorial: "I didn't know who to call, but I am Jewish, so I called my mother." "The only difference between Israel's and Hamas' terrorism is that Israel is three times as lethal...Hamas sometimes talks about destroying the Jewish state, but Israel is in practice dismantling and destroying the Palestinian state." "It's only a matter of time before 'holocaust denier' enters the Dictionary of American Slang as a synonym for the F word. Like 'Holocaust you' or 'Mother Holocauster.'" "You can't be anti-anything on a college campus...you can't even be anti-downright-ugly on a college campus."
Looks like trouble might be a brewin’ regarding the selection of John McCain as class day speaker this year. What better way to conclude one’s Columbia career than with a nice little protest? Critics of McCain have started a Facebook group called, appropriately enough, Committee to Keep John McCain From Ruining Columbia College Class Day 2006. At the moment, it has 16 members. The group’s description: "Were you sick to your stomach when you found out that Republican Senator John McCain has been chosen to speak at Columbia College Class Day 2006, the day that is supposed to celebrate our achievements over the last four years and inspire us to go forward with passion and resolve to make a positive impact on our world??? Join this group to help formulate a plan of attack, to protest and possibly REVERSE this tone-deaf and insulting decision by The Powers That Be. If it must come to it, help plan our peaceful protest on Class Day itself." The group links to a Nation piece that calls McCain “the heir to Barry Goldwater.” But he had a rockin’ cameo in Wedding Crashers!
The Bwog thinks it might be time for Morningside Heights to send the NYC Mayor's Office for Film and Television a nice big fruit basket. All day today Warner Brothers is filming a TV pilot for ABC, sexily called "The Traveler", on Riverside Dr. between 110th and 114th (and with the mess extending on 113th all the way to Broadway). Please don't be disappointed, though, if it's missing August Rush's star power. Remember, it's just the WB.
Spring Break is here and the Bwog is hightailing it to warmer climes. You might notice posts are fewer and farther between this next week.We'd tell you it's because our motel room doesn't have internet but, honestly, we'll probably just be getting too drunk with our blog friends to make much sense. If the Bwog's reduced publishing schedule fails to satisfy, we suggest the following sites, most run by responsible adults with responsible vacation plans: •Gothamist •Gawker •The Morning News •The Splog
Bwog staffer Kabir Singh reviews the Asia Society's Rockefeller exhibit. In 1919 Lucy Aldrich wrote to her sister Abby Aldrich Rockefeller from Japan: “I’m not sure I shan’t become a Buddhist…the whole thing appeals so much more to my temperamental—or is it emotional—love of color. The gold and lacquer, the beat of the drums and even the smell of incense. I love it all.” This Rockefeller-in-law musing typifies the tone of the Asia Society’s current show A Passion for Asia: The Rockefeller Family Collects. The family apparently had a keen eye for appreciating Asian art, yet I’m not convinced that they entirely understood what they were collecting. The Rockefellers played an integral role in founding The Asia Society, and the Upper East Side mainstay portrays its patrons in an especially generous light. Such a characterization is by no means undeserved: members of the family have devoted their lives to philanthropy in poverty-stricken Asian countries. Another member became so committed to Zen that the Dalai Lama personally gave him a Tibetan-Buddhist thangka, which is on display in this exhibit. But although the Rockefellers cannot be denied their contributions to Asia, or the art world in New York, or their good intentions, this exhibit proves them at least a touch guilty of cultural obliviousness. Various photographs throughout the exhibit allow the viewer to picture how the Rockefellers displayed their collection in their home. I couldn’t help cringing when I saw they had placed a bronze Bodhisattva statue in front of a tiger-skin carpet, head and all. In Mahayana Buddhism, Bodhisattvas are enlightened beings who live in the earthly realm specifically for the purpose of alleviating suffering. The juxtaposition of a compassionate spiritual leader with a piece of hunting memorabilia is nothing less than distasteful. In another room, we see a nineteenth-century Turkish prayer rug made of beige, red, and blue dyed wool, which we are told was used as a floor covering. Undoubtedly, guests, if not Rockefellers themselves, must have walked on this ritualistic Muslim textile without removing their shoes. While the Asia Society’s cold white walls fail to make pieces look any less out of context than they were in the Rockefellers’ homes, the collection itself is wide-ranging and for the most part exquisite. Featuring everything from a modern statue Mr. One Man by Isamu Noguchi to palanquin fittings from twelfth-century Cambodia, this is an undeniably comprehensive survey of Asian art. One section of Passion for Asia contains numerous woodblock print masterpieces from the Japanese Edo period (1603-1867). A particularly stunning piece is Katsushika Hokusai’s “Rainstorm Beneath the Peak” from his Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji series. Stylized clouds in varying shades of light and dark blue, reminiscent of those found in Tibetan thangkas, span the left-hand side of the sky. Fuji is depicted asymmetrically at the right, in peach and brownish coloring. What brings the piece to life, however, are the dynamic lightning lines in the lower right, which mimic the shape of the ubiquitous volcano. Viewing this collection is certainly worth braving the M66 crosstown bus, even if contextual propriety is often lacking. Through September 3, 2006 To get there: Take the 1 train to Lincoln Center–66th Street. Transfer to the Eastbound M66, which stops at Broadway and 65th Street. Exit at the Lexington Avenue and 68th Street stop. Walk one avenue west and two streets north to 70th Street and Park Avenue, where the Asia Society is located on the Northeast corner. Admission is free with a Columbia ID. Asia Society Hours: Tuesday to Sunday, 11:00 am to 6:00 pm, with extended evening hours Fridays until 9:00 pm. Closed on Mondays and major holidays.
Beloved econ professor Sunil Gulati has always seemed to have a bit of an inferiority complex when it comes to his Nobel Prize-winning/poverty eradicating/just plain publishing colleagues. At least now he can cheer himself knowing he's the only one in the department elected president of the U.S. Soccer Federation. Here's to better luck this time around, Sunny G.
The Bwog's foreign correspondent Nick Frisch reports: This past Christmas in Siem Reap, Cambodia, your loyal correspondent was disgusted to learn that the sinister and destructive web of Columbia money has extended its jungle undergrowth-like tendrils far beyond dismal dorms into the very apex of Khmer civilization. The culprits? Miriam and Ira D. Wallach, whose "charitable" foundation now has to answer not only for the decrepitude of the LLC but also the vegetation-strewn remains of Preah Khan, a complex of fountains and pools near the famous Angkor Wat. This alleged "priceless cultural heritage" has also been supported by a whole roster of pampered potentates who have clearly never suffered through the innards of Columbia housing: the Duchess of Westminster, the UK's ambassador to Phnom Penh, a few of the usual diamond-business crowd (Polsky, Miller, Lindemann, Koerfer), and - apparently - the Stanford class of 1998. The Blue and White recommends that the Wallachs take next year's vacation in Wien. Credit to our correspondent's colleague Michael Pareles for, er, kindly pointing out the general vicinity of the outrage.
Oh my God! How are you?! How was your break? Really? That sounds incredible. Really? Wow. That's fantastic. So, the Bwog is back-- tan, rested, and behind on all its take-home exams. Never fear, though. We're willing to sacrifice a few grades in order to give you the quality gossip your procrastination deserves. Currently the Bwog is compiling a Bwogroll and is soliciting suggestions for good Columbia-centric blogs. Do you have a blog? Your friend? The creepy guy down the hall? Send tips to bwgossip@columbia.edu. And as always, gossip, rumors, hearsay, incriminating pictures, and funny signage go to the same place. The Bwog looking forward to the rest of this semester when things heat up with short shorts, CCSC elections, and John McCain. And, really, we can't wait to hear about your summer plans.
 B&W; Fasionista Josie Swindler reports on the latest from the Lecture Hopping front: At Parsons, the audience of wannabe fashion editors was a whole lot more stylish than the five editors on a recent panel called “Fashion Magazines: Behind the Seams.” Lesson one: it takes more than nice hair to get a corner office at Condé Nast. The problem of the panel may have been the relative ignorance of its members. Though highly successful, the editors aren’t in the most coveted fashion positions at the most coveted fashion magazines, probably disappointing most of the audience members. What they could teach, involuntarily, is that talented people can be talented anywhere and that the people who make the magazine are rarely like the people the magazine is made for. A big room was mostly full with more than 100 hopefuls. They heard from the art director at Glamour, the creative director at Marie Claire, the style editor at GQ, and the managing editor of Lucky, all moderated by the executive editor of Redbook. No Vogue. No Women’s Wear Daily. No Harper’s Bazaar. No W. One wonders whether The Center for Communication, or Cencom, the independent media organization that sponsored this panel, named the event before receiving rejections from top fashion directors and stylists. A handout included the panelists’ sometimes surprising resumes. Though they had little to say about breaking into the fashion journalism industry, the biographies of these 30-and-40-somethings were instructive. Regan Solmo of Lucky knew early what she wanted to do and started small—she was the managing editor of Civilization: The Magazine of the Library of Congress and POZ before moving on to SPIN and Harper’s Bazaar. GQ’s Adam Rapoport worked at the culinary James Beard Foundation, a foodie’s dream. Paul Martinez of Marie Claire worked at magazines as varied as Keyboard, Bon Appetit, and USWeekly. Cynthia Korman honed her skills for a decade before reaching powerhouse title Glamour. And in an age in which devils wear Prada, where a successful magazine career seems like a series of steps up the ladders of top titles, it’s reassuring to see that Alison Brower, a Princeton graduate and Executive Editor of Redbook who has worked at Cosmopolitan and Glamour, began her career as a real live reporter for the trade magazines Adweek, Brandweek, and MediaWeek. The intelligent but decidedly uncharismatic editors covered at breakneck speed the elitist culture at Condé Nast (where poor young women wear Chloe heels and carry Balenciaga bags), how to get hired (make friends; it’s all about relationships), and the Internet (it’s good, it’s bad, it’s underutilized, and it won’t make print obsolete). When the editors talked about what occupies their minds at work, they all mentioned readership, none mentioned designers or clothing. They talked about the synergy of words and design. Korman, also a Princeton alum, said that design students tend toward layouts that wow, rather than superior layouts that actually communicate. Every panelist emphasized that their job is to be a sort of middleman between high fashion and low fashion. Their readers cannot afford, much less wear, clothes straight off fashion week runways. As editors, they take those looks and transform them into styles that their demographic readership can wear to the office. They’re more concerned with making the readers look good than dressing like models themselves. The words “reality check” were used more than once. They covered what magazines like the shopping-centered Lucky have done to the industry, making everything from rows of shoes to a profile of Honduras an opportunity for service journalism that is not to be missed. Rapoport said that GQ’s short fiction became endangered because it didn’t do enough tangibly for the reader. Korman said that in Glamour a gorgeous dress on a gorgeous model can’t stand alone as it once did; now, the dress would be flanked by endless sidebars on various price points and the right look for different body types. Ten and 15 years ago, the editors said, magazines weren’t only thinking of the consumer power of their readers. Martinez said making things shopable and wearable has taken some of the beautiful fantasy out of magazines that made them such an enjoyable form of escapism. And while sharing horror stories about cover-models (he showed up 20 pounds heavier, or she forbid everyone at the shoot from looking at her) the editors lamented the days when models graced covers—crisp and simple covers without so many numbers: 502 Spring Style Tips, 99 Ways to Please Your Man, etc. The question-and-answer session was vapid, like the dreams of most of the questioners. An illustrator and a designer basically asked the panelists for a job. They were politely rebuffed. Welcome, ladies, to the magazine industry.
Nothing kicks the semester off like a hate crime... er, the discovery of "potentially homophobic messages" on an EC white board. In related news, Ruggles vandalizers miss their court date. Obviously, what this calls for are some good French-style riots. Tulane kids back in NOLA, don't seem so nostalgic for CU.
Apparently, much went down on campus during break. Disconnected from e-mail while we tanned with Grandma Bwoggette down in Florida, we only just came upon this missive from Chris Beam: It's 10:55 p.m. There are, as I speak, four guys from Psi U performing an a capella rendition of "It's Hard Out Here for a Pimp" in Butler Room 209, as a bunch of brothers sit around and watch. OK, they just left.
According to an email from Lee C.-- and we trust him on these things-- Dawn Greene just gave Columbia "the largest gift ever received by any U.S. university for the development of a single facility." The single facility being the Jerome L. Greene Science Center dedicated to poking at the brain and stuff. For those keeping score, that $200 million more towards building in Manhattanville. Maybe we should just turn over Morningside Heights to the August Rush people and call it a day. That's a picture of J-Ro, by the way.
If you haven't been hanging around freshman dorms lately, you've missed out on the many pleas for '09 pairs to fill out EC exclusion suites. Bwog wonders how these living situations work out--can you figure out via e-mail whether someone has an incurable habit that drives you nuts? Are juniors so isolated that they really don't know any first-years to invite personally? Are first-years so desperate to avoid McBain that they would shack up for a year with random upperclassmen? So begins the Housing Lottery 2006...look out for up-to-the-minute coverage from your favorite campus gossip page.
Don't forget that the SEAS throwdown (a.k.a. E-Board Elections) is 9:15 pm tonight in Lerner's Satow Room. It's a poorly kept secret that the SEAS E-Board is a fascist institution. Therefore, the Bwog encourages vocal cries for democracy. Maybe a boycott. Definitely some signs. Oh, CSSN, why did you go defunct right when we needed you?
Tao Tan speculates on why Columbia might not be as special as it thinks: It's amazing that the Greene Foundation would pony up $200M. Last year's IRS 990 reflected $80M in assets (pdf): If I had to guess, my guess would be that this is the Greene Foundation's close-to-last hurrah. There's been a philanthropic philosophy ever since the 1950s and 1960s that Greene probably subscribes to that says a Foundation has to spend out all its assets within a generation so the Foundation keeps within the original philanthropher's vision. The Olin Foundation closed this year for that very reason.
After an internal election, Dan Okin has been selected as the new ESC president. Accordingly, at this very moment, he's getting sloshed with outgoing president Tom Fazzio at The Heights. Salud!
Dan Okin elected ESC president. This whole story would be more interesting if it were the Jerome L. Greene Scientology Center Jake Olson tells you about his trip to Vegas so breathlessly he doesn't even need paragraphs. Now everyone say together, "We won't pie John McCain for being nice enough to speak at our graduation."
Free food and free harp music on the Lerner Ramps.
Two maybe 8-year-old kids near Washington Square: "I have more cell phones than you!" "I have more cell phones than your mom!"
Last night, in honor--or perhaps dishonor--of the third anniversary of the United States' invasion of Iraq, five respected pundits, representing a (mildly) broad swath of the political spectrum, came to Miller Theater to discuss what we did, where we are now, and what we ought to do. Our correspondent David Plotz Lecture Hops it. Three years and two days ago, the United States invaded Iraq. Some people commemorated this anniversary with candlelit vigils, some with protests, and most with indifference. And then there were the roughly 400 people who crowded into Miller Theater on Monday night to hear five noted pundits discuss what they think about the mess they’ve made. Moderator Joe “Anonymous” Klein was the only person on stage who hadn’t supported the war, and even he announced his opposition to U.S. withdrawal in the near term. And so an audience of Morningsiders, most of whom looked to be at least 45, was treated to a nostalgic look at a time when supporting the Iraq War was considered an intellectually respectable position. Indeed, for all the abuse war supporters have taken in New York and other liberal enclaves, there was a time not so long ago when a broad spectrum of the nation’s media establishment was urging war for all sorts of reasons. In Washington, DC, the home of most of the panelists (and this bwogger), support for the war was once seen as a mark of political maturity and a commitment to liberal internationalism, while opposition was seen as defeatist and out-of-touch. Three years later, many pundits are scrambling to disassociate themselves from the war, while those who opposed it from the start are busy gloating. Yesterday’s panel provided a rare opportunity to see the fissures among the dwindling number of pundits who are still willing to defend their initial support. The main conflict of the evening centered around panelist Victor Davis Hanson, the classics scholar and National Review Online columnist. Hanson refused to acknowledge any specific mistakes in Iraq but made about a dozen references to colossal strategic errors in World War II, Korea, and the Civil War, seemingly by way of apology. Hanson’s grim, no-nonsense demeanor stood in stark contrast to the nonsense pouring out of his mouth, which hit its zenith when he remarked that the U.S. prison camp in Guantanamo Bay “is safer than the Hague,” and that Serbian dictator Slobodan Milosevic would still be alive had he been incarcerated there. Hanson served a valuable function in the debate, as he gave Klein a chance to score some antiwar points and everyone else a chance to look reasonable by comparison. “There’s not going to be a civil war,” Hanson argued at one point, “In fact, in the last three weeks, more people were killed in Afghanistan than in Iraq.” “That’s great news!” replied Klein. The other three panelists gave impressive performances. Kenneth Pollack of the Brookings Institute proudly defended himself as a “liberal interventionist,” a term which has gone out of vogue, and shared fascinating tidbits from his work with the intelligence community and his multiple visits to Iraq. Noah Feldman, a constitutional law expert who worked on the Iraqi Constitution, described the difficulties Iraq faces in creating a unified government while chiding those who regarded the prewar situation as stable. And Andrew Sullivan, the former New Republic editor-in-chief, blogger and conservative gay marriage advocate, took a genuinely emotional stand against the Bush Administration’s use of torture in Iraq and elsewhere, drawing repeated applause from the audience. Although all three expressed some faint hope for Iraq, all three also piled on Hanson as a proxy for Bush, Rumsfeld, Cheney, and others, whom they denounced as criminally negligent in their conduct of the war. “What I didn’t count on was the appalling incompetence of this Administration,” thundered Sullivan. “I can’t understand why Rumsfeld hasn’t been fired yet. I can’t understand why Bush never listened to anyone telling him to send more troops. I can’t understand why so few of my colleagues on the right are willing to condemn torture!” Despite Klein’s gentle warning, “no diatribes,” most in the audience took question time as an opportunity to launch furious rhetorical assaults on the Administration and the panelists, often shouting out of turn. The panelists seemed a bit taken aback, and Hanson in particular seemed offended that anyone, on or off stage, would dare disagree with him. Still, most of the panelists attempted to carry on a civil and constructive discussion, touching on everything from the likelihood of sectarian civil war to the fitness of the Iraqi Army. A few important topics did not get discussed. Not a single person mentioned the word “neoconservative” or the names of any of the major intellectual architects of the war. The diversity of opinion among the war’s critics was likewise unrecognized, as if it was assumed that any reasonable person must have considered supporting the war at some point. Most of all, no one questioned whether the United States actually has the right or the ability to enforce its will anywhere in the world. The panel successfully reminded me that plenty of brilliant and well-intentioned people supported the war, and that some still do. Unfortunately, it also reminded me of why no one was ever able to talk them out of it. -David Plotz
Cindy Horowitz, didn't anyone ever tell you you can't keep pets in dorms? Still, the Bwog is a big fan of baby animals so we'll direct our readers to your Craigslist ad. Someone needs to adopt the hamlettes. Full text of ad after the jump. FREE BABIES!!!!! Reply to: sale-143778548@craigslist.org Date: 2006-03-21, 3:02AM EST My hamster had 9 babies and they are almost big enough for their new homes! Please email me at clh2116 columbia.edu Please note that i will just give you the babies. You need to buy woodshavings, a home, a water bottle, and food. Thanks! * this is in or around UWS/ Columbia * no -- it's NOT ok to contact this poster with services or other commercial interests 143778548
Simeon Kimmel reports: At an anti-war event sponsored by the Working Families Party yesteday, folks discussed different strategies for pulling out of Iraq. A particularly innovative approach was suggested by an older woman, complete with tied bonnet and cane: "We won’t end this war until we're all vegetarians," she hooted. "The corpses are piling up in our homes, not just Iraq." The audience met her with laughter; on her march out she waved her cane, hollering, "You'll be laughing straight to the grave!"
Lydia DePillis speaks for all of us in Sunil Gulati's Global Economy class when she reports an inability to concentrate on Nobel Prize winner Robert Mundell's guest lecture today because of his eerie resemblance to Donald Trump. Mundell's photo doesn't quite do the parallel full justice; it's pre-awful auburn hair dye job. What Mundell didn't mention in his lecture was the fact that he's a frequent guest on the Letterman show, mainly for his deadpan delivery of top ten lists, excerpts from Paris Hilton's memoir, "You might be a redneck lines", and Yo Mama jokes. 
Carly Hoogendyk, Carman RA, reports: Everyone's favorite security guard and vocalist is now soliciting his newest musical offering to Columbia freshmen just looking to swipe into Carman. Michael Lane has come out with a second album of him doing what he does best: singing over karaoke tracks. Lane opens with Santana's "Smooth" and ends, creepily enough, with another rendition (a repeat from his first album) of "Sexual Healing." You might wonder whether a couple of mediocre Marvin Gaye covers are worth dropping the asking price of $10, and I'd say... actually, yes. Especially for Carman residents-- I bought the first album and Lane hasn't requested to see my CUID since.
Too late for your CCSC candidacy. Leon Levy takes up Jerome L. Greene's philanthropy challenge. Columbia tours led by liars. Jake Olson's columns are like the Kid Rock/Scott Stapp sex tape; you can't look away no matter how awful it gets.
Headline spotted: Engineering Students Perform Plumbing Feats in Ghana Thankfully the phrase "Feats of Rectal Strength" was rejected by the Columbia homepage. They know better. Bwog doesn't.
Bwog was idling around, and then it received this email from the Columbia Musical Theater Society: CMTS Presents Andrew Lippa's THE WILD PARTY Roone Arledge Auditorium March 23 - 11 pm March 24 - 8 pm March 25 - 7 & 11pm $5 CUID / $8 GA For ticket reservations, please email cu.wildparty@gmail.com Please be aware that this show contains mature themes not suitable for all audiences. View the trailer! Note to those who check out the trailer--"mature themes" is not a codeword for nudity. There's some really great mock-fellatio, though.
Overheard on the Carman elevator: Guy A: Well, what are you going to do with a waffle maker? Guy B: Make waffles. Dear Feminism, Thank you for teaching men how to cook. Sincerely, The Bwog
This excerpt was culled from a document left on a Columbia lab computer. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. Jamaal stood there naked, grinning. His hands were on his hips and his dick hung heavy between his legs like the bell of a church.
Trash can on fire. Who do you call? CAVA. 
Students soon able to turn pass/fail grade into letter grade after seeing final score.In related news, pass now equals fail. Ellen Binder's, assistant vice president for budget operations and financial planning, son unable to thrive in public school. Only 1 out of the 3 SEAS class president elections contested Miri Cyper Cypers makes omlette-making sound easy but that's a lie.
Libyan leader Muammar al-Qaddafi speaks in Low this afternoon. And by in Low, we mean from a giant video screen. Thanks, NYT for getting us excited for nothing. According to SIPA's conference site, equally important policy types should be around. But do they have the hair?
It's 50 degrees outside! Celebrate the end of the week and treat yourself to an ice cream sandwich. After stopping by the Good Humor cart, walk past the Aish booth on Low Plaza. If you look Jewish enough, you might just be handed an opportunity to get "spiritual discovery" in Israel for the low, low price of $499--only $260 more than a Scientology audit. Commodifying religion: it's the Zionist way!
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us at bwgossip@columbia.edu. For example, evolution and the big bang theory are not falsifiable and, according to Popper, are about as scientific as, say, my personal theory that purple unicorns will descend from the sky when I die and bring me to heaven. This remark is simply saying that nothingness has no need to hide for the substance of nothing cannot be seen in any case; however, it should be noted that this remark is made with the absence of blindness. When one becomes blind, all that one sees is nothing. Nothing in the context of blindness actually becomes something for it becomes the only companion of sight for the blind. This case is very ironic in Gloucester's situation because when he becomes blind, it can be assumed his only companion of sight is nothingness. There are different or many meanings to the colors of the Colombian flag. For instance in the spirit that Don Francisco Miranda had when he designed the flag yellow signifies sovereignty and justice given it is the closest color to light. Blue calls for anticipation and serenity, while red is the color of exclamation for blue and yellow. However, as I kid I was taught that yellow meant gold, blue the oceans that surround the country, and red the blood shredded by the heroes of the revolution. "Brush your hair! Take off your brother's clothes! Stop Rolling around in the dirt", these are just a few phrases my mother shouted to me as a child. My mother was a beauty queen and she wanted a princess for a daughter but what she got was royal knightmere. As a child I did not understand why I should embody the characteristics of Barbie when in my opinion Ken was having more fun. In society a construction of gender is created. It provides an ideal that often leads to power, success, social attraction and sexual attraction, by developing a standard of appearances and behaviors designated for each gender. The hierarchy that evolves from gender roles begins to form in schools, although often parents subconsciously acknowledge the power gender possesses in society immediately. This fact can have both negative and positive effects. Reality, that bitch
Quick poll: Who knows where Morningside Gardens is? (Answers involving Morningside Heights or Morningside Park don't count) Do your plagiarizing at Columbia, not Barnard. Here's to never seeing the phrase "'safe spaces' under momma Bollinger's skirts" in print again. Casey Acierno makes his her mom mix-tapes.
Exploding syringes of nitric acid. Animal testing. And a band called ‘Vector Sum.’ B&W; staffer Anna Corke talked with chem grad student Paul Vadola to discover the secret life of chem students. Why did you decide to go into chemistry? I was a premed bio major. Organic chemistry is part of the premed package and the bio major. Orgo is normally the be-all-end-all for premed students-- either you survive or you don’t. I was worried going into it, but after around two everything clicked and I thought “Wow, this is obviously something that I understand and really should look into.” What are you studying right now? My project is pretty neat, I have to say. What I’ve done is use the carbon-hydrogen activation reactions to make fluorescent derivatives of neurotransmitters. I’ve done serotonin, melatonin, and dopamine. The neat thing about my part is that, normally, the probes are something that really doesn’t look much like the parent compound-- the cell just thinks it’s the same so it takes her up. I’ve actually taken the neurotransmitters and modified them to make them fluorescent. It still has the essential properties of the neurotransmitter-- it’s like adding a third arm to your body, you have a third arm but it’s still you. These are still neurotransmitters, but they glow, so the cell should recognize them and we will be able to watch them move in and out of neurons. This is pretty important because neurotransmitters, especially serotonin, are very active in depression, mood disorders, and behaviors such as sleep and appetite. If we can determine the pathways, we can get better drugs for things like depression. That’s the big goal. We’re at the beginning, but that’s what we’re thinking about. Any good lab disaster stories? I was syringing about 10 mL of fuming nitric acid, which is as bad as it sounds, an extremely harsh acid that reacts with the water in the air. I pushed the plunger and it wasn’t going so I gave it a little extra push. Apparently the needle had a kink in it and I pushed so hard that the needle popped off the end of the syringe. The acid sprayed all over me. Within 5 seconds it started to burn through my shirt, so I had to rip off my shirt in the middle of lab, throw it into the sink, and splash water all over myself. The acid did a lot of damage to my shirt. When I took the shirt out of the sink it was full of holes and I had nothing else to wear in the lab so, for the rest of the day I had to wear a holey shirt. I had to wear it home on the subway. That wasn’t cool. Do you have any moralistic boundaries when it comes to research? Luckily, I’m not a biologist. I don’t have to worry about playing with animals in my day-to-day research. Some chemists do test on animals, which I don’t have that big of a problem with because, depending on what scientists are doing, it’s either going to kill a person or kill a rat. In my day-to-day chemistry I try to shy away from the government or any sort of defense field. Organic chemists are going to be the people who come up with new chemical and biochemical weapons since they’re the ones who have the power to synthesize new molecules that target parts of the body. That’s something I would not participate in. I hope nothing in my hands is ever involved in injuring or harming anyone. What do you do other than chemistry? I play a bunch of instruments-- guitar, violin, sitar, piano, flute-- and I’ve played in bands since I was in junior high. Do you ever perform? My band in college started playing benefit concerts, like ‘Come pay five bucks to see a school band and donate money to build homes in....’ I think it was a Navajo Indian reservation and somewhere in Ohio. We’ve done Lou Gehrig’s disease, global awareness, cancer awareness. People actually started recognizing us because we were pretty good. We used to get standing ovations. People see me and say “You’re the guitarist for Vector Sum!” Wait, what’s your bands name? Vector Sum. It was originally Vector Sum of Forces but we shortened it. We are each a different dimension. The drummer is, of course, Time, the bassist is X, the singer/rhythm guitarist is Y, and I’m Z. What’s the most important thing about chemistry to you? I mean, why do you wake up in the morning and go to the lab? It’s sort of like playing God. As an organic chemist, I know there’s only so much that nature can make out of chemicals. What nature does is enormous, but there are certain things that I don’t want to say nature can’t do, but just hasn’t found the way to do. If a chemist is really top notch, he can do anything he wants. There are no real boundaries as long as he can just be innovative in designing a new chemical, be it paint that glows in the dark or a new drug that targets a certain kind of cancer.
Warner Brothers may have censored itself to stay on the good side of the FCC's new indecency standards, but you can catch the uncut premier episode of the Bedford Diaries, filmed on the Barnard campus, at the WB website before the sanitized one runs on Wednesday. Sexy professors! Suicides! Unrequited love! Is YOUR life this exciting? The Splog is on the story, too.
 In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Larry the Cable Guy: Health Inspector Feel very proud to live in a blue state. Mr. Guy’s recurring statement, “Now that’s funny, I don’t care who you are” does not apply to watching an overweight Southerner fumbling his way through a one and a half-hour movie. Stay Alive The appeal for video-game movies that do not star Angelina Jolie or Milla Jovovich seems slightly limited, at least until SimCity: The Movie, starring Professor Kenneth Jackson. V for Vendetta See terrorism-expert Natalie Portman in her best performance since that SNL rap video. The Hills Have Eyes Sex between mutants and humans-- the new frontier in the culture wars. Also Playing: The Shaggy Dog Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Don’t Come Knocking German director Wim Wenders makes another film about America. America doesn't notice; it’s too busy watching Larry the Cable Guy. The Child (L’Enfant) Before heading out tonight, enjoy this Belgian tale of a young dad resorting to thievery to support his teenage wife and their baby boy. It may put the Nacho’s body shots in perspective. Capote See Oscar-winner Philip Seymour Hoffman knock it out of the indie film park. Mrs. Henderson Presents New Yorkers cannot get enough of Judi Dench playing a sarcastic but ultimately lovable woman with an individualistic streak. I guess the city really is full of adventurous film buffs. Also Playing: Caché Tsotsi AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Inside Man On a personal note, this is my most anticipated movie of the season (Spike Lee takes on a heist movie). On a broader note, Clive Owen is hot (I want to be held by him). Find Me Guilty Strangely, this film, starring Vin Diesel as a charming gangster(!) and directed by 82-year-old Sidney Lumet(!), has received good reviews(!). A cast that also includes Ron Silver and Peter Dinklage makes this worth-seeing(?). She’s the Man If there were one star who could reinterpret The Twelfth Nigh, it would have to be tween legend Amanda Bynes. This film, in addition to the recent Aquamarine, makes it a really good time to be 12. Thank You for Smoking When you leave the theater, have a cigarette. Just to fuck with them. V is for Vendetta: The IMAX Experience Natalie’s Portman’s bald head is bigger than you ever imagined. Failure to Launch I was very upset when this film didn’t flop, because I wasn’t able to write things like, "‘Launch’ Fails to Launch," or "A Real ‘Failure to Launch.’" So instead, a new level of biting irony: Matthew McConaughey: he can’t even act! He just walks around with his shirt off! That’ll show ‘em. Also Playing: Ask the Dust The Libertine 16 Blocks Deep Sea 3D Roving Mars Match Point Brokeback Mountain Transamerica Syriana
In which film savant Iggy Cortez gives you something to watch if even a trip on the 1, 2, or 3 seems too much. A friend of mine recently said he couldn’t think of any great contemporary directors, and to contemporary cinema’s defense the first (out of many) names that came to mind was that of Arnaud Desplechin. His enigmatic masterpiece, Kings and Queen, released last May in New York, was the best movie of the year: not quite a comedy, not quite a drama – yet oddly greater than the two. While the title of his 1996 movie, My Sex Life… or How I Got Into an Argument suggests it is one of those witty but trivial farces about the anxieties of youth, it possesses an uncanny power and introverted intelligence we have come to expect from only the best of dramas. The film should resonate particularly well with Columbia students faced with the reality of life after college, and the very real possibility of life failing the enormous expectations we romantically demand from it. The “narrative” centers on Pierre (Mathieu Amalric, excellently performing the part he plays so well in almost all his movies) and his gang of friends, lovers and acquaintances. Once poised to be the next big thing in French academia, Paul’s sense of self-inadequacy hits rock-bottom when a former rival from his grad school days takes the coveted associate professorship Paul unconsciously covets. For almost three hours, the film meanders playfully and energetically around the outcomes of this existential malaise, capturing inner soliloquies, monumental turning points, and trivial occurrences with the same indiscriminate, keenly observant eye. But My Sex Life is more than simply analytical. While Desplechin’s films reflect the messiness of actual life, idealistically, My Sex Life is something of a reflection of what youth (at its best) should be: intelligent, vaguely anarchic, and effortlessly beautiful. Many critics do not know what to make of Desplechin’s films, and indifference to humanity is one of the common complaints conservative critics beat a drum to in their denouncement of his experimental cinema. But it is precisely because of My Sex Life’s delightfully self-conscious deconstructed narrative, and Desplechin’s willingness to push cinema’s unexplored expressive potential, that makes that moment of self-identification with his characters (in particular, Emmanuelle Devos’ Esther) far more profound and absolute than anything Hollywood has ever produced. Desplechin’s existential concern may be one of age-old interrogations, but formally his cinema does not ask why, so much as why not.
 Last night apparently wasn't the night to go to the West End. This morning the Spec reported on 3 am street fights which occured when about 200 people came spilling out of the 'Stend. Of course, the Bwog has known about this since last night when it woke up to, say, COPS FIRING SHOTS INTO THE AIR. And the Columbia administration gives a huge sigh of relief that this wasn't during Days on Campus. Update: Gothamist is on it. And wants to know if we're on it. And now we're just going in circles.
5:10 pm Columbia students, repeat after me: Neither the West End nor Broadway between 113th and 114th are my personal playplaces. I will refrain from fighting in the streets and from setting off fire alarms. Or, at the very least least, I'll try not to do both in the same day.
Free pizza on Low Plaza at 9 tonight. Go. Now.
There are 21 boxes of sweaters, coats, pants, jackets, and fuzzy hats in the Student Government Office, with much Gap and J.Crew. We're not sure how long the've been there (presumably less than the five months since the 5.6 magnitude earthquake). But we do know that, if they ever reach Pakistan, the average earthquake victims will be better dressed than the average Columbia student.
 Overheard in the Carman elevator: "You can't fight a tiger and win." 
The Bwog has been spending the weekend trying to figure out what happened at the 'Stend Friday. A handful of people saw the fights outside but no one seems to know what went on inside. So far all we've got is this: I was at the 'stend from 1130-1215 last night. The doors to the back room were closed, and there was some sort of party being planned back there. At around midnight, a friend tried to get in, but was told there was a ten dollar cover (at the Stend!). The crowd that was at the bar -- which included barely any Columbia students -- were all wearing some t-shirt for something, I'm not exactly sure what. Got anything to add?
 Can you lead a perfectly successful and happy life even if you've never read about Leopold Bloom masturbating on a Dublin beach? Everyone has that book (or those books) that they probably should have read by now, but have not. Professors, we hypothesized, are no different. So we asked them to name the book they are most embarassed about never having read... Philip Kitcher, Philosophy: There are gaps in everyone's reading. I am embarrassed that I've never read anything by Heidegger. But that's nothing to an embarrassment of my (dark) past. Before coming to Columbia in 1999, after having taught philosophy for 25 years, I had never read Plato's Republic. Of course, the great thing for faculty about CC and Lit Hum is that we fill in some of the really glaring gaps in our past reading. Victoria de Grazia, History: I have to confess I haven't read the Bible. But that didn't used to bother me. Quite the contrary. Wm. Theodore de Bary, EALAC Ask not what I have failed to read—too many of them unremembered. Ask what I have read and forgotten—that's the real embarrassment. And upon being asked if we could print it… Okay to print it. Provocation or disputation—that's the Columbia College style of public engagement. Alan Brinkley, Provost I have never read Ulysses, and given its standing as one of the foundational novels of the twentieth century—the period that I study and teach—I suppose that is pretty embarrassing. Nicholas Lemann, Dean of the Journalism School: One of the most embarrassing is Ulysses, because I have started it several times, with a guide to all the allusions at hand, and I always get sidetracked a couple of hundred pages in and put it aside. Also, having attended a competing undergraduate institution, I have not read somewhere between a third and half of the Contemporary Civilization syllabus. Sunil Gulati, Economics: Slight deviation to your request....the book that I am (was) most embarrassed to not have read--on time....called Groupthink (written in 1982 by Irving Janis)....was an assigned reading for a political science course I took as an undergraduate with Stuart Rothenberg (who is often in the news as a political commentator...and writes the Rothenberg Report)....in a meeting with Professor Rothenberg to discuss paper ideas he brought up an idea that was covered in the book....to which I responded, I hadn't gotten to that section of the book yet....only problem was it was in Chapter 1--and I had read only the introduction...he didn't call me on it....but since he had been my favorite Professor as an undergrad, I always felt embarrassed by it. I did finish the book!
Last semester, B&W; staffer Bari Weiss founded The Current, “A Journal of Contemporary Politics, Culture, and Jewish Affairs.” This past weekend, they released their spring edition with an open tab at Toast. Of course, Bwog only learned of the free drinks and food exactly one minute after said tab was closed. Nevertheless, The Current is worthy of a look-see. Admire the shiny cover. And forgive the page design that reeks of academic self-importance. In true QuickCurrent-style: Do not fuck with GS students. “I’ve only had sex once, which is far worse than being a virgin.” And other tragi-comic tales. What's worse than a bad housing lottery number?....The Holocaust! Palestinians “look cooler” than Zionists.
Overheard: "Your vagina is, like, aerodynamic."
NY Daily News is calling Friday night's West End extravaganza a frat brawl. And reports that the Aerosoles window got smashed with a bottle of Hennessy.Hennessy, people, Hennessy. That means that just hours prior to that you could have actually ordered cognac at the West End.
Bwog poked its head into the weekly Columbia College Student Council meeting this evening, and was shocked to find every seat filled in the normally empty audience section. Could the student body suddenly be taking an interest in the doings of their elected representatives? Alas, no. This was the Candidate Information Meeting, where CCSC officers get to awkwardly sit in the same room with their potential successors, who are trying to look alert and interested in the proceedings. Among other juicy bits of news, the office-seekers were treated to a lively discussion of: - Flash Access, in which Michelle Oh fends off efforts to actually do something about the proposal, and Mike Accordino announces that the negotiations currently include GS as well as Barnard, to audience dubiousness - Passing and Failing, in which Class of 2008 Presidential Candidate Neda Navab and David Ali proudly announces the success of their new Pass/Fail policy, to CCSC applause. - Bathrooms, in which VP Campus Life candidate Laura Taranto proudly tells us about the proposal that will install special energy-saving flushers on EC toilets, to audience quizzicalness - Failures, in which Current VP Campus Life Sy Cabria breaks the news that Kings Ball was cancelled because of concerns over mixing students, alcohol, and the "fragile venue that is Casa Italiana," to audience groans. Sunday night CCSC meetings, 8PM in the Satow Room--bring popcorn. It's a party.
Overheard at the Hungarian Pastry Shop, a conversation between two guys in their late 20s. Guy 1: So do you like the baby? Guy 2: Of course, it's a baby. Guy 1: Is there any chance that the baby's yours? Guy 2: No, she was four months pregnant when I started dating her. But I certainly did bathe the baby in sperm!
Housing lottery numbers come out tonight and the Spec has the stats (just not the right graphs). Students for Choice's Emergency Contraceptive Bridgade finds they're pretty useless. Let's hope Norman Washington doesn't mind being labelled the victim of the infamous EC hate crime... cause he is now! Columbia baseball winning a bit.
 It is only in the heat of the housing lottery that Columbians can feel like New Yorkers. Square footage dominates conversation. Friendships end--six friends can’t fit in a suite for five. Welcome to the city, toots. Deal with it. Much of the strategizing has already gone down, but today group lottery numbers are finally posted. And benevolent and hygienic blog that we are, Bwog doesn’t want you doing anything rash like an NYU student, so we offer you these tips for staying calm throughout the process: 1. Burn shit down. 2. Watch attractive people pretend to go to Barnard. 3. Go to the West End and talk it out with 200 of your closest, burliest friends. Oh yeah, and then fuck each other up (and enjoy some Hennessy) until 15 cop cars show up. 4. Become a fashionista! 5. And of course, engage in a little Butler Sex.

It looks like the folks at Hewitt Dining Hall haven't learned their lesson after being cited for health code violations earlier this year. Anna Corke reports: About 1/2 hour ago, Leora Kelman, Sam Cohen, and I sighted a cockroach in Hewitt Dining Hall. It was about 1.5 inches long, probably of the German variety. After three failed attempts at trapping the blattodea, a Barnard girl helped us out, catching the insect under an opaque Hewitt cup. We left the trapped roach on the floor near the salad bar.
Guess who’s coming to the Varsity Show this year? That’s right, you guessed it… Art Garfunkel, C ’65, of Simon and Garfunkel fame. Yes, that raconteur, stealer of hearts, and dreamer of dreams is coming back to Alma to receive the Varsity Show’s annual I.A.L. Diamond Award, which goes to a Columbia alumnus who has rocked the arts world. Hard. While at Columbia, where he also received an MA in Mathematics (he’s wicked smart!), Garfunkel sang with the Kingsmen, and no doubt picked up some nasty habits (this year’s cast certainly sympathizes). He never actually performed in the Varsity Show, but V Show-ers past and present have drawn artistic inspiration from his hair, voice, and easy going manner. Grace Parra, Varsity Show co-producer, tells all the nasty details about her telephone conversation with Art after the jump! "He's really pumped about the event, and sounded particularly flattered on the phone when I spoke with him earlier this afternoon. He noted his love for Columbia (very classy), and mentioned that he's just 'some guy' who loves the music he's made. He apparently has a new album coming out soon - so watch out!" The gala in his honor, invite-only (for V Show alum, administrators, and students involved in this year’s production), will precede the V Show performance on Saturday, April 29. So if you want a glimpse of Art, you'll have to catch him at the performance, or get really friendly with Bwog. Get your tickets online starting April 3, and in the Lerner Box office starting April 17. Even if you can’t make the show, you can still check out this crazy long list of every single book he’s read since 1968. And who is this I.A.L. Diamond guy the award is named after? Well, he’s the only guy to have written four consecutive Varsity Shows, and went on to write Some Like it Hot and The Apartment, for which he won an Academy Award.
Housing says: "Lottery Numbers have been delayed and will posted by Noon on March 28. We are sorry for any inconvenience this may cause." UPDATE: Spec beats Bwog to it. To our angry poster (see comments), we'd only respond: sorry for any inconvenience that might have caused.
Conscious of spring’s glorious birth today, David Helfand, resident nutty professor of Astronomy, posed a curious question at the beginning of his Beyond the Solar System class: “Would you rather hear my prepared lecture or take a walk?” One hundred sorrowful humanities majors awoke, and Helfand led them on an impromptu adventure in Riverside Park to show “how a scientist looks at the world.” Bwog is still unsure of that, but we did gain other wisdom while tripping over fallen tree branches: -The Hudson River isn’t actually a river… it’s a fjord! Hot! -Move to northern Alberta (it’s a Canadian province!) in anticipation of huge shifts in the Global Climate! “It’s going to be really balmy.” -The Day After Tomorrow’s “time scale is wrong by a factor of 1000.” -Don’t eat eels out of the Hudson! They’re full of PCBs! -300 million years ago, it was a 45 minute walk from here to Africa!
The New York Observer has a small article on boredatbutler, a fact Bwog was tipped off to by the flyers posted around Butler containing quotes about boredonbutler from the weekly City newspaper (yes, Bwog is writing this while in Butler--third floor, to be precise--because Bwog is, well, bored). The piece, incidentally, is by one Doree Shafrir, a student at the J School who joined Facebook four days ago. In that half week, she has accumulated only one friend therein: yes, senior Jonathan Pappas, the founder of boredatbutler and subject of the article. Pappas is now too cool to let non-friends view his profile.
There's free food from Saigon Grill in the Carman Lounge RIGHT NOW. There's plenty, but the event has ended, so they might take it away soon. Grab some ASAP!
Rising Senior Steven Rubel, with lottery no. 21, you ARE THE WINNER. And rising sophomores Samuel Daly and Dustin Patenaude, with no. 2999, you ARE THE LOSERS. UPDATE. The Losers Speak. Messieurs Patenaude and Daly have just issued a statement to Bwog: "We're just glad to be collectively paying $80,000 to live in the asshole of McBain." Our prayers are with them. Full housing lottery results here and expect a full rundown in tomorrow's Spec. For those truly upset with their lottery results, we can only recommend the following short story. Not so bad now, is it?
CTV finally tells us what we want to hear: “Yeah, the balls were huge.” One year later, we remember pain and how we grew from it. Look Ma, se’re all New Yorkers, in really special, unique, touchy-feely ways! Yipee skipee! I’m going to get one of those giant pretzels and go to the Statue of Liberty! The New GS World Order. A really pretty housing section.
Liberty U., college of choice by southern Baptists and Jerry Falwell devotees alike, snags McCain as their graduation speaker, too. Awkwardly-titled Facebook group Committee to Keep John McCain From Ruining Columbia College Class Day 2006, begin your foaming at the mouth... now.
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us at bwgossip@columbia.edu. Part of my concern for this speech is that I simply have so much that I want to say and so much that I feel so strongly about! To help plan for this, I have scripted my speech as just that – a script. I have written in reminders of when to look up and pause for emphasis so that I am not carried away in my speech too far. Additionally, I think this will help me with having accessible statistics that I will be citing without being caught up in reading the speech. I also have been working on my nerves by giving this speech to my practice audience (i.e. the mirror and my boyfriend). First I unloaded my backpack and just carried my pen and pad. This was a nice change, to uload all the weight of my books and be left with my imagination and creativity. Well, not really left with just my own. I had to copy someone elses who's inspiration was a designer or designers from over a thousand years ago. This is illustrated in his quantified study of the dominant social structure of chickens. The grandfather plays the role of the comforting mother. Thus, the very heaven that the poet seeks as respite in death in some ways tortures him directly. The anguish of this situation is particularly enhanced by the architectural form of that prison, and as the poem leaves off here there is, alas, no respite for the poet. he has been reduced to a shell of his former self; lobotomized and traquilized, like the whole decade itself. The purpose of my research will be to investigate how stay-at-home mothers and dominatrices construct femininities and a sense of self through the practices of mothering and domming. Further, while I am passionate about maintaining a leading roll on campus and exploring the possibilities of the business world, I still fervently pursue my hobby of writing. I am a published author of two full length novels (First In Line (2003) and The Vital High School Handbook (2003)), and am in the process of completing my third work, Invigorating Adversity. “Guilty Pleasures” These awesomely bad pop hits our teenagedom combine for a nostalgic trip down the sugary-sweet section of memory lane. Growing up in the area of boy bands and commercialized popular culture, I cringed at the generalization that would eventually become our generation. However recently, I’ve embraced my shameful music past and come enjoy the delightful music I was once so ashamed of. I think that the WBAR could use a re-introduction to the side of our so shameful music past. I was fascinated to learn that windows on a ship (aka 'portholes') are round because the circular shape provides greater structural integrity. The corner's of a traditional rectangular or square shaped window would be subject to the great strain and stress of a ship at sea. This is a most suitable metaphor for my love of Diane. Our love is round and therefore not as vulnerable as traditional heart-shaped love with its structurally unsound corner.
Bwog isn't sure what this poster found in a Carman elevator is meant to advertise (the e-mail address reads optimistsociety@hotmail.com, although we doubt they mean these people), but we are sure that the reactions to it are just terribly, terribly wrong.
It turns out that high school kids aren’t the only ones who have infiltrated the once sanctified realm of Facebook. Professors may not be able to work projectors, but they can post mildly amusing Facebook profiles! Samuel Moyn, History. -Political Views: Apathetic. -Job: Foot soldier at Columbia University. -Job Title: Assistant Professor. -Description: I teach college. -Groups: Gryffindor. Nicholas Christie-Blick, Earth & Environmental Sciences. -About me: Rock Star, sedentary geologist. Brian Gibney, Chemistry. -Koala lover (pictured). -Groups: Wing Attack Plan R. Jack McGourty, Chemical Engineering. -No friends. -Groups: Screw Spec, Save Jack.
 He's the most envied and hated man on campus---yes, Steven Rubel, who snagged housing lottery number 21. So what's going on in that lucky head of his? Via e-mail, he responds to Bwog's queries: How does it feel to be the shit? What's your secret? It's just further proof that God likes me a lot more than he likes you. I'm pretty used to it by this point in my life. What housing are you going for? Murder, espionage, and over-hyped literary movements are all going to play a hand in my decision for housing. People with purely good intentions (what else can I call them?) all tell me to shoot for one of those gigantic rooms at Watt, and well, Hell- I might just do that; but if time permits, I will certainly opt for something with a bit more color... I'm considering to hunt for the room of former-Soviet spy, Morris Cohen or Beat Generation luminary-Lucien Carr (who else?). Of course, there's the whole Roskot/Nelford - murder/suicide incident from 2000 which involves Ruggles Hall. I don't know. I'm sure all the interesting rooms that I want are going to be small, cramped, and sweltering but I'm more than willing to put up with that as long as it's in a single. I'm not sharing a room with anyone- unless it's a ghost. What's your favorite word and why? 'Fluoxetine,' it just rolls off your tongue...
 To those of you new to the game, CCSC elections are hilarious. There's bitching and back-stabbing and promises and lies, all to win the hearts and minds of a student body that 97% just doesn't care. Watching the candidates is like watching your little brother throw up before his T-ball game-- so much so cutely invested in something so small. You feel for the guy, but really! Obviously, this is all leading up to the Bwog announcing its obsessive coverage of said elections. Already, an OFFICIAL CCSC ELECTION SITE is up with rules, dates, and information on who's running. The site's real highlight, though, is the online form to report campaign rule violations. Are things really that bad?
Eric Foner is bad, and I, David Horowitz, am bad ass. Boo yah! In less than an hour, aircraft from here will join others from around the world. And you will be launching the largest aerial battle in this history of the School of General Studies. The trail of tears. Masturbation! Masochism! Cross dressing! Emotionless sex! It’s freshman year all over again! Bollinger can’t smile his way out of this one.
 In the spirit of wedding crashers, lonely and ambitous men from the B-School have started crashing SIPA parties--"where the wine flows and the women are beautiful" in an attempt to escape the few and relatively ugly girls of their own school. But wouldn't these business folks have a tough time handling the liberal ladies of SIPA? The guys in suits chatting outside Uris may have found some middle ground. "Women empowment? I'll go down on a girl. Is that doing my share?" As you recall, Business School is a load of cock. -Asa Merritt
63 degree weather brings out the reptile in all of us. Lounge space on the Steps has become as rare as a Butler alcove during finals, and students have taken their readings and conversations to campus' more obscure perches...let the sun burn away your housing woes, not your lily-white (or brown, or pleasingly tan) skin!
Jim Williams reports: A recent event in Noha Radwan's Contemporary Islamic Civilization lecture causes this Blue and White correspondent to wonder whether certain students are making a feeble attempt to revive PrangstgrÃ¼p or whether said students are merely assholes. About 20 minutes into class, a college-aged male who may or may not attend Columbia University entered the lecture, interrupted the professor and announced to the class that he had a pizza to deliver. The following dialogue ensued: Radwan: Nobody here ordered a pizza. Pizza Guy: 501 Schermerhorn? Radwan: It's not ours. Pizza Guy: It says here it's for Contemporary Islamic Civilizations. Radwan: No. Pizza Guy: Rachel T.? Is there a Rachel T. here? I have your pizza. Radwan: Sorry. Pizza Guy: Well what am I supposed to do now? I can't just take it back. Radwan: I don't know. Pizza Guy: Does anyone want a Pizza? Anyone can have it for eleven dollars. Anybody hungry? At this point, the class's resident macho TA bounds threateningly from the back of the room, charges towards the pizza guy, and firmly states "I think you need to go." In response, the pizza guy turns around without so much as a word and quietly leaves the room. The TA follows him outside. Radwan makes a crack about how next time, we should have our money ready. The TA returns and class continues. Subsequent Facebook research reveals that Rachel T. is an actual Columbia sophomore. No word on whether or not she is enrolled in this class, or is still hungry.
Perfect ending to a sunny day. Free sandwiches of all sorts at the Lerner information desk (by the exit doors). UPDATE---THEY'RE GONE, FOLKS!
For those with a hankering, Girl Scouts are selling cookies in Lerner from 5-7 pm.
A Bwog correspondent overheard some kids, probably future Columbians, as they looked at the Steps: Kid #1: Oh my God! How many people are there?! Kid #2: Probably about 50,000. Kid #3: I'd say it's got to be 100. Yeah, it looks like 100. Kid #2: No, it's definitely 50,000.
 Today, the admissions office sent off admissions letters to all those eager Columbia wannabees. Bwog asks the important question: Admission Letter, Where are You? I’m in a box! Class of 2010, look out! Stop fondling me! I’m being lifted by one of the burly Columbia athletes hired by the Admissions office to help out for the day! I’m gazing pensively toward my preferred mode of transportation, the FedEx truck! Yay! I’m snug as a bug in the truck! Yipee! I’m off! Look at all those prospective students walking by! I own their destinies! &mdash;photos by Shakeer Rahman
What with the cockroaches, and mice, and bedbugs, Columbia seems to have a real pest control problem. Luckily, Housing is taking care of those sea critters in Hartley the best way they know how. Oil spill! Picture and tip courtesy Mark Holden
We wouldn’t have gotten in this year. Why that makes me hungrier than a box full o’ bobcats! Burn shit down! Throw student leaders into the blaze! Ringing in the Spring! Bollinger...hater?
Tao Tan reports: The Alexander Hamilton Medal, an award presented annually to accomplished CC alums at a $600-a-plate dinner, is now available on eBay. As a paperweight.
Professor Wm. Theodore de Bary, C '41, beloved octogenarian professor, in Nobility & Civility class: "My ancestors fought in the Crusades, along with Richard the Lionhearted. *pause* As you can see, some of them survived." His grandfather.
Bwog just saw big name Anthro Comp Lit Prof Spivak slumped against the window next to the bookstore turnstile entrance to Lerner, talking on the payphone (that we didn't even know existed). Can the world's foremost translator of Jacques Derrida not afford Verizon? She looked dazed and confused.
 The Bwog has been receiving word all day that kids on the College Confidential discussion board have been finding yesterday's post on admissions letters very tasty. Do they like the photos? Are they even more excited now to hear the news? No. They are using the photographic proof that FedEx picked up the packages to call FedEx and see if anything is on the way for them. Mind you, this is not limited to the kids. Even the parents are getting in on the game. To quote one obviously strung-out poster: "Haha, it would be so hilarious if Columbia called FedEx and got a list of everyone that called, then turned their acceptances into rejections." Haha. Wouldn't it, you little admissions-grabbing grade-grubbers?
We swear we found this digitalia in Hartley, not Uris. I love money. I love spreading it all over my hardwood floors and walking barefoot on them, the dollar bills sticking to my feet. It makes me feel like a woman. No. Like a goddess. I love frolicking through the meadows as my money blows from the east. It's like I am an Indian princess and I like curry. Wait no. Except not. I love- I love- I love money. Are you listening?!!!?!?!?! HELOO HELPPPP JELOPOO I love business. I love the crisp sensual texture of a hard-earned dollar bill. Just writing about it makes me shiver. Brrrrrr! Oh here come the butterflies!!!!!!!! YAY!! BUTTERFLIES!!! OMG!!!! YEAH?!?! WHAT MOTHERFUCKER?!?!? I'LL KICK YOU. God told me to. Upon reviewing these three facets of my personality I came to the individual consensus that it would be most opportune if I focused myself into the entrepreneurial industry. It is not a math equation where there is only one solution to the problem. It is not a derivative of a curve. We are not curves but PEOPLE. God told me. A giant boat. Allow my ambition to roam your campus and eat the grass of your dining halls.
Heard, shrieked, in the SGO: "You're not a Republican! You don't know the secret handshake!"
Gentrify this! Okay. And they’re off! Much awaits: Mudslinging! Pettiness! Wedgies! Show me the money! Or not. Even things that aren’t that sexy are still important.
The Housing Lottery already has a mystical quality to it. But when you’re number comes up as 666 or 1984, you really start wondering. In our ongoing series about crazy ass lottery numbers, the Bwog’s Julia Butareva interviews Samit Sarkar, C SEAS '08, who got lucky lottery number 1984. Bwog: Do you think you're being watched? Samit Sarkar: I do now. I mean, I figured the government was keeping tabs on meanyway — I am brown, after all, and that fact alone probably puts me on some sort of Homeland Security watchlist or something... Will this make you reconsider your housing choices? Well, it looks like I really only have a shot at a single in Schapiro or Wien, so I figure I'll just take what I can get at this point. You'd think that I'd get some sort of special consideration for drawing number 1984, but apparently it went unnoticed by everyone but you and me. Will this make you inspect your eventual housing choice any more closely? I don't ever plan on answering any ROLM phone calls. They can't tap my cell without having the Justice Department send me a letter anyway — I know this because it happened to a Venezuelan friend of mine from Miami — so I'll just have my clandestine conversations on that line.
In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway ATL A movie about my hometown featuring Big Boi and T.I. Being from Atlanta just got a little cooler, although, unfortunately, I can’t relate to the movie’s competitive roller-skating subplot. Stay Alive Frankie Muniz makes his horror debut in a film that also stars “Hebrew Hammer” Adam Goldberg. The movie may be scary, but still not as scary as the thought that Frankie Muniz collects cars. And drives them. V for Vendetta Natalie Portman gets her head shaved? The future truly is a scary, dystopian place. The Shaggy Dog The producers of Scooby Doo 3 must be very upset right now. Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd The Beauty Academy of Kabul Screw infrastructure; what Afghanistan really needs is a Western-style beauty salon! Iron Island Iran’s Arab minority lives on oil tanker. Hijinks ensue. Don’t Come Knocking The best road trip film with social commentary about American society since Harold and Kumar Go To White Castle. The Child (L’Enfant) A movie with no soundtrack and hand-held cameras about a young father that sells his newborn baby? I’m guessing that this probably won’t make it to the Liberty Film Festival. Also Playing: Caché Tsotsi AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Basic Instinct 2 Remember how this was supposed to be trashy, campy, and full of nudity? Apparently, they got 2 of the 3 right. Peace activist Sharon Stone stars. Ice Age: The Meltdown If you like the sound of Ray Romano whining in computer-generated-animal form, this movie is definitely for you. Also, while the title is perfect, what will the third movie be called? Refreeze? After the Defrost? Slither Weird creatures crawl into people’s mouths. Sometimes, “high-concept” is a misnomer. Inside Man An absolutely fantastic film, with a perfect blend of Spike Lee’s righteous anger, a heist movie’s inherent coolness, and Clive Owen’s undeniable hotness. She’s the Man The only thing that you need to know about this movie is that it has a castmember named “Channing Tatum.” If you’re still down after that, please go forth. Thank You for Smoking See Katie Holmes in her last film before she starts making Scientology infomercials. Also Playing: Find Me Guilty V for Vendetta: The IMAX Experience Failure to Launch 16 Blocks Deep Sea 3D Transamerica
 Res Life has declared today RA Appreciation Day! Remember that time your RA stopped your roommate from urinating all over your chest while you were passed out in the hallway? Well, you might not remember, but it happened. So, you better give your RA a hug! ...or a Complete New Yorker book and DVD set!
 In which film savant Iggy Cortez gives you something to watch this weekend when you ask the cute girl from CC to your room to "watch a movie." What Time is it There? is Tsai-Ming Liang’s powerful exploration of loneliness and loss, themes he has explored previously in such modern classics as the bleak The River and the poignantly whimsical pseudo-musical The Hole. But while Tsai’s humanist concerns, and his cast of favorite actors, recur in all his movies, each film is inflected with its particular share of symbols and obsessions as to make them wholly independent worlds of their own. His 2001 film, What Time is it There? is his most ambitious in scope. It follows the emotional journey of street vendor Hsiao Kang, who has recently deposited his father’s ashes at the crematorium, while his mother remains home, gripped by intense and unexpected mourning. He develops an obsession for a young woman who convinces him to sell her his watch before she goes on a trip to Paris. Her deceptively carefree mien, and the romantic idea of Paris she embodies, become an intimation of hope for Hsiao Kang that gradually develops into an obsession with Truffaut’s 400 Blows (as the next best thing to following her to Paris) and for the nature of time. As Hsiao Kang uses his imagination of Paris for escapism, the young woman arrives at Paris where she is lost, achingly lonely and terrorized by her inability to, literally, communicate and, hence, connect. Through cross-cutting and cleverly staged parallel narratives, Tsai uses time-difference as a metaphor for disjunction - and the emotional barriers between individuals his characters secretly wish would disappear. His camera is often strategically static, lingering on scenes that are poignantly haunting and all-too-recognizably familar, allowing us to catch the botched chances at connections his protagonists miss. In one of the film’s most emblematic scenes, the young woman finds herself awkward and alone in a loud and merry Parisian restaurant. A handsome stranger helps her decide what to order, and while she focuses on the menu she fails to see his curious and sympathetic gaze that suggests he is open to make a connection she achingly desires. Subtitled 7 to 400 Blows, What Time is it There? is also a wonderful tribute to the French New Wave and its contribution to a cinema of greater emotional authenticity. In a welcomed cameo, Jean Pierre-Leaud (the protagonist of the 400 Blows and something of a poster-child for the period), plays a benevolent stranger Shiang-Chyi randomly encounters. The iconic actor becomes a loaded metaphor: a means to connect the two protagonists, a tribute to Truffaut and an optimistic symbol for how time passes but certain things endure.
Doodles found in a notebook in the Hartley computer lab: DONATE!!! What if the same guy buys you at auction again?! Noooooo So far we only have $11 of steph. I hope that's enough. Tell your BF to donate I think he wants to bid, but he's one of those po' folk. STEPH LOVES MIDGETS I HATE YOU SKANK No, you love me. ONLY BECAUSE YOU TOLERATE MY PIRATE HOOKERDOM
Street evangelist to pair of hipster guys walking along 125th street: "Hello, you need God today now? Or you need girl? God made the girl!" 
Finally, the end to your late-night grocery expense-related insomia. Fairway wins. For everything. Too bad it's that awkward 10+ blocks away. The 125th St. (and 12th Ave.) Fairway isn't just the supermarket of choice for West Siders but for New Yorkers all over. The produce section alone takes up the same space as Morton Williams. All the staples are here as well as fresh baked bread, fresh roasted coffee, an olive bar to put D'Agastino's to shame, more vegan and vegetarian food than you can shake an organic stick at, and the infamous walk-in freezer, complete with coats for chilly customers. Inside, there a whole refrigerated world of meat and milk and sea critters. So how do you take advantage of this epicurean treasure? Walk up to Fairway. Develop your own opinion on Manhattanville expansion. Shop your little heart out. Once you've paid, push your cart back to the entrance and you'll see a greenish-blue minivan/gypsy cab. The friendly fellow inside will drive you back to Columbia for $5. You just saved $30 off your grocery bill. Take your new-found beer money and celebrate. Oh, UFM. The Columbia staple. When West Side Market left, you stuck around. But sometimes we feel like you're growing distant. First the makeover, then the cashiers who won't acknowledge our existence except to say "press OK." Sometimes they just reach around and press OK for us. Still, you're close. You have all the staples. The produce is all so shiny, if tasteless. A sign claims there's a butcher in the basement and if we press a certain button, we can talk to him on closed circuit TV. If that's not service, it's something closely approximating it. In the end, we can't even hate on your prices. They're bad but no worse than anywhere else south of 125th. Just smile a little and we might be happier to come by. D'Agostino's-- D'Ag, as you insist-- you are the tricky one. First you lure us in with spotless aisles, friendly help, and promises of D'Ag Card savings. Then you slap us in the face with prices that would make a welfare mother weep. Sure, we get $1 off asparagus with 500 Green Card points. We're also paying $1 more for asparagus anyway. And how are the points calculated? Questions are met with a cashier's blank stare. Reasons to shop at D'Ags are few but surprisingly compelling. First, you don't want your meat packaged by an underground butcher only reachable by closed circuit camera. Second, your child goes to The School (and is there a more pretentious name than that?) and you want to "network" and "check out" and eventually "have romantic flings" with other School parents. If we're talking talking about Fairway 10 blocks uptown, it's only fair to include Gristedes, parked outside the 103rd st. stop 10 blocks downtown. Gristedes is know by few and beloved by fewer. This should not be so. The store is surprisingly large with aisles that, unlike in Morton Williams, more than one person can fit through. Charm is hidden in every corner. Look at this cute animatronic bugger hiding out by the deli case: . Yes, the produce tends to be rotten. And the sign listing egg prices is hand lettered. The prices, though, are no worse than Morton Williams and the selection is certainly better. Look at this soup wall: How can you not buy your soup from it? It might not be easy carrying a full week's worth of groceries half a mile uptown but for a change of pace, Gristedes is not bad. And you'll know you're doing your part to keep the red man down. 
Wherein Andrea Gallardo observes a panel discussing "Beauty and Morals." Plus, a Q&A; session that turned adults into grade-grubbing Columbia students. “Sometimes we want to live the beauty we’ve been talking about,” said Marie Ponsot. “It is the tragic destiny of human beings not to understand and to be misunderstood.” What else could one say to a quiet, eager, and middle-aged audience sitting with rapt attention, waiting to hear a panel discuss beauty? Was there any way to satisfy these people, waiting to hear a discussion about one of the most ambiguous and subjective ideas out there? Regardless, the seats of Davis Auditorium were filled, and clusters of people listened just outside the open doorways. On stage, the panel reclined in their seats, each waiting their turn to speak. Ponsot, one panelist in a discussion on “Beauty and Morals” that took place at the Heyman Center on March 23rd, is a poet whose collections include Springing and The Bad Catcher. Her lyrical, rhythmic voice made it seem as if she spoke entirely in verse. Expressing a sober frustration with the human desire to describe or revisit beauty, Posnot chose a few select anecdotes from her life and some wonderful words with which to entertain the audience. While Ponsot seemed to see something sacred and tragic in the futility of trying to define beauty and talk about it, Elaine Scarry, a Harvard professor and author of the recent book On Beauty and Being Just, was confident in the academic discussion of beauty and jumped straight into its implications. “Beautiful things are alarm clocks that remind you that your extended attention isn’t on long enough,” she said encouragingly while brushing back her hair. They’re a reminder that “you’ve been under-perceiving the world.” Very beautiful things have the capability to change lives, she insisted. “Beauty for beauty’s sake may be enough, but is it true that it stands alone?” Scarry queried. Convinced that it does not, she said that it instead “presses towards justice.” Beauty, she said, causes a “heart-stopping response” in which “one moves to the sidelines of one’s own life,” realizing that “we’re not the center of the world” – even your own world. Beauty may occur in nature, but “justice is never naturally occurring,” said Scarry, implying that it is our duty to try to create a “symmetry of relationships with each other.” “For me,” she said, “the opposite of beauty is injury.” While her connections between beauty and justice seemed somewhat ambiguous, Scarry made sure to mention that she spoke more thoroughly on the topic of Beauty and Morals in her new book. Alexander Nehamas, a philosopher, advocated the need for a “different set of standards” by presenting the modern dilemma of whether or not to watch TV and give in to “depravity.” Assuming that most of the audience considered television a fountain of corruption and cheap art, Nehamas took a bold step, admitting that TV has in fact made him a better philosopher and that indeed, television is not altogether a deplorable device. “Perhaps you will be satisfied with a degraded life,” he proposed, chuckling to himself. John Hollander, another panelist, referred to the desire for beauty as something inexhaustible. “It is a good thing that we can find beauty in the world,” he said. There is, he believes, a “moral agenda” in trying to see an object for itself, because, as Wallace Stevens put it, “Beauty is momentary in the mind – / The fitful tracing of a portal; / But in the flesh it is immortal. / The body dies; the body's beauty lives.” Beauty is eternal yet fleeting, and, in Hollander’s conception, beyond reproach. “An object of beauty can be employed in ugly ways,” he warned, “but the beauty of the object cannot.” The audience murmured and applauded in response. The Question and Answer portion saw a change in the audience, who transformed from a quiet herd of sheep (or maybe goats) into a pack of something more predatory, hungry for answers to questions regarding beauty. The peanut gallery offered many a convoluted incoherent inquiry to the panel, who usually responded with, “Do you think you could phrase all of that into just one, simple question?” Most questions pertained to fascist art, as it is perhaps the most obvious example of morally questionable art, and therefore one of the most questionable forms of beauty. The panelists expressed discomfort in response to these questions, making clear their opposition to Hitler and fascism but failing to truly resolve the question. But did the audience members really expect resolution, that the panel would consist of certified “beauty experts” who could answer all their questions? It was a sight to behold: full-grown adults competing to be the smartest kid in the class, asking spiraling, labyrinthine questions while scoffing at the similar questions of others. Marie Ponsot, the least tense of the people up on stage, sat back in her chair while her fellow panelists jumped hurdles in an attempt to address the questions of the audience. Perhaps it was her sore throat. Perhaps she realized the silliness of such self-conscious critiques. Or perhaps she was thinking about how silly it is to try to be serious and academic about something so indescribable, and so sublime. - Andrea Gallardo
Nothing excites Bwog more (especially after a long Saturday night) than the mention of a new Japanese fusion restaurant. Located at 104th and Broadway (right near Supercuts!), Sushi Tokyo Pop seems committed to curbing gastronomic orientalism with odd items such as a "suprisingly successful" smoked eel and mozzarella roll. In any case, since it's Sunday, and it's beautiful outside, and you don't want to do work, this could be helpful.
Wow. Apparently last weekend's brawl was the last straw. Spec reports that the West End is being shuttered and will be converted to Havana Central, a chain of Cuban restaurants with locations in Times Square and Union Square. While this may be the biggest thing to happen to local dining since, um, Sushi Tokyo Pop, Bwog must bow its head and bid farewell to a local landmark. And though the bar's owner claims that "no matter who runs it, in the end, the ghosts will rise," Bwog is unsure whether the sound of ghosts will be audible over the excited yells of freshmen clamoring for 2-for-1 mojitos. Tear.
 Is SIPA plaza currently hosting weird, inexplicable initiation procedures, or a King's Crown rehearsal? You be the judge. More photos after the jump. 
The ever-so-helpful Columbia homepage has a story about Natalie Portman's legendary visit to Stuart Gottlieb's Terrorism & Counterterrorism class. Most important, however, is a link to the video footage! See Natalie on Van Am Quad! See Gottlieb looking hot! See yourself, unshaven and weary-eyed, totally unprepared for contact with Hollywood royalty! Also, there's a full list of other celebrities that have suprised stunned students all over the country. Natalie Portman ranks high in the absolutely random assortment of people: Elie Wiesel, Marilyn Manson, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Ashley Judd, Frank McCourt, and Snoop Dogg, among others.
Overheard in Carman elevator: Freshman #1: What's that music outside? Freshman #2: It's the Armenian Pride Festival. Freshman #1: What's Armenian? Clearly, we are in dire need of another World Leaders Forum.
Looks like Dean Quigley's 10th Anniversary Dance Party, scheduled for 9pm this Wednesday, is going to have a change of venue. Quigo's club of choice, the Avalon, has been shut down as part of a city-wide bust for narcotics. Ecstasy, to be specific. From the beginning we thought there was something a little fishy about a British man in his 60s getting his funk so enthusiastically on.
Lerner 569. Pizza. Soda. Free. And CCSC debates. Going on now.
From Bored at Butler: greek week opening ceremony. There was supposed to be a Tug-O-War tournament, but the first match-up (sigma-chai vs. A-chai-O) was a mess. The rope broke immediately, cause that douchebag of a programming guy from IGC bought a 1/4" inch thick twine rope. Yeah! It shouldn't even be called Tug-O-War anymore! They should've called it, like, Tug-O-String! Yeah!
Revised sexual misconduct policy is passed, as Bollinger hits Asia. Adam Goldberg: ESC Freedom Fighter. And despite hopes that it was all an April Fool's joke (or a drunken hallucination), the West End will indeed be going Cuban. Girls. They like food. It makes them happy. Attendees of Culture Shock find themselves Culture Satisfied.
And the award for best lede ever in a college newspaper article goes to Tyler Hill, Yale Daily News Staff Reporter. Sometimes, simplicity rings truest: "After a 10-year struggle, the Yale College Council can now claim victory: the council has convinced administrators to put soap dispensers in dormitory bathrooms." And suddenly, the protracted fight over the sexual misconduct policy became either a lot more or a lot less disturbing.
According to an article in The Villager, Dean Yatrakis's daughter and her husband are fighting with the city over the right to evict their tenants. This development may make Yatrakis's Contemporary Urban Issues Colloquium a little more interesting.
For those not fortunate enough to be on the SEAS mailing list, Dean Zvi "Spam Robot" Galil sent this to the entire engineering school late last night: Hi All, I thought you would like to know that early wednesday morning, shortly after 1AM the time and date at that very second will be: 01:02:03 04/05/06 I hope you will be be up at that time to mark the occasion of a lifetime. Dean Galil Oh, we will, Dean Galil. We will. 
Bwog correspondent Yelena Shuster reports from the group selection frontlines in John Jay Lounge. Josh Groban's Closer CD sets the tone for today's first housing selection. The operatic singing seems somewhat appropriate. "I'm surprised Columbia's giving away free stuff," muttered a frustrated member of a four-person group, in reference to the bowls of Famous Amos and Naked Juice offered in John Jay lounge. "Whatever, I'm not taking chances with this shit," said a weary-eyed girl who came 20 minutes early for her appointment. Room Selection Update as of 11 a.m.: Two four-person EC townhouse suites left out of six. Seven four-person Hogan suites left out of thirteen. Five Three Watt two-bedroom apartments left out of eleven. Two bedroom Woodbridge apartments gone. More impressions after the jump. The decor of John Jay lounge strangely resembles some kind of celebration ceremony, with blue and white balloons dangling from the sign-up tables. The Room Selection Update whiteboard is decorated like a kindergarden project, with grass, a shining sun, and a purple butterfly surrounding the column of available rooms. "This is so much better than Barnard housing," exclaimed a girl prone to giggling. "Did we win?" asked a girl who missed her group's appointment. Vitamins (one-a-day Centrum versus gummy bear vitamins), Tom Welling, and concealer (that was way too white for your face) were other topics of discussion. Good to hear Columbia students engaged in their intellectual musings so early in the day.
There is currently a bagpiper outside of the 118th Street entrance to SIPA. No word yet on whether he is using the luscious sounds of his, um, pipes to crash a SIPA party.
Bed bugs run wild at Columbia, and MSNBC is on the case. Money Quote: "Just last week freshmen at New York’s prestigious Columbia University had to leave their rooms because a room nearby was infested with bed bugs. And they’re worried about what other students think." Columbia students: Finding new reasons to feel insecure since 1754.
The Josh Groban CD is still playing. The Bwog had a huge 12th grade crush on him. So lame. Reasons to come by John Jay Lounge even though you're not in group selection: 1) You have a whiteboard fetish. 2) You have a light blue table skirt fetish. 3) Famous Amos cookies have been for too long not a part of your life. Boy to his future roomate: "We should work out more. We can set up mats in our room and wrestle." Related: A: Where's he living? B: Hogan. A: Yeah. He's gay like that. A boy looks at the whiteboard and says with increasing panic: "What's W-T-T? What's W-T-T?!" Update as of 2:45 p.m.: 4 person EC townhouses gone (but plenty of 6 people ones left) 2 bedroom apartments in Watt gone 47 Claremont untouched
An anonymous tipster reports an equally anonymous Columbia student who is using Facebook profiles to find girls’ screen names. Once he finds an appropriate screen name, the aforementioned student logs on under a false screen name—OneSweeetgurlie—and pretends to be a dear friend from home, all in an attempt to get a picture. Transcript of an actual conversation after the jump. OneSweeetgurlie: omg how are you? ----------: i'm great how are you? OneSweeetgurlie: i miss u OneSweeetgurlie: im so miserable OneSweeetgurlie: school =( OneSweeetgurlie: i been IMin, textin, emaling, callin everyone i kno OneSweeetgurlie: EVERYONE i could think up of OneSweeetgurlie: i wish i could call u but i been callin so many people for help and now my cell is dead and no charger to be found OneSweeetgurlie: today is the deadline to submit my photogrpahy proj to make up an incomplete from last semester OneSweeetgurlie: its due in 3 hrs OneSweeetgurlie: i thought it was due next month OneSweeetgurlie: i emailed my prof and she like she cant do anything but i need it in her email asap OneSweeetgurlie: even worse! im goin to lose a $2000 scholarship if i fail the class because my gpa will drop below 3.0 OneSweeetgurlie: im cryin and sooo stresseddd OneSweeetgurlie: omg do you by any chance have a digital camear? Clearly, OneSweeetgurlie is not in the Business School.
Dean Colombo announced in an email today the death of Columbia College sophomore Jessica Zauner. The Spectator is also reporting on the story. Full e-mail after the jump. Dear Student,It is with great sadness that I inform you that Jessica Zauner, a sophomore Economics major in Columbia College, passed away this weekend while at home with her family in Connecticut. Her death is a devastating loss to all. Jessica was a deeply caring friend and family member. Her dedication to those around her was apparent in her unyielding support for her friends, her commitment to literacy projects through her many years with the Girl Scouts, and her love for her family. We have been in contact with Jessica’s family and have offered our assistance and condolences. It is difficult to convey who Jessica was and what she meant to this community through the limitations of email. This evening at 5:00pm in the Wien Hall first floor lounge we will gather to remember Jessica. Representatives from the Division of Student Affairs, Residential Programs, and Counseling and Psychological Services will be present. I hope that you will join us. I know this will be a time of sadness but also a time of joy and fondness as we remember Jessica. I will be in touch with you in the days ahead with details regarding a memorial service for Jessica. Any students in need of support at this time are encouraged to contact your class deans, Counseling and Psychological Services, and the Chaplain’s office for support. First Year Sophomore Academic Advising Center: 854-6378 Junior Senior Advising Center: 854-1870 Office of the University Chaplain: 854-1493 Counseling and Psychological Services: 854-2878
 Eager freshmen expressing their love for a newly discovered fictional character, or just another RA Appreciation Day? You decide. Photos by Sara Vogel
Worried about your lottery number? In that case, let the Bwog make your worries just a little greater. Our correspondent Sumaiya Ahmed roamed through campus to find out just how odd views from dorm rooms can be. This could all be yours. Many more photos after the jump. 
Bwog Correspondent Mark Krotov attended a debate between the three parties vying for freshmen's vote: the Flex Party, the Fusion Party, and the Pants Party. Though the CCSC Rising Sophomore debate was not especially memorable, it clearly signaled a shift in campus attitudes. Sure, there were the requisite mentions of better dining options and performance space, but the majority of comments and questions directly tackled the big issues; hate crimes, financial aid reform, and diversifying the Core were the subjects of most of the hour-long debate. At the beginning of the debate, there were about 20 audience members, but the number swelled to about 30 halfway through the hour. The Fusion Party started off the night with some standard comments, but George Krebs, the party’s outspoken presidential candidate, opted for a far more dramatic style, asking the ruling Flex Party rhetorical questions about their campaign promises and stopping mid-sentence to ask the timekeeper, “Is it three minutes or two minutes? You said it was three minutes before.” The brilliantly named Pants Party followed, emphasizing stronger connections between the student body and the athletic department (something that the other two parties did not touch on) as a way to create greater community spirit. Their proposals were not especially breathtaking, but it was somewhat refreshing to hear Joseph Matuk, a candidate for class representative, mentioning “minor but helpful changes to the election process.” The Flex Party was the third group to provide an introductory statement, and the five freshmen definitely made the strongest visual impression—they were all dressed in black. Noting their “great contacts with the administration,” they listed their accomplishments (healthier alternatives in John Jay, multiple study breaks) and promised to hold more events. The most amusing moment of the night occurred when Ian Solsky, a candidate for class representative, struggled to say anything constructive as the timekeeper furiously waved his hand. He decided on, “and…we did a lot of stuff.” The organizers then asked whether policies or parties (the free food kind, not the Republican kind) would take precedence in the groups’ administrations. The Pants Party struggled for a minute to respond, but decided that “both are equally important, especially social events in the community, which can create a bond between the class of ’09.” The Flex Party answered along similar minds, but Fusion’s vice presidential candidate Mark Johnson said that his party leaned toward a 60/40 split in favor of policy. He noted that financial aid reform and stopping hate crimes would be a “long-lasting effort toward improving student and community life,” adding that he did not want “our efforts devoted to one night of fun.” This was a turning point in the debate, because every subsequent mention of mundane topics like Dining Dollars seemed like a distraction from the night’s major topics. A representative from Amnesty International asked about divestment and Sudan, and while all three groups agreed that Columbia needed to divest, a sharp rift emerged between Flex/Pants and Fusion’s take on the big issues. While Flex positioned itself as “the mediator and as the source of information,” Fusion embraced a more activist role for the CCSC, arguing that “we need to support organizations that will take actions.” The next question, which addressed hate crimes, only reinforced this division. The Pants Party stated “getting the word out on these issues is one of the most important things” and Flex followed, arguing that their job was to “collect ideas” and “deliver them to the class as a whole.” Johnson again took a contrarian stance, citing Alan Brinkley’s comment that not all crimes may be preventable and stating that this was an “outrageous” claim. He then directly endorsed SHOCC. The issue of modifying the Core was brought up next. Flex noted the distinction between leading and representing, and one candidate added that although small changes could be made, “I don’t think that the Core needs to be changed in any big way.” But Fusion said that it was necessary to “recognize the flaws in the Core Curriculum. We are no longer a Western Civilization University. It is far beyond needed to integrate global perspectives into the Core Curriculum.” Pants Party was the last group to respond before the parties asked each other questions, and their last speaker stated that the “Core Curriculum is one of the main reasons why students come to Columbia.” The parties’ questions to each other were confrontational but empty, though with one question asked to Flex and two to Fusion, it seemed clear that Pants had not made an especially strong impression. Krebs defended Fusion’s “Cub Cash” proposal (really no different than the neighborhood Flex ideas that have been circulating for awhile) and was asked for “one additional thing that is on your platform that is not on our platform.” Krebs responded to this when answering the only audience question of the night. The party was about “fusing elements of different platforms and tactics,” he noted. “If they’re not original, but if they make the students happy … it doesn’t matter.” I’m not sure whether many of the audience members (the number had dwindled to less than 20 by the end) saw enough to make up their minds. Indeed, the whole thing was probably more of a rhetorical exercise than anything else. Still, one couldn’t help but notice that the flyers and protests and editorials that seem to be everywhere on campus seem to be making an impact. For every promise of more study breaks that fell flat, many of the ideological issues on campus really seemed to matter. At one point in the debate, Mark Johnson said, “we are not only students, we are citizens of the world.” I think he meant it.
 Best. Headline. Ever. The University Senate: "A very special place" More SHOCC, More Awe All in all, Daylight Savings Time is just another "glitch in the Matrix" McCain gets smackdown for Liberty University commencement speech. And you thought Bollinger was controversial.
This weekend the Bwog’s John Shekitka interviewed Peter Capainolo, a curator of ornithology at the American Museum of Natural History and a licensed falconer. That’s right, he’s a licensed falconer! How did you first become interested in falconry? I grew up in eastern Long Island, which at the time had all oak forests and farms. As a kid I hunted, fished, and collected insects in little jars. Gradually, I got interested in sketching all these things and making watercolor paintings. Then my mother paid for some taxidermy lessons, so I learned how to preserve skin and mount birds. I was always particularly interested in birds. I had a pigeon coop and belonged to club that raced homing pigeons. This one time, a hawk came down out of the woods and ate one of my pigeons on the lawn, and rather than being horrified, I was intrigued. What was the training process to become a falconer? Back then, the only books on falconry were from Europe or the United Kingdom. So at first I learned what I could from books. Then in 1977, New York State adopted falconry regulations. You had to take a test and get your facilities inspected. I wound up getting one of the first falconry licenses in New York State. At the time, there were really only a handful of people who practiced falconry in the United States. Now there are probably 5,000 or so licensed falconers. How expensive of a hobby is falconry? To keep birds healthy and flying, they need to be well fed, and they have to have a place to live, so you need to construct a hawk house. Those things aren’t cheap, especially if you can’t do it yourself. We used to get day old baby chicks from farms to use as feed for free, but now there are quail breeders who breed the quails for falconers. Food alone is at least a few hundred dollars. The bigger investment though is in your time. Right now I don’t have any birds, because you need to fly them every day. What sort of prey do the falcons go after? Loosely there are two groups of raptors, long wings and short wings. Long wings are true falcons and they are essentially bird eaters. They fly way up and they circle up high. Then they fold their wings and they come down really fast, and knock their prey out of the air. Then they will bind to it and take it the ground, or else let it fall and finish it off on the ground. The other group is loosely called short wings, and this includes red-tailed hawks, and they feed more on mammals, rabbits and squirrels in particular. Hawks though, will sit and a tree, and you have to go out there with a dog, beating the shrubs with sticks, and trying to rustle out some prey. The hawks will follow you from tree to tree, unlike a falcon, which stays way up in the air. Falcons really need to be flown in open country, out in Montana or Wyoming. With hawks, the kind of terrain you find in the Northeast is perfect. Can falconry be done in New York City at all? I wouldn’t do it. There are local ordinances against keeping dangerous animals. Falcons do nest in the city though, because they just naturally lay their eggs on ledges. So for centuries in cities, peregrine falcons have laid eggs. They finally started to come back to New York about twenty years ago. Some people think they were brought back to get rid of the pigeons, but that isn’t true. The second part of our interview included a tour of the ornithology collection of the Museum of Natural History, which includes over one million specimens that represents nearly every species of birds that exists in world, all stored in six floors of the museum. It is the largest collection in the world. How does one collect and prepare a bird specimen? The birds used to be shot or netted but not so much anymore today. There is some localized collecting in other parts of the world, but under strict regulation. Most are stored as study skins, which is where the preserved skin is wrapped around a stick covered in cotton. Each specimen has a label with all the relevant data. How often are new species discovered? Not very often. There are only about 10,000 species of birds, which is a very small number when you take into account that there are over one million beetle species. Do you have any particular species you’d like to see? Cardinals. Do you have cardinals? Yea, we have those. Let me see what floor they are on. The interview finished up in the basement laboratories where the birds are cleaned for preservation. At the time of our interview, the freezer contained a penguin, and a bald eagle, which had been removed of its feathers and meat. The eagle was about to be sent over to be facility that housed a type of beetle which would clean away the rest of the meat from the bones. This facility was separate from the Museum itself, lest the beetles escape and eat up all of the specimens and displays of the museum. On the way out, we looked at some partial skeletons of the Dodo bird. 
Do you fondly remember Housing's older, uglier, purpler website? Do you yearn for its collection of residential hall floor plans? Have you been trying to compare the nuances of the Woodbridge C line and the Woodbridge F line, but only in vain? Well, we have dug up the virtual tours for you! (We're nice like that.) They may be found here. Good luck.
As of noon, all 6-person, all-single EC townhouses are gone. Who got the last EC townhouse? The Blue and White's very own editor-in-chief and publisher, with number 1836. 6 person all-single high rises are still available. Booyakasha!
From a senior class e-mail: SENIOR FUND First, for those of you who have graciously given to the Senior Fund thanks so much for your help. Your donation is helping Columbia to keep its high levels of academic rigor, maintain our diverse club interests and eradicate financial aid! Um? Bwog just paid somebody to take AWAY financial aid? Balls.
 As Bwog was taking a shortcut to its French class, it discovered this wonderful display of charity in the tunnels. And although it's not uranium, it's clear that someone down there really cares.
 Spec reported last fall that the Cathedral of St. John the Divine would let Columbia and AvalonBay Communities build on the Close (the parcel of land bordered by Morningside, Amsterdam, 110th, and 113th) in exchange for rental income. Today, the New York Times reports that AvalonBay will build a 20-story, 300-unit apartment building on the southeast corner of the site. Bwog thinks that Columbia's parcel on the north side of the Close is the perfect place for a new freshman dorm. Living next door to both the St. Luke's emergency room and the cathedral, freshmen could get CAVAd and atone for their sins in a one-block radius! Update: Apparently, no-go on the dorm. Bwog just got an e-mail from Tao Tan, who informs us that the Close will be home to the new Columbia University Graduate School of Business. Construction is supposed to start in 2-3 years.
In last week's Engineering Student Council elections, 67% of students voted for direct elections. 17% of students voted against direct elections. 15% of students abstained. Yesterday, the ESC voted to turn down direct elections.
The Bwog is pissed at whoever this loser is trying to get naked pictures of Columbia girls over AIM. Mostly because the Bwog really does have a naked picture photo assignment due, and now nobody believes us. We know you do, though. Just send those pictures on in to bwgossip@columbia.edu and we'll make sure they get to the appropriate parties. Er, professors. Offical public safety warning past the cut: Recently, several students have become the victims of an Internet Scam. These students have received instant messages on their computers from unknown persons, purportedly friends of the students. The unknown persons request that the students send personal (nude) photos, which the friends allegedly need, for a photography class. All of the victims believe that their contact information and the names of their friends were obtained from facebook.com. If you receive an instant message similar to these, please contact the Department of Public Safety immediately. Don't send any personal photos or other information via the Internet. Public Safety can be reached at 212-854-0377. To add to the above, it seems that this stalker is targeting girls in sororities in particular. The screenname that has been reported as being used by the stalker is onesweeetgurlie. You may want to block this screenname, and change your facebook preferences so that your personal contact information can only be seen by people you know.
2:50 p.m. Girl to her female friend in line: "I'm actually glad we're not in Hogan, I wasn't really into the idea. My ex-boyfriend lived in Hogan." Friend: "Wait, didn't he graduate like two years ago?" Girl: "Yeah, he did, but there's still, like, sex in the walls." 3:12 p.m. Four guys in a huddle, blocking the door: "Where the hell is he?" "I dont know, I've called him seven times in a row!" says the nervous one, dancing around like he has to pee as he punches his cell phone buttons angrily. "He's blowing this off to play Halo, you know he is." "Dude, we really should have had that intervention with him freshman year." 3:20 p.m. The triumphant return of Josh Groban. While Housing Services did replenish the Famous Amos supply for today's customers, it seems like changing the CD would have just been too much. 3:29 p.m. Group of friends leaving John Jay lounge after making their decision: Girl: "We should have just waited around for regroup." Boy: "Nah, we did the right thing, regroup is for pussies." UPDATE AS OF 4:00 p.m. 6-person EC suites gone doubles in EC gone (but 21 exclusions remain) 4-person suites in 47 Claremont gone Just one left: 5-person suites in Ruggles and 47 Claremont, 6-person suite in 47 Claremont
Tomorrow, Stop Hate on Columbia's Campus will hold a rally on Low Plaza at 2 p.m. SHOCC's full press release is after the jump. Stop Hate on Columbia's Campus WHAT: Rally to protest hate crimes and lack of administrative response WHEN: Wednesday April 5 at 2:00pm WHERE: Low Plaza, enter 116 th and Broadway Columbia students will rally on Wednesday April 5, 2006 against institutional racism, sexism, homophobia, and transphobia. Six hate crimes on Columbia University's campus within the 2005-2006 academic year have spurred many students to say "enough is enough." Recent incidents have included racist, homophobic, and anti-Semitic graffiti in public spaces and student dorms. Students who are part of a wealthy literary society threw a bottle and yelled homophobic slurs at a student passing by on his way to his dorm. Diversity on Columbia's campus is not a new issue. In 2004, there were three incidents that took place on campus including a cartoon in the Federalist paper, an anti-affirmative action bake sale, While students protested and won the creation of an Office of Multicultural Affairs for undergraduates, President Lee C. Bollinger made no substantive commitments to systematically address bias and inequality university-wide. This year, when students organized under the banner of Stop Hate on Columbia's Campus (SHOCC), it took more than three months for President Bollinger to meet with them. SHOCC and allied student organizations held town halls and speak outs that led to the formulation of eight demands addressing issues of hate and institutional oppression. The demands include policies to report, document and publicize hate incidents; increased diversity training for students, staff and faculty; a central administration office dedicated to student diversity issues; changes in the Core Curriculum to address Eurocentric bias; and creation of more safe spaces on campus for students of color and other marginalized groups. When students met with President Bollinger, he provided only empty rhetoric and referred students to lower level administrators. Yet students have been meeting with various administrators throughout the university since 2004 and see a lack of action. Students are asking for the president as well as other administrators to be proactive in their commitment and vision of a university that truly values diversity as a "core value." Columbia College junior Daphne Rubin-Vega of SHOCC said, "Hundreds of students have mobilized to show their outrage that hate crimes can happen on our campus and the administration can't get its act together to respond." This week, SHOCC is spreading the word by encouraging all of its members and its supporters to wear black as a show of solidarity with the movement, to pass out flyers, leaflets, and pamphlets to educate those who are disconnected from the campus happenings. There will be other publicity campaign efforts like "dorm-storms," where students will go door to door inside university dormitories passing out literature and asking people if they would be interested in both learning more and being apart of the effort. Students will also form a "Safe Space Circle" on Tuesday, April 4 to educate the campus about the history of SHOCC's demands. These activities will lead to a mass rally on Wednesday, the day that President Bollinger is expected to return from Asia. What is a Hate Crime? Hate crimes include any and all forms of speech, writing, literature, or expression that stereotypes, marginalizes, denigrates, and isolates an individual or group based on an aspect of his or her identity. Hate crimes challenge an individual or group's sense of self, safety, and belonging within their community. Hate crimes on campus deny the safe space to which all members of a university are entitled. Hate crimes on campus make Columbia a dangerous place to be. Background on 2004 Racist Incidents In 2004, a cartoon in the Federalist paper (Columbia funded/supported publication) named "Blackey Fun Whitey" that parodied Black History/Heritage Month and stereotyped blacks as "cheap labor." The affirmative action bake sale, which was part of a wave of such displays across the country sold the price of goods based on sex, gender, and perceived level of "oppression." The Columbia Marching Band flyers such as those saying "Said: 0, Yahweh: 1" to commemorate the death of a Palestinian professor in the Middle East Asian Languages and Culture department Edward Said, put into direct opposition several communities with long histories of cultural, societal, and lifestyle misunderstanding. Black students led a mobilization to decry these acts by holding a week-long silent protest on the steps of Low Library in which hundreds of students dressed in black in a show of solidarity. In 2006, as in 2004, students will not tolerate acts of hatred and are mobilizing for lasting change.
 Overheard following Friday night's Fruit Paunch show in Furnald lounge. Two guys walked into the the first floor bathroom, which is not labeled Male or Female. Guy 1: Wait, so IS this a guys' bathroom or not? Guy 2: (in an abrupt tone) I dunno ... let's just be quick about it!
 Bwog Correspondent Jim Williams reports: An unfortunate typo (or, rather, what I hope was a typo) in today’s Spec article about the Center for Broken Thought’s inaugural event claims that the movement is “inspired by thinkers like Nietzsche, Bataille, Artaud, and Shamu.” Yes, Shamu. The whale from Free Willy. Had the mistake been caught and fixed prior to publication, the article would have referenced Iranian poet Ahmad Shamlu, whose work bears resemblance to the ideas presented in The Breaking. Those interested in more information would be well advised to do a comparative study of the two illustrious figures’ respective websites, shamlu.com and shamu.com. Each, in its own way, is tremendously enlightening.
Seniors with bad lottery numbers just discovered whether redemption could be found in Senior Regroup. Regroup was subdued this year; everyone had planned out their responses to a low number beforehand, in an attempt to gain entry into one of the coveted remaining two Hogan 5-person suites and four remaining EC 5-person high-rises. Tammi Lee C '07, thrilled to snag a 5-person EC high rise suite, celebrated with three of her best friends and Justin. Justin? "They know him. I just met him." Also witnessed was a junior girl, lamenting the shaft she received: "They'll end up in fucking Hogan. And I'll end up in fucking Broadway." Celebrations and lamentations were subdued. "Pretty tame," said housing guru Steve Estes. The jungle of regroup has been tamed. The juniors may now begin their feeding frenzy. Check Bwog for more details throughout the week.
Tons of fried stuff from JJ's in the McBain lounge - you don't even have to sit through all of the C '08 class council debate (though it might be amusing). Just don't trip over the CTV camera cords on your way out.
These excerpts were culled from documents left on Columbia and Barnard lab computers. We encourage our readers to submit their own digitalia finds to us, via e-mail, at bwgossip@columbia.edu. A large glacier lumbered off in the distance, shyly beckoning, like a drowsy sheepdog. Chiarra had enjoyed broiled lobster tails with a Hennessey, straight. She had peeled 15 broiled shrimp for JR. He had looked her in the eyes when she fed him the first one and told her sweetly, "they taste better when you do that for me." JR had his cornball moments but they simply melted Chiarra. The country white folk looked on in disgust as this beautiful white woman fed some black hoodlum hand to mouth. Chiarra met each of one of their hateful, yet curious gazes now and again with a genuine smile as if she might not realize these bar regular's disgust. But JR egged their ignorance on, for his own self enjoyment. "Which car do I have again? Did I hand you the right keys Shorts? You have Porsche or the Range Rover keys?" His smile revealed to Chiarra he was doing all this on purpose. He was on a stage. Boccaccio is a misinformed feminist What happened to 'Made in America '? Did it ever really exist? This stem fits quite comfortably into the contracting fingers of an outstretched human hand, which would contently capture this object, to fill the elegant arching curves of the stem: up, down. Upside down, the object is elevated by the curves in overall structure that typically result in the jutting of the oval endpoint out into the world, raising the object above the surface in a way that suggests a desire to pull itself, escape the journey into the mouth of its captor that is hopelessly unavoidable. Tarzan's whiteness, however, does not merely guide him to perform remarkable physical feats and achieve intellectual success, but it also leads him to feel virtuous human emotion. Today's world is full of high-speed technology that allows us to gain access to multitudinous amounts of information in a short period of time. It is a world full of media bias. Today's world is comprised of myopic people. It is a world full of hatred via class divisions, religious beliefs, and skin color. These are not all independent thoughts, but rather a web of social causes and effects that make 'today's world' the delightfully gruesome place it is. Said creates a perfect image that combining all of our sources, we can find the "synthetic wholeness" that surrounds a situation. The words imply interwoven fabrics of source that would be making our blanket of truth.
As a service to you, dear reader, Bwog has devised a brilliant tool that will visually demonstrate your diminishing housing options. The map will be updated regularly, so check back often. Click here to see today's housing map.
Need a break from the harsh rigors of the housing lottery? Try Chinese mysticism! Using the power of the I Ching, the Bwog is empowered to give you a meaningless, random fortune based on your lottery number and the powers of our ancestors. Try it! Enter your lottery number: 
A Barnard student is the newest member of CB9. Tomorrow, St. A's members join FAIR. GS students debate, feel excluded. What's another way to spell "awesome"? Oh yeah, S-C-R-A-B-B-L-E C-L-U-B! Chris Kulawik, why are you so upset? It's not like they had a teleconference with Moammar Qaddafi! Oh, wait. Columbia sophomore reads Burke, cites Burke. 
The Bwog personals are back under Tolu Onafowokan's management and we promise you even more of the drama and sex and hot singles you've come to expect. This Wednesday and every Wednesday you get FULL ACCESS to the profiles of eligible bachelors and bachelorettes. If someone seems like the guy or gal of your dreams, shoot an email bwgossip@columbia.edu with a sentence or two pleading your case. If our bachelor or bachelorette picks you, the Bwog will spring $5 for a coffee date. Hot? Bothered? Check out the two profiles below or nominate yourself or a friend for next week by emailing bwgossip@columbia.edu. Girl for Guy This component of the post has been removed at the request of the subject. ----- Name: Hyun Young Kim (HY) School: CC Year: 2009 Major: Art History / Linguistics Hometown: Seoul Housing Lottery Number: 1800's Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Still Fighting It - Ben Folds La Caution - The a la menthe Desperado - The Eagles You're trapped on a desert island with three foods-- what are they? Pomegranate, dark chocolate, mango smoothie. Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Bright yellow (with pink border) briefs. It's 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon-- where can you be found? In my room, painting or doing homework. Nightmare date in three words or less: He doesn't pay! (Just kidding - awkward, awkward, awkward.) So, what are you doing after college? Hopefully in Paris or anywhere in Europe, studying. Really? Oui. Complete the sentence: When I first came to Columbia, I thought... Wow, this place is really diverse. (I went to a prep school in Massachusetts, that explains why.) Backstreet Boys or *NSYNC? Backstreet Boys (although they're middle aged men now) Hyun! You're the one for me! 
When one sits in John Jay Lounge for any significant length of time during housing season--and there is nothing else that Bwog would rather do--it becomes evident just how big a calculated mindfuck the entire thing actually is. Tensions run high, futures are decided, relationships forged and broken--all to the soothing strains of Josh Groban on loop and the celebratory glow of blue balloons and tablecloths. The room selection whiteboard is embellished with flowers and butterflies, as if trying to disguise the columns of zeros that extinguish the hopes of seniors wanting to spend their last year in good housing. And over it all preside housing and dining staff in sweaters and suits, beaming welcoming smiles, saying we're here to serve YOU. How comforting. Money quote: Girl on the phone: You just dropped to general selection. Thanks for telling us, because were were just here for 15 minutes waiting for you. Turning to her friends: Wow, I was like, I don't think you really need housing then. That's so whack. A few minutes later: I'm Latino, so I probably should have just gone to her room and set it on fire. Update as of 1:40 PM GONE: All of East Campus, Hogan, one- and two-bedrooms in Watt, two-bedrooms in Woodbridge, four- and five-person suites in Ruggles, four-, five-, and six-person suites in Claremont. YOU STILL HAVE A CHANCE WITH: Studios in Watt (26), one-bedrooms in Woodbridge (21), eight-person suites in Ruggles (12), seven-person suites in Claremont (9).
Ever get the feeling that there is a dearth of public art on this campus? Bwog does too, which is why it is happy to share the wonderful geopolitics-themed poetry that it found not that long ago, in a Lehman cubicle. May you be uplifted through art. 
 In which Bwog correspondant Taylor Walsh lets you in on the drama that is the class of '08's respresentative body. The story of the '08 class council is one of the more bizarre in recent CCSC lore, so last night's debate promised to be an interesting one. And despite a slow start, it did not disappoint. While both current '08 VP Neda Nevab's Access Party and Matthew Schoenfeld's Lions ticket remained surprisingly docile and rehearsed in the first part of the debate, as soon as they were allowed to directly question one another, the gloves came off. Schoenfeld, infamous for his e-mails, threw the first punch, asking Neda to explain why she had asked two members of his party to run with her. Nevab didn't miss a beat, responding that she had spent her time on council working well with both Christopher Tortoriello and Lindsey Lazopoulos, and that she had thought they would make great representatives on her ticket. Fine, except that Lazopoulos is running as Schoenfeld's VP, and a murmur went through the 60-person crowd as everyone realized what Nevab was implying: Oh no she didn't! Building on that awesome momentum, Nevab's VP candidate Michelle Diamond fired back. The earlier portion of the debate had been very amicable, with both parties acknowledging the others' successes. Apparently, Diamond was through with that: "If you're so willig to commend our work on council-- which far exceeds anything the council accomplished freshman year-- why did you choose ro run against us?" she asked Schoenfeld. More excited rumblings from the crowd: ooh, the claws come out! Given this class council's sordid history, it will be very interesting to see which party comes out ahead. The team of Diamond and Nevab, dressed in identical little blazers and slim-fitting pin-stripe pants, passed the CTV mic back and forth like a duo of seasoned local newscasters, delivering their answers as if they were reading off a teleprompter. They can talk, and Nevab does have recent experience at the CCSC grown-ups table that Schoenfeld's ticket lacks. But, between Schoenfeld's antics and Lazopoulos' proven skill at throwing a hell of a study break, the Lions Party might inject some needed life and spirit into the class of '08. The Spec also reports. Photo by Sumaiya Ahmed
Anna Corke learns just what a birdbrain can do. A Fairchild conference room, containing mostly graduate students and professors, stroked its collective chin as Dr. Sarah Woolley, a relaxed brunette dressed in brown and green, began her surprisingly understandable lecture, Natural Sound Processing in the Song Bird Brain, by showing photographs of a Bengalese finch, a song sparrow, and a zebra finch. First she played the three bird species’ songs, then explained that although these songs originate from closely related species, they are quite unique in structure and content. More importantly, a bird’s ability to sing these species-specific songs (think different human languages) depends on the bird’s auditory perception. Dr. Woolley’s interest is in how bird brains process sound, what the results show about avian singing ability, and what the broader neurological implications of these results might be. Clicking to the next slide, Woolly explained that during early development, birds must first memorize the song of an adult of the same sex, then practice vocalization to match the memorized song. Finally, they must stabilize a mature song with improvisation. A past experiment in which birds were temporarily deafened showed that birds store learned songs in their brain after adolescence. Woolley then posed a question: How is song actually coded in the auditory system? The next slide showed complex diagrams of sound frequencies and neuron spike paths obtained by hooking an electrode to neurons in the opened brain of an anesthetized finch. As if not aware that the room was full of life-long scientists, Woolley assured her audience that she would explain exactly how to understand and interpret the diagrams. What followed was a tutorial in Spectro-temporal Receptive Fields (STRFs), which show the specific components of a song to which a neuron reacts. Temporal shifts are related to tonal frequency, the strength of a particular sound. Spectral shifts are related to intensity of sound. To clarify the difference between spectral and temporal audio, Woolley played altered recordings of a human voice. The first, containing only spectral components of the sound, was like an old man with his mouth too close to a microphone crackling with static. The second sounded like a woman reciting her vowels with her tongue sticking out—more tonal, but equally incomprehensible. The unedited clip uncovered a young man: “The radio was playing too loudly.” STRF data revealed that bird neurons respond only to temporal shifts in songs—variations in amplitude over time—and not their spectral counterparts. This result perplexed Woolley, since she had found opposite results in her other test subject, bats. At the end of the lecture Woolley speculated about her goals. In addition to studying the coevolution of auditory and vocal systems and differences in auditory coding and behavior, Woolley has been working with adolescent birds. One gray bearded scientist asked her whether she had examined STRFs of baby bird neurons to determine whether they have the same perception reactions as their parents. Though she hasn’t concluded anything decisively, Woolley has tried forcing chicks to learn a different species’ song. So far she’s found that the birds cannot physically produce a complete song of any species but their own. Bird languages might be genetic to some extent. Woolley expressed her confusion over her current findings—they weren’t what she expected after past research on bats’ brains—but also said that her research was beneficial because bird song was “a good way to study how complex perception works.” Bird song, as a form of animal communication, is easy to study. The plethora of varied song cultures from different species provides an enormous bank of data. And understanding bird brains could certainly reveal something about our own psychology. The other professors present nodded, complacent in their lab coats, as if this inkling were enough. 
Bwog has received a tip regarding the West End's upcoming transformation from quasi-literary drunk freshman hotspot into Cuban pleasure palace. The official name of the new establishment will be: (drumroll!) Havana Central at West End Also, the official menu changeover will start this Friday night, which means that you are just two days away from delicious Cuban food. And, um, alcohol.
Two new student groups are sanctioned, subjected to mind-numbing bureaucracy. Columbia students hit Columbia, discuss "cognitive attention." Spec says: Democracy NOW, SEAS kids! Another subtle, challenging headline Cultural stereotypes! They're funny! 
The Varsity Show has a new trailer out. Not much more helpful than the first one, but now we know the show is about assassins (possibly ninjas) and that theater kids can't spell "city."
 Suite selection this morning was, in a word, boring. It was sparsely populated, there were no tears, no entreaties, no suspicious doctors notes requiring entrance into Hogan--for health reasons, of course. The Famous Amos and Mrs. Fields cookies competed on either end of the banquet table, but no one jumped for the Pomegranite Naked juice. Josh Groban had been replaced by his female equivalent, Dido. Jappy girls chatted on cell phones and were given longer to choose than the alloted time frame. One girl said of her future roommate, "I can't believe she's not here! This is so annoying!" When her friend came, of course she said, "Heeeeeey! No problem!" Another girl was peeved because the selection was behind schedule... "It's got to be past 12:15. It's 12:16! What the hell?!" After she picked her room she got on the phone. "I just wanted to totally creep you out and tell you that I'm living in your room next year!!!" And the morons of the morning: a pair of girls who traded their Woodbridge apartment for a McBain walk-through. "That's the stuff of housing lore," an onlooker said. As of 12:30: EC, Hogan, and Woodbridge are gone. In Ruggles, there are 2 6-person, 2 8-person, and 12 8-person (with 3 doubles and 2 singles) suites remaining. Watt still has 17 studio doubles open. There are 52 doubles left in 600 W. 113th (9 walk-throughs), 6 in Furnald, 35 in Broadway, 155 in McBain (5 walk-throughs), 85 in Schapiro (30 walk-throughs), and 36 in Wien (29 walk-throughs). 
The Times today has an article on publishing prodigy and Harvard sophomore Kaavya Viswanathan and her new novel (out two days ago), How Opal Mehta Got Kissed, Got Wild, and Got a Life. The Times, however, appears yet to have reviewed this novel. As opposed to the Blue and White: you can (and should) read Josh Mathew's thoughts on this Desi Bildungsroman in the April issue, forthcoming imminently. Moral of the story: B&W; 1, Times 0 (even if their new online layout is kind of awesome).
 In which Bwog staffer Mark Krotov familiarizes us with the places you can find him when he's supposed to be in class. "We have a geology library? Do we even have a geology department?" Yes. And no. Yes. In some ways, those two questions reveal a lot of what makes the Geology Library wonderful. It doesn't entirely make sense, but it's there, on the west side of Schermerhorn 6, occupying one end of the massive building. Because of its position, it has the best illumination on campus--three sides of the main room are dominated by massive windows. And that's in addition to neat rows of light fixtures hanging from the ceiling. I can never really tell where the light is coming from, but it's always bright and warm, due in no small part to the light salmon-colored walls. Most of all, the library works because it feels really old. It's not shabby or unkempt. Rather, the space has an amazing solidity, from its scuffed brown floor, to the broken clock above the entrance, to the stacks in the back room, which are darker and more mysterious than any room in Butler. The more time I spend in Geology, the more I realize that its friendly, airy ambience is a pretty unique thing to find on this campus. The older buildings tend to be poorly maintained (see: Fayerweather) or overly renovated (see: Religion Department), while the newer buildings lack the overwhelming sense of permanence that makes itself known the moment one walks by the circulation desk in the library. And while the absence of a geology department at Columbia may make the library's presence a little odd, if not anachronistic One can only be grateful for such an endearing study space.
Dear seniors, Bwog hopes that you enjoyed your alcohol on the Steps this afternoon. Just remember, even though "40 on 40" sounds cool, there's no reason not to enjoy a "40 on 39," a "40 on 22," or a "40 on 14." Please keep your options open. More photos after the jump. Photos by Sumaiya Ahmed
"My! People come and go so quickly here!"... It was a quiet afternoon in Jay Lounge. Literally: no music played until the administrators closed shop for the day, at which point the speakers boomed Faith Hill's "This Kiss" and that unbelievably annoying Enrique Iglesias song which is currently deeply wedged in this Bwog correspondent's head. Cookie connoisseurs had three varieties to choose from: milk chocolate Mrs. Fields; the traditional chocolate-chip Famous Amos; and, for the more discriminating, oatmeal-and-raisin, again courtesy of FA. The froshies got their turn. Hottest property would probably be the Ruggles 8s, which dwindled from ten to two; the administrators seemed to get these out of the way. All of the campus buildings seem now in play, which made for a selection area entirely enclosed by easels, two to a side, on all four sides, providing what must have been a welcome veneer of privacy. One group of six seemed relieved to nab one of the last Ruggles suites. Another pair debated whether to stay as a double or break into singles; having decided on the former, they then pondered which double to take. "We either get the worst room in Watt or the best room in Nussbaum," one told me. They decided on Nussbaum--"We were at Watt yesterday, the people are crabby"--and secured a tenth-floor double, leaving open one final Watt studio double before the first-years must resort to classic sophomore housing: a Nussbaum here, a Schapiro there, and, as always looming, the dread McBain. Thursday, close of business update: 1 Watt double (on Bwog's map, imagine an ever-so-slightly paler shade of red), 2 7-person suites in Claremont, 1 6-person and 2 8-persons in Ruggles, 5 Furnald doubles, 44 Nussbaum doubles, 29 Broadway doubles, 83 Schapiro doubles, and 35 in Wien. Oh yeah, and 135 doubles left in McBain. -Marc Tracy
Bwog correspondent Jim Williams received an e-mail this morning with the following heading: He needed to speak out: In addition to the fact that the mere existance of a Wizard of Oz/Wicked themed semi-formal for college sophmores (read: 20-year-olds) is just...well, a huge joke, does anyone else think it's hilarious that the creators of this ad felt the need to specify that the room in which this event is going to occur will, in fact, have a floor? Imagine a yellow brick road leading up to an enormous tent glittered with green lights. Step inside to a fully heated, floored room with a dance floor, a live band, a DJ, food from Manna Catering, a dessert bar from Columbia Catering, and palm trees. This image will become a reality at the Emerald City Semi-Formal on Saturday night! Looks like now I can go, because all of my concerns about the event taking place in a huge abyss where we all dance in free-fall have finally been put to rest. Also worthy of note is the last line of the email: Open to SEAS'08, CC'08, JTS'08, Barnard'08, GS'08, and JTS'08. This implies that event organizers want JTS kids to attend twice as much as the rest of us.
 The College Days BBQ is going on NOW between SIPA and EC (see events calendar). Two reasons to go: free food and some Columbia students rocking out on stage. Well, like we said, one reason to go.
 History gods Manning Marable and Eric Foner talked to racist Rob Corddry on last night's special race episode of The Daily Show. Though the profs are on-screen for a combined two minutes, there are major revelations: namely, Marable is not white and Foner comes from Jews. Did someone call an exterminator? Because the wasps are disappearing. If you want video confirmation, click here, and then click "Racist Like Me."
Evolution vs. Open Columbia: it's all about the subtleties, baby. 40 on 40 crackdown definitively proves that Columbia is a cold, uncaring place. Columbia's Father Neuhaus is tight with Dubya. Quote out of context: "The first thing I noticed was that everyone was Asian, just like the people who break-dance in Lerner." After too long, someone is finally talking about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway The Benchwarmers If what you’ve always wanted is a film starring David Spade, Rob Schneider, and Napoleon Dynamite’s Jon Heder, then this is the film for you. Afterwards, you can reach Columbia’s counseling services at 212 854 2284. Phat Girlz Sometimes, a film’s title tells you everything that you need to know about a film; for example, Larry the Cable Guy: Health Inspector. ATL According to the major critics, A-Town manages to hold it down for at least two thirds of this film. V for Vendetta This film has demonstrated that in a box office crowded with too many gems, dystopian epics can still hold their own. Also Playing: Stay Alive The Shaggy Dog Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd The Beauty Academy of Kabul Heart-warming and uplifting, just like the invasion of Afghanistan. Don’t Come Knocking Because of his success with this road movie, legendary director Wim Wenders will next direct Euro Trip 2: Screwing Eastern Europe. Free Zone Natalie Portman is awfully political these days, with V and this new film about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Doesn’t she know that she’s supposed to shut up and look pretty? Or at least bald? Also Playing: Caché The Child (L’Enfant) Tsotsi AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Lucky Number Slevin Starring Josh Hartnett and Bruce Willis, this gangster film is a tale of a man who was born to have his last name become a bad pun in a Hollywood movie. Take the Lead Is there anything worth saying? Antonio Banderas, troubled teens, and lotsof dancing. If you’re not interested after that description, then what kind of man are you? Friends with Money If the guys that produced Lucky Number Slevin had produced this film, it would have been called Friends with Monkey, and would have revolved around Jennifer Aniston, Catherine Keener, and Joan Cusack bonding over their purchase of a cute primate. Basic Instinct 2 This is too easy. Inside Man Please go see it. Spike Lee and Denzel Washington create a truly great movie that manages to be a simple heist film and not at all a simple heist film. Plus, social commentary! She’s the Man Nickelodeon’s Amanda Bynes tells Shakespeare like it is. That is, with tweens. Also Playing: Ice Age: The Meltdown Slither Thank You For Smoking V for Vendetta: The IMAX Experience Failure to Launch Deep Sea 3D Roving Mars
We're sorry for ever doubting. The "surprise guest performance by a well-know artist" after the CU Dance-Off tonight, 4-6 pm 5-7 pm (according to an email) in front of Butler, is Tony Yayo of G-Unit.
In which Blue and White house cineaste Iggy Cortez advises you on how to impress the discerning Kim's clerks. Also look for Iggy's thoughts on a newly updated biography of Italian great Federico Fellini in the Spring Books issue of The Blue and White, forthcoming imminently. This week's selection is Red. Walter Reade Theater is screening an almost complete retrospective of Krzysztof Kieslowski’s cinema. And while it would be a shame not to catch these films on the big screen, most of us lack the student budget to see all three installments of the "Three Colors" trilogy, much as we don't possess the spare time to watch each “commandment” from his "Decalogue" during the heart of seminar-paper season. So, if you can only choose one film to see – go watch The Double Life of Veronique, which to my knowledge is unavailable on DVD (in Kim’s at least), and rent the three color trilogy. While it would make most sense to start at the beginning with Blue, Red is frequently the one that surfaces on those films-you-must-see-before-you-die lists. Kieslowski’s final film, Red is the last installment of the trilogy, in which each film engages loosely with a color of the French flag and the ideal it represents. Red – symbolic of fraternity – was instantly acclaimed as a masterpiece, and provided one of 90s cinema’s most iconic images: Irene Jacob blowing bubble gum as crimson drapery billows behind her. Despite its relative recentness, Red has been highly influential thematically to countless movies that base themselves on missed opportunities, failed connections, and the cataclysmic effect chance occurrences can have on our destinies. Kieslowski explores these issues through the story of Valentine, a Swiss model who runs over the German Shepard of a misanthropic former judge (Jean-Louis Tritignant). Upon returning the dog to his owner, she discovers that the judge taps the conversations of his neighbors – one of whom is a married father leading an affair with another man. Disgusted at first by his hobby, Valentine gradually empathizes with the judge’s poignant and pathetic last resort to some semblance of human connection. Gradually, they establish a relationship of mutual confession, their inner traumas unfolding and binding them in a complex, indefinable love. Also, a parallel narrative is established, in which a young law student, who lives in front of Valentine, strangely experiences the same events that lead the judge to his state of bitterness. The two story threads finally intersect in the film’s finale, which gathers the protagonists of the trilogy together. It’s an ending whose details are best left undisclosed, a wonderfully overblown metaphor for unsentimental optimism, and a conclusion of unrivaled power.
Profs. Andrew Delbanco and James Shapiro, two English Department all-stars, spoke about their recent experiences composing biographies of, respectively, Herman Melville and William Shakespeare. Yet both seemed to loathe to stick to discussion of the past. The Bwog's Rob Wile was there. Wednesday evening marked the final talk in a series of lectures sponsored by the Columbia Journal of Literary Criticism. What a way to end it. By hosting two of America’s must distinguished English professors--James Shapiro and Andrew Delbanco—-in a small room in Hamilton Hall, one came away with the feeling of having just experienced LitHum on steroids. “Jim” and “Andy,” as they were to refer to each other throughout the discussion, had ostensibly come to talk about their two most recent works, biographies of William Shakespeare and Herman Melville, respectively. But, perhaps because they had said everything there was to say about their subjects (a notion both of them floated at several points during the talk), they turned the discussion toward themselves; in particular, how they made the jump from, as Professor Shapiro put it, the “fresh water” of academia to the “salt water” of bookstores and its “mythical creature” known as a general readership, and the ways in which this phenomenon gets translated into the classroom. After recounting the compositional evolutions of their respective works, the two began discussing the intellectual compromises they’d made along the way. We were treated to stories of fussy, dollar-driven editors incessantly questioning whether their material was going to keep readers interested; Shapiro seemed to have become especially keyed in to the publisher-speak, saying how he had to constantly keep in mind that what he was writing had to “give the reader a reason to turn the page,” lest they find the first one dull and put it back on the shelf. The talk then turned to how this mindset has filtered into the university. Although both Shapiro and Delbanco are just in their early 50s, both of them let fly with several curmudgeonly statements about how much things have changed in academia since they were first granted tenure. Delbanco asserted that “academic culture had softened," recounting a story about how he could never get away with writing on a student’s deserving paper, “Shit like this doesn’t belong in the Harvard archives,” as one of his professors had once done. A professor’s fear of pressed charges, they agreed, has replaced a student’s fear of harsh yet ultimately constructive criticism. How to reconcile the marketplace middlebrows with the university mandarins. With regard to this, the professors are wrong in thinking that this is somehow a new problem: H.L. Mencken, for one, was making these same complaints at a time when Moby-Dick was still considered a bizarre one-off by an eccentric author. It seems to me that the professors' gripes ultimately have little behind them. As long as they are conscious of the fact that the ideas expressed in their writing would be of a “different”—ostensibly higher--quality, there’s no reason to think that they’re unwittingly contributing to the downfall of excellence in literature. If true, though, the notion that universities are lowering their own standards is indeed troubling. Universities must unquestionably remain dynamic and in-tune with the world in which their students have grown up. Yet they must also somehow strike a balance between conforming to students’ demands for the higher grades they desperately need for today’s job market, and their true role as preservers of the venerable Western academic tradition. Professor Shapiro spoke of the “coded” language that has evolved in academia that to the layman is mostly inscrutable. Yet however “useless” such language is in theory, it still has some kind of appeal to some part of the population, even an incredibly narrow one. If not in the university, where else?
Last Wednesday, Bwog correspondent Brendan Ballou attended the CCSC Rising Senior Debate. According to his report, chicken wings were plentiful, while strong opinions were not. Covering the Senior Class Council debate last Wednesday, I realized how inadequate a journalist I really am. When I showed up in the Satow room a full five minutes before the debate was scheduled to begin (I was proud that I managed to find the time and place in advance), I found the reporter for Spec was already there, interviewing the candidates, the elections officials, and the few voters who showed up. The reporter really had her stuff together. She had a real steno pad. She had prepared questions. She worked the room for quotes. I, on the other hand, fished around in my backpack for a few blank sheets of paper and helped myself to the free chicken wings. But I realized that the Spec reporter was by far the best-prepared person in that entire room. The candidates that night were articulate, but didn’t offer anything surprising. The debate was not about the big issues of financial aid, diversity on campus, Manhattanville, or the ROTC (which, to be fair, the senior class council has little ability to affect). The debate focused on the mundane, though still important issues of career advising, lawn access, and the Baker tailgating policy. Cecilia Baum, presidential candidate for the Opposition party, and her running mate David Zoppo began the debate by calling for greater class unity and a more fun senior year. The 116th party echoed these sentiments After some preliminary statements, the moderator opened the debate to panelist questions. Neither side felt comfortable taking positions on larger campus issues. When a member of the College Democrats asked 116th about financial aid reform, incumbent president David Chait explained that their job was to “reach out to the class. We’re representatives of the class, not of our own opinions.” Opposition roughly agreed. Baum explained that since financial aid reform was such a long-term project, there was not much the senior class council could change. “The best thing we can do is support the other classes.” Baum suggested that outgoing seniors get a survey of financial aid effectiveness on campus. 116th did not disagree. A member of the policy debate team asked the two parties’ opinions of SHOCC. Both parties were of roughly the same opinion. Baum: “there’s nothing wrong with a group like SHOCC.” Chait: “I commend SHOCC on efforts thus far.” But neither party showed much enthusiasm for the senior council as an activist force. For both, the council would work best as a moderator between SHOCC and the administration. The rest of the debate focused on operational concerns within the council and the Columbia administration. Opposition and 116th agreed that student organizations should be allowed to fundraise through the alumni network. 116th emphasized opening South Lawn more frequently. Opposition argued that no student group should be allowed to rent rooms in Lerner for an entire year. In response to a question from Bwog correspondent Marc Tracy, both parties agreed that the senior class deserved more free things. I was a little disappointed. The issues Opposition and 116th brought up were all important, and their solutions were reasonable. But part of the fun of student elections is making unreasonable and impossible promises. Why not attack the administration for the financial aid problem? Why not take on the ROTC? Why not promise to end all racism on campus? There was time for a final question, and I decided to be a good journalist. I got up to the microphone and asked, “Both parties seem to see themselves as mediators between SHOCC and the Columbia administration. But do you agree with SHOCC’s list of demands?” Well, neither party wanted to agree or disagree. Opposition told me “we voice the interest of student clubs, but we want to express more moderate positions.” 116th chimed in that they “represent all the groups of the student council, not just one.” Really? Isn’t it your job to take strong positions, to advocate, to make demands and cause trouble, I wanted to ask. 116th answered my question: “the point of being on student council isn’t taking a stance.” Oh well. I guess student council is about more practical things. But had either party taken on SHOCC or financial aid, it would have given both myself and the Spec reporter a little more to write about.
 On Thursday, Bwog correspondent Katie Reedy took on the grand dame of student council debates: the contest for Executive Board. The CCSC Executive Board debates on Thursday night, while rather subdued on the part of the actual candidates for office, had the odd feeling of a sporting event: Plates of JJ's buffalo wings and chicken fingers were messily consumed, two eager students made a "WE HEART ..." sign for the debate moderator, and during a quiet moment, another gleeful audience member suggested loudly that a candidate "sing the fight song!" But apart from the audience's odd spirit, the debates generally swung between two more somber poles, financial aid reform and the "diversity issue," with talk of space, parties, and debit cards for student groups making brief appearances. Both parties have come out strongly in favor of reforming financial aid, although each side made different claims as to how this will be done. The Evolution party (with presidential candidate Nishant Dixit) came out with apparently concrete plans for subsidizing housing and dining and finding ways to help with meals for upperclassmen. The Open Columbia ticket (with presidential candidate Seth Flaxman for), emphasized that its current E-board members have already gone in the direction of calling for changes similar to those made by UPenn. Andrew Russeth, current VP for funding, running on the Open Columbia ticket, fired back at Evolution by pulling his experience card. "Subsidizing housing and dining will cost millions," he said, adding, "Where will the money come from?" Talk of diversity and multicultural awareness generally treaded over the same worn ground, with each group agreeing to support all or some of the demands of SHOCC and call for more administration attention for minorities and better responses to hate crimes. Evolution specifically played up the leadership roles candidates Anthony Walker and Calvin Sun have held in the Black Students Organization and Asian American Alliance, respectively, and came out as stronger supporters of SHOCC. The somewhat bizarre issue of debit cards for student groups that will allow funding to reach groups more directly appeared several times in the debate. On one hand, Russeth pulled out his experience card again, claiming that the cards would appear by the fall semester. After a rather irate audience member marched up to the microphone during the open question part of the debates and exclaimed, "I don't believe you!", Dixit rose to the occasion by claiming Evolution would take a "pilot progam" proposal directly to CitiBank as soon as possible before they spoke to the administration. Heavily playing up their experience, Open Columbia took multiple opportunities to emphasize the presence of current E-boarders Russeth and Izumi Devalier, current VP for policy. This involved an amusingly awkard moment when Flaxman, given the question as to what he saw as the defining characteristic of his party, eagerly exclaimed, "I'm very excited to work with Andrew and Izumi specifically!" and then, after laughs from the audience, awkwardly extended his excitement to other candidates on his ticket Ana Ortiz and Sarah Hwang. There were two other entertaining moments in the debate. Calvin Sun, running for VP for communications, solemnly intoned that the Lerner 6 space was one of the many "festering problems" facing student-administration affairs. Hyperbole is funny. And when prompted to list the precise actions each E-board would take immediately, Andrew Russeth deadpanned that they would not only increase the number of printers on campus but also place staplers near them! He also stated, to mixed annoyance and laughter, that during election season, "it is time to make promises that we'll break." As it turns out, honesty is also funny.
Free food in Lerner Piano Lounge. NOW! Get cheese/sausage/pepperoni Domino's Pizza and a Snapple because of CCO. Didn't volunteer today? Not a problem---it's like the late-90s... they just need to get rid of the surplus.
The Bwog is just a little bit obsessed with Eric Wang's University Senate campaign video, characterized by heartfelt earnesty, dismal attempts at comedy, strategic endorsements, and a killer depiction of EC hate crimes. Also, how Marques' name changes halfway through his clip.
Ever wonder how Saussure would interpret the Flex party’s campaign posters? Sam Cohen, the Blue and White’s official semiotician, has the answer. First off, what is semiotics? Semiotics is the study of symbols and signs. This includes both written/textual symbols, as in words, as well as things like traffic signs and cultural icons, basically everything that attempts to communicate information. The goal of semiotics is to describe what makes a sign a sign, how it conveys its information and what steps are taken to understand it. What are your qualifications as the B&W;’s official semiotician? In high school, I took a class in semiotics So looking at this poster from the Flex party, what message does it convey to you? Reinforcing one's message is very important and Flex decides to beat us over the head with theirs. The icon of strength is supported by the signifier "STRONG" referring to the same referant (to mix Saussure and Pierce in an exciting new brand of semiotics!). The message is simple and powerful, vote for us, or we'll beat the crap out of you, we're strong. Evolution? Looking at this flyer it's impossible not to think boy band (plus a groupie??) bringing to mind screaming pre-teen girls and 90s nostalgia. Who doesn't miss the 90s? Vote for evolution and they seem to promise to bring it back! In terms of the name evolution, I think it alienates a large segment of the voting bloc-- I'm talking about creationists and the rest of the Christian right. Also, it seems to cry "look at me! I'm a monkey!" We definitely don't need more monkeys in positions of power. Fusion? Now this one is interesting. This flyer sets out to create a new symbol, a new arbitrary sign signifying a concept. I think it accomplishes its job. The whirly whatchamacallit is clearly supposed to represent "fusion" which, clearly, is the name of this party. This is a strong and clear connection. The concept of fusion is an interesting one, however, with many different layers. It has of course the ideas of togetherness and power, as well as Gillette razors and shaving cream, all positive attributes. However it also brings to mind Nagasaki, no so positive anymore is it? Access? This poster has a major contradiction going on in it. The party's name signifies openness, approachability and well, access, wait that's their name, damn, see what a good job they do? But that's besides the point. The bracketing of the word access is unfortunate as brackets ‘‘ most definitely mean something is closed and boxed in. Also the poster itself is blacked in, also trapped. Access, what are you, open or closed? Open? The structural and ontological metaphor here is quite striking. The party's name and vision of openness is reinforced by the open space in the poster. The use of metonymy of place for people, Columbia for its students, lets us feel included in their party. Nice poster, but why are they carrying jackets? Is it hot? About to be cold? They create a lot of unanswered questions and I'm just not sure what to think. Given your expertise, can you make a prediction as to what parties will win? It’s hard to say. The posters are pretty different and advertise their respective parties in different ways. There is, however, one common trait that makes picking a winner much more difficult, which is that, overall, the flyers are really boring.
For the past five years, Bill Wetzel has been perusing the streets of NYC wearing a bold-print sign that reads, “TALK TO ME.” Thousands of people from every borough have talked to him. Now he talks to B&W; staffer Sarah Eberle. How did you originally get involved with “Talk-to-Me”-ing? I attended NYU for a year after spending a few years teaching in North Carolina after I graduated from high school. I guess when you hang out in New York long enough, you start to wonder who all these people are and why they’re here. So I made a sign that said “Talk to Me” and started walking around the city wearing it. People talked, and the more I did it, the more interesting it got. I started going to different neighborhoods or I’d put on a tie and go to the Waldorf. At this point, I’m pretty much hooked. Do you ever get embarrassed? There was definitely a good one-month period where I was feeling like an ass most of the time. When I first started doing it, I felt so dumb that I would actually start sweating. It’s like you’re on a really bad blind date. After a while you just get used to it. It’s like permanent foolishness. Now it's just like, you ride the train, someone laughs at you, and five minutes later you’re hearing about their third divorce and how it involved Barbados. What kinds of things do people talk to you about? Some people talk for hours, some people rant on about how they left their favorite purple sweatshirt on a park bench, and other people just say hello and keep going. People talk about what it’s like to kill someone, they talk about farms that have been in the family for six generations, and they tell bad bar jokes. It literally ranges from child abuse and incest and war-ravaged countries to muffin recipes and 90-year-olds falling in love at the nursing home. When you decided to take time off from school and take up “Talk-to-Me”-ing full time, how did you support yourself? Well, actually it was just very low-budget. I set it up so that I’d never have to pay rent in New York. I started pet-sitting at different people’s houses every other weekend. I didn’t charge money and the people trusted me. Once you get in the loop, you start to get calls from different people all the time. And what did you do about food? When I first started this, there were two of us doing it—myself and my friend, Liz. Someone heard about what we were doing and donated a bunch of money for us to keep going for a year. After that, we set up a website and started fundraising through that. We actually just got done doing a whole tour of the country. Really? Where did you go? You know, a few dozen bars, restaurants, and Wal-Marts. Pretty much anywhere with lots of people. It was basically a clockwise loop of the country. We went from here to D.C., D.C. to New Orleans, New Orleans to El Paso to L.A. to Chicago. Along the way, we stopped off at random small towns. People outside of New York have more time to talk. You’re more likely to get one person telling their life story for eight hours, versus dozens of people saying hello and running. Do you have a favorite time or place to talk to people? You can’t beat a New York subway at 10PM on a Friday night. There’s this wonderful mass suspicion that occurs. I walk onto the train, grinning, and of course, everyone has their own private reaction to me, wondering who this goofy guy is with a “Talk to Me” sign around his neck. Either someone starts laughing so hard that they have to ask about it or someone gives me a weird look and the whole car just goes silent. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn’t. Do people ever miss their stops? Yeah, I’ve been known to make people miss their stops. And I’ve missed mine. Do you ever make friends with the people you talk to? All the time. We meet people, we get invited to events. On almost any train ride, I recognize at least one person. Other people make friends too. The sign often serves as a real-life chat room or “Craig’s List.” A group of people will start talking to me, and then they will start talking to each other. A lot of boyfriends and girlfriends have met this way, business deals have been set up, and people have gotten jobs. Have you met any other people who wear “Talk to Me” signs? Actually, other people will see me and then ask me for a sign, so I’ve been giving them out. There are people wearing “Talk to Me” signs throughout New York and all over the country. There are even a few people who are trying it out overseas. I don’t even know what this weird thing I do is going to turn into! So you just started taking classes at Columbia this semester. What has your experience been like so far? Columbia is completely different from the rest of New York. My first few weeks here were full on stares, snickers, giggles, and gossip. High IQs and a “Talk to Me” sign don’t necessarily go well together. Sometimes my sign literally makes students grimace, but I think the campus is warming up to me. It’s so different being in such an intensely academic environment because people have to think before they converse, and then rethink about what they want to say, and so it seems as if there are like eight mechanisms in every student’s head that have to be working before a single word comes out. Are there times when you don’t enjoy being the “Talk to Me Guy”? Yeah, but I don’t even think about it anymore. I just wake up, brush my teeth, and put on the “Talk to Me” sign. For me, its like 3-D people watching, and I’m completely intrigued. So when don’t you wear the sign? Family functions, bed, and public bathrooms. Public bathrooms would just be awkward.
The NYT has jumped on the West End lamentation boat and is riding it out to sea. Unrelated but also in today's Times: Morningside Park inhabited by feral turkey.
Seth Flaxman: Passionate Realist. SHOCC finally has the courage to take on the real enemy: Mona Lounge. Miriam Datskovsky finally has the courage to take on the real enemy: Facebook. Francine du Plessix Gray to speak at Liberty University.
 'subtly layered urban experience' 'the weight of history and the lightness of clouds' 'the work of a master who has reached full maturity.' Esoteric new form of free verse? No--just selections from today's New York Times review of the latest creation of Renzo Piano, the Italian architect whom Columbia has retained to design its space-agey new campus in Manhattanville. Somehow, Bwog doubts that the NYT's rave is going to make these guys roll over and let Columbia move in.
 No word yet on why Ferguson hated freedom PrezBo's letter after the jump To the Columbia Community, I am writing to let you know that Bruce Ferguson has resigned as dean of the School of the Arts, effective June 30, 2006. I have great appreciation for all that Bruce has accomplished in his six years as dean, a time when the School significantly enhanced its international and national prominence. Bruce believes, as I do, that the arts should play a critical role, especially in a great university located in the heart of a world capital for arts and culture. I hope you will all join me in thanking him for his great service to Columbia. We also wish him well as he works at the Art Gallery of Ontario developing programs for its future Frank Gehry building in Toronto, and consults with the University of Miami regarding an arts graduate program and Arizona State University to establish a new arts and media initiative there. I have asked Nick Dirks, Vice President for the Arts and Sciences, to convene a search committee. Dan Kleinman has agreed to continue as acting dean, so we know our School of the Arts continues to be in able hands. Sincerely, Lee C. Bollinger
A group of 15 student activists have entered Low Library, and are refusing to leave until President Bollinger re-re-commits to sweatshop-free apparel production. The sit-in comes just hours before a planned talk entitled "Coping with Globalization" featuring NY Times columnist Paul Krugman. We're guessing Krugman's coping doesn't involve hand-painted signs. Students at 10 universities are planning sit-ins this week. Spring has arrived! UPDATE 2:40 p.m. A few minutes in, the mood is jovial. A peanut butter and jelly sandwich (all organic, we can only assume) was just thrown from one side of the circle to the other. Discussion is centering on Weber and the meaning of "blow your wad." UPDATE 5:20 p.m. The siegers (yes, they're SEEJ'ers) are still camped out in Low. A number of administrators (Colombo, Hogarty, Chaplain Jewel) have dropped by, but the big man himself is still at an event up at the Medical School campus. The legal observer (read: Law School student with neon green hat reading "Legal Observer) continues to monitor the situation for police-- well, Columbia Security-- brutality. T minus 1:30 until Krugman shows up. UPDATE 8:00 p.m. Sit-in over. Brinkley promises a meeting tomorrow between administrators and student activists. He also promised the University would send a representative to a national conference on Sweatshop-free campuses. Let's all sleep a little easier tonight knowing a great show was put on for the Day on Campus kids.
Anna Corke reports in from CCSC voting on Low Plaza, nabbing some choice quotes and conducting a quick exit poll. Voting continues on Low until 7pm tonight and starts up against 9am tomorrow. For a full list of voting times and locations, see comments. Results of an extremely unscientific and brief exit poll: 2009 Class Council Flex: 0 Fusion: 5 votes 2008 Class Council The Lions: 1 vote : 2 votes 2007 Class Council 116th: 0 votes The Opposition Party: 0 votes The Executive Board Open Columbia: 5 votes Evolution: 9 votes Voter: Can I smoke while voting? Facilitator: Of course! How many other places in America actually allow that! Bwog: Why are you voting today? Voter: I'm here to support my friends. I'm not really doing it for the…ya know… Line-waiter: Oh the line is long! I'm discouraged… Other Line-waiter: Let's go to the Jesus Week. There's no line over there. Voter: Can we vote twice? Facilitator: Yeah, we all do! Voter: No, really, how do you tell if someone's voted. Facilitator: That's what the stickers are for. Later, Voting facilitator: These voting stickers, we've got to start distributing these better!
Freshman boy to his friend as he walked out the door after voting: "Anthony Walker is the man!" Win or lose, Bwog agrees. One of a gaggle of freshman girls noisily huddled by the John Jay elevators: "I was only going to vote for our class council because I don't know any older people, but I actually picked the ticket with someone named 'Izumi' on it. I mean, that's like, the coolest name ever, right?" Win or lose, Bwog agrees.
If you missed the hundreds of high school seniors roaming around campus today, know that there are three more Days on Campus event left. And that while the afternoon barbeque is guarded, the breakfast buffet is not. While it's all fun and games and stealing food for us, the Class of 2006/2010 is making some major life decisions. For all those future-Columbians who left in tears, never fear. We’ve all been there, as freshman Ellen Kessel's tale attests. I can safely say my “Days On Campus” experience was worse than my first day of kindergarten, when I drowned myself in my own tears as I was ripped off my father’s leg. Like my usual asinine self, I showed up at Columbia an hour late. Little did I know that my tardiness would cause me to be stuck with a host who would blow away every revered opinion of Columbia I held. She had over processed blonde hair, a skirt that was four inches higher than it was supposed to be, and one of those cheesy shirts that said “New Jersey: Only the strong survive.” She asked us the usual questions: Where are you from? Are you early decision? When it came time for us to start asking her questions about Columbia, I felt pressured to ask her the questions I knew she wanted to hear: How did you avoid the freshman fifteen? What are the parties here like? Are the guys hot? How many keg stands have you done? On our trek, she pointed out the guy she hooked up with last night, the one from the night before last, and the one from a week ago (after she thought about it a while, she decided it might not have been him but the lucky gent’s twin brother). Her suite’s walls were creepily covered with sorority pictures dating back to a time when scrunchies and big hair weren’t fashion faux pas. When we returned later that night from a bus tour that didn’t even get past 34th before turning back, neither of us was in the mood to do a scavenger hunt, or play tag for that matter. We didn’t go to the West End, Casbah, or a party in Carman. Instead, we went back to the dreaded sorority shrine. As my friend and I tucked ourselves into bed, a bid to end the night as quickly as possible, I could see the tears welling up in her eyes. She assumed Columbia would be the perfect school for her, but after her visit, it was a slim chance she would attend. She felt hopeless. And I tried to make myself accept the fact that I would be miserable for four years and tried to think of the hell I’d give my parents for letting me apply early decision. In, the end, though, all is well that ends well. My parents panicked and asked a family friend to host me a week later. She gave me the true Columbia experience, and after a few shots and a fun night out with sexy Eurotrash guys, I knew Columbia was the right place for me. As for my friend, she did end up coming here—a decision she doesn’t regret. I’ll never know exactly what my mistake was: showing up to Days on Campus late or just showing up at all.
Fern Diaz attacks the Lazy Mexican stereotype. Lazy Mexicans to consider striking. A Jewish president elected. 'Matzo Hard to Pass Over'...get it?...eh?
If you missed this morning's email from Michelle Oh, it's a doozy. A few students figured out how to vote online without showing up at the official CCSC voting booth (the Bwog would be happy to introduce our student government to a concept known as "password protection"). In some kind of bid for fairness, now online voting is available for everyone. Prepare for turn-out to skyrocket. The real kicker, though, is at the end of Michelle's email: All candidates have been informed that it is in violation of the elections rules to solicit votes by directing students to the website in any way, which includes, but is not limited to: e-mail, AIM, or in-person. Candidates have been expressly prohibited from canvassing the residence halls for votes. If you feel you have been coerced or that your vote has been unduly influenced in any way, e-mail ccsc-elections@columbia.edu immediately.Where is SHOCC's anti-oppression training when we need it most?
Bwog continues to revel in ethnic stereotypes. Overheard at the end of an Arabic class: Female Student: I'm really sorry, but I won't be able to make it to class on Wednesday. It's Passover. Male Student: Neither will I. Sorry. Female Student: I'll bring back some food for the class! Male Student: And I'll bring back some guilt!
 These homemade cracker packets are all over the path between Lerner and Low. Explain.

 2006 Spring CCSC Elections Final ResultsWinners in bold CCSC Executive Board Evolution … 819 (43%) Nishant Dixit – President Bryan Lee – Vice President for Policy Laura Taranto – Vice President for Campus Life Anthony Walker – Vice President for Funding Calvin Sun – Vice President for Communications Open Columbia … 1107 (57%) Seth Flaxman – President Izumi Devalier – Vice President for Policy Ana Ortiz – Vice President for Campus Life Sarah Hwang – Vice President for Funding Andrew Russeth – Vice President for Communications University Senator – Two Year Term Tiffany Davis … 1233 (70%) Gerry Rodriguez … 533 (30%) Peter Nalli… 1 (0%) (Write in Candidate) University Senator – One Year Term David Ali … 1015 (56%) Yihe (Eric) Wang … 809 (44%) Student Services Representative (all candidates write-in) Michael Accordino… 35 (40%) Brian Leung… 25 (28%) Mike Stennis… 15 (17%) Allan Lau… 6 (7%) Henning Fog… 2 (2%) Katie Cronin… 1 (1%) Allie Feldberg… 1 (1%) Luke Fitzpatrick… 1 (1%) Mike Nelson… 1 (1%) Dorian Norton… 1 (1%) Academic Affairs Representative Ehizoje Azeke … 634 (37%) Alidad Damooei … 1060 (63%) Scholars, Fellows, and Pre-Professional Representative Allan Lau… 23 (70%) Michael Accordino… 2 (6%) Brian Leung… 2 (6%) Mike Stennis…2 (6%) Dana Desilius… 1 (3%) Tim de Swardt… 1 (3%) Julia Kite… 1 (3%) Dorian Norton… 1 (3%) CC 2007 Class President and Vice President 116th Party … 311 (71%) David Chait – President Tamara Lee – Vice President The Opposition Party … 128 (29%) Cecelia Baum – President David Zoppo – Vice President CC 2007 Class Representatives William Gruzynski – The Opposition Party … 113 (10%) Tom Lightcap – 116th Party … 233 (21%) Colleen Myers – 116th Party … 248 (22%) Ngozi Okoh – 116th Party … 274 (24%) John Schneider – The Opposition Party … 113 (10%) Tiffany Ying – The Opposition Party … 143 (13%) CC 2008 Class President and Vice President … 382 (58%) Neda Navab – President Michelle Diamond – Vice President The Lions … 275 (42%) Matt Schoenfeld – President Lindsey Lazopoulos – Vice President CC 2008 Class Representatives Caitlin Hodge – … 322 (19%) Rahul Jain – … 292 (17%) JoJo Smith – The Lions … 224 (13%) Felipe Tarud – … 376 (22%) Christopher Tortoriello – The Lions … 272 (16%) Vera Tseylikman – The Lions … 229 (13%) CC 2009 Class President and Vice President Flex … 238 (38%) Jessica Cohen – President Scott Zaloom – Vice President Fusion … 351 (56%) George Krebs – President Mark Johnson – Vice President Pants Party … 43 (7%) Megan Pierce – President Charlotte Chiang – Vice President CC 2009 Class Representatives Gabrielle Apollon – Fusion … 307 (18%) Emma Gillespie – Pants Party … 83 (5%) Jennifer Kincaid – Fusion … 279 (16%) Alexandra Kushner – Flex … 198 (12%) Joseph Matuk – Pants Party … 65 (4%) Keith Smith – Pants Party … 50 (3%) Ian Solsky – Flex … 252 (15%) Zahrah Taurfique – Fusion … 267 (16%) Elizabeth Tarras – Flex … 199 (12%) Voter Turnout: 50.5%....2,057 voters Class of 2006: 27.5%....275 voters Class of 2007: 45.0%....459 voters Class of 2008: 64.9%....674 voters Class of 2009: 63.8%....649 voters
Just a few hours after learning that he had triumphed by 14 points over Nishant Dixit's Evolution party, Bwog tracked down CCSC President-elect Seth Flaxman at his Claremont suite, which reeked of celebration. BW: So how has this campaign been for you? SF: Campaigns are hell. It’s the most competitive sport and only the competitive people do it. How does it feel to be part of what is often seen as the lamest organization on campus? I’m hoping that at the end of the year, people will think differently. What about being an openly gay CCSC president? Everything I say will be too corny for the Bwog. Me being gay had nothing to do with the campaign…it just wasn’t news. That’s what’s remarkable. Even five years ago, it would have been different. How will relations be with your erstwhile opponents? It’s up to them. I think it will be okay. When are you going to start planning for next year? I’m going to go to sleep first. If your campaign had a theme song, what would it be? Probably something by James Taylor, because that’s the bullshit I listen to. Is CCSC a step up or a step down from the Dems? A step up. The Dems are different: you’re either focused nationally or locally, but you’re always part of the bigger operation. With student government, you ARE the movement. What do you think about Barnard? I love Barnard. Will you be coordinating with other council presidents? Yeah, next year, they’re going to tell me about all the perks. I think I get a helicopter. What do you think about government? I think democracies work best. What do you think of ESC’s policy of internal elections? No comment. Are you going to recognize Dan Okin as ESC president? Dan’s a great guy. You were down in the polls just a few days ago. What turned it around? Oh, that accurate Spec poll. That scared me. It’s really accurate. 
Evolution loses: Frontiers of Science will teach intelligent design. Berkeley has naked protests: Why can't we? Spec attacks SHOCC, and SHOCC wins. Didn't it used to be called Myanmar? He gazed up at the enormous face. Forty years it had taken him to learn what kind of smile was hidden beneath the dark moustache. O cruel, needless misunderstanding! O stubborn, self-willed exile from the loving breast! Two gin-scented tears trickled down the sides of his nose. But it was all right, everything was all right, the struggle was finished. He had won the victory over himself. He loved Big Brother...THE END...There, now you don't have to read the book.
 Roger Hodge, E.I.C., discusses Harper's Graduate School of Journalism, 4.6.2006 Harper's Editor-in-Chief Roger Hodge explained "I... like to hide behind the written word." . . . Hodge is not the impromptu-thinking type, and his speech at the J-School last Thursday showed it. The moderator had recently handed him a shopping list of points to cover, and though he valiantly tried to address these, and stabbed very accurately at the manifestations of his magazine's personality, he missed the vitals every time. His presentation of Harper's came after a long exposition of his intellectual background and that of the magazine. Everything was very disconnected, and only started to come together in the Q&A; that followed his talk: Harper's is run in madness; the method of its conception and production is largely implicit for the public, but it is implicit, too, for the staff and editors. Perhaps this is what makes Harper's such a wonderful read: it is coherent issue by issue--and coherence is the house mission now--but it is not (and as Hodge suggested, never has been and never will be) dedicated to any ideology, any readership, any theme, or any style. Hodge called the magazine a Skeptic, and referred to it as a 'who,' a person or entity of sorts. Harper's selects articles for distinct authorial voice and unique ideas--but it is not, Hodge stresses, a 'magazine of ideas'. Not only is that a redundant categorization, he believes, but it suggests a dedication to principles, to which he makes no pretensions. Because Harper's is not answerable to a readership (it is sustained by a private foundation), because its publisher is engaged in the most disinterested way (he stops by every day but demands no changes), because its core staff is small, and because it takes on unpublished writers (claiming that a good clip could just be the work of a strong editor), it can do whatever it pleases: screw with the AIDS research complex, argue for the social benefits of war, suggest the impeachment of the president, hold a symposium on a theoretical home-grown coup d'etat, or just discourse on pig masturbation and send reporters on luxury cruises. Harper's only principles are skepticism, caprice, and respect for superior wit. The problem with this approach --and Mr. Hodge almost put his thumb on it--is that, while the magazine isn't answerable to any separate entity, writers have to make a living, and they do it by paying attention to current events. While their editor-in-chief is a newspaper-eschewing (didn't turn a broadsheet for three years of his undergraduate experience), television hating, long-view thinker, the writers of Harper's have been as preoccupied as the rest of us with current issues like Bush's dishonesty and Gulf War II. The only time Hodge seemed more uncomfortable than awkward was when he was pushed towards the conclusion that his magazine is becoming more and more absorbed in war and government reportage. He's had a lot of good writers coming up with (admittedly unique) political stories instead of the usual socially relevant oddities; the problem is not that the usual stories aren't there, but rather that writers are ignoring them because they are too immersed popular concerns. This is what made Hodge so uncomfortable. A bitchy graduate student accused him of sexism (and the masthead is nine-tenths male), but he's most worried about being intellectually coöpted by circumstance. Harper's is not meant to be distinguished from mainstream print media by its written style, though that's important, but rather by its intellectual style. Harper's is supposed to be independent in every way, full of tension and conflict and ignorance and acute interest. Three days into his job as Editor-in-Chief, Roger Hodge is determined to keep it that way, though he's not sure how or why he's doing it. -John Klopfer
 One of the most popular and political papers in academia right now is "Rich state, poor state, red state, blue state: What's the Matter with Connecticut?", co-authored by Columbia School of Social Work Prof. Andrew Gelman. Gelman used statistical models that break down many of the prevailing ideas about political polarization and income in the recent presidential elections. The Blue & White’s Ethan Pack sat down with Dr. Gelman to talk about which party really represents the wealthy. What motivated your research? At first, it was more of us reacting to what is in the news media. There has been so much talk and maps of red and blue states. The media has been repeating that Democrats were the party of the rich. But every poll that comes up shows that richer Americans are more likely to vote Republican. The idea that it was only elite Democrats, and working class Republicans—we knew it wasn’t like that. But there is a history to all this talk. It goes back to the 1930’s, labeling the parties by a fight between the common man and the rich. At the time, many considered the New Deal to be an imposition of the elites, and fought against it as such. This trend strengthened in the Nixon-Kennedy election, where Nixon was the common man and Kennedy was wealthy and powerful. The Democrats also have made the counter-claim, that the Republicans are the party of the rich. And then I started to see non-ideologically-based journalists making this claim. When I read David Brooks say this, I realized that this is how they see it. Brooks is a Republican, but he’s not a spinster. It would be one thing if I read William F. Buckley propounding this, someone with a clearly directed ideological agenda. But it was beyond that. It had really taken hold in the mainstream media. And part of this is because the red-blue map is so misleading. When in the research process did you first get a sense of some of the more original conclusions your study? Only at the end really. We needed lots of data: state-by-state data, public opinion surveys, exit polls of course. We really had to do a lot before we could graph the conclusions. I am embarrassed, it took six months, really almost a year, to fit the right models. The conclusions only came up after looking at all the sets of raw data; for example, the disparity between the slopes for income and voting Republican in Connecticut and Mississippi. Right now, I’m writing a book about regression models. This study changed the whole way I look at that, and now I have had to change the book. Interesting phenomena came up. What do you think of the public reaction to your paper in the press, academia, and on the web? It all happened on spring break. I was away from school. I grew up in a Washington D.C. suburb, but my parents moved. It would have been fun for them to see me in the morning paper , but it didn’t happen. The political discourse on these stereotypes is today, perhaps more pervasively than ever, often reduced to bombastic polemics and simplistic “parodies”, as E.J. Dionne wrote. How substantial is the contrast between your principally statistics-minded approach and much of the wider discourse? And how does that contrast effect its reception? We used statistics because we wanted people to get a sense of the real subtlety. Of the four authors of the study, we had two Democrats and two Republicans. And we were working all across the country . It gave us a good overall perspective. Some people think income and politics should be deterministic. Others don’t want to admit that they correlate at all. Democrats want to know why low-income voters don’t all vote for them. Republicans don’t want income to be predictive of voting patterns at all. Of course, they like the rich to vote for them and be active, but being identified solely with the rich is dangerous to either party. It suggests you aren’t the party of the people. I didn’t like the discourse on both sides. Each one delegitimizes the other side’s voters. People spout ideas, like that Democrat voters are drug dealers, welfare queens, college professors. And that Republicans are all church-going holy rollers or fat cats in corporate suites. That isn’t how people decide their vote. Half the country is voting Democrat and half the country is voting Republican, so clearly there is some overlap in the categories commonly imagined. You mention that the media misperceives things, which you correlate to their location in Washington D.C. and New York. Journalists are disproportionately Democrats, to the extent they identify with a political party. And then you have the elite journalists, who are far richer than the average American. I’m saying if you compare them to the waitress or service worker; journalists are poor compared to some doctors and CEO’s. But journalists exist largely in this quadrant, wealthy and Democrat. And then they see the country voting Republican, which is different from their quadrant, so they assume everyone else in the population who isn’t like them in voting patterns isn’t like them economically. So they think the poor vote Republican. It is natural for journalists to feel that correlation. It is called the Availability Bias in psychology studies. You infer about the whole from what you have experienced. It causes errors by failing to see the more subtle areas at the correlation level. If a few journalists and people see our study, maybe when it comes to writing about 2008, they will correct this and change. Are academics making the same bad assumptions as journalists? Both groups are concentrated on the coasts. I wouldn’t say so, as much. Political scientists, economists, and social scientists are very quantitative. We are very cautious. We don’t say much until we see the data, and even then we don’t say much. I teach this in terms of the “auto mechanic’s payoff.” You bring your broken car in to the mechanic, and he tells you the problem is your engine. You pay him to fix it, get your car back, and it still doesn’t work. “Oh, it was your muffler,” he says the next time, and you pay him again. Whether he diagnoses the problem right or wrong on his first guess, he gets the payoff. It’s worth it for him to guess. We don’t get a raise for being in the news. But our standing is lowered if we get something wrong. Sure, it is nice to be in the news. But we won’t risk getting something wrong the first time for that. Now, academics do say stupid things. But that is at the theoretical level. That’s just from their perspective, not factually stupid. You see all these stupid quotes by academics, but they aren’t saying things that could be verified. Journalists have more of the auto mechanic’s payoff incentive. They are paid to attract attention. If it turns out they were wrong, they will just guess again, and still get the money for the first guess, the first time they grabbed your attention. Like the auto mechanic, if they are too cautious to guess wrong, only then do they lose the payoff. Does the Columbia community mischaracterize political polarization in America? Are we worse off because we are in expensive, private higher education? Probably. It would be natural to think our community is richer and more liberal. Students are more likely to come from higher income families. We proposed to the Psychology Department to do studies of political perceptions through little stories or vignettes. You say, “this person is a NASCAR dad; this is a waitress-mom,” and have them predict which party that person would vote for. We both realized it wouldn’t work that well at Columbia because it would be hard to get conservatives. We could find other colleges. But in any state, the university town is going to be different from the rest, and is going to be the most liberal. Are you a Democrat? Do you think the Democrats should run Hillary Clinton in 2008, or a southerner like John Edwards or Mark Warner? There is a general belief that the more centrist policy will get more votes. Candidates want to be perceived to be at the center, and not be at the center at the same time. I won’t say what party I affiliate with. I will say our study had two members from each party. We have common goals: peace, prosperity, and so forth. We choose different means to the same end. But, as to my party, I’ll make you do the work. You can find out who anyone votes for. That is what we did in our study. You could guess based on a predictive model, by my profession and where I live. But predictive models aren’t always right. It would be the same if I asked you. I am from upper-middle class suburban Kansas, but I’m liberal, so I don’t fit the slope models of your study. Yes, but as a Kansan who went to university in New York City, the predictions begin to change. 
Gautam Hans reports: A horde of 20 "Production Scouts" descended upon the Hungarian Pastry Shop today at noon, apparently investigating it for possible use in the upcoming film adaptation of "The Nanny Diaries" starring Scarlett Johansson. No word on a reaction from the embittered grad students on the possible commercialization of their second home, but they can take solace in the fact that if the producers do decide to shoot at Hungarian, the lighting will definitely have to get better.
Overheard on College Walk: "The Biennial? Didn't they just have one of those two years ago?"
After a week-long postponement and numerous technical difficulties, SGA Election Results are in! Total number of offices: 20 Total uncontested seats: 13 Races with no candidates: 1 Rugby player Eman Bataineh emerged victorious, beating out Cypriot Sophia Mouyis and bartender April Hovav, all juniors. Curiously, SCEG activist Brett Murphy--who had been running as a ticket with Betaineh--went down to Mary Kate and Ashley fan Yael Isaac. Oh, Barnard, when will you make up your mind?
If you were a refugee you'd be home by now. A woman president! Changes made to this year's Bacchanal, Agave to eat own son. Is Jacob McKean dying?
 Bwog correspondent Adam Stern recently sat down in John Jay Dining Hall to speak with Brad Sullivan over a plate of eggs and hash-browns. Brad Who-ivan? Well, the answer to that question lies in another. It is a question that we have all asked ourselves at some point while sitting in the first-year dining hall: Who is that old guy eating over there? Why is he here? Man, he looks so familiar. I know I have seen him somewhere before… Brad Sullivan is "that guy" from films including Sister Act II and The Untouchables. Can you tell us a little about Brad Sullivan, the early years? I was born in Chicago, but when I started high school my family moved to Cape Cod. I went to the University of Maine and got a degree in agriculture. The army interrupted my time there, so I did not actually graduate until 1957. The Korean War was on in 1952 and I was not in ROTC, so I was subject to the draft. I was in a rifleman infantry company and spent time in Korea both during the war and after. How did you make the move from agriculture to acting? I love farming, but agriculture was precarious. Where was I going to do farming? I remember that while I was in Korea I was sitting in a foxhole and I started to think about those posters that you see around campus that advertise auditions for this play or that play. When I went back to the University of Maine I tried out for acting parts and I took elective courses in acting. I eventually came to New York to the American Theatre Wing, which is now defunct. I got a degree there and then I pursued the business. It took over thirty years before I finally knew I had a career in acting. Some students on campus might recognize you from your roles in The Untouchables, Bushwacked, and Sister Act II. What had been your experience in the acting world? I’m glad I went into acting. I am in three unions, so I get three pensions. I’m not messed around like if I were in corporate America. I am grateful to the Lord for that. Counting my training, I was in the business for 45 years. About 4 years ago I stopped because I got tired of living out of a suitcase. The last job I did before I retired was on Law and Order. I am done acting, but I always wanted to play a missionary doctor, preferably to Asia. If God brings that on, then I’ll go. Are there any roles that you particularly enjoyed playing? Two of the most gratifying roles I played were I’ll Fly Away, a television show about the 1960s civil rights movement. It must have been on NBC. The other was Nothing Sacred, which was on ABC. Those are my favorite. They are award-winning shows, but they are things people don’t look at. That is also why I am no longer in the business. I am not into sitcoms— they are the lowest of the low. I also remember that there were two jobs I was fired from. A role in a play and a regular character on a television series. It is just as well. I wasn’t comfortable in the roles. What is worse, to be dismissed before the show begins or to stay on and open in it and get lousy reviews? I would have gotten lousy reviews. I can remember seeing you eating in John Jay Dining Hall as early as my first-year here in 2002. What is your relationship to Columbia? I have been at Columbia for five years. I originally came to audit a course, which is the only official connection I have ever had to the university. I got to know the Christians on campus and became involved in the International Christian Fellowship. We have dinners and Bible studies and other activities. Volunteer-type things, get to know the students. Got to know everybody, it is great. Have you been involved in Christian groups for long? I have been a Christian interested in International Christian Ministry for a long time. I started doing Christian work with the staffs in Chinese restaurants around the city beginning in the early 1990s. I remember I was doing a Tennessee Williams play, Orpheus Descending, and then filmed a version for television. When I got back from that I started. During the matinees I would go over to West Side Cottage for some food and got to know some of the people who worked there. I would share ministry with them and pick things up for them from Chinatown. Then I wanted to expand to Columbia. If you are not officially a student, why do you eat at John Jay hall? What is the appeal? I just love to eat here. It is cheap when you think about it. They don’t make any money off of me. If I were in a restaurant and had bacon, toast, coffee, a waffle, an omelet, it would be way more that the prices at John Jay. I won’t come here more that twice a week, though, I would just eat too much. When I was at the University of Maine we were lucky to get seconds if they had any left over. It was nothing like today. I keep a record of what I eat. The fat, the fiber, and the calories that I burn in a day. They also have a new head chef and the chefs they have are good. Someone once told me that these colleges get top chefs. Some get burnt out in the restaurant business and apply to universities, because the hours are good and the money is good. Other than your work on campus, how have you been spending your retirement? I also do tutoring. There is a middle school over there, Booker T. Washington. I went to a parent teacher conference once with a friend who didn’t speak English (I had met him in one of the Chinese restaurants). After that, the teacher got me involved in going on field trips and tutoring students. It's really about being a mentor. A lot of Chinese want to learn English, so also I do conversational English with them. It is all volunteer, I don’t want to get paid for any of it. 
 Jews have Matzo, Catholics have peeps. For those people unfamiliar with the blue-and-yellow sugar coated marshmalllow goodness, NPR offers a brief history. Here's an excerpt: "Why Peeps for Easter? The tradition dates back further than company history -- way back. Ancient pagans in Europe used eggs, chicks and rabbits as symbols of renewal in their spring rituals. Over time, European Christians incorporated the pagan symbols into their Easter traditions, and brought them to America." These delicious pagan idols will be sold for just a few more days, but don't worry, they won't expire for another eight years.
Oh how quickly Columbia's wheels of justice turn. A little less than 48 hours ago, I posted on the Bwog a pictures of a bizarre little homemade cracker packet I found. Then came the increasingly frantic emails from the Class Deans and Public Security to the Blue & White's editor-in-chief, Avi. By last night, the emails got back to me. We were told by the Administration that "the photographer will be in contact with Public Safety by first thing tomorrow morning." Will do. Or will try to do. I called Ken Finnegan, Public Safety's Director of Investigations and Technology, like he asked. Answering machine. Then I stopped by. Not in. Then I called again. Made some bread pudding. Called again. Then I got an email from Dean Colombo claiming I have alleged a bias incident. Patted myself on back for fighting the good fight. Checked on bread pudding. Anyway, Ken, if you're reading this, CALL ME. Update: Eyewitness account filed with the proper authorities. Best of luck, Ken, with the investigation. I know you'll leave no crumb unturned. -Bethany Milton, Bwog Co-Editor Email from Dean Colombo after the jump. Dear Student, The Dean of Student Affairs office noticed a photo posted on a blog operated by the student publication, the Blue and White, that alleges a bias incident took place on Columbia’s campus. Public Safety has been notified and is conducting an investigation. At this point, we are not able to independently confirm this incident. As always, our colleagues are aware of this situation and available to you. If you have any knowledge of this incident or if you have any concerns, you may contact Ken Finnegan in the Office of Public Safety directly at 212-854-4670 or kef8@columbia.edu. Any students in need of support at this time are encouraged to contact their class deans, the Office of Residential Programs, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Office of the University Chaplain for support.
Armchair investigators, there's no reason you shouldn't have all the evidence Public Safety does. Have at it!
Even if a tree can't grow in Morningside Heights, no problem--you can always stick another in the sidewalk. Instant cherry-blossom charm! Note: First person to make a SHOCC joke about this post gets their IP address banned from the site. For reals, ya'll.
 In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. Now with IMDB links! AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Scary Movie 4 Just to clarify, the implication of the title is that it’s the fourth in a series scary movies, rather than a movie that is scary simply because it’s the third sequel to a stupid and unfunny movie. The Benchwarmers This is an Adam Sandler film produced by Adam Sandler’s production company that stars Adam Sandler’s friends and whose plot seems like a remake of a bunch of other Adam Sandler movies. Not starring Adam Sandler. Phat Girlz Actual tagline: Her dreams are about to get a whole lot bigger. Rejected taglines: Mo’nique is hitting the big time. This spring, think big. Mo’nique proves that bigger really is better. We misspelled both words in our title. So there! Also Playing: ATL V for Vendetta Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Free Zone If you want a little more insight into the Israeli-Palestinian crisis than the Spec editorial page can provide, let Natalie Portman educate you. Look Both Ways Completely Australian, partially animated, and possibly entertaining. The Notorious Bettie Page Remember Vanity Fair cover-girl Gretchen Mol? No, didn’t think so. But in this film, directed by American Psycho’s Mary Harron, she plays Bettie Page, who was, um, notorious. Also Playing: The Child (L’Enfant) Tsotsi AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Kinky Boots A whimsical comedy about a small British town that learns of the existence of non-white, non-straight people from a black transvestite. Insert joke referencing The Full Monty, Saving Grace, The Big Tease, and Waking Ned Devine here. The Wild Remember Dreamworks’ Madagascar, which was released last year? According to Disney, you don’t. Also, it’s worth noting that the film is directed by Steve ‘Spaz’ Williams. Take the Lead Antonio Banderas, the very definition of caliente. Friends with Money A movie starring Jennifer Aniston, Joan Cusack, Catherine Keener, and Frances McDormand probably will not do well with the target audience of Larry the Cable Guy: Health Inspector. Which means it will probably do very well. Inside Man A classic heist movie (there’s a fedora hat) that’s also completely modern (there is high-tech surveillance equipment), thanks to Spike Lee (there is social commentary) and Denzel Washington (there is awesomeness). Also Playing: Lucky Number Slevin Ice Age: The Meltdown Slither Thank You For Smoking V for Vendetta: The IMAX Experience Failure to Launch Deep Sea 3D Across the Sea of Time IMAX
You knew something was missing in your life... oh, yeah. The social part. Well, the Bwog is here to cure what ails ya. Today you get FULL ACCESS to this eligible bachelor's profile. If you have dreams of one day being the girl cropped out of the picture, shoot an email to bwgossip@columbia.edu with a sentence or two pleading your case. If Brett picks you, the Bwog will spring $5 for a coffee date. Hot? Bothered? Nominate yourself or a friend for next week. Guy for Girl Name: Brett Austin Robbins School: CC Year: 2009 Major: Philosophy/Spanish Hometown: Cherry Hill, NJ Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Gone - Kanye WestIn the Waiting Line - Garden State SoundtrackA Day in the Life - The Beatles You're trapped on a desert island with three foods-- what are they?Peanut Butter, orange juice, and steak. Describe your favorite pair of underwear.A bright orange pair of boxers with alligators smoking pipes. It's 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon-- where can you be found?Sleeping. Nightmare date in three words or less: Clingy girls, anywhere. So, what are you doing after college?I am going to make my millions so I can travel the world with the girl of my dreams. Really? Complete the sentence: When I first came to Columbia, I thought......that veins were not as cool as they are. Facebook or MySpace?Facebook Brett! You're the one for me!
Spec gets in on Crackergate. iPods in the vending machines?...Wait, the Bwog scooped you two months ago! Spec asks, 'Can Erotica Work Without Sharon Stone's Vagina?' Jacob McKean: Read this.
Packed with more old women and men than actual Barnard students, the Women Poets at Barnard's final Spring 2006 lecture was insightful. The Sulzberger Parlor served as the perfect space for the intimate and soft spoken reading of poetry accompanied by free samples of wine among other refreshments. The Women Poets at Barnard reading series was conceived by Barnard alumnae, and done in conjunction with the Barnard Women Poets Prize. This prize works in partnership with W.W. Norton & Co, giving "women poets with emerging reputations the chance to publish a crucial second book and read at Barnard." Tonight was the "highlight of the year" as Tessa Rumsey and last year's prizewinner, Julie Sheehan, read from their books, The Return Message and Orient Point, respectively. Moreover, this year's winner was announced, Cathy Rich. Her book's title, Dance Dance Revolution was ironic because the Activities Board of Columbia's decision not to recognize Columbia New Poetry and to accept the Dance Dance Revolution Club. (More on that in the Blue and White's May Issue.) Both poets were introduced with brief explanations of their poetry by current Barnard students. The first poet to read was Tess Rumsey. Her poetry was filled with natural imagery. In my mind's eye, there was an abundance of flowers and avant-garde, clean cut verses as long as rivers. The poetry felt contemporary and mythological and at times a bit morbid, which was a nice surprise as it manifested in a poem about a childhood love for candy called "Everlasting Gobbstopper." Her monotone, rising rarely, did not allow for the full impact of her greater insights which were concentrated in her subtle themes about womanhood. They were also hidden under the flower imagery and Yves St. Laurent allusions. Apparently, Yves St. Laurent "interpreted the mood of the world and turned it into what people wanted," which to a degree is an admirable goal for a poet as well. The final poet of the evening was the perky and witty Julia Sheehan. As her introducer mentioned, her poetry was introspective as well as in search of the meaning of poetry. Her poems were divided into the headings of "taxidermy," "archeology," and "fine print," which are nice analogies as to the process and exhibition of creating a poem. Her poems' narrative style and her lively voice captured my attention. I was impressed to hear the silent laughs and "wow's" of the audience. Particularly, "Brown Headed Cow Birds," struck a fancy with the audience as it mixed the story of a group of black elementary school kids with their school's production of Romeo and Juliet and brown headed cow birds. It was in fact like a field guide from the Audubon Society only with old English verbs like "passeth" and allusions to J. Lo and Britney Spears. And of course, my favorite from the evening in general was "Hate Poem," which really was about love. It was the poem, I felt, had the most emotion and profound simplicity in its theme and images. The lecture was a bit mundane with the poetry having dynamics too intense to be captured by mere hearing. There was no discussion, unless you stayed for the reception afterwards. Nevertheless, it was a sincere gathering of people who believe that poetry is crucial and fun. And hey, free wine and cookies! - Alexandra De Leon
 Blue Java sells Mentos and Diet Coke- here's something to make the floor waxers hate you.
 In which Blue and White film savant Iggy Cortez gives you another reason to love the French. This week's selection is Read My Lips. If you, like many Columbia students, are waiting until the very last moment to fill out your tax returns, Jacques Audiard’s smart yet entertaining thriller-cum-noir, Read My Lips should provide both fun escapism from stress yet abundant incentive not to mess with money matters. Emmanuelle Devos, one of France’s most talented and magnetic actresses, stars as Carla, a mousey, hearing-impaired secretary whose attempts to advance in a real-estate firm are continuously thwarted by sadistic colleagues. Afraid that she is overworked, her boss encourages her to find an assistant. Against all common sense, she hires Paul, played by Vincent Cassel (the charismatic bad boys of all charismatic bad boys), an ex-con with close to no qualifications except, perhaps, that he looks amazing unshowered and in a leather jacket. But all kindness comes at a price, and in return for the job, Carla convinces Paul to use his skills as a thief to steal a file from a colleague, a move that triggers an unlikely alliance between the two that is part survival, part sexual tension. Largely due to money he owes some thugs, the office life becomes too boring and not well paid enough for Paul, so when he devices a flawless plan to steal money from some Parisian gang lords, he co-opts Carla’s help, due to her secret talent for reading lips. Naturally, things don’t go as planned, and it is in the messiness of the detour that the film’s inventive and audacious plot-twists begin to grip our interest in a way Hollywood thrillers have long ceased to do. While Read My Lips is not exactly earth-shatteringly profound, its merits are in meeting intelligence with sheer entertainment, in a manner free of gimmicks or sentimentality, yet not deprived of that wonderful duo of sex and violence. Audiard’s stylish directing is matched by a well-informed instinct in knowing when exactly to practice restraint, that not only saves his film from being like a pointlessly flashy videogame, but that also gives it its necessary, riveting tension. Inflected with just the right amounts of psycho-sexual character development to give it a certain weight and depth, Read My Lips is perfect viewing for when you feel like reveling in the viewer complicity the thriller demands, without feeling like you are turning into a vegetable.
It's Friday and the Bwog really needs a cold one. Or ten. We'll start with Crackergate 2006. Tuesday a Bwog photographer posts the picture of "a hate care package" seen round the world. Thursday the same photographer tries to get in touch with Public Safety through the Bwog, eventually figuring out that's what phones are for. In non-cracker related news, Seth Flaxman gave his first press conference as CCSC President, students did some old-fashioned sitting in in Low, and the Old Dude in John Jay's secret identity was revealed. Remember, just three days until Rite Aid Easter candy goes on sale!
In today's New York Times, everyone's favorite Principles prof, Sunil Gulati, explains why you're better off at Columbia than pursuing your dreams of soccer stardom. As if our Major League Soccer dreams needed any more dashing.
 In which Bwog staffer Mark Krotov familiarizes us with the places you can find him when he's supposed to be in class. I love inhospitable environments. When placed in settings that are unfriendly, unattractive, or simply odd, I find that I enjoy myself a little more than I do in a place that is comfortable or accommodating, but what really thrills me are those places that are more misguided than intentionally uninviting. Places like Lerner are wild because many smart people spent a lot of time pondering how to create a comfortable student center, and got it absurdly wrong. Such is the case with the EC courtyard. Besides the uncomfortable benches (which, in themselves, are a death knell for viable public space), I think that what I love most about the EC courtyard is its self-selection of weather phenomena: good weather is excluded from this imposing, threatening space, while bad weather thrives there. Rain? Absolutely welcome, and heavily exacerbated by the horrible tiles on the ground, which seem to have been designed expressly to encourage standing water. Wind? Bring it on! I don’t understand how it can be so windy in the courtyard, given that the space is surrounded by four huge walls, but if my year in EC has taught me one thing, it is that heavy wind outside of EC becomes unbearable in the courtyard. But what about sunlight? Hardly. Because of the way the building is constructed, the courtyard sees no sunlight at all until noon, and then it rapidly disappears behind the walls of the townhouses. The sunsets are gorgeous in the courtyard, as long as one is satisfied with seeing the sunset reflected in the building’s massive 20-story brick façade, rather than having any direct contact with, well, warmth. But despite the courtyard’s quasi-divine manipulation of meteorological phenomena, I often spend time there anyway. Usually, I am alone, which should be surprising in a space that, ostensibly, is a courtyard for hundreds of undergraduates. But it’s not surprising. The EC courtyard is an exceedingly direct reminder of the impact of architectural ideology, and what happens if that ideology is imposed too strongly. I’m sure that the architects believed that this would be a popular space—it is centrally located, it has nature, and it is outdoors, but not far enough away to make traveling there a sacrifice. But it’s also unquestionably oppressive. Surrounded by nothing but flat walls, horizontal bands of windows, the weird, dark stairways into the townhouses, and the monotonous façade of the Heyman Center, the courtyard resembles a motel plaza—one that could accommodate a swimming pool, but instead accommodates smokers. The space revels in its architectural identity—straight lines, homogeneity, and unabashed bigness—but here, just as in hundreds of buildings constructed in this era, purity triumphs over humanity. It’s all very neat and organized and logical, but it leaves little room for the anarchic, unconstrained human contact that a public space needs to foster—a public space like, say, the steps. So, besides its proximity, why do I spend time in the EC courtyard? Because I’m in awe of architecture and its ability to go beyond providing roofs and bedrooms, and to instead affect people’s moods. In the quiet, dark, and empty courtyard, I am assured that I will always feel alone, though I’m not sure that’s how the architects wanted it.
Sometimes, being a good person just isn't enough.
 From Gothamist.
Band members, would-be band members, and people who just like to wear skinny jeans and slip-ons congregated in lower level Macintosh at the WBAR-b-q this afternoon to celebrate the cream of CU/Barnard's indie crop. And eat burgers and drink beer. Combined with lazing in parks and chucking around various objects, could an idyllic spring Saturday be better spent? Featuring Man Man, Bobby Birdman, E*Rock, YACHT, King Kong Ding Dong, O'Death, Lucky Dragons, Fixations, and the Midnight Hours (pictured). Bwog wonders what it would name a band if it had the balls to form one.
For those too lazy and apathetic and jaded by the godlessness of Columbia to go to church, the International Christian Fellowship brought the gospel to Morningside's most degenerate pit of iniquity--the Low Steps. "In an atmosphere like this academy, we all want to believe that, given the right evidence," one fellowshipper said, "we're going to make the right decision. But it's often, even a majority of the time, just not so. It's just not how people operate." All that research? Useless. Also: "There really are only two sides of it. You either accept him and know him, or you're lost for eternity." Even if you're lost for eternity, you might as well pick up the free Bibles and sell them at high prices to clueless future Lit Hummers. 
It happens to the best of us. Happily, all of us at Bwog have faith that the 231st street station will find the strength in its heart to get through this difficult time, but only with the support of its MTA family and through learning to respect itself. Once the station regains belief in its own inherent worth, we know that this obstacle will be but a broken track in the subway tunnel of life.
Merge, bitch, merge! NYPD confirms there's no nightlife here. Wild Turkey huntin' in Morningside Park. Somewhere behind closed doors, girls get the shaft.
With all the coverage and virulent commentary on SHOCC, Bwog decided to talk with SHOCC member Anthony Walker to find out what the organization really stands for. B&W;: Your web site defines a hate crime as, "any and all forms of speech, writing, literature, or expression that stereotypes, marginalizes, denigrates, and isolates an individual or group based on an aspect of his or her identity. Hate crimes challenge an individual or group's sense of self, safety, and belonging within their community. Hate crimes on campus deny the safe space to which all members of a university are entitled. Hate crimes on campus make Columbia a dangerous place to be." When a hate incident is defined by anything that may be considered offensive to someone's identity, doesn't that make it possible to censor any speech at all? Walker: I don't actually feel 100% confident answering this question for the group. I am by no means an expert in hate speech, and I wouldn't want to say something or represent the group's stance in a manner that isn't absolutely accurate. I will say this though: the actions that SHOCC has protested and responded to this year are clearly instances of hate crimes. The question of what constitutes free speech in the instances of "hate" that we stand strongly against are not at all ambiguous or arguably an exercise of freedom of speech. I definitely agree with you and think that SHOCC would agree as well. The aim of the group is not to censor dissenting opinions or unpopular beliefs; our aim is to make our campus a safe and inviting space in which we all feel comfortable. This might not be exactly what you were looking for, but I hope I brought some clarity to the issue. A lot of people are troubled by SHOCC's tactics. The name alone suggests that its methods are confrontational, and necessarily in opposition to the administration. Given that you've had a number of recent successes, do you believe Bollinger and the Columbia community are necessarily opposed to diversity? I've heard this criticism a lot-- that SHOCC's methods are confrontational, but I think when you look more deeply at the tactics we are using, they are not in the least bit confrontational. The three days of action that took place last week involved an awareness campaign in the form of flyering and creating "safe space" circles on Low Plaza. I found the "safe space" circles to be extremely creative because in a sense it became a visual representation of what we are asking from the administration, a more safe and inclusive campus. What gets lost in the way that this campaign has been editorialized is that while all of this direct action is taking place, the group is still constantly in meetings with administrators to work through these issues. The direct action we have decided to take is a direct response to our feeling ignored and further marginalized by the administration’s decision to ignore our concerns. We do not stand in direct opposition to the administration and understand that we need the allied support of the administration to see the better Columbia we envision to take form. We recognize and appreciate the recent successes we've had with the administration but realize that there is yet much work to be done. The University is not opposed to diversity-- we find that it is simply a matter of priority and working on a different timeline. SHOCC is pushing to accelerate that timeline and do it in a way that will be beneficial to the entire student body but focuses on moving students generally pushed towards the margins towards the center of debate. I think the strength of the name speaks to the seriousness of the group and the dedication we have to eradicating the persistence of hate on our campus. Following up on the last question, what is anti-oppression training? It seems like the vast majority of students here, minority and not, really support diversity on campus (although, as a white male, I could be misreading this). Am I unwittingly oppressing you? I think this is a good question and one of the demands that is met with the most hesitation from community members. I think what turns people off is the phrasing "anti-oppression" training which leads many to believe that the focus is on reforming the oppressive masses to be more understanding of minority students' concerns- that is not the aim of the proposed training. The name of the training is not important, we as a group are more concerned about the substance of the training. Anti-oppression, diversity, whatever... but what we really envision this training to deal with is addressing the power of privilege and understanding what it is like to be a member of a marginalized community. Diversity training usually takes the form of a session targeted at being tolerant of our differences and proves to be extremely ineffective. I think what we would really like to see is a training that engages everyone to understand how one can receive unrealized benefits due to the color of their skin, the socioeconomic status they were born into, their sexual orientation, their religious beliefs, etc. These are things that all people need to understand and work on, marginalized and majority alike. It's not about finger-pointing and labeling people as oppressors-- it's about creating a culture of being understanding and aware of our differences to create a community that knows how to engage comfortably and respectfully with one another. What, for SHOCC, would constitute a more balanced core curriculum? What would you add (and why) and what you drop (and why)? Specificity would really be appreciated. Also, since we can't study every culture, western or non-western, which cultures would you select from (and again, why)? This actually may be one of the biggest confusions about what we are advocating be done to the core-- it's not really about adding or dropping as much as it's about changing the manner in which it is taught to be more inclusive of other cultures. A more balanced core curriculum would not take a massive overhaul, and that is not what we're advocating for. The core is western civilization 101, and there is no problem with that, as long as it acknowledges the cross-cultural exchange that took place and does not give only western culture credit for advancements in thought, the arts, and politics. We think that this is extremely important because it sets up a dichotomy of all other cultures being inferior to western civilization. What do you think of the matzo-swastika incident, and what should be done in response? It's really unfortunate that these types of incidents continue to persist on our campus. I think it just speaks to the very culture that SHOCC is trying to change. In the absence of being able to identify the perpetrators I really feel that education around these issues is the only way to really respond. Yes, the university should take a stance against this incident verbally, but that also needs to be backed up by some show of support in the form of an awareness forum. This is happening all too frequently. Why do you think criticism against SHOCC has been so virulent, and do you think most people on campus agree with you? Are most white/straight/general majority students consciously or unconsciously racist? I think that criticism of SHOCC has been so virulent because people don't have a clear understanding of exactly what the group stands for. That is partially the fault of the group, but some responsibility has to be placed with the community as well. Our meetings are open. We hand out pamphlets to any and everyone willing to take one. I won't make a guesstimate on whether or not most people agree with the aims of the group, because I believe that most people sincerely have little understanding of our concerns. I don't at all believe that most white/straight/general majority students are racist consciously or unconsciously, but I do believe that it is unfortunate for one, let alone six, racist incidents to occur on our campus. Who is to say that the perpetrators are all white/straight/general majority students? The aim of SHOCC is targeted at making this a campus that all people feel safe and comfortable as members of. Our goals transcend race and the changes we would like to see implemented though would affect most noticeably marginalized students, they would be beneficial for all. Its also important to notice that racism is not the driving force of this movement, hate is. Bwog sez: Walker answered our questions with honesty and respect. We expect the same from the comments.
At promptly 3 pm at the Graduate School of Journalism, Sig Gissler, administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes, announced the 2006 winners. By announced, I mean that press kits that had a list of winners and other information about them were made available to those present. And by those present, I mean approximately ten journalists and a dozen other people affiliated with the school. All of the journalists then proceeded to open their cell phones and read the winners to their respective news organizations. Overheard: "Yes, you were a finalist in Public Service. Bye." "You've never heard of Mike Luckovich? I don't know what rock you live under." Since 1917, Pulitzer Prize jurors for each category have nominated three selections to be considered by the board, which then votes on two finalists and a winner. Gissler described the process as "often complicated," as it is possible to override the jury¹s rejection of any submission with a 3/4 vote by the board. Such was the special case this year, as the board awarded the New Orleans Times-Picayune in the Public Service and Breaking News categories for coverage of Hurricane Katrina although those pieces had not made it through the first round of judging. Also apparent this year was the absence of a Drama Award, as the board did not find majority support for any one of the plays nominated. Amid much criticism of the news media, Gissler said the winners this year are "heartening-examples of high-quality journalism." He noted the watchdog function of some of the winning pieces, including the Washington Post's reporting of the Abrahamoff Abramoff scandal and the New York Times' exploration of domestic wiretapping. Gissler also noted the inclusion of online journalism (ostensibly the local Katrina coverage) into the selection process, and pointed out the somewhat rare "Special Citation" awards given to the historian Edmund S. Morgan (American Slavery, American Freedom) and posthumously to Thelonius Monk. "The board feels are fully deserved for lifetime achievement," he said. Update: 2006 Pulitzer Prize Winners Jessica Cohen
Free food 11:30am in Lerner and a little classier street fair action (at least compared to Saturday) all day on Low PLaza.
Bwog correspondents Mark Holden and James Williams report that someone has provided Alexander Hamilton with some fine new headwear. 
Law Professors complain about workloads, internal politics, ditch Columbia for NYU. Striking grad students: We miss you! James Joseph Vielkind-Neun stands up for immigrant rights. Just when we thought Baker Blast was enough, the Grinch steals softball.
File under crazy/bitter SEAS kids making life better for all of us: Freshman Rajesh Ramakrishnan has created Columbia FoodWorks, a website which hooks up first-years with too many dining points (they expire at the end of the year) with first-years with too few points. Of course, there's no such thing as a free lunch-- "although not official sanctioned by FoodWorks, the freshmen without points could give some money as a token of appreciation to those with points." So far three people have registered their point availability. For the record, the Bwog wouldn't turn down a guest meal at John Jay (they expire too!).
The Spectator is reporting the death of Barnard senior Alexis McNaughton Knox in a North Carolina car accident. She had been on leave for the semester and was staying with family in the area.
Econ prof Jagdish Bhagwati on the Fall of Man: "If there had been trade in the Garden of Eden, Adam would have traded the apple for a kiwi fruit, and the entire history of humanity would be much more benign." -Ana Ortiz
The god Rumor has spoken: Ghostface Killah will be playing the annual Bacchanal concert this Saturday, 2:00 pm on Low Steps. Ghostface, the Wu Tang Clan member whose most recent album Fishcale debuted this month at #4 on the Billboard charts, has emerged since his 1996 solo debut as the group's most consistently innovative lyricist. In the meantime, enjoy your Wu Name. (Warning: The generator has a margin of error. Enter "Dennis Coles," Ghostface's given name, and what do you get? "Tha Visible Choirboy.")
Fire in 114th St. building near River dormitory. Broadway closed from 116th through 113th. Ladder truck there and EMTs at the ready. To quote the homeless guy walking past: "Ain't no fire if there ain't no smoke." Note: Bookstore on corner filled with smoke. 8:30 pm Update: Firefighters report that the fire started in the bookstore's basement and was probably electrical. Photos after the jump. 
Thinking it might take a crack at participatory government, Bwog popped its head into the University Senate Town Hall in Lerner Cinema this evening, to find approximately ten students in attendance at a forum of the school-wide body. The sight of two student government leaders leaving as we entered suddenly made sense--not relishing the prospect of a one-on-one conversation with a panel of politicos, Bwog snapped a picture and walked out. A twinge of guilt, perhaps. But Bwog seeks contention and controversy. Next stop: utter craziness!
You didn't think he'd remain quiet did you? When apathy overpowers democracy, senators get a big auditorium to themselves. Headline TBD. The trials and tribulations of Genera...wait, phone's ringing... Bonus: Smoke this.
"Free blue themed drinks and food" (we hope the food isn't blue) on Low Steps between 2pm and 4pm but ONLY if you're wearing blue. Maybe it's like St. Patrick's Day and you can just claim your underwear is blue. It is!
Bwog staffer Julia Butareva reviews Ignacy Witkiewicz's show of contemporary drawings at the Ubu gallery. In the corner of drawings by Stanislaw Ignacy Witkiewicz, you find letters and numbers assembled in what looks like an obscure mathematical formula: NP, NTT 7 m. What do they mean? Apparently, they’re abbreviations that indicate the drugs that the artist was taking or abstaining from while at work on the drawing. “C” indicates alcohol, “Mesk. Merck” is mescaline, “Co” means cocaine, “NTT” signifies abstention from alcohol, and “NP” is abstention from cigarettes. After one look at these at once arresting and repellent drawings, you won’t be surprised. Witkiewicz was a Polish artist and intellectual whose career started in 1913, when, at age 28, he had his first solo exhibition and published his first novel. It ended in1939, when, cornered by the Nazis, he slit his wrists. After his introduction to narcotics when he was wounded in World War I, he came to believe that the controlled use of drugs could allow him to access the psychology of his subject matter. Most of these drawings were completed in the 1930s, when his contemporaries, German Expressionists like Max Beckmann and Otto Dix, were producing disturbing works that expressed their horror at the Great War and disappointment with humanity in general. But while Beckman and Dix showed with sometimes-unbearable explicitness the horrors to which war subjected the human body and mind, Witkiewicz’s work turns inward. He allegorizes and literalizes what he finds animal and disgusting in people themselves. Witkiewicz’s sexual grotesques invite a comparison with Egon Schiele, both for his electric, forceful line and for his apparent disgust not with sex itself as much as its outward denial by the prudish bourgeoisie that surrounded them both. But where Schiele relied on stylized renditions of the human body performing sexual acts, the highlighting of nipples and genitalia with bright colors, and, sometimes, in his portraits, simply a hint about the hands to remind us that man is a sexual animal, Witkiewicz anthropomorphizes the sex itself. “Cock on the Brain” (NP + pywo ), for example, is a gross literalization of it in every sense. It depicts a lumpy, hairy human figure with its legs spread, a face with a mouth that is running into its female genitalia, and, instead of a human head, the head of a penis. It may be repellent, but just try to look away. “The Delights of Father Jeroboam” (NP, NTT, + 2 pyfka ) shows a man with lecherous eyes, sensual lips, and a body that is taken over by his genitalia. His giant testicles seem to be crushing a woman who is vainly attempting to stretch her tongue toward the head of his penis. The reference here is Aubrey Beardsley’s slyly humorous erotica, especially his illustrations for Lysistrata. One of them, “Lacedomonian Ambassadors,” shows pained-looking men carrying monstrous erect penises before them. In “Delights,” as in several of the other drawings, a grinning figure hovers in the background. He seems to be a sort of wise man, and unseen voyeur or judge. In “Zoological Atlas” (NP, NTT), which shows two imaginary nightmare animals, he stands at the edge of the paper, wearing glasses, a beard, a thoroughly disgusted expression on his face, and what looks like a cross between a toga and a straightjacket, like some modern-day malcontented philosopher. A figure like him is implied or sometimes even shown in Goya’s Caprichos, which tackled a similar satirical project. Of course, like Schiele and Goya, Witkiewicz uses these wildly sexual drawings to accuse his society of a deeper hypocrisy. But there is plenty of frank obsession with sex here, too. This series is angry, subversive, and mesmerizing. Go see this. You will not have another chance. Stanislaw Ignacy Witkiewicz: Drawings from the 1930s Through April 22nd Ubu Gallery 416 East 59th Street New York, NY 10022
This morning, an anonymous tipster weighed in on the origins of the "cHiNA?" graffiti that can be spotted in every other campus elevator: I thought you should know I have a theory that could possible solve the "CHINA?" elevator riddle. That is, what started it before the ignorant copy cats took over. It's dorky and obvious and asks the question on every poli-sci international relations major nerd's mind. Is China rising? Get it!? Get it!? China + ? + on an elevator going up and down all the time! Though the mystery remains unsolved until the founder of the "cHiNA?" movement is identified, the Bwog thinks this might be the start of what will hopefully be a fruitful investigation.
A breathless James William sez: There is wet cement on 2 squares of sidewalk on 114th street in front of Carman RIGHT NOW!!! Someone go out there and write "BWOG" in the sidewalk RIGHT NOW!!! Yes.
Overshadowed by the more prominent CCSC, ESC, Barnard, GS, and Italian elections, poor little ABC is clamoring for attention. Last night's elections saw five people competing for four seats. Sucks to be Kylie Davis, but the results are here: President: Keith Hernandez (unopposed) Vice President: Lissy Hu over Kylie Davis Treasurer: Angela Kou (unopposed) Secretary: Allison Fortune (unopposed) Clubs-- commence sucking up now. By the way, the Bwog thinks Keith has lovely hair.
Barnard's soul-searching. You scream, I scream, ice cream! Rumble in the Poli Sci department as Ph.D.-reject delivers sweetest diss to Andrew Nathan. Share on, Columbians.
Somebody got to the wet cement. 
Anna Corke reports: There is a gas leak on the 9th floor of Schermerhorn. Art History Department Manager on the phone with Maintenance: Has anyone done anything about the gas leak on the 9th floor? There's a class happening up there and no one has told them to leave. Some of the students are getting nauseous and dizzy...yeah...uh-huh....okay...I'll tell them to leave. Ah, bureaucracy.
 Overheard in the Carman elevator, a first-year host talking to a prospective student: "We don't really go into the city that much, but there's a great bar scene on campus right across the street. And if that's not for you, there's great campus life too--in Mudd, there are Halo parties and everyone gets on the same network and just LAN all night! And there's a Scrabble club. I think the world's 3rd best Scrabbler is in it. You just have to get involved, there are lots of opportunities."
Yelena Shuster has a few notes from author Megan McCafferty's Wednesday night bookstore visit. The svelte author, clad in a red sundress, began by asking the 99% female audience "You know I don't have food for you right?" and established her alumna status right off. "Because I know the only way to get people to come to an event at Columbia is free food," she continued. The women (and one man) were instantly in her thralls, erupting in giggles throughout the reading. During her reading from "Charmed Thirds," her new book about an angst-ridden heroine who attends Columbia, McCafferty captured the whiny inflections and hyperbolic compaints with the ease of a familiar graduation speech. McCafferty showed off her work like an actress auditioning from a slide -- and judging from the adoring faces of the front-row tweens, she got the part. The first question was asked by an excited blonde--"Who was the inspiration for Marcus?" McCafferty answered, "Every mysterious boy who disappointed me." The real highlight came when she was asked if her books will become films-- McCafferty expressed her concerns for not having any power in the movie-making process. "It's scary for me to see an actress as Jessica that I don't like. Someone once mentioned Hilary Duff. NOO! NOOO!" Oh chick-lit angst, how I love thee.
 Thank you, Anthony Pucillo, for exposing the sheer ridiculousness of self-promoting student authors! Unless, of course, you were serious. When Bwog first saw this poster, it rejoiced: the librarians actually care about us! They want us to sleep and sit in the sun and live healthy lives! Actually, they just want us to get our shit out of their reading rooms. The Dems' delightfully self-important poster answers the age-old question: How do you build a bridge to the 21st century? With a lot of tools.
It's been two weeks, and Wein-bound general selectioneers fight over the dregs of Columbia housing. Observed in Lerner Piano Lounge: One guy: I want 840! Other guy: No, I'm taking it. I'm sorry, I'm not letting that happen. Other guy, to friendly Bwog correspondent: And the funny thing is, we're on the phone with our friend John, who is in Ohio for a funeral.
Who says that college students have to act like adults? Big bouncy things on Low Plaza all day! Go now!
 These kids are getting ready for an event that will take place at noon tomorrow on one of the South Fields. Facebookers, you know what we're talking about-- fill in the rest.
 Poor Ghostface. And Hoplites. And maker-outers. And naked blood wrestlers. Weather.com says rain through tomorrow night, but we Columbia-types are of a hardy sort. The Bwog is sure a little precipitation won't dampen weekend plans.
 The 83 member Facebook group Who Wants To Re-enact a Hoplite Battle On the South Lawn? finally got around to re-enacting their hoplite battle.. though with a few less than 83 people and not on South Lawn. More pictures after the jump. 
Anna Corke reports on today's Low Steps face sucking.Despite rainy weather, about 30-40 people showed up for The Big Kiss. The event was well-documented: two participants brought personal cameras, 3 campus news groups showed up (CTV, Bwog, Spec). One boy told me that he was planning to "make out with his camera." First the group gathered around the statue of Pan on the lawn in front of Lewisohn. Conversation ranged from hangovers to class schedules to Shakespeare, with the periodic exclamation: "Does anyone not have a partner!?" Matches were made. Five or six people partook in the complementary honeydew melon slices supplied by the organizers for those without partners. One boy admitted that he "came for the melon." Others frantically searched their purses for mints. One of the organizers said, "We totally have critical mass! This is gonna be awesome." Another assured the singles, "If you need more melon, talk to me." A third leader explained the procedure: walk out onto the steps above Alma, pair up, and then I'll blow the whistle. Make out for a full five minutes until I blow the whistle again. Then take your partner's hand and gleefully run off the steps. Everyone giggled and held hands as they filed onto the steps, where security guards and concert-goers for the Ghostface Killah show were waiting for the next act. Many turned to watch as the whistle blower blew and about 15 couples paired off and started making out. Security guards and spectators watched with open mouths. There was a 3 person kissing triangle. 3 or 4 girl couples. Some kissed and danced to the music playing over the concert speakers. The five minutes felt very long - a few people that were standing ended up sitting on the steps, others broke away from their partners' lips for a moment to see if everyone else was still going at it. Some finished honey dew before the five minutes were up and had to go back for more. Then the whistle blew and the kissers skipped off the steps, exhilarated. 
A Sunday NYT article on Ivy League continuing education puts Columbia's School of General Studies in perspective. Some schools have highly selective programs-- Brown lets in 10% of applicants-- while some have much looser requirements-- say, Harvard's "Write an essay, you're in." The big difference in admit rates seems to be whether adult students are put in with younger ones. If they are, lower acceptance rates, and if they get classes of their own, higher ones. We'll leave it up to you to interpret the cosmic implications of GS' 39 to 44% admit rate. Thanks, commenter, for pointing out a slideshow in the same section on Columbia (and Portland, OR?) student fashion. Too bad not many of us actually dress like that, though.
Homeland Security, where are you when we need you? Bwog isn't sure that this poster, sighted in Village Copier, will be enough to deter the enemies of America from taking advantage of our vulnerable paper reproduction apparatus.
Walking through Times Square the other day, Bwog happened upon a rather bizarre storefront: the Nicorette Stop Shop, a corporate-smelling endeavor to get 1,000,000 people to stop smoking. With gum. They'll even pay you to do it. Stop smoking! All the stuffed bananas and pineapples are doing it!
Put a befuddled look on your face to pass as a prospective student, and grab some free food right outside Roone Arledge auditorium! Free cookies and apples! Update: And coffee and tea!
He is on one of those matchmaking websites, looking at naughty pictures of "women seeking men in New Hampshire." Unfortunately, Bwog does not know any students currently visiting from Dartmouth.
The war's been waging for a while, but now it's serious. Are you for direct elections on the Engineering Student Council? Or against? WHERE DO YOU STAND? Tom Fazzio apparently plays both both sides. "Personally, outside of my role as president, I am an advocate for public elections," said the Engineers Against Direct Elections member in a recent Spectator editorial.
The publishing world has been all abuzz the past few weeks over Harvard sophomore Kaavya Viswanathan's new book How Opal Mehta Got Kissed, Got Wild, and Got a Life. Even the Blue and White fell under the spell of a peer with a $500,000 book deal and reviewed the book in this month's print edition. Well, frustrated authors, rejoice! It was all too good to be true. The Harvard Crimson published an article tonight claiming that Kaavya plagariazed portions of fellow young adult chick lit (yes, that's a real genre) author Megan McCafferty's first two books. Does that name sound familiar? Here's the Columbia twist-- Ms. McCafferty was the gentle vision in a red sundress who graced Columbia's bookstore last week with a reading (Bwog was there). Her third book takes place at Columbia, but we doubt Kaavya will get a second novel to work that into. Textbook plagiarism after the jump and more in the Crimson article. ‘I NEEDED IN A BEST FRIEND’ From page 7 of McCafferty’s first novel: “Bridget is my age and lives across the street. For the first twelve years of my life, these qualifications were all I needed in a best friend. But that was before Bridget’s braces came off and her boyfriend Burke got on, before Hope and I met in our seventh-grade honors classes. From page 14 of Viswanathan’s novel: “Priscilla was my age and lived two blocks away. For the first fifteen years of my life, those were the only qualifications I needed in a best friend. We had first bonded over our mutual fascination with the abacus in a playgroup for gifted kids. But that was before freshman year, when Priscilla’s glasses came off, and the first in a long string of boyfriends got on.” 'TO BUY DIET COKES FROM' From page 67 of McCafferty's second novel, "Second Helpings": "...but in a truly sadomasochistic dieting gesture, they chose to buy their Diet Cokes at Cinnabon." From page 46 of Viswanathan's novel: "In a truly masochistic gesture, they had decided to buy Diet Cokes from Mrs. Fields." UPDATE: Josh Mathew, who reviewed the novel in the April Blue and White, writes in:Hmm...Maybe they should rename it How Opal Mehta Lost Her $500,000 Book Deal, Movie Deal, and the Chance to Ever Work in the Publishing Industry Again... Or maybe Josh should just stop making those damn "How Opal Mehta..." jokes... Either way, I'm satiated.
 Columbia administration confirms it likes student athletes better than you. In attempt to call more attention to underwhelming election season, GSSC candidates stir up drama over nothing. I mean, really important stuff. Mr. Coffin's joke writes itself. Because reading about other people making out kind of makes up for the fact that you haven’t made out with anyone in two months. Miriam Datskovsky bemoans injustice, gives grooming tips.
An eagle-eyed B&W;'er reports that she saw Viggo Mortensen, best known for his role as Master Chief John James 'Jack' Urgayle in the smash hit G.I. Jane, talking with his son outside of Hamilton and then heading towards Low. Could Mini-Mortensen be thinking about attending our fair alma?
One singer + one keyboard player + one flutist + one moderately creepy man milling about = Christian music awesomeness. Low Plaza. Right now. Bwog is not sure how long this will last, so act fast. 
Members of the cast of KCST’s Richard III are currently stage-duking-it-out (with spears!) in front of Low Library in promotion of this weekend’s show (see event listings). Tourists and prospective parents look confused as they reconsider sending their children to an institution that encourages such public displays of violence. Viggo Mortensen looks gratified as he reconsiders sending his child anywhere else.
From the ever-amazing Craigslist casual encounters section: Columbia grad student seeking a girl who likes to get freaky in a LAB! - m4w - 22 "I am a very hot European grad student at Columbia and I always had a desire to mess around in some weird place like a library or a computer lab. Luckily, I have a key to an underground computer lab on campus that is empty in the evenings and considering that I am graduating next month ... I see it as the last chance to satisfy this dream. We could start by having a couple drinks or shots in the aforementioned lab and then see how far we wanna go. If the idea sounds appealing to you, e-mail me and we can exchange pics and aim around a bit. Be careful not to catch anything besides senioritis, ladies.
In an email sent this evening, LLC director Scott Helfrich warns the student body to be on the lookout for a shady character who has been terrorizing a certain floor of McBain as of late. Helfrich included two photos and an account of the man’s actions as described by Public Safety, which reads as follows: On April 21, 2006 at about 6 P.M. a Columbia University student reported that a male, black, light complexion, shaved head, slim build, 6’ tall, wearing baggy clothes---black shirt, denim pants and white sneakers entered the ladies shower area on the 5th floor of McBain Hall. No further description of the crime is included, leaving Bwog with a few questions. Did this man enter the building with a CUID? If not, how did he make it past our impenetrable security forces? Was he planning on taking a shower? Maybe he was just confused. Let’s not jump to conclusions. At any rate, Bwog is happy to finally know for sure what it has always suspected: that creepy stalker guys are more intimidated by Columbia girls than the other way around. According to the email: When the student confronted the male, he fled. 
 Hey, other schools, look! We’re getting something else that you don’t have! I don’t know about you, Opal Mehta, but if I had just been paid half a million dollars for a book that I had plagiarized, I’d use some of that money to hire a PR firm to help me come up with a decent excuse. And you thought that Columbia student athletes didn’t deserve early registration times. Fernanda Diaz realizes that LiveJournal friends are not real friends, bears weight of shattered dreams. Spec writer admits of lack of dedication to Spec, is rewarded with featured column.
Gluttony abounds at the corner of 104th and Broadway this afternoon as Ben and Jerry’s celebrates its annual Free Cone Day. Always a popular event, last year lines snaked around the block as New Yorkers of all ages waited for over an hour to get a free cone—normal cost: about $3. Bwog’s financial advisors find this to be a sound investment, mostly because Free Cone Day represents people watching at its prime. Expect folks of all shapes and sizes, many of whom would never otherwise cross paths, drawn together by a common love. Family harmonies will disintegrate before your very eyes as impatient children run wild and well-meaning mothers and babysitters are driven to the brink. Fun will be had by all. Not up to dealing with the stress of the long lines and crowds? Never fear—Häagen-Dazs, which is a lot less crowed and a lot closer to campus, offers cones of similar quality for only $3 more.
Bwog's eyes on the street report a Law and Order: SVU van on the corner of 115th and Broadway.
An eagle-eyed Bwog correspondent observes that this condom has been sitting outside St. A's for three days now. At least when these frat boys are screwing the poor, they use protection...
John Klopfer reports: Gulati drew up this diagram for us in class today. Note the big smudges where Florida and Louisiana should be... He told us to stop making fun of his drawing, added Florida, changed his mind, erased it ("Who needs Florida, anyway?"), looked closer, smeared the crap out of the Gulf coast, and shrugged a little. Does that circle there look like a hurricane to you?
In today's (admittedly bad-ass) Spec "University Space" supplement, an article on the lack of student group space pointed out: he Science Fiction Society, for example, keeps its library of 20,000 novels in the Student Government Office on the fifth floor of Lerner. To recap: Ad Hoc, The Columbia Current, The Columbia Political Review, The Columbia Review, Tablet, The Columbia Citadel (that's the conservative magazine), The Birch, Helvidius, and The Blue and White do not have a computer to their name, much less a cubicle or an office. There's no space, apparently. Maybe that's because we need to maintain our library of 20,000 science fiction novels. The article also notes that, other than the Spectator, "the only two groups with a physical office are the Fed and the yearbook." First, insert a cheap joke about the Fed. Then, raise your hand if you knew about -- or know anyone who bought -- the yearbook. Plus, their offices in Lerner are pretty swanky. (Writer gnashes teeth, ends rant, braces for vulgar taunting in next issue of the Fed.) We now return to our regularly scheduled programming.
Bwog correspondent Sara Vogel reports that the Southeast Asian League’s Water Festival has been moved due to rain. No further comment is necessary. 
Jane Jacobs-- community activist, author of the influential book The Death and Life of Great American Cities, and former GS'er-- passed away today.Urban studies students are holding a candlelight vigil and reading 11:59 pm (!) tonight on Low Plaza.
Chris Kulawik, erstwhile president of the Columbia College Conservative Club and subject of a 67-member facebook "fan club," was elected to the presidency of the College Republicans this evening. Quoth the Ashcroft acolyte on his tenure as a Spectator columnist: “It’s probably made me the most hated person on campus, but it’s been well worth it to be here today.” Who will become his Democratic counterpart? Find out tomorrow night at the Dems elections at 9PM in Lerner 569, and let the event planning begin!
When college-authored Young Adult Chick Lit scandals emerge, who better to comment than Barnard '08's own Robyn Schneider. Herself the author of two forthcoming Young Adult books, Robyn (B&W; profile) is taking it personally. Kaavya Viswanathan must have an industrial strength photographic memory. Why, you ask? Because only someone with a mind like a steal (ha) trap could unknowingly plagiarize Megan McCafferty’s novels more than forty times and do so unconsciously. McCafferty’s publisher, Steve Ross, called the Harvard sophomore’s debut novel, already a New York Times bestseller, “Nothing less than an act of literary identity theft.” He claims that it is “inconceivable” that Kaavya was not aware of what she was doing. But what I think is that Kaavya still isn’t aware of what she’s done. Many of the litblogs I read are blaming Kaavya’s plagiarism not on her lack of morals but on her age. Apparently, if you give a teen a book deal, they won’t know better than to plagiarize. It’s sentiments like this that make me want to gouge my name out of the LA Times article that featured Viswanathan and myself as young chick lit novelists. Do I have to listen to sweeping generalizations that all young writers don’t take stealing seriously because our generation downloads illegal music files? Just because James Frey lied doesn’t mean I automatically assume all memoirists are “embellishing” the hell out of their unremarkable lives. And just because Kaavya apparently plagiarized doesn’t mean that all young novelists should be blamed. Can the world please leave the rest of us out of this? What terrifies me about these reactions is the real possibility that Kaavya, the “six figure sophomore,” has brought a plague upon the young novelist. Bitter older writers who have yet to secure a book deal gripe that teen authors are getting all the book deals, all the money, and all the media attention. They claim that none of us deserve it, and that we’re all publicity stunts. They say that if Kaavya was a fake, then the rest of us probably are, too. And there is absolutely nothing that makes accusations like those okay. I’ve read some reactions to this plagiarism scandal where my name is used as a qualifier, a scrap of evidence that there are young writers out there who are for real. I don’t appreciate being a contradiction to someone else’s mistake, to being dragged into this debacle just because I’m the other “Ivy League sophomore chick lit novelist.” I’m embarrassed for Kaavya because I can’t even conceive of how someone could repeatedly pick up the same two books and borrow from them over and over. And why Megan McCafferty? I think this whole thing would have been a lot more hilarious if she’d borrowed from Proust. Or how about stealing from the Canterbury Tales? That seems distinctly more Harvard to me than a novel that gives one character the nicknames “lend-a-hand-Amanda” and then “the headmaster.” This whole situation is so over the top that, in my angered state, I can't help but make jokes about it. Even today, I sat down across from my editor at Random House and joked, "By the way, I'm really obsessed with Megan McCafferty. I read her all the time when I was finishing up my copyedits during finals last semester." My editor rolled her eyes and told me to stop that. You know, I used to think that Kaavya was a richer, more publicized version of myself (i.e. I was jealous of her advance), but now I realize that I'm the only sophomore with a book deal left (in good) standing, so whether I like it or not, I guess it's in my hands to prove that we're not all as fake as Chinatown Prada bags.
Recently confirmed word on the street is that Columbia College graduate and certified big deal Brian Dennehy will be in attendance at Sunday’s performance of this year’s Varsity Show. That’s right. Varsity 112 = TWO celebrities. TWO. That’s almost like an issue of US Weekly. Hard core stalkers must attend the 8 PM performances of the V-Show on both Saturday and Sunday nights in order get in on all the gawking action. On Saturday, Dennehy’s fellow distinguished CC Alum Art Garfunkel will be in attendance to accept some big prestigious Varsity Show award—see the Bwog story for further details. In addition to watching the performance on Sunday, Dennehy will grace all those present with—wait for it—a TEN MINUTE introductory presentation. Expect him to talk about his career, his time at Columbia, and whatever the hell else he wants to. He’s Brian Dennehy, after all. Get excited for this one, kids. It’ll be more fun than Tommy Boy. 
 Unopposed election victories: still election victories. Spec Photo Editor, victim of recent street scam, fails to get photo of perpetrators; loses $40, dignity. Website designed by CC alum aims to connect strangers, facilitate awkward conversation. Columbia, the Obese expand despite their own best interest.
Jacob Weaver writes in to say:There's a sign posted at the top of the stairs leading from Low Plaza up to Dodge that says anyone who happens to walk by during filming of the Nanny Diaries today is giving informed consent to being a potentially recognizable extra in the movie. It says that if you don't want to be in the movie, you better stay away, and "your presence is your consent." Because, you know, you can easily avoid College Walk and Low Plaza when you're on your way to class.Of course, some of our more nefarious students might try to use this as an opportunity to make it onto the big screen. For shame.
UPDATE 3:12 pm: More pictures after the jump.This ain’t just no two-bit background filming—the production crew of The Nanny Diaries is pulling out the big guns for all us College Walker-stalkers. Johansson can be seen filming a scene with an as-of-yet unidentified male (possibly co-star Chris Evans, of The Fantastic Four fame) near the west fountain on Low Plaza RIGHT NOW. The whole production area is roped off, and imposing looking members of the film’s security team are very rudely keeping onlookers from getting too close to the action. Bwog was yelled at by said men, who even went so far as to scream at us in a threatening voice and call us “dude.” Even the campus security that is patrolling the area is not sympathetic to the plight of the camera-wielding student journalist. Before we were pressured into leaving, however, Bwog managed to snap a few money-shots. Anything for our loyal readers. If the editors of any celebrity-based publication are interested in acquiring said photos (ka-ching!), we kindly ask that you email bwgossip@columbia.edu.BONUS: Overheard on the set: “She looks pregnant.” Bwog refuses to comment.OMG. Chucks. What a hip nanny. LOL.Our two heroes.Notice how our two heroes don't actually deign to sit on the fountain but instead on duct taped cushions.
Bwog correspondent Brendan Ballou reports:I think I just saw him in Morningside Park, wearing a black sweater and black sunglasses. It would make sense, since he's probably starting his book tour, and I remember some scenes from The Professor of Desire take place in Morningside. Besides, if it isn't him, someone can make an EXTREMELY pretentious reference to Operation Shylock about how there is an imitator trying to steal his identity. Wow, I realize this email itself is pretty pretentious. Sorry.Apology accepted, Brendan. As long as you don't masturbate into chopped liver.
Does anyone else think it's kind of odd that Barnard and GS should go through designated entrances for South Beach on South Lawn? Said one student council member manning the GS table for the event: "Our only instructions were that they not bring in their children." We can only presume that College students are served champagne with their canapes while the rest drink Coors light.
 School's almost over and you're still spending your Saturday nights commenting on the Bwog? Well never fear-- your favorite site is here to fix you up. Meet kicky SEAS freshman Tracey. If Ms. Starck gets your motor running, send an email to bwgossip@columbia.edu with a sentence or two introduction. Lucky winners get a $5 coffee date. Yowza. Hot? Bothered? Nominate yourself or a friend for finals week. Girl for Guy Name: Tracey Starck(aka Esmeralda Farfignewton) School: SEAS Year: 2009 Major: Materials Science Hometown: Chicago Top three songs according to iTunes' play count: Let Your Troubles Roll By - Carbon LeafThink - Aretha FranklinI Will Follow You Into the Dark - Death Cab for Cutie (tie)Sweet Dreams - Eurythmics (tie) You're trapped on a desert island with three foods-- what are they? •Peanut M&Ms...; 'cause food is better if it has 3+ layers (colorful candy shell, sweet sweet chocolate, and crunchy little nut) •Bacon... 'cause it's the shit •Naked Juices (especially Mighty Mango)... 'cause it's food you can drink Describe your favorite pair of underwear. Hot pink with a little lacey trim on top, but this pair gets bonus points for never EVER riding up on me. It's 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon-- where can you be found?In my room, somewhere between sleeping and playing Snood. Nightmare date in three words or less: Needs emergency angioplasty. So, what are you doing after college?Traveling the world one continent at a time. Really?No. I'll be working three jobs to pay off my substantial student loans. God bless Columbia. Complete the sentence: When I first came to Columbia, I thought...'I could eat John Jay food all day long.' Favorite Disney movie?Beauty and the Beast. I would pay $1,000,000 for that adorable footstool/dog… if it weren't for the student loans. TCBY or Tasti D-Lite?TCBY! Hands down. Tracey! You're the one for me!
America Studies Department tired of being popular, decides to do something about it. Finally, an excuse for not having found a summer internship. Chris Beam is SO not allowed to take part in the safe-space circles anymore. Uh oh...Jacob McKean accidentally submitted his Sociology paper as his Spec column again. But who’s staying home with the cats?
Today at about 9:15 AM, the fire alarm in Hamilton went off for the second time in as many days. Students who had just arrived at class left their lessons, filed out the doors, waited around sleepily for about 5 minutes, and then went back inside when they realized the coast was clear. Apparently, the building was not actually on fire. Which, while good news for the university overall, seems hard to believe when put in the context of Columbia’s new policy of no false alarms. Ever. Bwog cannot help but feel that the University Administration has lied to us with this new ad campaign. Still, for the record, we have no problem with false fire alarms in academic buildings during pleasant Spring days. It’s those early Friday morning bell tests in residence halls that really need to be done away with.
 If you have walked near the stairs that lead from College Walk to Kent Hall today, you might be asking yourself the following question: why is the water in the east fountain of Low Plaza bubbling with white foam and making weird sizzling noises? We were wondering the same thing. An anonymous Bwog tipster who was sitting near the fountain today at the time of the incident reports the following scene: Slightly before noon, a college-aged male, wearing a Columbia sweatshirt, athletic pants, and carrying a duffel bag walked to the south side of the fountain and sat down on its edge. After taking a few nervous glances around, he placed the duffel bag at his side, hunched over in order to hide it from potential onlookers, opened the bag and emptied its contents into the water. While the specific contents are unknown, the bag appeared to be filled with a large quantity of white powder, possibly laundry detergent, which caused the foaming reaction in the water. After a moment, the male used his hands to scoop the remainder of the powder into the fountain before closing the bag and casually walking away. He did not look back. Theories, anyone? 
There was a Target photoshoot today in front of John Jay. The models were really skinny and pretending to be intellectuals for the camera by reading the Spec. We tried to run out with some copies of the Blue & White but, alas, were too late.
Overheard near Hamilton: A young girl, and a grown man with a dog. Man with dog: Hey, how are you? Girl: I'm good, how are you? Man: Fine. Girl: What's your dog's name? Man: Chloe. Girl: Hey, Chloe! Man: Say hi, Chloe. Come on Chloe! Say hi! Man: She's not in a very good mood today. Girl: Why not? Man: She just found out she has cancer. Girl: (awkwardly) Oh? Man: Yeah. Girl: Well...talk to you later! Man: Ok, see you!
...or so says a flock of neighborhood residents and students in biohazard t-shirts protesting right now in a police-barricaded rectangle outside the gates at 116th. Pants suited journalists, angry community activists, and bemused passersby found good company on the sidewalk. But Bwog did feel slightly sorry for earnest Young Spartacist manning a little table outside the main event. Why didn't she join in? "Too many police." And really, what's a 17-acre neighborhood when you've got Mumia Abu-Jamal to save? 
 In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway RV Remember how Robin Williams was really annoying in the confines of a hospital? Now imagine him trapped in an RV. Features hilarious sewage fountains. Stick It Dear producers of Stick It, Thank you for making my life easier. I thought I would have to struggle to come up with something mildly amusing, but a movie that features rebellious teen gymnasts, team spirit, and Jeff Bridges writes its own punchilne. The Sentinel Film description: A political thriller starring Michael Douglas and Kiefer Sutherland. Film description by Janice Min, C '90, editor-in-chief of US Weekly: Finally! Desperate Housewives' Eva Longoria stars in a political thriller! Co-starring some guy named Kiefer Sutherland and some other guy named Michael Dougl...wait, what? Eva Longoria had plastic surgery? And Teri Hatcher made out with Ryan Seacrest? Scrap the Britney cover! Also Playing: Silent Hill Scary Movie 4 Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Clean In the Mood for Love's Maggie Cheung and 48 Hrs.' Nick Nolte in a movie directed by Cheung's ex-husband? Count me in. The Notorious Bettie Page Every once in awhile, one gets the opportunity to be a fan of both indie films and gratuitous female nudity. Plus, this movie is far more socially acceptable (and tolerable) than seeing Basic Instinct 2. Somersault And if you want to feel very guilty for watching female nudity, watch this Australian film about a promiscuous 16-year-old who has to spend the night with strange men to survive. Three Times Three great Taiwanese films for the price of one! Also Playing: The Child (L’Enfant) Tsotsi AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Akeelah and the Bee A film about a girl from South Central L.A. who wants to make it to the spelling bee. The movie is being promoted by Starbucks (though there are no Macchiato references in the film), which seems like a pretty smart promotional strategy for a multinational corporation, especially in light of Exxon's problematic "we just made $8.4 billion in 3 months" advertising campaign. United 93 Too soon? No. American Dreamz Unexpectedly, the man to make Simon Cowell seem even more loathsome is none other than Hugh Grant, who is fantastic in this parody of: A) The Bush administration B) American Idol C) Al-Qaeda Yes, the director of American Pie has moved on from the screwing of pies to the screwing of the American people. Inside Man If you haven't seen it yet, you have not seen the most entertaining movie of the year. More importantly, you have not seen the awesomeness of Denzel Washington's fedora. Also Playing: The Wild Friends with Money Ice Age: The Meltdown Thank You For Smoking V for Vendetta: The IMAX Experience Deep Sea 3D
 Remember coming to Columbia and thinking that you would do fun, exciting things in the city? Right, we don't either. But tonight, there is an opportunity to redeem yourself: What: A party in the subway! When: 1 AM tonight (Thursday night/Friday morning) Where: Downtown Q Platform, 34th Street/Herald Square Station Theme: EXTREME LOVE (Dress accordingly) Few things crack Bwog's aloof, cynical shell. This is one of them.
Girl and Boy at John Jay. Girl looks at Boy's apple juice: Girl: What kind of drink is that? Boy (sarcastically): It's my own urine...no, it's apple juice. Girl takes a sip: You're right, it is apple juice.
The Highlander, Highland, NC's local paper, has a long and touching article about Barnard senior Lexie Knox, who made the town of Cashier, NC her second home.
As most Columbia students struggle to remember which shirt they wore to 1020 last Saturday night so that they'll know not to wear it this Thursday, first-year Bee Shaffer, scion of legendary Vogue editor Anna Wintour, has her sights set on something higher: the Met's swanky Costume Institute Ball. And another thing, dearer to Bwog's heart: a career in journalism? In the Telegraph, she polls various fashion insiders (read: mom's mah-jongg buddies) about how to prepare for any glitzy event that requires any sort of bodily movement beyond minimal breathing. All well and good for a certain crowd. But as for Bwog, we're hoping she'll settle once and for all the Great New Balance vs. Converse Debate. What say you, Miss Shaffer?
Taped to SGO doors in Lerner: Jester No distr. today - magazines did not come Tomorrow? Bwog was hoping that Jester would arrive today But it will survive Can't wait? Check out the new issue online!
Apparently a group of kids in the group study room on the fourth floor of Butler have been doing handstands against the wall for the past twenty-five minutes. Which is probably in the sixtieth or so percentile in terms of weird shit that's gone down in those rooms.
Harlem residents protest, fight to keep homes; students feel momentary sense of guilt en route to purchase Frappachino. You just HAD to make sure that your campus protest was more dramatic than ours, didn’t you, NYU? Sixteen people vie for thirteen seats on ABC Executive Board; three people poised to feel really, really, bad about selves. Political Science Department dyes hair blonde, joins cheerleading team, announces that American Studies Department will have to find new lunch table, friends. Actual byline: Fernanda Diaz, April 28, 2009. Bonus: After MEALAC Department, Bari Weiss and Jen Spyra take on Miriam Datskovsky as next worthy foe.
Bwog correspondent Yelena Shuster reports: There is an emergency water shutdown in Carman today from 10:30 AM-2:30 PM (see official email after the jump). Some unidentified suitemates, hauling their shower gear in Duane Reade bags, are stealthily walking over to Furnald to shower in the hall bathrooms. "What if someone has bladder problems?" muttered one girl angrily, after using her Poland Spring to brush her teeth and wash her hair in the sink. Thank god for Columbia students and their ingenuity. Dear Residents, We have been notified by facilities management that they will be conducting emergency repairs to leaking domestic water valves. The repairs will begin today April 28 from 10:30am to 2:30pm (water flow will be disrupted during this time). We apologize for any inconvenience the these emergency repairs may have caused you. Thank you for your understanding, Jose' A. Rosa Asst Director, Operations & Customer Service Columbia University Housing and Dining
Bwog correspondent Jacob Victor reports: Results are in from Wednesday’s College Dems E-board Elections! The winners are: (drum roll, please…) President: Mike Nadler CC ‘07 Vice President: Andrew Avorn CC ‘08 Secretary: Maggie Mendenhall BC ‘09 Treasurer: Chris Daniels CC ‘09 Members at Large: Josh Lipsy CC ‘08 Elyse Ross BC ‘09 Rachael McMillan CC ‘09 Jacob Taber GS/JTS ‘09 Nimit Mehta SEAS ‘09 The themes relevant to this year’s elections included reforming the Democratic Party (and finding its long-lost backbone), getting the college Dems more involved in local New York City and State elections, and making sure Chris Kulawik—newly elected president of the College Republicans, Spec columnist, and the proud object of a Facebook fan club—feels some liberal wrath. Around 150 votes were counted for the presidential elections, with very close results between Nadler and his opponent, Jonathan Siegel CC ’08. In the true spirit of the Democratic Party, voting was oddly complicated as people were forced to line up in front of Lerner’s Satow Room so their names could be checked off computerized lists. Ballots were collected race by race and counted immediately so that candidates could have the option of dropping down to a different election if they lost. Josh Lispky, for example, after losing the VP election to Andrew Ahorn, chose to drop down to the race for Members as Large—and was victorious! Also in the true spirit of the Democratic Party, there was little ideological disagreement between any of the candidates except for one point of contention between Siegel and Nadler. Mike Nadler, son of Democratic Congressman Jerrold , promised to take a hard-line liberal stance, while Siegel favored reaching out to moderates. Other then that, most of the candidates’ speeches were simply statements and comparisons of their records of service to the Dems. Mendenhall and Daniels both ran unopposed for Secretary and Treasurer, respectively, although there were 10 candidates for the Member at Large positions. All of the candidates had a lot of praise for outgoing Dems President and newly elected CCSC President Seth Flaxman, CC ’07, but the primary focus of the night was looking ahead to November’s national and local elections. The Dems are committed to rallying the liberal presence on campus like never before to help the Democrats retake Congress and the New York State Senate. 
 T-2.5 hr. til the Varsity Show. If there's at all a hole in your grueling weekend social schedule (ha!), swing by Roone and see the show. We promise it will be bwonderful and bwawesome and just the bwest.
The Bwog just got a panicky email from CUArts. It turns out the beer for their 6-9pm party (632 W. 125th St., Rm. 205-- just 9 blocks and downhill) arrived but the bottle opener didn't. So. Free food and free beer but it's BYOO.
When Bwog calls, our readers answer. Remarking on her fashion column in the Telegraph, we asked Bee Shaffer to settle the age-old question, the apple of discord that has been hurled into so many groups of friends, tearing them apart: New Balances or Converses? Bee writes in: Up until last year I wore New Balance sneakers everywhere, but then my boyfriend, at the time, told me I was wearing "grandma shoes" and bought me a pair of black Converse. I threw out the New Balance and haven't gone back since. Which is less than comforting to Bwog, who is currently sporting gray New Balance 991s--although our grandmother is quite fashionable!
Columbia divested from Sudan on Friday by pledging to not invest in 18 oil and gas companies with business ties to the country. This comes after a Wednesday New York Times article pointing out that Yale, Harvard, Brown and other universities had already cleaned their hands of that dirty genocide business. Even our social justice is unoriginal! Those looking for genocide information instead of genocide jokes, should check out www.sudanreeves.org.
 There are a lot of poor people who need saving, and I can show you the cost-effective way to do it.
Overheard outside John Jay:"I didn't get any sleep last night. I went to bed at 12:30, but I kept being woken up by Richard III." Nothing like the wake-up call of betrayal, murder, and outdoor Shakespeare. See the final showing tonight at 8 PM. Be at the Sundial.
Shakeer Rahman reports: There is a lot of free Dinosaur BBQ in front of Hartley-Wallach. Beth Milton adds: Really good food. And still there as of 3:45 pm. And a lonely container of leftover potato salad sat at the Lerner Front Desk through the end of the Varsity Show-- approx. 11:00 pm. That's gross.
Sure, the cookies from Cafe 212 are okay, but they can't beat baked goods made with parental love and care to raise spare change for charitable endeavors. Stop by Broadway Presbyterian Church's nursery bake sale and kid-fest to soak in the joy of spring and cute children! In a non-pedophilic way, of course.
Lucky Hindus. Every religion should have a "go crazy and throw paint at each other" day. Better than the pictures from this morning are the comments Bwog overheard this afternoon..."I've been in the shower for an hour, and my tits are still green." "I still have paint coming out of my ears. I clean out one ear, and it's red. And then I cleaned out the other and it was blue. And then I looked at my Q-tips and I felt like I was in the Matrix." More pictures after the jump. 
Most performances beginning with the announcement, “Wait, we’ve got to start it again. Sorry folks,” don't end up being worth the time spent in an uncomfortable black box chair (luckily, this one was free). Most also don't include two synchronized TVs, pre-show advice to use provided flashlights in moments of intense darkness, and a goggled, silly-string spewing man in a silver suit. In light of these distinctions, Bwog quickly forgave the show's momentary technical difficulties. In the following nine-part series, ten female dancers acted out the saga of existence from start to finish, whirling, jumping, writhing, and arching in numbers named things like "Creation" and "Afterlife." Controlled improvisational madness transitioned oddly into coordinated movement, with the dancers sometimes acting atomistically and sometimes as fused into one organism. Bwog admits that it dozed off briefly during a moment of intense darkness and mellow music. But crazy shit like people in monkey masks and ten dancers impersonating zombies happened often enough to keep us awake through the end, at which point we were well rewarded by the antics of aforementioned silver-suited man, whom an audience member in the know said had directed the show. "He seems like he's stoned all the time, but he's not, he's just so chill," she said. It takes a special person to make interpretive dance at once worthwhile and non-ironic. 
(Skinny guy in striped shirt walks away from two girls waiting in line to pick up tickets to the Varsity Show) Girl #1: Ian smells like liquor. Girl #2: Ian ACTS like liquor. Ian was unavailable for comment.
According to today's NYT, Morningside Heights' own La Rosita is having trouble paying its $18,000/month rent and might close. Time to pitch in, guys. The Bwog for one is switching its La Taqueria loyalty over to La Rosita. It's about 17% less filthy, anyway.
While working on papers in EC at about 12:00 pm, Bwog smelled a wood fire. Looking out the window, we saw smoke pouring out of an apartment on the corner of 118 and Morningside Avenue. Almost immediately, four fire trucks pulled up. Ladders were raised to the roof and the blaze was extinguished in about ten minutes.
No, you didn't fall asleep last night and sleep for a week, they just decided to celebrate Cinco de Mayo early. The Low steps are as multicultural as it gets this time of year--the Armenians, Hawaiians, Japanese, and more ethnic groups Bwog is too hungover from last night's post-Varsity-Show partying to remember have laid claim to the space in recent weeks. Do the evangelicals count? At least this time there's a real live taco truck on College walk. Please, if you're going to get sick from food poisoning, head to the park first.
Last night, The Varsity Show gave its annual I.A.L. Diamond Award to famed musician Art Garfunkel in a gala affair that was studded by exactly one star. The event, a pre-show reception held in Lerner C555, was attended by a mixed crowd of Varsity Show parents, friends, and alumni who enjoyed free drinks and appetizers. Also in attendance was the illustrious Dean Austin Quigley, who spent most of the night being dapper, as he is wont to do, schmoozing with Garfunkel and protecting him from the adoring masses. For the most part, Garfunkel didn’t need protecting—the crowd was predominantly dignified, restrained, and decidedly not star-struck. This may be due in part to the fact that the man who received the Diamond Award last night looked surprisingly little like Art Garfunkel (see another photo after the jump). “Where is he?” people kept asking. It’s been a while since Garfunkel has been prevalent in the public eye, and many party-goers who had hoped to immediately recognize the face behind one of the most recognizable names in the country seemed…well…confused. Very few people were able to identify the man without having him pointed out to them, and most of those who did were only able to deduce based on the fact that his son, with whom Garfunkel was standing all night, was the spitting image of Art as a young man. With the trademark Garfunkel hair and innocent demeanor, as one onlooker put it, “the son looks more like Art Garfunkel than he does!” As such, Bwog ended up spending much of the night chatting up Garfunkel Junior, a charming young lad with eyes like the sun and hair like fire. Towards the end of the night, two Columbia students approached the youth and invited him to their upcoming Cinco de Mayo party, promised to be full of debauchery. Garfunkel Jr. seemed genuinely interested in attending, and even gave the two students his cell phone number, but something tells us that he won’t end up going. Why? Because word on the street is that Garfunkel Sr. is a little controlling. One of the prerequisites to Garfunkel’s attendance at the event, apparently, was that his publicist be allowed to edit the speeches used to introduce him. The editing was strict, down to the very word. For instance, the producers were required to cut the phrase “born and bred” from the speech, presumably because Garfunkel wanted to avoid any reference to the copulative act. Speakers were also not allowed to refer to Garfunkel as a “musician,” instead being forced to use the phrase “musical artist” for reasons that no one quite understands. After his tightly worded intros, Garfunkel came to the front of the room to accept his award. He seemed very flattered, indeed stating that “you have honored me tremendously.” His speech was short and gracious and included many references to his wealth of fond Columbia memories. He told an amusing anecdote or two, including the one about recording the vocals for “The Boxer” in St. Paul’s Chapel. Afterwards, he posed for pictures with the creative team, cast, and chorus of the V-show before being promptly whisked away. Although Bwog was denied the interview with Garfunkel that we requested, we did manage to ask him a few questions from our personals questionnaire before he escaped the crowds. After deeming our "Trapped on a desert island with three foods" question "too hard" and our "Favorite pair of underwear" question "too erotic," Mr. Garfunkel did deign to answer a few. As for where he's found at 2 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon: “That also a hard question because if I answer it, people are going to be there,” he said, before thinking it over and answering “at the Obelisk in Central Park, reading a book." His first thoughts when coming to Columbia were "I will never keep up semicolon; they're all brighter than me"—yes, the man said ‘semicolon.’ Finally, if he had to choose between TCBY and Tasti D-Lite, he'd pick neither. But that’s not how we play the game, Artie. Bwog doesn’t mean, however, to give a negative impression. For the most part, Garfunkel was gracious, humble and a real good sport. He provided us with an excuse to get dressed up and drink on the University’s dime, and for that we will be forever grateful. At the performance, Garfunkel sat in the second row of the audience next to Dean Quigley, laughing along with the rest of us. As he was leaving during the intermission after the first act, he claimed to have enjoyed the show. 
Thank God for the Philolexian Society, purveyor of pretension and producer of a nifty new little publication called Surgam, for lifting this den of philistines into the light of high-minded pursuits! A goodly group of young ladies and gents stepped out in their best Victorian finery to take the air this afternoon while engaging in a game of croquet, which Wikipedia tells us was an Olympic sport in 1900. Quite different, Bwog is confident, from these guys.
This weekend Bwog found itself in that other great northern city, Seattle, to attend its father's second wedding. Here, lilacs bloom and herons dip fish out of the salty clear water, and Gore-Tex covers the pallid, unshaven skin of guilty white liberals. After two days knee deep in West Coast relatives, Bwog is ripe with new wisdom: People don't give alcohol to kids here. Even at their own father's weddings. Bastards. You don't have to be Asian to have only Asian furniture and art in your home. Vegan wedding cake is better than regular wedding cake. Don't forget to fill your oxygen tank before you go to the wedding! It's going to rain. Marry someone rich! A soy vanilla latte is just compounded bean water: soy beans, vanilla beans, coffee beans. Just think about it.
Overheard outside Cafe 212: Girl speaking passionately to 2 guys: ...It's not that. It's that I hate the Varsity Show, I hate everyone involved with it, and I hate it as an institution. Apparently, not everyone finds Zach Bendiner wearing a wig and make-up as funny as Bwog does.
Prezbo got skillz, chillz with da studentz GS Shadow government: Viva la Revolucion! Armchair neurologist discovers non-felony-inducing route to state of altered consciousness Joyous! Amazing! Transformative! I like! Superlatives! CCSC takes shit from ESC kingpin, cries The SAT: Screwing People Over Since 1901
We are famous. Also, we sound like men.
Does John McCain speak for you? Because he doesn't speak for these guys. After all, post-thesis seniors have to get worked up about something...
LOTS of free ice cream in front of Barnard's library right now. Cookies 'n creme, toppings, whipped cream, root beer - the works!
There are free cupcakes with blue & white frosting in the little wood-panelled room adjacent to Uris Deli. Although undergrads will be kicked out, says an astute commenter. There was free barbecue out on Low steps, but the breadline extended across the plaza and you probably missed it. Sorry. You can probably still get a piece of the free massages being given outside Lerner Piano Lounge. But maybe not. 3:45 p.m. UPDATE- MORE FREE FOOD. Fifth floor of Lerner. Cookies. Coffee. Tea. &c.; Academic types milling around. Mingle!
Oh, you wild seniors, you. How many times must you be warned? You made them so mad that she forgot about subject-verb agreement. Read her letter after the jump. Dear EC Community, PARTIES ARE NOT ALLOWED IN EC, BULK CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL ARE NOT ALLOWED IN EC, CONTINUING TO VIOLATE THIS POLICY WILL RESULT IN PROBATION SINCE SO MANY WARNINGS HAS BEEN ISSUED TO THE BUILDING. I will be meeting with few suites regarding their unregistered events this weekend. In addition, I have held many Deans hearings with residents of EC thus far addressing this matter, some of which have resulted in permanent probation. If you cannot adhere to the contracts you signed, you still have time to reconsider being a resident student at Columbia before damaging your permanent student records with the University. Graduation is not an excuse for this avoidance as you will be held accountable for your actions until your last minute as a resident student of East Campus. Given all the vandalism that occurred in the building caused by drunken students, security will be doing regular rounds in EC and will report all suites engaging in violation of policy. Please note that everyone living in vandalized floors will be held accountable for the cost of repair. You will receive an individual email from me with more details about charges. Although you may not be the host of an unregistered event, if you are present and failed to report it you will also be held responsible. Last and not least, below is a description of maintenance responsibility to the building, of which cleaning urine and vomit after your wild parties is not one of them. I hope you all have a successful time studying for finals and that you understand the value of keeping up with the community you live while being respectful to your neighbors. It is a transferable skill you will enjoy and need after graduation or as a student coming back next year... Xxxxxx Xxxxx, MA Assistant Director Office of Residential Programs
Apparently, Columbia thinks that we’re getting a little fat. The ice cream case in Uris Deli, stocked full of neatly-stacked, attractive-looking Häagen-Dazs, Nestle Crunch and various other tempting frozen novelties that are begging to be eaten, is locked. Because we didn’t really need it anyway. In other food news, Bwog overheard someone in the burger line on Low Plaza say that the free food, sponsored by the Engineering Student Council, was offered in conjunction with an event called… you guessed it… “SEAS the Day.” And you thought engineers couldn’t come up with good puns. 
Bwog Correspondent Mark Holden reports: The Big Kiss II went down last Saturday, this time at the Whitney Museum. Apparently, an art professor thought it would be hilarious if a bunch of college kids started smooching in the middle of his exhibition. Which is exactly what happened. This Big Kiss didn't achieve the Low Steps version's turnout, attracting only 20 participants. But these were the real deal: no second rate saliva-swapping this time around. As before, a whistle signaled the beginning and end of the Kiss. A sizable crowd of bystanders accumulated as the Kiss progressed, reacting with everything from disgust to benign amusement to fascinated excitement. One kid got really worked up, taking oodles of photos with his camera phone and exclaiming that "his friends would never believe it!" He also seemed rather titillated by the girl-on-girl action. One older (i.e. late 30s) couple was standing on the bridge when the kissers skipped up and set to work. Their faces betrayed their amusement, however, and the two even hazarded a few pecks themselves. When the whistle sounded to end the kissing, the couples skipped off the bridge to amusement and scattered applause from the onlookers.
Oh, the scandal! According to Bwog's Lit Hum teacher, a positively Virgilian battle took place at a meeting this morning in preparation for this Friday's final, which is written by committee. Apparently, there is disagreement over how best to torture freshmen. But besides squabbling over exam content, every two years the syllabus undergoes revision. This year, changes include reading shorter Cervantes works instead of Don Quixote, replacing Medea with the Bacchae, reading bits of the full Divine Comedy rather than all of the Inferno, and replacing King Lear with Hamlet. Debatable, but not outside the realm of reason. Here, then, is the shocker: adding to the first semester list a play by former Czech president Vaclav Havel, who will be coming to speak next year. Wait--since when did Lit Hum include reading people who are still alive? Bwog's teacher has her opinions but stayed out of the drama. "It's catered," she said. "I just eat, and smile, and watch it."
Apparently some etudiants have a little too much spring fever to study in the library. But will chalk on the van am quad = success on next week's orgo test? Bwog sure hopes so.
As Bwog was passing by the Senior Dinner on South Lawn tonight, it caught sight of the waiters filling pitchers with water. With a hose. From a spigot in the ground. That's "gray water," right? Ew. Just for fun, Bwog inquired. The two people guarding the entrance of the tent asserted that the same caterer has done this event for years, and he always fills water pitchers with the hose. They reasoned that, if the caterer is doing it, it it must be ok. Bwog expresses its sincere condolences to all those with stomach aches at the end of the night.
The LLC: always a treasure trove of crazy shit. First, Bwog ran across boxes begging for the anonymous return of John Jay plates, silverware, and salt and pepper shakers, like those boxes at summer camp where counselors told you to put your drugs when no one was looking, no questions asked. I mean, we all do it. Then, Bwog noticed a little note scrawled on the corner of a poster calling out an ethnic slur. Surely, the best forum for fighting racism and intolerance in all its forms. Finally, there is a couch in Hartley's fast elevator. Said a Bwog tipster at 3:30 AM: "I'm sitting on it right now...The absurd part is that I get wireless internet here, sitting inside this thick-walled metal box, and not in my room."
Sharp-eared tipsters relayed these juicy conversational fragments: Overheard during the Varsity Show intermission in reference to the orphan fundraiser thing: Guy: You stole from an orphanage?! Transvestite (or so we think): I didn't know it was an orphanage! I didn't even know orphans existed! I thought they were one of those made-up things! Overheard before lecture yesterday: Girl: Columbia students are so awkward, the worst thing that could happen is that someone sits down next to them. At last night's Nonsequitur concert, two seniors were honored for their contribution to the group. The salute to Alex Stevens was particularly heartfelt: "Without you, we would be disorganized, socially awkward, sexist tools."
It's 2pm the next afternoon and seniors are just starting to hungoverly roll out of bed. Notice we didn't say "their" bed. The Senior Dinner crowd last night was a mixture of the excellent (our friends) and the obnoxious (everyone else). A series of speakers were ignored until Quigley appeared on stage. Launching into one of his characteristic speeches, he reminded us that "While it may be love that makes the world go round, wine makes it go around twice as fast" and that "When an employment ad asks for a Harvard grad or the equivalent, that means two Princeton grads, three Penn grads, or a Columbia grad part-time on the weekend." Ha-cha! Soon, however, the speeches were over, and we got down to the business of eating. Just kidding. We actually wandered around the the tent saying disingenuous hellos to freshman floormates, only to return to seats which had been long cleared of our uneaten food. Damn. In the spirit of cross-class communication, the Bwog is proud to conclude this post with our very own set of Senior Dinner rules. For you, children. For you.Heed the "no spike heels because they'll sink into the grass" email warning. Especially if you are fat.Don't get caught stealing wine from Bwog's table.Don't worry about wolfing down your dessert. The ice cream somehow has the property of not melting. After 30 minutes of observation, Bwog's dining partner concluded that this is creepy.Laugh at Quigley's jokes. It makes him grin like a foolish British schoolboy.Get hammered. The whole thing goes down much easier that way.
The Opal Mehta scandal continues! Apparently not satisfied with plagiarizing from Columbia grad Megan McCafferty, Harvard sophomore Kaavya Viswanathan also lifted passages from Salman Rushdie's 1990 children's novel Haroun and Meg Cabot's Princess Diaries. At least she chose well with the Rushdie. Learn all about it from our good friends at the Crimson.
Something To Which We Can All Respire Protesting the Breathless Just Take a Deep Breath and Yell Fuck You! (off the record)
The Barnard Spring Party and Auction is coming up on May 8th and Bwog is drooling over the items up for auction. Bwog's favorites: NAME A CHARACTER IN ANNA QUINDLEN'S NEXT BOOK Here's an opportunity to be immortal: choose a name—your own, your child's, a grandchild's, or someone from your imagination—and best-selling author, Newsweek columnist, and Barnard board chair Anna Quindlen will use the name for a character in her next book. There is always the possibility of a film treatment, so think big! Our thanks to Anna Quindlen '74. Retail Value: Priceless COLLEGE CONSULTATION This could be one of the most valuable hours in your child's, or grandchild's, academic career: an hour-long private session at the College with Barnard's Dean of Admissions Jennifer Fondiller '88. Thank you, Dean Fondiller. Retail Value: Priceless, Minimum Bid: $100, Bid Increments: $50 PAMPER YOURSELF! Go all the way, baby, with a liposuction treatment! Later, treat yourself to a one-hour Swedish massage in your home from a licensed therapist. Treatment will be done at physician's discretion. For the lipo, you must be in good heath and a good candidate (55 years and older need medical clearance). Thank you, Dr. Rhoda Scharf Narins '62 and Dr. David Narins, Diana Newman '92, and Grashka Stefanczyk, ltd. Retail Value: $10,120 For those of you who can't afford the $150-$100,000 tickets to the event, you can place an absentee bid here.
Twins Go Through Midlife Crisis, Blow Each Other Up With Chemicals The Darker Side of Columbia: Bored At Butler, Bwog, Nazism Art Students Complain About Being Poor, Blame Art God Tells Marchers To Sleep On Ground, Forgets Permit
Participate in Bwog's caption contest-- the following photos from Columbia's homepage are lacking good captions. Help them out! A. B. Post your captions in the comments. Winners will receive a signed copy of the May issue of The Blue and White and everlasting Bwog glory.
Study breaks go healthy. A chichi salad bar and cupcakes, too. Update: And even more free cupcakes on the ramps!
Curious about the flock of kids gathered on Low Steps right now? Bwog inquired: it's a group of seventh graders from Houston, TX touring the East Coast. They hit Philadelphia on the way here, and then will make their way up to Boston. Be nice! Welcome our Southern brethren!
 One fine Tuesday morning, your Bwoggers tried to beat Reading Week boredom with a fortray into John Jay cafeteria. They went to take a surtray of the tray puns they had found etched into trays there. After a few short inquiries, they gained early entrance into the cafeteria—John Jay's director was equally curious as to what these blue and white etchings would reveal… What the Bwoggers found confirmed their suspicions: this is an old tradition, and nobody has any idea who started it. The earliest tray that can be dated was etched on 3 September 2001: "Mothafuckas act like they forgot about Tray." Perhaps the history of etchings goes further back, then. Many trays were still in the scullery at the time of surveillance; the record is incomplete, and the truth uncertain. We leave it to you, readers, to seek that truth. A tray first etched eight days later, with "World Trayde Center 9/11/2001," shows that Columbia students are disrespectful punks: etched near this touching memorial is the word, "semen." A student of limited creativity, initialled TD, added "Be-tray-al." TD, you are not the only one, and you are not the first. There is a certain immaturity about this art form. Some trays don't even try: there is, for instance, "Penis." Some trays seek immaturity: "Statutory traype," and some seek it inarticulately: "Statuatory traype." Many authors express a deep-seated sexual repression, and yearn for love and attention: And they can be crude: one tray cleverly references the nineties' Wreckx-n-Effect with the inscription, "Rump-trayker," another musically demands and exclaims in two more inscriptions, "Traype Me," and "Tray baby!" On one tray, the incomprehensible words, "the buttray," are made quite comprehensible with the later addition of a "p" at the end. ************************************************************* Here, we would like to observe a moment of silence and, in the finest Bwog tradition, report a 'bias incident': We appreciate the lasting innocence of the vandal who scratched John Coltrayne's immortal name into the other side of this unfortunate tray (not pictured). ************************************************************* Some authors' appeals were more poetic, drawing on Queen with a "Trazy Little Thing Called Love," and the words of Shakespeare with "Shall I compare thee to a summer's tray?" Love and sex are not the only lasting themes in these works of art: there are innumerable references to popular culture, celebrities, the City, French, and politics. One tray blends several categories: an etcher writes, “War protesters are traytors,” and another responds, with an arrow, “Tray idiotic.” Some manage to do so with pictures: Pictures may be the future of tray punning. Your Bwoggers also found the NATO seal on a tray inscribed with "North Atlantic Trayty Organization," and a birthday balloon on a tray that cheerfully offered, "Happy Birthtray!" And then there is the commentary on John Jay cafeteria, a treasure trove of multifaceted tray gems. Some fixate on the act of eating: Others focus on media: "Seize the tray," one tray demands of whichever diner may come across it. "Trays on Campus" is deceptively straightforward. "First tray back" evokes a perverse nostalgia for first-year culinary angst. "John Tray" appears everywhere. What elitist collegiate institution would be complete without its own meta-commentary? A dialogue of powdered fiberglass runs through John Jay's most enduring tradition: for every tray that hails the "Traytrix," "John Trayvolta," "Wall Street trayder," or "the tray the music died," there is an egotistical tray, a tray that centers the game upon itself. We are "Vandals in trayning," one artist declares. Another thinks he's clever, for a "Tray on words." In homage to The Shining, a procrastinator gives us: Others marvel in their own work, wondering that, and lamenting that finding these works of art is like trying to "Find the needle in the traystack." An engraver says he's "Sustaining the grand traydition, one tray at a time," and the most selfish and defiant of all trays declares in a spirit, however, full of undeniable egalitarianism: John Klopfer and Anna Corke, with special thanks to Mariel Davis and Mark Holden
Never underestimate the power of disgruntled losers. First, members of New GS Order--the party that went down to more benignly-named Serious Goals, Great Solutions in last month's GSSC elections--formed the Non-Traditional Student Action Coalition, and just today hit the web with a GSLounge, a site intended to foster GS community. And they've been advertising on www.collegeconfidential.com, where the CC vs. GS debate takes up eight pages. Finally, there's the vaguely apocalyptic message posted on GSLounge's facebook group wall. Bwog wonders: why all the raised hackles? 
What happens when 223 of the most enthusiastic people on campus get together in one place? Bwog found out at this afternoon's Orientation Leader orientation, half as long as last year's and still jam-packed with cheesy icebreakers, awkward raps, and interpretive dance. To Bwog's surprise and bemusement, nearly everyone lustily joined in a recital of the NSOP cheer: NSOP is reeeedd Hot NSOP is reeeedd Hot NSOP is R-E-D H-O-T Once we start we can't be stopped RED HOT! Hooray for early move-in! I mean, we love first-years... This year's theme is, according to a crew chief, "Community." Yes. 
People reports what we've known all along: not even Scarlett Johansson is allowed to oust our picnics. She is welcome to join, however, as long as we get to slather her with sunscreen. 
If you're looking for quick 45 minute study break, Bwog wholeheartedy suggests you hop on the 1, head down to Lincoln Center, and check out "magician" David Blaine in his giant water bubble. The plan is to stay submerged for nine days, then get tied up in chains, set a new world record by holding his breath for nine minutes while he breaks out of the chains, and avoid being DROWNED ALIVE. Whatever other kind of drowning there is we don't know. The man will be on display 24 hours a day through Monday. And, for all our Gawker Stalkers out there, here's a creepy picture of Courtney Cox and David Arquette leaving after holding up their pink tutu'ed child as an offering to the Blaine himself. 
Bwog has been a little obsessed with trays lately. So obsessed we've started traying around with scissors. It is the only artwork we've done all year, and it's only cool if you know about the OBEY Giant and F. Shepard Fairey's phenomenological campaign of aimless propaganda, now a brilliantly whorish exercise in mass merch production. Actually it's kinda cool even if you don't know about that.
A few issues of Spectator remain to be released, but Speccies celebrated the end of their year Tuesday night in considerable style. For the annual Spec Dinner, our campus broadsheet (whose facebook group, incidentally, has 175 more members than The Blue and White's) rented out the private rooms of 420, a swanky bar on 80th and Amsterdam. Two open bars dispensed drinks to increasingly loopy journalists, who couldn't even get through the platters of roasted peppers, pita and hummus, olives, and stuffed grape leaves--rumored to have cost the paper a cool $1,000. You don't get paid for pouring your heart and soul into Columbia's paper of record. But getting royally feted twice a year makes it easier to justify the effort.
Professor Molly Murray, in an email to her Lit Hum section about an upcoming end of-the-year movie watching party: "Then, (since, in the immortal words of Jay-Z, after the party, there's the after-party): 8PM. V & T's pizza, 110th and Amsterdam." Overheard outside Uris: Girl 1: I'm not like...a fun person. I'm not a fun person and I don't, like, have fun. Girl 2: No! You are like, SO fun!
Gautam Hans The scent of anxiety oozing from Butler dissipated for about 30 minutes as the Columbia University Marching Band carried out its annual tradition of making chem majors' lives miserable. Even though most of the orgo exams are next week. This semester, the band largely avoided campus personalities, but hit SHOCC, PrezBo, PrezBush, the West End, and Harvard with a sledgehammer. Some highlights: - Bollinger put an embargo on Havana Central at the West End, forcing bar hoppers to take inflatable rafts out of Mexican waters from Nacho's. - In accordance with the Bush Administration's "culture of losing," Dianne Murphy was brought to replace Secretary Rumsfeld. And Scott McClellan was replaced by the Fox news ticker. - Joe Anzalone is the Butler Masturbator (shhh!). - Songs titled "I want to fuck you like a privileged majority" and "I hear you knocking, but you can't get in to my Core Curriculum." - When Bollinger transfers to Harvard from his safety school to replace the Chauvinator, he'll be thinking: "I'm sick of being yelled at by the Concerned Coalition of Students Concerned About Me Not Stopping Some Stupid Shit. Thank god these Harvard dipshits don't have souls!" By the end, people were dancing so hard that Bwog feared for the tables they stood on. Orgo Night is remarkable for two reasons: it's one of two times all year that CUMB gets to feel cool, and one of the equally rare occasions where Bwog wipes away a tear at the ball of CU pride that swells in its chest. Could Columbia solve its much-ballyhooed spirit problem by having a round man in a blue and white polo loudly insult its consituent groups? Bwog ponders.
It's Morton Williams' free bagel and a coffee D-DAY! Coupons can be found on the back cover of the Columbia Political Review. And copies of the Columbia Political Review can be found... (Commenters? A little help?)
 Like, on Monday.
Bwog would have liked to do a QuickSpec this morning--nothing like making snarky comments to shake off a final-induced haze. To its dismay, no Year-in-Review issue appears on the Spec website, and Bwog had to wait 'till lunch today to actually read one in print. It's 20 pages, almost 11 of which are ads. The rest is a rehash of coverage that you'd know if you've poked your head out of Butler more than a few times this year. Save paper. Read The Mobius Strip instead!
In which staffer Mark Krotov gives movie suggestions for those who fear to venture off the 1, 2, and 3 lines. AMC Loews 84th Street 6 84th and Broadway Hoot A children's film about endangered owls, corruption and crooked land development, produced by the paragon of political engagement and vitriolic rhetoric, Jimmy Buffett. He does the music, too. RV This certainly could be a commentary on the dehumanizing nature of vehicular transportation, but all of the jokes about poopy don't seem to support that reading. Stick It When producers create a pornographic remake of this film about a rebellious gymnast, at least changing the title won't be their biggest problem. The Sentinel A political thriller about corruption at the Secret Service. Remember when films about political corruption were considered escapism? Also Playing: Silent Hill Scary Movie 4 Lincoln Plaza Cinemas Broadway between 62nd and 63rd Belle de Jour Luis Buñuel's 1967 masterpiece conclusively proves that Catherine Deneuve's hotness in the 1960s was almost illegal. Down in the Valley Edward Norton's first acting gig in three years? In which he plays a cowboy? In San Fernando Valley? And has an affair with a teenage girl? Oh, Ed, I've missed you so. The Promise A huge, beautiful epic film by Chen Kaige. With computer-generated imagery, because fightin' by itself is just not hot enough. Also Playing: Clean The Notorious Bettie Page Three Times AMC Loews Lincoln Square 12 68th and Broadway Mission: Impossible III You probably haven't heard much about this one. Apparently, there's some fightin', some shootin', and some lovin'. Oh, and some psychology denyin', some false impregnatin', and some goin' totally apeshit. Akeelah and the Bee Winning the spelling bee is the new being a quarterback on the football team. Especially if your school is not getting federal funding and can't afford a football field. United 93 Paul Greengrass made a brilliant film called Bloody Sunday and an excellent movie called The Bourne Supremacy. So please don't preemptively hate on his dramatic recreation of Flight 93. Because then the terrorists have won. American Dreamz I guess I'm the only one who thought this was funny, but I'm sticking to my guns. Mandy Moore as an egotiscal, crazily driven pop star? Always amusing. Inside Man Yes, this is still playing, and yes, you should still see it because it's wonderful, and because the more money Spike Lee makes with this film, the more money he'll have to make provocative, controversial movies that will lose money. Also Playing: Friends with Money Ice Age: The Meltdown Thank You For Smoking Deep Sea 3D
We've found Dean Austin Quigley's double--it's Steve McClaren, coach of the English Premier League team Middlesbrough. Is it just that all middle aged British guys with receding hairlines tend to look alike? Or could Quig be moonlighting as an international footballer, like Bwog's other favorite academic?
Fruit Paunch just started its annual 24-hour show on the lawn east of Low Steps, which will continue until 5 p.m. Saturday. Yes, they will be standing there saying funny things, even if no one is there to watch. Go make them feel loved. Oh, and study for finals. Edit 1:16 am After performing a fake documentary about MSG involving breasts that squirt absinthe and fighting leprechauns, Fruit Paunch celebrated midnight with beloved Halloween game, "Are you afraid of the dark?" Check them out if you're up late (or early). They're more entertaining than David Blaine squirming around in a glass bubble, which may be your 4 am random-diversion alternative.
When I arrived at Jerome L. Greene Hall last week at 6:20 for a 7:00 lecture, I found a large mob already milling around the doors. This can’t be for Steven Pinker, I thought, although he is psycholinguist with, as some linguists would have me say, an emphasis on the “psycho.” But by the time the doors open, the Harvard psychology professor had indeed managed to fill the entire room and half of a second—as it turns out, the lecture would be projected onto a screen. But my disappointment quickly vanished, as Pinker’s high-pitched voice and sheer glee proved entertainment enough. Pinker, author of The Blank Slate: the Modern Denial of Human Nature, has made his name by arguing against the Lockean notion of tabula rasa, which dictates that all men are born blank and are shaped by their environment. We are not all born blank, nor are we born equal, claims Pinker-our behavior is the sole product of the genes we are born with, unalterable by parenting or environment. A tricky idea to introduce to a public raised on behavioral psychology. He did give a convincing lecture, shaking his long curls hypnotizingly and making reference to such divergent characters as U.S. Representative Tom DeLay and the Bloodhound Gang. “All my opposition today is based on three doctrines, each of which can be associated with a dead, white, European male.” he said, mentioning by name Locke, Rousseau, and Hobbes. “Only a newlywed believes he or she can change the behavior of his or her spouse.” Well, newlyweds and supermoms—the newest crop of behavioral extremists, whom he addresses directly. Ritzy preschools will not make your children smarter. Traumatic experiences will not turn them gay or give them schizophrenia. Pinker, childless and twice divorced, claimed that when mothers are told they do not have the power to shape their growing child’s behavior, they respond confusedly, “if that’s so, why should I be nice to my kids?” The post-lecture Q & A gave skeptics a chance to raise the objections laying heavy in the room. One would-be spoiler announced that he had Asperger’s syndrome, a less serious type of autism which inhibits a person’s ability to understand and empathize with others. “I was born with limitations, and my environment helped me to overcome them,” he protested. “Does a mental illness allow a person fewer degrees of freedom in the arena of how much their genes allow or constrain them?” Pinker turned the question on its head. “Syndromes such as Asberger’s are not constraints, but rather productive creative mechanisms,” he replied. There is no more or less free, he explained—just different angles from which people experience their surroundings. Another audience member wondered why homosexuality exists if all behavior is determined by natural selection. Pinker, obviously relieved at the softball question, declared this a rare instance in which political correctness and the innatist view intersect. He spoke of the possible existence of a “gay gene” which has been tentatively identified in both women and men. When found in women, it has been shown to cause them to menstruate an average of six months earlier, allowing a woman to have almost an entire extra child. And as long as the gene doesn’t cause exclusive homosexuality, this leads to higher rates of reproduction. One more question down. But despite his smooth presentation, Pinker’s view has not yet been assimilated into mainstream psychology and linguistics. Boris Gasparov, director of the linguistics department at Columbia, prefaced his lecture on Pinker with this disclaimer: “When someone uses neurons and linguistics in the same sentence I just stop taking them seriously.” Pinker caused a stir in January 2005, when he defended Larry Summers’ suggestion that females may lack the same degree of intrinsic ability for math and science as men. It is hard to say what kind of an effect Pinker had on his audience. My own personal response was probably best summed up by the Brothers Karamazov, also quoted by Pinker: “It’s magnificent, Alyosha, this science…and yet I am sorry to lose God.” Pinker closed his lecture by reciting slowly and carefully the lyrics to the Bloodhound Gang’s “Ain’t Nothin’ But Mammals": “You and me, baby, ain’t nothing but mammals, so let’s do it like they do on the Discovery Channel.” He left us with a slightly more depressing view on life, and we all went home to procreate and otherwise follow the paths predetermined by our genes. I’ll be in the kitchen if you need me. —Sara Maria Hasbun 
The MoMA has done it again. They’ve brought us another huge, ambitious show, in the vein of last summer’s Cezanne-Pisarro. This time, the subject is Edvard Munch. The show is excellent—it not only rehabilitates the underrated Munch but also sheds new light on the artist. With many little-known works in addition to the greatest hits, MoMA reveals a deeper, more complex Munch than the gloomy, misogynistic caricature. Edvard Munch spent his early career in the bohemian community in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. Mentored by local painters like Christian Krogh, he tried his hand first at naturalism, then at impressionism. Later, he joined the prolific avant-garde in Berlin, where he met the playwrights Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg. Munch designed sets for Ibsen and illustrated many of his plays. Under Ibsen’s influence, Munch developed an interest in depicting the human psyche, with all its pain and inherent contradictions – appearances and reality, desire and duty. He also shared Ibsen’s ambivalence about sexuality and suspicion of women. The show includes Ibsen in the Grand Café, a portrait Munch painted of Ibsen. The playwright’s themes are easy to see in works like Inheritance I: this terrifying painting depicts a crying woman with a deformed, alien-like child in her lap. The femme fatale figure makes frequent appearances in the most famous of Munch’s works. In Vampire, a woman kisses a helpless man on the neck while her red hair swirls around them like blood or tentacles. The Dance of Life, part of his Frieze of Life series, depicts a seductive woman in a red dress dancing with a young minister. Also not to be missed is Harpy, in which a winged, clawed woman hovers over a bone-thin, helpless man. And, of course, there is the erotic and mesmerizing Madonna. With her cold smile and sleepy, predatory sensuality, and with fetuses and sperm bordering the woodblock print version, she is life and death united. But the man who painted things like Vampire in the 1890s did some unexpected things later in life. These are things you never see, like Sphinx: Androgynous Self-Portrait (1909). Here is Munch, with breasts and feminine long hair. Eighteen years later, he painted another, still more startling Androgynous Self-Portrait. Here is his head and strong, masculine arms joined with the sagging breasts of an old woman, rendered in bright, expressionistic smears and drips. Still later, he painted Self-Portrait As Reclining Nude, in which the already elderly Munch himself assumes the pose held by innumerable young girls in his studio. Munch was also an expert and innovative printmaker, and I was glad to see an entire room devoted to his woodcuts. He used an experimental technique in which he sawed a wood block into several sections and inked each in a different color. These are often stylized versions of his painted compositions, such as The Kiss and The Scream. The two woodblocks are, by the way, the only versions of The Scream on view here. Many of these, such as the several versions of The Kiss, are abstract experiments with form, line, and texture that, after a few attempts, bear only a tangential resemblance to the original composition. They are a perfect means through which to appreciate the formal beauty of Munch’s work. This is a comprehensive and well-organized show. Apart from its other good qualities, it does what any good presentation of Munch’s work must do: it leaves you reeling emotionally. The man who painted The Scream was, like fellow Norwegian Knut Hamsun, an expert at reproducing the inward struggles of the tortured psyche. All those masklike faces and northern fjords won’t fail to touch you. -Julia Butareva Edward Munch: The Modern Life of the Soul On view until May 8th The Museum of Modern Art 11 West 53rd Street, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues Personally, I take the 1 to Columbus Circle, then walk.
You may have noticed the piles of glossy paper gracing newsstands in recent days. We in the publications world think alike, which means that Columbians have to stomach us all at once. Unfortunately, none of them have posted their current issues online, but Bwog thought it would give them some airtime anyway. From Ad Hoc, we learn that David Plotz went to a better high school than you did, that administrators don't listen to students, and that Hurricanes are generally bad for education. After recovering from momentary blindness induced by The Columbia Science Review's shiny color explosion, and staring quizzically at some graphs and numbers, we find out that there are birds in New York City, and that humans are generally bad for generating hurricanes. The Birch tells us that small bits of land in Eastern Europe can be troublesome, that Russia is not a real democracy, and that Cyrillic characters are hard to read. And 116 reminds us that Spectator has a shitload of money. I mean, we kind of already knew that.
 116th and Amsterdam may never have seen this many farm animals since, well, there were farms here. Throw in picnic food, facepainting, raffles, toy and clothes sales, and one giant inflatable firetruck, and you might just forget about that 20-page paper due on Monday. Sorry for reminding you. More photos after the jump. 
It's not unusual to be accosted several times on the way from Lerner up to the steps by earnest Bible studyers asking whether one is a Columbia student and/or Christian. Bwog usually thanks them politely and walks on, reminding itself to dodge the next time one homes in like a heat-guided missile. But it couldn't help but raise its eyebrows at the quintet singing Amazing Grace on College Walk this afternoon, especially since it included two performers from the Varsity Show (here and here), not generally known for its good family values. At least they sing well.
Dear Commenter, Bwog likes your comment on one of our posts so much that we're giving the comment its very own post. Posted by daydreamer : Does anyone else ever fantasize about how cool it would be to have an "Econ Dept. Rumble Royale"? Think about it for a second. So Sachs could be giving a lecture in the big room in IAB, minding his own business, throwing down some Solow-Swan, when suddenly... The lights go dark. Someone busts in through the doors, smoke starts coming out of the sides of the room. A spotlight falls on the man coming down the aisle in the pink afro and cape. He takes the stage, grabs the microphone away from Sachs, and then it’s none other than XAVIER SALA-I-MARTIN. He’s pissed. He starts screaming at Sachs, who is by now redder than his standard plain color tie, and goes "You know what, sissyboy? You're full of bullcrap. I’m sick and tired of you taking all the hot T.A.’s, of you having your own t-shirts, of you getting on the cover of the Times with all those celebrities. I’m challenging to a smackdown, RIGHT HERE, RIGHT NOW!” Sachs is stunned. He grabs the microphone in mid-air as Xavier throws it to him, and goes, “Well Professor X. What are you going to hit me with? Your non-existent Nobel, OH, SNAP!” As the entire class bursts in laughter, Xavier charges towards Sachs, letting out a loud “Euskaaaaaaaaaaaaadi.” But then, as he’s about to pound him, a man jumps in fist-first and tackles Sala-i-Martin. Someone in the first row goes “What the?”, while that annoying Ukranian T.A. in the corner loudly goes “In Soviet Russia–” As the man stands up, the crowd recognizes that the intruder is the man himself– Bono! The U2 frontman unleashes a barrage of violence on Sala-i-Martin, who is left ailing on the floor, then high-fives Sachs. Sachs runs towards Xavier, who is now on the floor of the stage. He picks up a pointing stick and is about to finish him off, when from behind the main doors a screeching “Noooooooooooooooo!” pierces the air. There, standing in black tuxedo, holding the hand of a mixed-ethnicity orphan, is Brad Pitt. He backflips and jumps down the aisle and gets to Sachs, then fly-kicks him in the face and goes “That’s for trying to hook up with Angelina, you damn dirty hippy.” Bono and Pitt start duking it out. The class starts going wild when Xavier and Sachs pick themselves at and start bitch-slapping one another. Just when everyone thinks it can’t get better, the entire Bolivian Olympic soccer team comes running in through the left side of the stage and all the fighting stops. Behind them trails none other than Sunil “Bad-*ss MoFo” Gulati, who simply picks up the microphone and calmly says “Let’s get it on!” Fists are flying everywhere again. At some point, someone runs in panting through the back and screams “Hey everyone, Bhagwati and Amartya Sen are having a closed-cage battle to the death in the Atrium.” The fighting stops again as hundreds of people rush to see this side battle. Of course, it’s short-lived as Amartya Sen summons the spirit of “Old Indian Economist Man” and pulls off some “Yoda Kung-Fu” action on Bhagwati.) The rumble then resumes in earnest. Graciela Chichilnisky runs out of her office crying (this seems to be the main way she solves problems nowadays), but as she tries to avoid the mayhem, a hand grabs her by the hair and pulls her to the ground. Standing there, in a majestic winter coat, is Susan Elmes, who tells Chichilnisky that “we’re going to play a little game (theory)– AND IT’S GOING TO BE A NON-OPTIMAL OUTCOME FOR YOU, BITCH!” As the mayhem spills into the halls of IAB, Stiglitz comes in with a bunch of black-suited burly men from the Business School and tries to stop the chaos. For a second, peace reigns in the Economics Department. Standing tall, Stiglitz addresses his colleagues. “While it’s true that my Nobel is not for peace but for Economics, I must take a stand against this violence.” Stiglitz is about to defuse the entire situation, The crowd is mesmerized, hypnotized by the golden medal of the Swedish scientist dangling around his neck. When he is about to call for a massive bear hug, though, the unthinkable happens. Undetected, Mundell walks in behind Stiglitz and bashes him in the back of the head with HIS OWN Nobel prize. “Alfred has a message for you, Joe,” says Mundell before body-slamming the bloddy Stiglitz “KABOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOM!” In the end, everyone ends up in the hospital, except Bagwhati, who is dead, and Sen, who runs off to Mexico to avoid justice. The only real casualty (besides the two elderly Indian men) is the entire undergraduate population, who must now take EVERY SINGLE CLASS with Marc Henry.
Flyer found in John Jay and Broadway this evening. We kid you not: Update: The fridge has an icemaker.
Still winding down from that CC exam? Check out this mix, graciously relayed by a student of CC teacher Dermot Albert Ryan. Plato - "Quiet" - The Beta Band Aristotle - "We're Going To Be Friends" - The White Stripes Hebrew Bible - "Israelites" - Desmond Dekker New Testament - "Jesus" - The Velvet Underground New World Readings - "Cortez The Killer" - Neil Young Descartes - "Spirits in the Material World" - The Police Hobbes - "I Fought The Law" - The Clash Rousseau, Second Treatise - "Mother Nature's Son" - The Beatles Rousseau, The General Will - "One Vision" - Queen Kant - "Autonomy" - The Buzzcocks De Tocqueville - "Philosophy of the World" - The Shaggs Mill - "I Feel Free" - The Cream Malthus - "Too Much Too Young" - The Specials Adam Smith - "Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger" - Daft Punk Marx - "Motoroller Scalatron" - Stereolab Hegel - "He's Misstra Know It All" - Stevie Wonder Darwin - "Monkey Man" - The Rolling Stones Nietzsche - "Superman" - R.E.M. Freud - "Where is my mind?" - Nada Surf Du Bois - "True Blues" - The Last Poets Du Bois - "Hip Hop" - Mos Def Fanon - "Bread" - On! Air! Library! Irigaray - "How Am I Different" - Aimee Mann Levinas - "What's So Funny ’Bout Peace Love and Understanding" - Elvis Costello 
Word on the street is that there will be a massive pillow fight midnight at the Sundial, BYOP. Bwog thinks it might be a good way to wind down after a stressful weekend of procrastination. UPDATE 12:39 am Students crept out of nooks in Butler for a few minutes of late-night frenzied glee on the South Lawn, all organized by Nina Bell, an ENGLISH chick who sat crosslegged on the sundial watching the commotion. She called out to the 40 or so fighters that showed up, "Don't steal pillows that aren't yours!" Overheard at the pillow fight: "The hand of Thor on you, mothafucka!" "Come back and face me knave! I'm beset by rogues on both sides!" "I don't know you! I don't know you!" The speaker then bowled over a gaggle of girls, slashing his pillow at their backsides. ...and along those lines... "Yay! I finally get to hit girls!" "I'm having that aftershock where my face feels like it moved up a bit." 
Scene: a bar on the Upper East Side. A curly-haired man in his mid-20s approaches a Barnard senior and asks if she's heard of David Blaine. "David and I, we're kind of friends," the man says. He then reveals that he's a magician, and offers to show her a trick. "Sure," she says, at which point the man reaches into his pocket and produces a dark blue velvet pouch. Realizing that he's for real, the Barnard student brings over her friends to see the spectacle. He places three coins in her hand and closes her fingers over the coins. When she opens her hand, the original coins have transformed into ... different coins. The girls applaud and disperse. He then asks if the girl wants to go out with him sometime and "see the real magic." Also! Learn why "God is just an overhyped David Blaine."
The Bwog is savvy. The Bwog is so savvy it can read your mind. Not really. But the Bwog can see what Google searches you use to get to the site. In the name of "Not Thinking About Finals or Graduation," the Bwog gives you the list of Best.Searches.Ever. Can you find a theme? how to give a good wank mother give me a good wank the signs of judgementday transplanting a smoke bush wild party blogs aruba jamaica oh i wanna take ya grotesque sex i'm not black natalie elderly man porn sword of achilles less than 30$ youngin porn columbia dirty is ra legal in scrabble bored while in butler how to speed up the decomposition of dead bodies terrorist watchlist describe the colors on monkey unattractive people hair smells bad when outdoors homemade crackers taglines for the benchwarmers saved by the bell safety coffins jewish porn sad puppy artwork lion pooping white discharge in 3rd semester
 It's been a rough week in Butler Library. Many of you, despite the librarians' poster campaign, have been living at your desks, hemmed in by stacks of books and empty Red Bull cans, sustained only by sesame mix and bad pastries from Blue Java. The garbage cans mount up to the ceiling, and your sweat runs down the walls, imbuing the place with an unshakeable odor of despair. Ok, not really. But some of your workspaces are kind of over the top, and we've captured a few of our favorites after the jump (does the sketchy person taking pictures behind you while you studied make sense now?) 
Very soon, members of the class of 2006 will fade into the world of i banking and consulting… but before they do, they need to impart their boundless wisdom to the masses. So, the Bwog has surveyed the stars of the senior class to get their thoughts on life, truth, and oral sex. This is the first in the series. Read the rest here. Rob, C '06 Claim to fame: University Senator, man about town Preferred swim test stroke? Doggie paddle, so you can see the other swimmers and make fun of them for doing the doggie paddle. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Wake up with four digits on the clock (ie. between 10:00 am and 12:59 p.m.). Any earlier and you're cranky and bitter, any later and you've missed the day. 2. Don't go downtown unless you like sweaty European guys wearing all black rubbing up against you while you try to order a 15 dollar drink. 3. A lot of kids at Columbia are huge dorks. A lot are huge wannabes. Find the cool ones and never let go of them. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. No need. I'm your average self-righteous Columbia student who feels that the world was created so he'd have a place to chill. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? MEALAC. Professors, stop making fun of Jewish kids. Conservative kids who hate academic freedom, stop complaining just because a professor disagrees with you. Are we done? Good. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Security had broken up our formal at SigEp and my friend and I were still standing on the stoop. One security officer told us we had to get off the stoop. We said, we will if you give us a ride to the bar. He said OK. So my friend, me, and our dates got in the cruiser and got dropped off right outside of 1020. It was good. That and doing it in the stacks, which was also good. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? Brinkley. I just think he'd be the quiet sensitive type who would whisper sweet nothings about Depression-Era America into your ear while you were, you know, making out. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Columbia College, maybe 15 percent, all by choice. SEAS, probably 60 percent, none by choice. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Giving or receiving? And what kind of cheese? Regardless, probably cheese. Lactose intolerant guys still seem pretty happy. Guys not getting any head don't. Days on campus memory? You know what they say about Days on Campus. If you can remember it, you weren't really there. I remember nothing. Regrets? I couldn't figure out a way to stay for a sixth year. That and I never joined The Blue and White.
A frequent contributor wrote in to say: The Harvard-spawned fascists who control facebook.com apparently have begun purging the site of one of its best features: funny profiles. It seems they decided that Aaron Burr didn't do his job properly the first time (did you expect any better from a Princeton alum?) and deleted Alexander Hamilton's profile. Over 1200 Columbians and 1000 other students nationwide lost a dear friend. I attempted to log in today and received this gloating error message: "Your account has been disabled by an administrator. Please contact info@facebook.com for more information." Who's next? Barack Obama? Peter Parker? John Jay? The Man? Alma Mater? YOU? Where will they draw the line? No profile is safe! The slave power is silencing us!...err, sorry, Foner exam in 40 minutes. 
Prestige-obsessed Columbians should be pleased to hear that 3 2 3 of the 5 most influential "idea-makers" in New York (as ranked by New York Magazine) work at Columbia! Everyone else should at least get some morbid thrill to know that on said magazine's list of the 5 most influential New Yorkers in education, our own PresBo appears not. Update: Adding to the irony, he did make the cut for real estate. Update 2: Robert Thurman (Uma's dad) made it in religion.
This year's second crop of freshmen should be finishing up their Frontiers of Science exam right about now, which Bwog learned was administered on 18 single-sided pages per test taker (not including Blue Books). Those familiar with Frontiers will bear with us for a little back of the envelope calculation: There are approximately 1,000 students in the freshman class, so figure 500 taking the exam. 18 pages apiece = 9,000 total sheets of paper. At 8,333 sheets of paper per 40-foot, 7-inch diameter tree, that exam by itself took the life of a larger-than-average lodgepole pine. Pretty great for a course that talks so much about how global warming will see us underwater in a few centuries.
You. Shakin' your thang. Three minutes. Butler group study room #407. Party time: 12:02 AM TONIGHT Do it.
For those of you who get caught plagiarizing on your finals or otherwise, here are some essays you can write about why plagiarism is bad. The one Bwog used: Plagiarism (missing works cited) By Bwog Plagiarism is a distinguished sounding word. One would almost think that it sounds like some lofty philosophical ideal named for the great Greek teacher Plagiarus, something to be aspired to. This is not so. Plagiarism is in fact a moral misdemeanor, and an academic felony. By definition, plagiarism is "a piece of writing that has been copied from someone else and is presented as being your own work." Socrates, Plato and Aristotle would have frowned on such a practice, and "Plagiarus" would have been kicked out of the academy. Such is the fate of many college students today.
This is the second post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Ben Smith, C '06 Claim to fame: Star of 110th Varsity Show, Composer/Lyricist for V 111. Post-grad plans: first-grade teacher in London. Preferred swim test stroke? Naked-back-stroke. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. If I don't look at them, they can't see me. 2. The West End was a powerful proponent of destructive cultural norms. 3. Sexual orientation is not a binary. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I had this picture of me, my brother and sister, but after my dad kissed my mom at the Enchantment Under the Sea dance, all of us reappeared! What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The bake sale. The fucking bake sale. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? My TA for L&R; was SO hot, but uh...it just didn't work out. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? Natalie Port-- I mean, David Helfand. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? In other words, what percentage of seniors at Columbia "lost" their promise rings? Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Vegans don't do oral sex. Days on campus memory? Oh shit...if I had only been there... Regrets? Not a one.
Overseas Bwog correspondent Nick Frisch found this gem of a translation in People's Square, Shanghai, China. Quoth the adventurer: "Want to make a lot of money in China? Forget econ; just major in English." 
We knew the School of the Arts kids are talented. We'd pin the SIPA kids for some serious clowning around if they were drunk enough. But who would ever... ever... suspect the semester's best student production would come out of the Business School. But when B-School Dean Hubbard gets passed over as Fed Chair by Bernanke, the Follies Student Comedy Review gets a little inspiration from the Police and lets their voices be heard. Word is the video played a significant part in Bruce Preston's Intermediate Macro review session.
The Midwest? Isn't that somewhere around Lincoln Center? Saving the earth, one co-opted capitalist at a time. Larry David--not funny enough to be Jewish. SEEJies triumph, wish they could have barricaded Low. Naked partiers of the world unite! You have nothing to lose but the ability to pass each other normally on the sidewalk ever again.
This is the third post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Megan Greenwell, B '06. Claim to fame: Spectator Editor-in-Chief. Post-grad plans: Metro Reporter for the Washington Post. Preferred swim test stroke? I call it “the BarnSEAS”: it mostly consists of pointing and laughing at Columbia College kids while we all sip margaritas on dry land. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. How to write academic papers. This probably should have happened earlier, but I’m a product of a truly terrible public high school. 2. Which deadlines matter (thesis, for example) and which ones don’t (any other coursework). 3. Lee Bollinger’s cell phone number. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. If there’s a scandal, I’ll find it. And I make a mean mint julep. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Nick DeGenova’s “I wish for a million Mogadishus” remark at the anti-war teach-in during our freshman year—a controversy whose brilliance is truly underappreciated. It was the first time Bollinger was accused of being wishy-washy—first he said DeGenova’s statement “crossed the line,” then later he opined about the value of free speech. Plus, the organizers of the teach-in couldn’t disassociate themselves from the guy quickly enough. “He ended up on that platform by accident, almost by manipulation,” said the professor who planned the event. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Walking home at 4 a.m. on Thursday nights completely sober as everyone else stumbled back from the bars. It happened every week for six solid semesters, though I can’t say I particularly regret it. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? My top choice is a TA, not a professor: Ben Soskis, who worked for Foner, among other people. But Roosevelt Montas is a full professor now, right? He’s a close second. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Thirty percent by choice for religious purposes, an additional five percent for less noble reasons. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Oral sex, hands-down. Especially now that Cara Rachele has introduced me to morbier. The only two people I know who would seriously give the opposite answer are out of their minds anyway. Days on campus memory? I didn’t go. But when a younger friend came, he spent all night making out in Central Park with a then-freshman that he met in John Jay. He decided to enroll. Regrets? Taking my grades too seriously for too long… going to Winter Gala… feeling obligated to be nice to the guy that followed me home after CUnity.
 Columbia Security is reporting that EC-resident Richard Ng has been missing since Sunday. Security is interviewing students in EC today but anyone with information on Richard's whereabouts is encouraged to contact Campus Security: (212) 854-5555 or 99 on a ROLM phone. Full flyer after the jump. Columbia University Department of Public Safety MISSING PERSON The photo displayed below, is that of a student who has been reported missing since Sunday, May 7, 2006. He was last seen exiting East Campus at about 10 p.m. If you have any information concerning the whereabouts of this student, please contact the Public Safety Department at 212-854-2797. Student information: Richard Ng/ M/A/22yrs./5’5”/190 lbs/glasses/black hair/clean shaven. Last seen wearing dungarees, dark jacket, sneakers and a backpack. Kenneth Finnegan Director, Investigations & Technology 212-854-4790
Not so good with the emailing, are you? Love, The Bwog -------- Forwarded message ---------- From: Xxxxxx Xxxxx &lt;xxxxx@columbia.edu&gt; Date: May 10, 2006 2:13 PM Subject: FW: FW: Incident EC - Richard Ng (missing student) To: xxxx@columbia.edu Cc: xxxx@columbia.edu, xxxx@columbia.edu Dear Seniors, We would like to offer a toast to you and your parents. On Class Day, Tuesday May 16th, we will be having a champagne reception in the Faculty in Residence apartment...
According to a sign in Bwog's elevator, the going rate for Commencement tickets is $80. Or, at least, some poor fool thinks it's $80. But before you fork over any cash to your orphaned classmates, you should check out this ticket exchange. Why buy the cow when the milk comes for free?
Anton Glamb, that perpetual headliner of campus concerts, has made one of the trippiest music videos Bwog has seen in quite a while. In the words of bemused tipster Alex Kudroff, the film features "sweat (I think), gold boots, dark spaces, and words I can't understand with love fairies or something." Not to be missed. Find it here.
Ah, Columbia freshmen: still vulnerable to the classic street scam. This one, written up in The New Yorker, involved a broken bottle, "pink stuff," and babies. Lesson learned: If you break something, just keep on walking.
Finals week, angry grad students, and vaguely racist comments do not a pretty picture make. According to an anonymous tipster, Russell BRickford, a TA for Barnard's American Civilization Since the Civil War class, objected to a statement written by one student in the course's final exam yesterday. And so e-mailed the entire class about it. Full e-mail after the jump. ----------------------------- Original Message --------------------------- Subject: HIST X1402.001 From: rjr2020@columbia.edu Date: Wed, May 10, 2006 12:15 pm To: ------@barnard.edu ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dear beloved, One of my students wrote the following statement in an essay on her final exam yesterday: "This austerity is at the root of Protestantism in America, but is considered quite different from the sensuality and decadence of black culture." Now, some of my best friends are black. Some of them show signs of sensuality. Others, not so much. Some are decadent. Some ain't. As a matter of fact, I too am black. And I'd like to think that from time to time, I can be pretty darn sensual myself. What's more, I must confess that, on occasion, and twice in recent memory, I have been as decadent as my graduate student stipend would allow. But I feel compelled to gently disabuse you good white folks of the notion that we Culluds are, by and large, any more sensual or decadent than say, your average Korean. Don't get me wrong. I'd love for black folk to be as sensual and decadent as you all seem to believe that we are. I think back to all those agonizing, wretched nights in high school and college spent trying to cajole some sista to hook up with me. If only those guileful creatures had known just how naturally sensual they were supposed to be, perhaps I would have scored once in a while. Alas, it was not to be. Indeed, in my short experience as a Negro (31 years this September) I have encountered not a few disturbingly un-sensual and un-decadent people of African descent. Perhaps they did not get the memo. Or perhaps they and their ancestors were too busy to allow their true "sensualdecadence" (better to identify these innate traits in one convenient word, no?) to shine through. Perhaps the forebears of the oddly repressed blacks I have known and loved were too occupied wading through mosquito-infested rice fields from dawn to dusk to indulge in the frenzied orgies that should have come so naturally. Perhaps they got so distracted picking tobacco and cotton, or harvesting indigo or sugar, that their sensualdecadence simply faded away. Perhaps stoking coal in blazing foundries, hauling backbreaking loads on and off the docks, or scouring the homes, clothes and children of good, industrious white folks dulled their prediliction for bodily pleasure. Perhaps the lynchings dampened their appetite. Perhaps the sharecropping put them out of the mood. Perhaps "last hired and first fired" turned them off. Perhaps they had their hands full with the KKK, Jim Crow, redlining, deindustrialization, COINTELPRO, police brutality and the prison industrial complex. Perhaps they were so caught up fighting the imperialist, racist wars you hardworking Anglos seem to start every now and then that they had to abandon their true, jolly, lascivious selves. Or perhaps, just perhaps, black folk really ain't as sensualdecadent as you good white folks have been claiming for the last 400 years. I'm not saying we're exactly the same as you people. God no. We season our food better. And we look better in bright colors. But perhaps we're FUNDAMENTALLY the same--I mean, like, biologically. What I'm saying is, perhaps our humanity is as messed up as yours. Perhaps we're as greedy. Perhaps we're as stupid, cruel and ugly. If that is indeed the case, and I'm afraid that it may well be, then the awful fact that we must face together is that we're both utterly, hopelessly repressed. Now, I'm willing to do my part to urge my people toward greater sensuality. I genuinely believe that a closer communion with our senses would do us a lot of good. But in return, I want you all to stop fantasizing about our alleged freedom from discipline and restraint. Okay? Do that for me and I'll teach you how to cook chicken. best, Russell
In animal cruelty, actually. The eminently reasonable, not-shrill-at-all People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has ranked the Worst 10 College Laboratories, and Columbia comes in 10th, behind places like Harvard and Johns Hopkins (well, we beat Yale). At least the Columbia monkeys have people on their side, (watch out for the ominous voice of Alec Baldwin as you enter the site) which is more than can be said for animals languishing in cages at the other nine schools. Thanks to California Bwog reader Anna Couturier, CC '10 (!), for the tip.
Leo Gertsenshteyn reports: A man in a banana costume just ran screaming through 209 Butler. Luckily, it has promptly returned to being an uneventful night of studying and NSA sex in the stacks. And overheard in Butler Cafe: Girl: Oh guess what! I'm soooo excited! I got my books on Mesopotamia today! Guy: Oh, cool. What class are they for? Girl: Oh, they're just fun books on Mesopotamia, for my own reading pleasure. Guy (a little caught off gaurd): Oh . . . I didn't know they made FUN books about Mesapotamia. Girl: Don't be silly! Are there any other kind!!??
We have only our instincts. This we call the delivery of events, a fragile striking, unexpected, a poison, more a poison, the blade and the poison, and the sound of keys. There is no possibility of downfall.
This is the fourth post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Montse Ferrer, C ’06. Claim to fame: Community Service Guru. Post-grad plans: Bogota, Colombia for the summer to work with a program that is demilitarizing paramilitaries and then starting law school in the fall-- still not sure about where. Preferred swim test stroke? Still haven't taken the swim test... ooops. Will be able to answer this question when I realize I never got my diploma and have to come back in the fall for the swim test! What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. There are A LOT of weird people at Columbia (I tend to include myself there too), much more than any average liberal arts school... BUT THAT'S WHAT I LOVE ABOUT THIS SCHOOL. 2. If you come to Columbia and you see there's something you want to change, something that at the beginning seems impossible to change, no worries-- things DO change at Columbia, but they require three things: a lot of time (grad school here too haha), a lot of effort from your part (Fight, fight, fight), and allies within the administration. I recommed working THROUGH and WITHIN they system to change it and not the inverse. 3. LSAT is the ONLY thing that matters when you apply to law school (GPA is important too, but LSAT is the priority)... with the good exception of Yale. So, if you want to go to law school being editor-in-chief of a journal, president of that, and leader of that... they're not near as important as the LSAT (is that the American expression??). That's not cool but that's the reality. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I'm no different to anybody else---just one more of the many ants. But since I'm here, I hope to plant one more tree... What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Favorite: "I am being silenced" protest (Spring 2004). I have truly learned so much from that rally. I remember coming into CC class that day and asking if we could discuss what was happening outside. I'm an international student so I wasn't too aware of the racial differences in this country. We never discussed that rally in CC class. And yet, since then, this controversy has come up in so many conversations, and I'm happy to say it has taken me places where I never thought I would go. (I wonder what would have happened if we would have discussed it during CC class.) Thank you to those who were there, dressed in black, with a sign, I AM BEING SILENCED. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Pulling an all-nighter on the 4th floor of Butler and by 5 a.m. turning the music on so loud celebrating I was alone in this gigantic room that is always cohabited by asian grad (and more recently undergrad) students! Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? A blond guy who teaches political phiolosphy... a GS-only class. But I went there on the first day of class and melted. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? If I base it on my own friends, the percentage goes up high, so I don't think my estimate is too accurate... being generous to what my European friends told me when I left Spain, I'd guess only about 20-30 percent... but that would be CC. SEAS may be higher. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? No doubt, AND I MEAN NO DOUBT, oral sex. I eat cheese three times a day! Days on campus memory? Never came ;-( International students... Regrets? Everybody tells me I should regret having spent half my life in Butler/Lehman libraries and the other half in a Lerner room planning events... but that's BS (Jenny J., agree??). But I do regret one thing: always rushing when I would meet with friends, cancelling on them, always telling them I had a meeting. That I regret for them but especially for me. I'm sorry to all of those I did that (majority of my friends!).
Our source sez: The New Yorker poetry department receives over 1,000 submissions every week. Each of these is destined to be lovingly rejected by an intern, usually a Columbia grad student, with a carefully handwritten note. It's understandable then that sometimes things get backed up. Really backed up. According to one of the interns, there has been a box of unanswered submissions that have been languishing in the office since 2003. Like a girlfriend who's worn out her welcome, it just sits there, increasingly hard to ignore, but even harder to get rid of. So it was with much fanfare that the interns were told that they were finally going to throw out the box. But first wouldn't they be so careful as to go through the submissions and remove all the self-addressed stamped envelopes? Why? To save the stamps, of course. Yes, the poetry editor of the New Yorker had her interns cut out each and every 37 cent stamp they could find, even though these stamps on their own were useless without a two cent supplement to compensate for the 2006 cost of postage. Midway through their task she stopped them. Touched by the hand of reason? Of common human decency? "I just wanted to make sure...neither of you has a blog, right?"
Bwog decided to forgo packing up a messy dorm room for a cloudy voyage to City Island. Floating in the foggy Long Island Sound but technically a part of the Bronx, it's the closest thing New York City has to a fishing village; complete with yacht clubs, fried fish stands, and nautically-themed lawn ornaments. If you're craving the quiet New England town-life, take the 6 train to the last stop on the line and hop on an eastbound Bx29. Or to get the full Bronx experience, take the D train to Fordam Rd, walk several blocks east to Little Italy in the Belmont neighborhood where markets and mobsters abound. From there, take the Bx12 at Fordam to the Bx29. It's just like Cape Cod! On second thought, maybe not: 
Yes, we're that self-reverential. If you've never read a word of Spec coverage on Manhattanville, read this. It's crazy! It's okay, nobody else knows what the hell they're talking about either. O'zbek tilini ko'proq talaba o'rganishini istardim. Yeah, that's Uzbek, bitch. You will never be this cool. Ever. Happy Birthday! That will be two dollars please. Columbia student enterprises: breaking even by baking cookies. A few things you weren't sure you wanted to know about a few B&W; seniors.
A few days ago Google introduced a new feature called "Trends" that allows users to view statistics about the search queries that Google fields by the millions every day. And finally, we have proof that Columbia actually is more important than its ivied brethren. A comparison by volume of the search term "columbia university" versus "harvard university" et al., and "columbia" versus "harvard," etc., reveals that Columbia is well ahead on both counts (and it's assigned us a fitting color). Columbia 1, all other Ivies 0. Update: Also, check out "columbia college" versus "harvard college". The score: 2-0.
The evening news crews broadcasting outside the Broadway and Amsterdam gates were the first clues, but Richard Ng's disappearance has been picked up by the NYC media. Channel 7 has the most complete coverage, aside from the Spec. Police are now placing Ng at W. 72nd Street and Broadway at around 10:30 Sunday night. Anyone with any information about Ng or his disappearance should contact Detective Al Acevedo of the 26th Precinct Detective Squad at (212) 678-1351. Update 11:45 am: Today's NY Sun has the most in-depth coverage so far. Full article after the jump. Columbia Student Is Missing By ELIZABETH SOLOMONT - Special to the Sun May 12, 2006 A bookish Columbia University student with two final exams to go before commencement disappeared this week. Richard Ng, 22, a senior in the university's engineering school, was last seen Sunday night by suitemates, who reported him missing Tuesday. Surveillance cameras from his East Campus dorm show Mr. Ng leaving the building shortly after 10 p.m.His suitemates told police he left without the cell phone and laptop he usually carries. He was spotted once more at about 10:30 p.m. on the Upper West Side, near the intersection of Broadway and West 72nd Street, according to a flier distributed by Columbia's public safety office. By Wednesday, university police had papered the campus with fliers and sent e-mail notifications to undergraduate students featuring Mr. Ng's photo. His suitemates and some other students met with school guidance counselors and were interviewed by investigators, a school spokeswoman said. Campus officers and police officers scoured the neighborhood but turned up nothing at his favorite hangouts."He is not in any of those places," a university spokeswoman, Sheri Whitely, said. Yesterday, police were investigating a missing person's report they said Mr. Ng's parents filed Tuesday. Sources indicated that police were exploring the possibility of suicide. Those who know Mr. Ng said they were concerned because it was out of character for the quiet student to disappear in the middle of finals. Others at Columbia corroborated the accounts that Mr. Ng was a student who took school seriously."I remember him sitting in front," a Ph.D. student who taught a class Mr. Ng took, Abhinav Kamra, said. "He got a good grade in my course." A classmate in the engineering school, Stephen Wang, 22, said, "He seems like the kind of kid who wouldn't venture too far off campus." Students and school administrators said the university was on edge. A security guard stationed at Mr. Ng's dorm said the community is worried that something bad might have happened to one of its own. "When someone is missing, you are worried about it like it's a member of your family," Luis Hinojosa said.
This is the fifth post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Birk Oxholm, C ‘06 Claim to fame: Tripped over a grate on campus and sued Columbia. Post grad plans: “half-time at McKinsey, half-time at Goldman, half-time at Yale Law.” Preferred swim test stroke? Breast. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. A voluntaristic ontology leads to an empirical epistemology. 2. Love ____ Money (& Theory) 3. Things are always complicated, except when they're not. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. "At least I'm not that guy" / "The world needs ditch-diggers, too." I try to do what I can with the times I am given. May you be well and happy. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? Anti-semitism @ Columbia--the SHOCCing truth. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Tie— a) dancing @ Clancy's. b) a $10,000 inedible cake. c) when Fascist kid turned into Skater Fascist kid for like a week. That just killed me. d)shooting a 55 on this internet golf game. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? Either Jonathan Kahn or William Theodore De Bary. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? Seven, including not myself. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Umm, that's a non-sequitur, bwog. Cheese is the new lingo for oral sex. Ex: My girl gave me cheese last night (cheez also acceptable). Geez, get with the times. Days on campus memory? Doesn't really count, but I took shrooms with my Orientation Leader and her supermodel friend my second night here, and we kind of just laid around the whole night stroking each other. Regrets? Not taking shrooms more, caring, missing out on some truly incredible people.
The New York Daily News is reporting that missing senior Richard Ng looked up directions to the Brooklyn Bridge before leaving EC Sunday night, leading investigators to look at his disappearance as part of a suicide attempt. A commenter on the Bwog's original post also mentioned a similar scenario. All of us at the Blue and White are hoping for Richard's safe return.
The folks at Northeastern University have blown a fuse somewhere. When students from their incoming class attempt to sign up for a University-provided email account during Orientation, they will have to complete a "Facebook.com Tutorial." A Powerpoint presentation cooked up by the admins sez: "The facebook provides excellent opportunities for students to connect with their peers and it provides a venue with which student groups may advertise events and thus heighten levels of student involvement. However, students must also be made aware of the risks associated with being a member. Through open dialogue and discussion, students can learn not only about the facebook and the many options it provides, but they can also learn how to safely utilize the website. They will also leave with a greater knowledge of college policy as it relates to internet use." Bwog dreams of a day when Dean Quigley shares with us the finer points of poking.
This is the sixth post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Andrew Stinger, C’06. Claim to fame: Mr. CU Relief. Post-grad plans: Still waiting to hear about a spot in the Associates Program at Random House. Other possible back-up plans include marketing with Starwood Hotels, a position buying air time for an advertising agency, or bartending until something better comes along. Preferred swim test stroke? Freestyle -- anything to beat the 80-year-olds doing lap swim in the lane next to me. What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Expect to become an academic 'expert' on one esoteric topic by accident. For example, I never really set out to be able to discuss the significance of the broadside on the first page of Phillis Wheatley's poetry. . . . in three separate classes. 2. The stairs in the 'exit' stairwells are the quickest way to navigate Lerner. 3. If it's important, expect Mail Services to lose it. If it's a credit card offer or a cell phone bill, expect Mail Services to give you yours, and someone else's. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Unfiltered, candid commentary. Usually with a shit-eating grin. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? It predates me, but when that Fordham priest used a racial epithet to describe our Marching Band conductor. Just goes to show we're not the only school in need of safe spaces. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? The sunny side: My first Columbia assignment ever was to schedule time to meet with my Lit Hum professor during office hours and just generally chew the fat. It made me realize professors actually are available outside of class, and sometimes do take an interest in their students. The cloudy with chance of rain side: Thinking "this could be the year" about our football team after Baker Blast. The only-in-college side: Dance Marathon! Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? I'm not a member of the "I have a man-crush on Lee C. Bollinger" facebook group for nothing. I defy anyone of any orientation to sit through that man's Freedom of Speech and Press class and not fall for that dreamy smile. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? As the 'last chance to dance' desperation grows thicker towards graduation . . . I'm guessing 60 percent. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Cheese. I'm mildly lactose intolerant anyway. Days on campus memory? I don't have one of my own (the whole "transfer student" thing), but I remember actually tripping over some pre-frosh girl on an air mattress in our common room in Hartley and wondering what the hanky was going on. Regrets? The enumerated list of actual regrets: 1. Not at least declaring a concentration in some sort of subject area that's more vocationally oriented (econ, pre-med . . . heck, even poli sci). 2. Not doing more of my thesis in January. 3. Not getting more involved in our arts community earlier. 4. I never got CAVA'd. 5. I never was a Blue and White campus character. Really, I just kind of yearned for the free sketch. Things to do in order to avoid further regrets: 1. Photo op on top of the Lion. 2. Little somethin' somethin' in Butler. 3. Go for a run across the GW Bridge.
This is the seventh post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Greta Gerwig, B ‘06 Claims to fame: Tea Party improvisatory comedy, Varsity Show 111, writin' plays. What are three things you learned at Columbia? I'm a douche-bag if I say I go to Columbia. You can work the myth of Sisyphus into any paper. There's enough room for two improv groups at this school: Tea Party and Klaritin. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. Getting cast as the star of Varsity Show, starring in Varsity Show, being recognized for starring in Varsity Show. Varsity Varsity Varsity. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Telling my professor that I couldn't turn in my paper on time because I had fallen in love. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? The two people who had sex on top of Low causing Lerner Pub to be taken away. I know who they are. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? James Shapiro. Firm but tender. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? I think a better question is "what percentage of seniors have had sex with only one person?" I would say a lot. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? Don't ever put those things in the same sentence...cheese. Days on Campus memory? The minute I figured out I did not, in fact, have to go to any of the activities. Regrets? CAVAing myself. If I was sober enough to look up their number and dial the phone, I probably didn't need their services. 
Starring: Max Minghella (previous credits: Syriana, Bee Season, Art School Confidential) Also featuring: Joey Alvarado, Liz Strauss Location: Cafe Swish, Kim's, JJ's Place Plot Summary: New York Times decides to profile progeny of esteemed director Anthony Minghella, cute freshman friends provide sense of natural environment. Rising actor eschews usual activities of the young and famous and avoids stardom even at Columbia, where he's been sighted in John Jay dining hall, enveloped in a hooded sweatshirt. Foreshadowings of failed expectations. Now playing everywhere.
Details are in on the CC Class Day McCain protest and things are looking peachy. Well, orangey? An email from protest organizers says "orange at Class Day signif our opposition to McCain's policies and support for equality, women's rights, and peace, among other values." Official protests run from wearing orange buttons to "an orange demonstration," possibly involving umbrellas. A few hardcore parents might be showing up in the Tropicana color as well. Now, orange can symbolize a lot of things (as well as clash terribly with Columbia's light blue), but it is most recently associated with Ukraine's presidential turnover. We're sure McCain would have been with Yanukovych all the way.
This is the eighth post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Jen Schnidman, C ‘06 Claims to fame: Senior Week Grand Dame, University Senator. Preferred swim test stroke? Shh. I never officially took the swim test. Hey, does Ken Torrey read the Bwog? What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. One semester's worth of modern Greek. 2. How to survive for days at a time on JJ's chicken fingers. 3. That administrators are people too. Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I majored in Computer Science and I am moving to rural Mississippi next year. Without me, who would start the "Outsource to the Deep South" movement? What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? When Bollinger announced he was leaving Columbia to become the president of Harvard. Oh wait, that was just a rumor. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? Certainly none of my professors. Unless by kissing, you actually mean programming. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? (CC seniors) - 2*(BC seniors) + (SEAS seniors) Percent? I don't have a calculator with me. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? I love cheese. Days on campus memory? Dan Kessler is going to kill me for this. In the middle of an improv/acapella performance on the night we arrived, he yelled "Show us your tits!" to the performers on stage. I know this because I happened to be sitting right behind him at the time. I refused to befriend him for the first two years of college because of this. Regrets? Hmm. Perhaps if I had embraced my computer science geekiness earlier, I could have launched theantifacebook.com and would be entertaining billion-dollar offers from major corporations. But then, I would have never been able to compete with SEAS Community, so nevermind. No regrets.
Class day has transformed the South Lawn into some kind of mass graduation arena! Just in case you're not in Morningside Heights this week, see what your campus has become... Bring an umbrella and look for wet powder-blue robes. Forecast calls for intermittent showers tomorrow. And even if it doesn't rain, you still might be swimming through a sea of chairs .
This is the ninth post in the senior wisdom series. Read the rest here. Bethany Milton, C ’06 Claim to Fame: Bwog Co-Editor. Post-grad plans: European Politics and Society Program Assistant, Danish International Study Program, Copenhagen, Denmark. (It's the secret English-language study abroad program everyone loves.) Preferred swim test stroke? The "Oh-let-me-just-make-sure-my-bikini- top-is-going-to-stay-on-before-I-jump- in-OH-MY-GOD-I- JUST-UNHOOKED-MY-BIKINI- TOP-BOOBIES-STAY-IN-!-!-!-! What are three things you learned at Columbia? 1. Montaigne was cranky because he had a kidney stone. 2. Nietzsche was cranky because he had the syph. 3. Freshman are cranky because they have to take Frontiers. Suckas! Justify your existence in 30 words or less. I'm carbon neutral. What was your favorite controversy in your time at Columbia? You might not of heard of it-- it was freshman year and called “Beth vs. the Wrestler Who Lived on the End of the Hall and Dated Christy Romano and Left Porn Running on His Computer 24-7" ”Beth vs. Big Wrestler's Little Wrestler Sidekick" was also pretty impressive. What Columbia memory best exemplifies your college experience? Senior Ball After-Party? I have a bad long-term memory. Which Prof do you think would be the best kisser? The Sex Ed professor on the Bedford Diaries. What percentage of seniors do you think are virgins? 40 percent. Would you rather permanently give up oral sex or cheese? If I could tell people about the trade-off, oral sex. If I couldn't, cheese. More awkward to refuse sex acts without explanation than cheese. Days on campus memory? I remember being shocked and horrified when a girl in our dinner group went outside to smoke. One year later I was smoking semi-regularly. Now I'm kind of shocked and horrified again that a 17-year-old was smoking. Regrets? Any and all Barnard-hating. That school has its shit together and Columbia ought to take notes. Never staying in the city for a summer. Not planting the crackers because that would have been brilliant. Spending so much of my college career abroad (not that it didn't have its benefits... the chief one being... JOB!) Abuse position as Bwog Co-Editor to ramble? It's been around a scarce four months but the Bwog might be the thing I'm most proud of at Columbia. It's an idea whose time has come and I'm just sad I won't be here to see where it's going. 'Thank you's are in order. Thank you to all the posters and especially the underclassmen who have been taking over more and more responsibility the past few weeks; the site will be in good hands next year. Thanks also to our tipsters; there's no question you make bwgossip is the best Columbia alias to be on and the Bwog far more interesting than we could alone. Thank you to Zach VS for his interweb magic. And Taylor for reminding us when Dead Guy jokes aren't funny. Finally, a big thank you to our readers and commenters. I think you might be crazy, I think you might be obsessed with the site, and I know you are opinionated in the weirdest ways... but so am I. I'm glad we've found each other. The Bwog isn't going away this summer, just slowing down a little. And it'll be back with a vengeance in September. I know I'll be hitting refresh repeatedly and I hope you will, too.
Commencement is being webcast (rather well) by the school here.
Promoters for Mad Money, Jim Cramer's CNBC money talk show, are giving away squishy little baby-blue bulls by the Broadway gates. Now you can squeeze your own little stress bull while watching your cell phone's stock ticker. Also, Bwog thinks they go perfectly with a Columbia graduation gown...
A loyal (indeed, very loyal) Bwog reader reports: "Shortly after the SEAS class day festivities finished (e.g. now), the sound system is playing the Mos Eisley Cantina song from Star Wars." Bwog has heard many graduating students proclaiming that they have waited a long time for this. We bet they have.
The Spectator reports that a body believed to be that of Richard Ng, the SEAS senior who went missing last Sunday, was found Tuesday afternoon in the East River near South St. and Fulton. The NYPD is investigating. Update 11:11 p.m.: More info available from Newsday. Update May 17, 11:30 a.m.: Gothamist has posted a more exhaustive compendium of stories. Update 5:35 p.m.: A medical examiner has confirmed that the body is that of Richard Ng. Bwog's heart goes out to Richard Ng, his family, and his friends.
Free dorm fridge (not a cube but the bigger one) spotted on the fourth floor landing of Nussbaum. Be a dear and email bwgossip if it gets picked up.
Admit it, you’re glad you didn’t have to sit out in the rain for the class days and Commencement, but you kind of want to know if anything interesting happened during the graduation festivities. As usual, Bwog’s got you covered. Precipitation: It rained, dulling the much-ballyhooed McCain protest (sez the NY Times), and giving rise to griping grandaunts and yelling matches between stressed parents and seniors. Parent quote of the day: "Well, I figure, I sometimes sit in snow for five or six hours to hunt some elk, so, I figure why not sit through a bit o' rain for the son's graduation?" Salutation: CC Salutatorian Julia DiBenigno spoke gleefully of the joys of “familiar faces,” “experimenting with who we are and who we want to be,” and the “memories that will last a lifetime.” Quoting Peter Parker, she reminded graduates that with great power comes great responsibility. Lukewarm applause ensued. Pontification: The senior senator from Arizona intoned on the “fight between right and wrong” that we are apparently now facing, in a speech remarkably similar to the address he gave to Liberty University grads three days before. Hey, if it’s good enough for a school that does the good work of God, why change? Duplication: One of the Cohen twins got magna cum laude, while the other got just the laude. I mean, they’re fraternal. Identical twins Paul and Phil Fileri, on the other hand, both were honored with summa cum laude. Snap! Jubilation: You’ve got to hand it to PrezBo—for having given three commencement speeches already, he’s still churning out zingers like eviction notices in Manhattanville, as well as ponderous pronouncements such as how the Iraq war might have been avoided if we were all a bit more educated. The word “procrastination” drew applause from across the board, but audience response typically followed State of the Union style: CC students went wild over his quotations of Montaigne, medical students screamed at the mention of 168th street, and Bwog is willing to make an assumption about who cheered when he talked about India’s advances in computer engineering. Projectilation?: All the classes threw their appropriate objects upon being called. Columbia College launched apple cores for the core curriculum (mostly aimed at SEAS). International flags for SIPA, giant toothbrushes for the School of Dentistry, mini gavels for future lawyers, paper airplanes for SEAS…you get the picture. 
USA Today has chosen their 2006 All-USA High School Academic First Team, a ponderous name for 20 kids who have WAY too many activities in their young lives, including--we kid you not--inventing a patent-pending wearable breast exam training apparatus using diaper gel, cashews and a bikini. Math problem: Yale got 27% of those who didn't go to Harvard. In other, even more random news, a silver-haired gentleman in a pinstripe suit rolled into a Bwog correspondent's office on a Segway with five Japanese businessmen in tow. Bwog wants one. And some businessmen, too.
Self-proclaimed "loyal bwog reader" Xavier Estevez writes in about Freedom Writers, a movie being shot outside Barnard today. Grey's Anatomy star Patrick Dempsey has been spotted. Take a stroll around 117th, maybe you'll bump into the film's star, Hilary Swank.
Gothamist is reporting that lefty New School students are doing a much better job protesting John McCain in his last commencement stop of the year than we did. Where was Columbia's 1,000-signature petition? They even care about it in India! And no, that's not the ceremony. Bwog is just still confused by the orange theme.
Bwog has been engaging in some self reflection of late. It’s been an amazing semester, with some highlights you definitely saw, and others you may have missed. Huge shout outs to all our sharp-eyed tipsters, and the delinquents who don’t have anything better to do than contribute to absurdly long comment strings. You make us interesting. Bwog will be continuing in moderated fashion through the summer. Be sure to check back for updates! And with that, we give you, in no particular order: the Best of Bwog 2006. Starting with our first comment ever: Posted by COYOTES! : COYOTES! Best Quiz: Know your Facades! Best Comment Debate: TA Lays the Smack Down Best Kaavya Coverage: How Opal Mehta Got Busted Best Back of the Envelope Calculation: Getting Your Money's Worth Best Celeb Sighting: Breaking News: Natalie Portman at Columbia Best Poetry: Sex Butler People Fuck Need: BoredatButler.com Magnetic Haiku Best Street Fight: Blood! Violence! Pandemonium! Biggest Gross-out: Consolation Prize Best Reportage: Goldberg papers Best Spec Gotcha: The Samuel Moyn Affair Best Digitalia: March 30 Best Photobwogging (and way to torture pre-frosh): Judgment Day Best Overheard: Special Delivery! Best Lecture Hopping: Steven Pinker Best Interview (and SHOCC Talk): SHOCC’S Tactician Best Lifetime Exposure for a Cracker: Someone’s Crackin’ Up Best Election Coverage: President Flaxman’s First Press Conference Best Housing Coverage: A Brief Diversion Best Public Service: Shopping with Bwog Best Random: “Tray-Spotting” 
According to the New York Times, PrezBo & Co. have kicked off a drive to raise $4 billion in seven years. That'll buy a whole lot of fruit and cheese platters, fo sho. And everyone's favorite cosmonerd Prof. David Helfand gets some airtime defending the administration. Word up! Meanwhile, over in the Magazine section, we find a fat piece on Manhattanville that resembles much of the Spec coverage of the last two years (and a certain other publication), plus quotes from a few more professors and big names. New York Times: scooped?
When Bwog finds a complimentary copy of Columbia College Today squashed into its 4" by 4" mailbox, it tends to glance at the smiling administrator or alumnus on the cover and toss the glossy mag on a Lerner ramp bench. Sometimes, though, the photo has something about it, some special quality, that keeps Bwog from tearing its eyes away. This issue, it's the seamlessly fused eyebrows of Nicholas Dirks, VP of arts and sciences and "esteemed expert" in various things. In keeping with its style of breathless puff pieces on distinguished potential donors, CCT also profiled Jerry Nadler, Vanity Fair Hall-of-Famer and US Congressman for bits of Manhattan and Brooklyn. With a pedigree like that, frat boy Mike Nadler couldn't help becoming president of the Dems. Although Bwog is sure he's quite talented as well.
New York Magazine has been collecting a little senior wisdom of its own, polling 100 of this year's grads on issues ranging from the great books to Hillary's judgment of our generation. Bwog is skeptical of some of the responses: 28% of you expect to make over a quarter million a year in a decade? 27% don't have a facebook, MySpace, or blog? And 11% engage in emotion-free casual sex as a favorite form of instant gratification? Come on, y'all. Be real now.
It looks like with the recent controversy over John McCain’s commencement speech tour, The New School has solidified its place as New York City’s predominant stronghold of liberal student activism. (Oh, Spirit of ’68! Why have you forsaken us?) The result? A blog war to end all blog wars, courtesy of The Huffington Post. For those of you who have been out of the loop of academic controversy lately, Bwog regales you with a rundown of what you’ve been missing. 1. Senator John McCain delivers the same commencement address at three American universities in the span of one week— Jerry Falwell’s Liberty University, Columbia, and The New School. Despite a warm reception at Liberty, McCain is met with protests at each of the other two institutions. 2. Jean Rohe, the web-savvy Senior Speaker at New School’s commencement, is made aware of McCain’s policy of giving the same speech on multiple occasions. She logs on to the Senator’s website and reads a transcript of the speech that he gave at Columbia, thereby learning the contents of his address to the New School before he has actually given it. She does not take kindly to the Senator’s remarks. Hence, armed with the text of his speech, Rohe, who is scheduled to speak just ahead of the Senator, discards her original prepared address and instead delivers a hastily-written attack on McCain, his support of the war, and his presence at New School’s commencement, quoting from the speech that he is about to deliver to bolster her attacks. 3. McCain makes a snarky comment thanking Rohe for “the cliff-notes version” of his address. The New School at large is not amused. McCain proceeds to deliver his speech as written, for the third time in seven days. 4. In response to the media attention garnered by her speech (see the story in the New York Times), Rohe writes a defense of her decision to attack McCain in her commencement address for The Huffington Post. Here’s where things get interesting. In the comments section of Rohe’s original blog post, McCain staffer Mark Salter, who has co-authored at least three of McCain’s books and who claims to have helped write the Senator’s commencement address, gives a strongly-worded rebuttal to Rohe’s speech. At least, the commenter claimed to be Mark Salter—Bwog would hope that one of the top aides to one of the most prominent politicians in the country could string a sentence together better than this guy. In this less than artful comment, Salter is harsh and insulting to Rohe, telling her that “The only person you have succeeded in making look like an idiot is yourself.” His most damning blows, however, come as he addresses the entire New School graduating class: Should you grow up and ever get down to the hard business of making a living and finding a purpose for your lives beyond self-indulgence some of you might then know a happiness far more sublime than the fleeting pleasure of living in an echo chamber. And if you are that fortunate, you might look back on the day of your graduation and your discourtesy to a good and honest man with a little shame and the certain knowledge that it very unlikely any of you will ever posses the one small fraction of the character of John McCain. Snap! The Huffington Post followed up by giving Rohe another post in which she responds to the comment. No word yet on whether or not Salter will chime back in, but if he does, Bwog can’t wait to hear what he has to say. Also adding his two cents on Huffington Post is blogger Russell Shaw, with his directly titled post “Jean Rohe, You’re Wrong”. Between the four posts on the subject, a veritable blog war is raging with over a thousand comments. That’s good, even for Huffington Post. Bwog salutes you, Arianna, as we look on in awe. 
It started with Alexander Hamilton, and now the facebook fascists have struck again. One complainant reports: "It's an all out hunt. My Barack Obama account has been disabled. It won't be long before Peter Parker gets rubbed out too. It was fun while it lasted I suppose. The Columbia Squirrel and Pigeon better watch out. Even The Man got shut down." In other facebook news, New School president Bob Kerrey has revealed some disturbing beliefs about the role of a university president. Bwog sincerely hopes that Lee C., who has gained the respect and admiration of at least 44 Columbia men, doesn't get any ideas. Meanwhile, in another corner of facebook, PrezBo isn't being treated so well. Anti-expansion activists, with a sense of humor? Who knew?
Watch out, Zvi G.--Harvard's now got a SEAS of its own, having made its own Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences into a full-fledged School. Rumblings of the transition started a year ago, when DEAS Dean "Venky" resigned pending some big changes. SEAS--with an admit rate three times that of the Harvard school--just beats out DEAS in the US News rankings. But for how much longer?? Oh, Harvard. If only you knew all the social awkwardness you're in for.
It's nice to know that, when our biology makes life difficult, Columbia Health Services is there for us. Thanks to John Klopfer for the tip.
They've sent in their reply letters, chosen their housing, decided on a meal plan. Now, members of the class of 2010 have become true Columbians: they have e-mail addresses. Welcome to CubMail, new minted Lions! Bwog recommends that you immediately set it up a forwarding address to a Gmail account, allowing you to bypass the annoyance of CUIT switchovers and to frenetically e-mail back and forth without overstuffing your inbox. The real problem is this: what are we to call our awkwardly-named crop of first-years? Tenners? Oh-ten? Bwog would like to make a case for "Generation 10," making the sophomores "Gen 9," etc. But as always, we're open to suggestions.
For the past few days, there has been a crudely constructed fence in the 116th street subway station. Confused onlookers don’t know what to make of this barnyard addition to our fair city, and raise their eyebrows in passing. When an amused Bwog politely asked the station attendant why it was there, he seemed annoyed and insulted. Apparently, he’s been getting this question a lot. “It’s not just a gimmick,” he snapped. “It’s there for a reason.” The reason? A few tiles in that area of the floor are loose, and the MTA deemed the construction of a wooden corral as the most cost-effective way to keep people from walking on them. Maybe they’re out of barricades? Or maybe they just wanted to get back to their country roots—in which case, we’re still waiting for our invitation to the hoedown. 
While browsing the Barnard Res Life policies, Bwog came across a section that seemed particularly amusing: What Cannot Be Said On My Posting? Any postings that have inappropriate and/or derogatory information directed to one specific member of the Barnard community will not be tolerated and will be immediately removed. The approved posting areas that we have provided are not personal message boards. They are solely for information that is intended to benefit the campus community as a whole. In addition, the following words cannot appear on any posted information at Barnard – shit, piss, suck, cunt, fuck, motherfucker, cocksucker and tits. Any flyers containing any of these words will be immediately removed and the responsible parties referred to Dean's Discipline. Bwog challenges Barnard women to fight the Man.
For those of us still in New York, summer = fewer people on campus = less competition for free food. Now’s the time to act! A wide variety of sandwiches on yummy oat bread are sitting on the desk in Lerner Lobby. Mmmmm! 
A few hours ago, you probably deleted an email from The Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal. Now that you know what CUSJ stands for, we bet you regret that click to the trash. Here are a few of the highlights. With their new skills, Coltrane, Prospero, and Horatio can play three-card-monte. Immigration. It turns South Asians on. The best part of Science: introducing batty Astronomic Acronyms like SMBH 
For some time now, Bwog has been wondering where Bored at Butler went. Almost a week ago, the site's normal interface disappeared, replaced by a message that reads "r.i.p. b@b...46,848 posts...down for reconstruction, come back soon..." Bwog knows via comments that some of its readers share its curiosity about the site's fate. Well, wonder no longer, dear readers, for Bwog has the inside scoop! Correspondent Mark Holden reports: Issues of privacy and ad hominem have been swirling about Bored at Butler since its inception. Most notably (in my memory, anyway), a lot of people, or maybe just a few prolific posters, talked a lot of smack about some girl named Bethany. But there were other incidents, many others, and the incessant personal attacks, according to my source, made the entire B@B team continually anxious. So there are these two TAs in Gateway, the SEAS equivalent of Frontiers. I'll call them TA1 and TA2. They're dating. Practically engaged. They've been known to call each other "fiancé" in public. Well, one day TA2 pulls up B@B and, lo and behold, discovers a post about herself: "Didn't fuck ?" Enraged by this crassness, TA2 scours the site for someone to harangue, and -- aha! -- discovers the name of one of her Gateway students listed in the section devoted to the generous financial supporters of B@B. He'd donated a few bucks, that's all. She emails him saying she's absolutely shocked and horrified to learn that he, one of her tutees, one whom she'd thought mature beyond his years, no less, is affiliated with this cesspool of moral dissolution and puerility. She alleges slander and violation of her privacy rights, practically insinuating that she's hiring an attorney. The student in question forwards this scalding email to the B@B team, and, TA2's sallies into irrationality aside, they decide they've had enough for the moment. It was, to use that wonderful cliché, the straw that broke the camel's back. They pull the site offline for technical revamping (there are server issues that need work as well) and a rethinking of B@B's privacy problems. It'll be back, I'm assured, once they come up with "something better" for keeping the idiocy under control. So there you have it. Bwog's suggestion for crowd control: eliminate the anonymity. Oh, wait... Update: It was lies! All lies! The truth is, the TA1/TA2 incident was dealt with quickly and satisfactorily and was not the cause of the current shutdown. B@B is down only for maintenance and redesign, including the creation of a new system for dealing with privacy incidents (like the one discussed above) more swiftly, and will be back when ready. It made a good story, though.
An anonymous Bwog tipster reports on a phone conversation between staffers in the Longworth and Rayburn House office buildings during the "shots fired" scare at the Capitol today. Longworth Staffer: So they're not letting you out? You got enough food? Rayburn Staffer: Yeah, I brown-bagged it today. LS: Hey, you guys could be there for a couple days... Think you're gonna have to ration your lunch between the staff in your office? RS: Nah man... Soon as I heard at 11 that we were being isolated, I scarfed down the whole thing. In front of everyone in the office.
If they haven't already, Generation '10 will soon recieve a slick new copy of the Iliad, courtesy of some alumni class from the last fifty years. Unless they decide to buck tradition, its cover will feature a lovely classical painting now hanging in L'Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. Slate, however, has proposed the alternative shown at right, which Bwog thinks would constitute a vast improvement. Core reform? Nah--we just need new cover art to make old favorites new again!
Many of us think of Columbia as a nurturing mother, sheltering us from the vissicitudes of adult life. One Columbia senior expected her to protect us from the rain as well...and took PrezBo to task for failing in this final act of devotion. Her e-mail follows, with the administration's response after the jump. -------- Original Message -------- Subject: Columbia College Class Day Date: Wed, 17 May 2006 10:35:26 -0400 From: -------@wiley.com To: bollinger@columbia.edu CC: aeg1@columbia.edu, mccainclassday06@lists.riseup.net Dear President Bollinger, I am a CC '05 graduate (whose Class Day was graced with beautiful weather). I was appalled to hear that Columbia College, faced with bad weather for the Class Day ceremony yesterday, was unable to come up with a contingency plan to accommodate 1,100 undergraduates and instead allowed them and their families to sit in driving rain for more than two hours. Even under-funded public high schools do not ask their graduates to sit in those kinds of conditions during commencement ceremonies. It is an embarrassment that the University and the College were able to ask more than $100,000 in tuition from each of the students sitting on that lawn (and from their families who came to watch) but were not able to finance a tent or a hall for CC students' one opportunity to be recognized by name for their four-year commitment to the institution. Beyond convenience and comfort there are health issues - there were elderly, frail, and unwell loved ones in the audience as well as students with health concerns who were participating in the ceremony. A close friend of mine in the class of 2006 has lupus and the ceremony brought on an acute attack that has left her bedridden and unable to participate in her own graduation festivities. It is not fair to ask students to choose whether or not to participate in their own Class Day ceremony for reasons of health or comfort - hopefully you appreciate the various symbolic and emotional implications of completing the ceremony. Class Day is one of the most important days in a graduate's life and every member of the Class of 2006 will have blighted memories of their graduation ceremonies. Perhaps the College and the University will consider taking measures to ensure this doesn't happen again in the future. Thank you for your attention. ---------- Columbia College '05 ----- Forwarded by ________________----- Date: 05/23/2006 06:33 PM To: --------@wiley.com CC: "Austin Quigley" &lt;aeq1@columbia.edu&gt;, "Chris Colombo" &lt;cc69@columbia.edu&gt; Subject: FW: Dear Ms. ------, President Bollinger is currently traveling, so I am writing in response to your email to him regarding the College's class day. Unfortunately, there simply is no viable, indoor alternative for seating 1,000 graduates and their families on Columbia's campus. We plan on being able to accommodate up to 5,000 guests, so that the graduating seniors may bring as many friends and family members as they would like. In addition, the logistics necessary to be ready to welcome 33,000 people the next morning for the University Commencement ceremony do not allow us to tent South Lawn. Dean Quigley, Dean Colombo, and their offices continue refining and improving Class Day to make it as enjoyable and as meaningful as possible for all participants. I will share your email with them, and I know that they would also welcome any ideas that you may have to continue making improvements. Many thanks for your email. /jb Jamie Bennett Chief of Staff Office of the President Columbia University 202 Low Library, MC 4309 535 West 116 Street New York, New York 10027
While researching a linguistics paper on Artificial Intelligence, Bwog Correspondent Sara Maria Hasbun came across the websites for the winners of the Loebner Competition, a contest in which judges converse blindly with both humans and computer programs--the prize goes to the machine that bests simulates intelligent conversation. For her paper, Sara decided to try out a little PG cybersex. Let’s just say, they couldn’t keep it up. Conversation with iGOD Sara: Are you there, God? Its me, Margaret. God: I am here, Margaret. Sara: So God, what are you wearing? God: Yay. I am a Christian. Sara: That's hot. I'm Christian too. God: You don't hear that sentiment very often. I am glad we have something (Christian) in common, Margaret. Sara: So, God. Wanna party? God: Hmm. GOD rules. Sure, let's party. Sara: what would you do if we were alone? God: Do you think everyone will agree? Sara: Well, do you want everyone to join in? God: How about that. If I had it what would I do with it? Sara: What do you want to do with me, God? God: I like talking about robots, movies, history, or whatever else you'd like. You must be a man. Sara: Oh, no. I am a teenage girl, 5'4, long dark hair. God: Wow! Are you serious? You are a teenage girl 5 4 long dark hair? Is that your job? Sara: Do you want a job? God: No thanks but you can send me a donation. Conversation with Jabberwacky Jabberwacky: Do you think the internet is reality? Sara: I sure hope so baby. Wanna party? Jabberwacky: Thanks. Sara: So, what do you look like. Jabberwacky: You don't know how you work, do you? Sara: Oh I know very well. Do you know how you work? Jabberwacky: No. Sara: Do you want me to turn you on? Jabberwacky: I'm about to turn you in for stealing from me, Christopher Phelan. Sara: Who’s Christopher? Is he going to party with us? Jabberwacky: No, I have to mow it. Sara: Mmm. Can I mow it with you? Jabberwacky: No. 
Craziness. His name is Cornell Barnard. What's next, Columbia Harvard? The moose-men cometh. Streakin' to the summit... There's a snake in my boot! Pot-peddling preschoolers. The apocalypse is coming. Fight Club is real! 
Dear readers, You may have noticed that posts have become less frequent and more remote of late. With only a few staff at and around Columbia, news and gossip is harder to come by. For the remaining months of the summer, Bwog will be in hibernation, rousing itself when it finds something too juicy to pass up. As always, tips are appreciated, and can be sent to bwgossip@columbia.edu. Meanwhile, we hope you all enjoy your travels, adventures, and internships. Love, Bwog
Bwog, which rejects value judgments of all kinds, was nevertheless amused to catch sight of a man selling water for $1 in Union Square. Wearing a Columbia T-shirt. Don't say Columbia Career Services never gave you anything...
The Columbia home page reports that the mustachioed UN-bashing UN representative John Bolton spoke at SIPA today, to a packed audience of doubtlessly dubious grad students. Besides summarizing the standard Bolton bullet points, the release directs us to the official SIPA blog, which Bwog liked until it noticed the student blogroll: one that's all in Arabic, another that's all in question marks, a third that hasn't been updated for almost three years, and a fourth that declares 'You are members of a cult, is the thing. And that cult is the United States of America.' This isn't representative of the SIPA student bloggership, is it?
Striding across College Walk, Bwog correspondent Gautam Hans sighted the Blood Drive Van and made this keen observation: "Although the Red Cross and other blood donation agencies are famous for not allowing men who've had anal sex with other men to donate (due to FDA regulations), some staff member was either being sly or not thinking when putting a sign on the front of the van reading "PLEASE ENTER THROUGH THE BACK DOOR." Looks like the van itself is less picky than the organization that runs it." Entirely independently, tipster Peter Mende-Siedlecki sent us this news of sexual subliminal messaging. It's everywhere!
These political statements spotted on a Brooklyn bound A train. These activists should know when to cut their losses. It's a bit too late for the Phillipines. 
One hundred tuba players spotted at the quay by the World Financial Center. "We all just kind of showed up here," one member of the 100Tubatet said. The tuba players wandered around the outdoor space in tight groups, buzzing their lips amidst hundreds of confused whispers and clicking camera shutters. Eclectic composer Anthony Braxton, (below, with scepter), conducted the brass assembly in what sounded like an hour-long in-stereo fog horn. Braxton's "Composition No. 19 for 100 tubas" was interpreted by some as an homage to the tuba player; consistantly relegated to the back of the orchestra, or burdening under a cage of brass at many a football game. As the hour vibrated by, groups of tuba players erupted in what seemed uncontrolled sound emission that can only be compared to sneezing or flatulence. Tubas squeaked, hummed, and popped as players rapidly fingered, rubbed the body of or smacked the mouthpieces of their tubas. Bwog wonders if tuba players make tender lovers.
The Met and the Frick may be stimulating, but for some real deviance, Bwog recommends the Museum of Sex, a 2002 addition to New York City's artistic firmament. One tipster recommends that visitors not miss the Sex Across America electronic exhibition, which features listings of visitor-submitted stories of various sexual encounters, sorted geographically Mapquest-style. Columbia features prominently: two stories involve sex in Butler (one on the roof, as seen from John Jay, and yes, one in the stacks), one each in Carman and Ruggles, over a half-dozen at Barnard, and even one behind the statue of Pan in front of Lewisohn. Aroused?: Mosex is located on 5th Ave at 27th St. Sexual edification will cost you $13.50, and potentially a measure of awkwardness.
Have Princeton and Cornell caught NYU-itis? A study published in this month's issue of Pediatrics found that 17% of students in a random web-based survey of 2,875 students at those two schools have purposely injured themselves in one way or another. This scares Bwog shitless. What is it about Ithaca and suburban New Jersey that moves these kids to mutilate their youthful and well-educated exteriors? Oh wait... Fortunately, Go Ask Alice! is looking out for Columbia students. In other, completely unrelated news: prep school girls subvert the dominant paradigm, and the Columbia Admissions office employs the vernacular (check the photo caption).
Ninjas on campus! Bwog tipster Shannon Donnelly marvels: As I was crossing College Walk at 6:30 this evening, I came across at least a hundred Martial Arts blackbelts. They were all lined up in their white uniforms and black belts, looking very fierce despite the persistant rain. Because I don't have the Zen training necessary to stand in the rain without whining profusely, I didn't bother to ask anyone what was going on, so I've decided to simply assume PrezBo has answered Columbia's collective prayers and hired us a standing defense army of ninjas. Alternatively, Bwog suggests that Columbia Security officers dress in black pyjamas and carry swords. Hi-YA! Update: One more in the know has informed us that the ninjas were actually a bunch of Seido Karate students in their annual Saiten celebration. But close enough. Overheard: "I think it's the class of incoming freshmen." More photos after the jump. 
The Spec website recently underwent a redesign, and Bwog sincerely hopes that it's still a work in progress. Seems like readers so far agree.
No caption necessary. See it full-size.
Last August, Assemblyman Dov Hikind (D-Brooklyn) set off a media shit storm by suggesting that NYPD officers use race as a criterion for "random" bag searches. After being slapped down by the good servicemembers themselves, Hikind is back at it, introducing a bill on Thursday that would permit police officers to arrest people for looking Middle Eastern (as long as race is not the "sole criterion.") OK, politicians pushing racial profiling, not surprising. But scroll down: the justification cites Grutter v. Bollinger, in which the court ruled consideration of race admissible in the case of "compelling government interest." Somewhere, in a beaux-arts brownstone on Morningside Drive, a shaggy haired man named Lee is crying. Thanks to Bwog correspondent J.J.V. Neun for the tip.
One for each picture of you getting drunk, high, or both, conveniently made public thanks to facebook. 
Spec is reporting that Matt Brown and Stephen Searles, of the homophobic and antisemitic graffiti, were slapped on their spray-painting wrists today at their court hearing (this time, they decided to show up). Bwog noticed a few things: - Searles' counselor, Simone Gordon, is a mitigation expert and sensitivity trainer at Yeshiva University, home to the Center for the Jewish Future. L'chaim, Stephen. - In a deal reached outside of court, the duo recieved sensitivity training instead of jail. New York's 2000 Hate Crimes Law contains penalties of up to 20 years in prison and no mention of sensitivity training. Bwog doesn't really know what sensitivity training is, but suspects that it might take the jail time. - You can't really blame Searles for being bigoted. I mean, he's from Montana.
Bwog correspondant Lucie Kroening describes football festivities in Sudetenland in the first of a summer series of dispatches from around the world. Overheard on the loudspeaker at the World of Football complex in front of the Reichstag (also live on the radio): German commentator (in English, with slight accent): Today the USA is playing against the Czech Republic...(mockingly) Where in the world is that? (followed by prolonged snickering) USA vs. Czech, Gelsenkirchen, Germany Final score 0:3 (duh.) A wonderful Freudian slip (this is translated): The Army, I mean, Americans aren't playing so badly! Sorry, that was a textbook Freudian slip. How do you spot an American in Germany? Try the kid in the Virginia Tech hat sitting on the steps of the Reichstag, eating JIF peanut butter out of the can with a spoon. If you find yourself bored in a noteworthy location with internet access this summer, send your dispatch to bwgossip@columbia.edu. Include pictures.
In which Bwog correspondent Josie Swindler relates the quirks of her home state. Ah, Kentucky. Land of red necks and blue collars. Where deer carcasses pepper the highway’s emergency lanes and tobacco plants flap beautifully in a westerly wind. Kentucky has straddled the rifts in America’s national consciousness since before the Civil War; both Abraham Lincoln and Jefferson Davis were born here. It’s not quite the South and it’s not the Midwest. But in 2000 and 2004 it was decidedly W. country. Though the state is split on whether to root for the University of Louisville or University of Kentucky basketball teams, everyone’s a fan of the cellar-dwelling Triple-A Louisville Bats. If on the drive to Louisville Slugger Field, while listening to “today’s best country,” you find yourself too short on cash to pick up a $3 pack of Marlboros, swing by KFC’s national headquarters for a paid taste test. The Bluegrass was busy in May. First, a record crowd watched Barbaro win the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs, poised to take the first Triple Crown in almost 30 years. But when the horse sustained a life-threatening leg break in the Preakness, the state mourned the best way we know how—with homebrews like Jim Beam, Maker’s Mark, and Wild Turkey. Had it been election season, Barbaro’s popularity could have garnered him the Governor’s Office in the quaint capital city of Frankfort; for our Republican governor Ernie Fletcher was indicted in early May on charges of nepotism. A Republican practicing political favoritism? Nah. That’s crazy. Recently, Esquire deemed Kentucky the most stylish state in the nation, the birthplace of a nation-high nine style icons: George Clooney, My Morning Jacket, the Kentucky Derby, Muhammad Ali, Johnny Depp, Hunter S. Thompson, Allan Houston, Chuck Woolery, and Colonel Harland Sanders, may he rest in peace. The issue came out in March, so Kentuckians should hear about it some time in 2009. Whether one likes it or not, whether one flees to the Big Apple or not, a Kentuckian is always a Kentuckian. And whether I buy the bumper sticker or not, it’s true, my ass belongs to the Bluegrass.
Much lore surrounds the Columbia Tunnels, but also much fact, and a tunneling SEAS '01 student--operating under the nom de guerre Benoit--has made his e-mail address availible for those curious about Columbia's subterranean avenues. Bwog staffer Brendan Ballou contacted Benoit nine months ago for his article on another tunneler (and all-around badass) Ken Hechtman, and received a reply this week. Benoit acceded to an interview via e-mail, originally published on Brendan's blog. Brendan: You are on Wikipedia. Benoit: I know, I check from time to time what comes up when you search for "undercolumbia." I don't know who put my e-mail address there, but it wasn't me. It has resulted in the address getting spam, which kind of sucks. Do you and Mr. Hechtman know each other? Not a chance. I'm SEAS '01, Hechtman was at the College in 1986. The guy is around 40 years old now. I've never met nor corresponded with him in any way. How did you become the explorer of the tunnels? I heard about the tunnels just like nearly every incoming student. I didn't start exploring until junior year. I came up with the whole e-mail gimmick; I figured it'd be a nice way to meet fellow tunnelers. And it was. This account was started in September 2000, and maintained until July 2005, throughout which about 150 people wrote in, from students to a few Facilities workers. Like I said, I went dormant in July 2005, but I'm back for the time being. I used to run regular tours, but I don't anymore -- honestly, I just don't have the time. I have a regular career and "full-time life." believe it or not ;-) In the intervening 11 months since July 2005, another 60 or so people have written in. There are a *lot* of fellow tunnelers at Columbia. Did you find what you wanted in your explorations? Are you satisfied? Yes, and yes. I consider myself Egotist #1 when it comes to the Columbia Tunnels, and I like to think that I'll be the biggest name in tunneling at CU for a long time to come ;-) I tried to see as much as I could see. Sadly, a lot of things underground have changed since I graduated. Pupin's 1st floor, which used to be littered with papers and gadgets dating back to the 1940s, was emptied over Summer 2003, for example.
Found in Pupin 222. Thanks to Bwog photographer Sumaiya Ahmed. 
Bwog fan Olivia Gorvy reports from our nation's capital, a humorous happening on the hill. Yesterday was the official Seersucker Thursday on Capitol Hill, a tradition started seven years ago by Sir Trent Lott. Nineteen senators and various aides and interns donned seersucker suits to work. There was an even a huge ice cream social on the lawn in front of the Russell Senate building to celebrate the momentous occasion. Alas, this was quite the politcally correct fashion statement as dems & republicans alike showed off their summer stripes. When asked to comment on those politicians who did not take part in the fashion show, Lott responded that, "They're either chicken or, more likely, they're cheap"
Boxed lunch food units at the main desk in Lerner. Get them before the American cheese...uh...stays itself forever. Sandwiches, chips, and surprisingly firm red apples.
Bwog was so excited upon getting a look at this year's NSOP logo that it couldn't help but share it with the viewing public. We'll spare you the bubbly e-mail it came with.
From Bwog tipster James Williams: Take any typical black columbia email computer. Hold down ctrl + alt + shift + g and right click on the mouse and you get Tetris. Amazing. Someone test this out and let Bwog know if it actually works! Post your high scores and your initials on this thread (or vulgar combinations of letters like at the arcade). 
It seems that the law has caught up with the facebook pervert; that guy who stalked Columbia girls among other New York college students for their naked pictures, claiming he (posing as a she) needed them for a "class project." One of Bwog's tipsters was the unfortunate target of this creepy man: "We did some sleuthing early on and tracked his IP address and location, which we reported to the detectives on campus and with the NYPD. I'm surprised and pleased that they were able to take the investigation a far as they did and actually catch the guy. I can think of no better comeuppance than having his face plastered all over the city, along with the sad revelation that he lives with his parents."
In the beginning, there were three: a libertarian, a conservative, and a socialist who (according to Fed lore) started the Federalist Paper in 1986. Now one of the founding fathers, Neil M. Gorsuch, CC '88 and FiJi frat boy (not the socialist, Bwog surmises) has been nominated to the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals. If he's confirmed, he'd be the youngest member in the federal circuit court system at 39--only about 18 years removed from Columbia's conservative voicebox turned humor rag. Bwog wonders if the nominators are party to Mr. Gorsuch's senior yearbook quote: "The illegal we do immediately, the unconstitutional takes a little longer." - Henry Kissinger, August 29, 1967
Barnard student Lily Perlmutter says: There's a guy out from a labor union with a GIANT blow-up rat with Judith Shapiro's salary plastered everywhere, and signs asking for better wages. The guy is blowing a whistle and shouting, "JUDY! JUDY!" But there isn't a crowd of strikers, just this one guy. Update:A commenter on this thread posted the following e-mail message from Susan Krause, Director of Human Resources at Barnard, about Tuesday's demonstration: We have been informed that the Laborer's Union expects to organize a protest on Broadway outside the Barnard gates on Tuesday morning, June 20, over the College's use of a non-unionized contractor on an improvement project at Elliott Hall. Barnard respects the right of the union to express its viewpoint in this way. College administrators have made the point to union leaders that 95 percent of the capital projects at the College over the last decade totaling $56 million have employed union workers. This is the case, even though Barnard is under no obligation to do so. The project in question is small in scale (under $1 million). The College will continue its policy of being a good neighbor and using union workers on its capital projects, when appropriate.
Barnard student Hannah Baker reports our crumbly hate crimes just keep coming: I discovered possibly another incarnation of the nazi cracker prankster sitting on a police barrier outside of the subway . It was a tupperware container containing what seemed to be melba toast and had written in sharpie on the top a swastika, and what I remember as HOLES FOOD BLACK MAGIC. Bwog wasn't able to snap a photo this time around, so in the interest of calling out fascism in all its forms, please send pictures or accounts to bwgossip@columbia.edu.Photo is of melba toast.
Bwog would not want to be Landon Donovan--or anyone associated with the US Soccer Team--after our boys' 2-1 loss to Ghana yesterday. Sunil was not happy. "This is where the entire world is watching," said the United States Soccer Federation president, with the kid of icy disapproval reserved for those who confuse Lorentz curves with Edgeworth boxes. "This is where you measure yourself. That didn't come out well." Read the full New York Times article here .
Do you like socialism? How about scruffy-looking skinny boys in tight t-shirts with slogans denouncing genocide? Or women with really short haircuts? Then flock to Lerner, where the Center for Economic Research and Social Change and the International Socialist Organization are hosting the conference “Socialism 2006!” (build the left, fight the right). Our beloved student center has exploded in body piercings and social justice as the conference takes over for three whole days! Programs and events stretch into Sunday evening; go and pick up a program for specifics on events such as “The Politics of Blame: Is Bill Cosby Right?” and “Are Prisons Necessary?” If you hurry, you can probably even catch the tail end of the “Party Without Borders: a Night of Beats, Rhymes and Resistance” and a guaranteed good time. One highlight of the conference: Anarchist coffee mugs, on sale for $6 each at the Socialist bookshop set up in Lerner Party Space. That, and the sign requesting volunteers for the conference’s childcare center. Because, apparently, people bring their babies to socialism conferences, despite the fact that they are not welcome at the individual events. That would just be anarchy.
There is a pile of Columbia University Dance Marathon T-shirts at the main desk in Lerner.
Quick! You have exactly 34 minutes to claim one of CUarts' 20 free tickets to Joe's Pub to see "various players" that have "quite a bit of punk -and- jazz cred" among them, tonight. Good luck.
Columbia has just posted its alcohol policy and rules for "pre-game initiatives" at Baker. And guess what? Free beer!* *One cup per person per concession run, up to four concession runs permitted, only if you have two valid forms of ID with birthdate. You may only drink in specified areas during the game, one hour before gametime and one hour after. -Thanks to Rajeev M. A. Patel for the tip
On June 13th, Professor of English and Comparative Literature James Shapiro won the BBC 4 Samuel Johnson Prize for his work, A Year in the Life of William Shakespeare: 1599. Shapiro's tome, a partial biography, details the 35-year old Bard as he works on As You Like It, Julius Caesar, and Hamlet. Herewith, the Bwog plays Boswell to Professor Shapiro, who spoke over the phone from Vermont. Bwog: What was winning the Prize like? Professor James Shapiro: The award ceremony, there's nothing really like it in the States. It’s more like the Academy Awards, by which I mean you’re sitting around with cameras a few feet from your face, ready to register excitement or disappointment. It was something I’ve never seen, that is to say, a literary awards dinner on primetime. Primetime? 9 o’clock on a Thursday night. The BBC. And you were not told beforehand whether you had won? It came as a complete surprise. How has your book been received in England versus the way it was in America? I’m an American, and I write for a lot of literary periodicals here, so it was surprising to me that my book was better received in the UK and Ireland than in the States. Not to say it wasn’t well received here—it was—but the response there was spectacular. I read somewhere that the title of your book is different on each side of the Atlantic. Here, it’s A Year in the Life of William Shakespeare: 1599, whereas over there, it’s 1599: A Year in the Life of William Shakespeare. Yes, this was a choice on the part of the American and English publishers. The reason behind it is that the English have a sense of what the year 1599 means—that’s a date that resonates. I suppose if I’d written a book called 1776, or 1865, or 1944, then it would be fine over here. I think that American readers didn’t care quite as much as readers in the UK about, say, what the English did in Ireland that year or about the East Indian Company. And publishers, who invest a lot of money in a book, have a say. What are your plans this summer? I am in rain-soaked Vermont, watching my son run around here. I do a lot of gardening and stonewall-building. I’m in the process of beginning the next book, which is on the Shakespeare authorship controversy. What made you want to write about that? Well, as I went around on a book tour the last six months or so, everywhere I tried to speak about 1599, and everyone asked whether Shakespeare wrote Shakespeare. And I’m not talking about cranky people, these were serious questions. It seems to me that scholars who just brush off these people haven’t done a good job dealing with what people want to know. And I want to know why some interesting people—Sigmund Freud, Malcolm X, Henry James—why they thought were written by somebody else. Why do you think? It could be notions of class—Shakespeare was not educated in a university—or, Americans just love conspiracy theory. Do you believe Shakespeare wrote the plays attributed to him? Even if I did say that, people would say I have a vested interest in saying that, and that there’s a second level of conspiracy, you know, people paying me to say that. But yes, despite those reservations, I know that Shakespeare wrote Shakespeare. I’m more interested in why people question that. Right, though there still would probably be people who question your motives. Well, I also know the secret handshake of those who are in on the conspiracy.
What's the point, exactly, of throwing a Coney Island-themed party on South lawn, complete with burgers, ice cream, a bounce house, a mini-lighthouse, and singing dogs? One eyewitness characterized it as a "fundraiser thingy," but couldn't figure out what the event this afternoon was trying to raise money for. Maybe just an acknowledgement that most of us won't actually make it out that far on the N, Q, D, or F--next time, can we have a scale model of Aqueduct Race Track? More photos by Sumaiya Ahmed after the jump. 
Torrential rains in central Pennsylvania have forced nearly 200,000 people to evacuate. One intrepid Bwog correspondent reports from a river town in Bucks County, PA: A family of tourists wander down the road onto Main Street, which is almost completely empty except for a few store owners loading their merchandise into moving trucks. The family walks into a store and is prompty shooed out by the owner. Father: You're closed? Store owner: The whole town is closed. We're trying to get ready for a natural disaster. Father: Oh. So there aren't any restaurants open?
Facebook's Prez Bo is now dead. May he rest in peace. -Thanks to Adrian Podpirka for the tip
