Morningside Heights crime wave! We heard reports that there was a car crash, and then that there was a shooting last night on 113th Street between 3-5 AM. There was a car crash and an arrest, but no shooting. We just got off the phone with Public Safety, who told us there was an "altercation" and an arrest made by the 26th Precinct at Campo late last night, and that no one was hurt. We called Campo but the night manager was not at the restaurant. Murky details, but we can confirm that no one was hurt and one arrest was made. Details to follow. Update, 4 PM: McShane confirms that there was an arrest at Campo last night. There was also a separate incident, a car crash, outside the new Book Culture on Broadway and 114th. A commenter below was outside at around 2:30 AM and saw a van "make a U-turn against the light" and crash into a barrier on Broadway. Photo of the accident below. 
Very sad news today: Ajeet Singh Matharu, a History student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, passed away in a car crash in India on July 26th. Beyond Columbia, Ajeet taught 9th, 11th and 12th grade students at the Brooklyn Academy of Science and the Environment. He was also a prominent member of the New York Sikh community. Watch an interview with Ajeet about his teaching here, some words about his life from a friend here, and a video honoring his life here. Bwog sends our deepest condolences to Ajeet's friends and family.
 It's August, and the countdown has begun. School will, one day not so far from today, start again, and you will need new underwear for the new semester. More bad news: we, Columbia's undergraduate population, the very fiber of our school, have failed again in taking steps to increase campus pride, foster any sense of conventional collegiate rah-rah-ness, and to make our return to Alma any easier. Columbia has claimed the #56 slot in Victoria's Secret's PINK "Show Your School Spirit" (via your boldly colored PINK undies) challenge. Luring online shoppers with two models that stand before the slogan "Be True to Your School," PINK has done quite a job at soliciting universities across the nation to participate in an online competition to brand their panties with their school name. In the lead, with 113,523 votes (and female population of 47%) is Johns Hopkins University, followed by Cornell with 100,158. Brown has reared its unconventional behind at number 13 and Princeton is making us shine at 226. Do not be fooled. Petty statistics are not our main concern, as there are already an ample amount of students voting and working to mass-produce undergarments with "CU" (that's Colorado University). That CU has been so successful that PINK encourages its online fans to "Meet Our Campus Reps."  Here's what the CU peer leaders have to say for themselves:Michelle: What is the BEST thing about college right now? The best thing is... living with all my best friends and having the opportunity to meet new people. Describe your PINK style My PINK style is... Wearing a PINK beach cover-up dress with flip flops and a PINK bikini underneath. Caroline: What is the BEST thing about college right now? The best thing is... having the opportunity to meet new people and experience so many great adventures! Describe your PINK style My PINK style is... Colorful and laidback. A bright tee with skinny jeans is my favorite outfit! :) Kaitlyn: What is the BEST thing about college right now? The best thing is... having all my friends close by-there is always something fun going on! Describe your PINK style My PINK style is... laid back with bling, I'm a sucker for a pair of PINK sweats with a sparkly design! Get your shit together, Columbia!
 The Health Department is, as of this summer, requiring that every restaurant in New York display the letter grades they most recently received for cleanliness. This is a nightmare for everyone; it's rare that any restaurant will sneak away with no health violations. The grades will be assigned during the next year, when the Health Department conducts its next rounds of inspections. The grades will be issued as follows: 0-13 points gets an A, 14-27 a B, and 28 and above a C. You know, like Calc II.  This numbered rating system, however, is due to be made more lenient (after all, who cares about burned-out lightbulbs?) before the letter grades are assigned so the correlation between numbers and letters isn't accurate just yet. In the meantime, that Health Department has created a website that lists the violations of every restaurant in the city after their most recent inspection. The results from Morningside are occasionally surprising (Hewitt/John Jay) and generally terrifying (there are mice everywhere). Here's a list of the most popular Columbia restaurants and bars. We note when they were most recently reviewed and pick their most notable violations. Individual links don't work, but if you want to go through every single one of them, go here for 10025 and here for 10027 and start clicking. These restaurants will probably maybe get their shit together in the next year so that they don't get big old fat B's in the window once the next round of inspections starts. We can but pray. As of February 23rd, Deluxe, blissfully, has a mere 5 points for its plumbing (which a friend of Bwog's may be partially accountable for, as she got her pregnancy test stuck in the toilet. Whoops!) Mill Korean has 2 points for plumbing. Brownie's, you are angelic. 0 points as of last September. Vareli and Maoz each have 2 points, Maoz because it does not have an "immersion basket." Noobs! As of January, Koronet has a dazzling, sparkling 4 points for plumbing. The Heights also has 4 for mysterious pesticide use as of January. Law School's Lenfest has 7 for bad toilets as of last November. Cafe East also has 7 as of May for improper cold food storage. Cafe 212 has 8 for inadequate lighting improper "non-food contact surface" construction. So, phew. Last inspected last September. As of last August, Symposium has only 5 points, even though the food sometimes tastes like it has been bathed in chlorine. After a rough 62 violations in June 2009, Campo bounces back with 4. Strokos has 9 violations as of January, one for cold food behind held above 41 ºF. Carleton Lounge in Mudd has 9 as of last December for evidence of mice. As of January, Dinosaur BBQ has 10 for bizarre internal food cooling/heating measures. Ferris Booth gets 12 as of last December for improper cold food storage. Lion's Head gets 11 as of last February. "Evidence of mice or live mice." Now it begins, friends. Thai Market has 14 as of March, for improper cleaning. As of May, Uris gets 14 for improper food surface cleaning. JTS: 15, for evidence of mice as of February. The Diana Cafeteria gets 14 as of April for improper cold food storage and undated or expired milk. Heartbreak: M2M gets 15 as of July, for evidence of mice, improper cleaning, "evidence of flying insects" and "inadequate personal cleanliness." Butler Cafe got 18 in March for the thermometer rule and improper cold food storage. As of June 4th, Ollie's also gets 15 for cold food held above 41 ºF and evidence of mice. La Negrita, or 999, or whatever, has 15 as of July 8th, but no mice! As of June, Taqueria has 17 points (coulda been worse) for cold food held above 41 ºF but no vermin! John Jay Dining Hall, the would-be mother of them all, got 18 last July for evidence of mice, rats and flying insects. As of last September, Columbia Cottage has 21 points for cold food storage and some weird problem with a thermometer. Le Monde was last inspected in April, and got 21 points for spoiled food. Fun fact: Bwog once found a caterpillar in our salad at Le Monde, but they were very nice about it. Cannon's, which the Health Department spells "Gannon's" gets 21 for improper handwashing, a bad bathroom, etc. Last inspected in March. Max Soha has 23 points as of January for mice, flying insects and improper food surface cleaning. Kitchenette got 23 last December for roaches and improper cold food storage. Some actually shocking news: Hewitt has 5 more points than John Jay, clocking in at 23 as of March, for food unprotected from contamination, improper thawing procedures, and improper lighting. Roti Roll, or "Roti Rill" according to the Department, gets a 25 (still not a C, right!) for flying insects and improper cold food storage. Inspected in July. Tom's, last inspected in September 2009, gets 21 for the weird thermometer problem and improper cold food storage. Vine, inspected in March, stores neither hot nor cold food correctly, and gets a 22. As of March, Nussbaum has 23: evidence of mice. Faculty House, fanciest place in the 100-27, gets 25 for evidence of mice and improper storage or usage of sanitized equipment as of March. Havana Central has evidence of mice and spoiled food as of March; 24 points. Inspected in January, 1020 shocks and awes with 22 points for improper handwashing facility/toilet area. Hungarian: 22 points for evidence of mice and rats as of January. We knew Pinkberry was made of weird animals. Well, psych, but it is apparently made of unpasteurized milk, earning it a whopping 30 points. More listings, while we're at it: in the Princeton Review 2011 college listings, Columbia was listed as being in a "great college town." Unclear if that's Morningside Heights or New York, but you make your own guesstimate. The Princeton Review also ranked the Top 20 best college newspapers. Guess who's missing? Update: And we almost forgot Pinnacle—21 points as of February, for evidence of mice, milk improperly dated/expired.
The MTA has no money, but is using its no-money to make these little robot machines called subway indicators all along the 1 line (that's the "red line" to you, Class of 2014) this summer. Until they actually take away Unlimited Metrocards, we're not complaining, because this is a fantastic device that allows you to stop asking "When is the train going to come?" and other questions no one knows the answer to. Existentialism: c'est fini. 
A few things of note happened on campus today. First, a man named Bryan sat in a kiddie pool and splashed around outside Hamilton. Why'd ya do it, Bry? Then, embattled Congressman Charlie Rangel provided the keynote speech at the NYC Economic Development Luncheon in Roone. His speech was entitled "The status of the National Small Business Legislation," but he spoke mostly about Wall Street greed and about the controversy surrounding his 13 ethics violations. Robert Kasdin, Senior Vice President of Columbia, was there too, to talk to small business owners in Harlem about Manhattanville. The audience applauded with each statistic: 6,000 new University jobs, 1,200 construction jobs, and so on. Next, a bunch of campers ran up and down the Lerner ramps sending orange paper airplanes to the lobby. 
Mel's Burger Bar is coming along quite nicely. And more Morningside dining news: Kuti's, a new takeout store on 116th between Morningside and Manhattan Avenues, just got a good review from the Times. Bwog sampled the shrimp piri-piri and it is delicious, and just $7 for a plate of shrimp and two sides. Most dishes are between $5-7.
 Dropping her off at the Barnard admissions office, a mother was overheard yelling to her daughter: "Don't forget to tell them you went to Rwanda!"
Public Safety sent out an alert this morning about two related armed robberies that occurred late last night. On 110th St. between Broadway and Amsterdam, three victims were robbed in two separate incidents around 1:30am. One of the victims was also assaulted and knocked to the ground. The official police description of the suspect is "Male / black / dark complexion / 30’s / 6’ / 300 lbs / stubble on face / red baseball cap / white T shirt / dark pants." There is no word on whether the victims are associated with the university in any way. If you have any information that will be useful to investigators, you are urged to contact the 26 Pct. Detective Squad at 212-678-1318. Full security alert after the jump. On August 8, 2010 at about 1:30 a.m., a male committed two robberies on W. 110 St. between Broadway and Amsterdam Ave. In the first incident, the suspect approached two males, displayed a gun, and took property from one of the victims. In the second incident, a moment later, a female was accosted by the same male, displaying a gun. When the victim resisted, the suspect punched the victim and knocked her to the ground. The victims supplied the following description: Male / black/ dark complexion/ 30’s/ 6’/300 lbs/stubble on face/red baseball cap/white T shirt/dark pants. The suspect fled in a white car which was double parked at the scene. If you have any information about these crimes, contact the 26 Pct. Detective Squad at 212-678-1318. If you observe any suspicious activity, or suspicious persons, call Columbia University Public Safety at 212-854-5555 at the Morningside campus, or 212-305-7979 at the Medical Center campus.
There was a flurry of film crews on and around campus this week, and it looks like some of them are here to stay. So look pretty out there, people... you could wind up in a movie! Top Left: Film crew setting up shooting for Premium Rush starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt. No signs of the man himself yet, but a tipster told us that actor Michael Shannon has been spotted strutting around campus in a suit. And now a commenter informs us Gordon-Levitt has been seen at the 116th subway stop... Quick, break out those cameraphones! This is bigger than Blair! Top Right: Lerner Hall looks conspicuously bare as its banners have been taken down. A notice has been put up saying there will be filming in the building until Sunday, and we can only surmise that these two are related. Start a betting pool with your friends now as to whose mailbox JGL will be filmed in front of. Bottom Left: Flashing lights and people in suits can only mean one thing around here--Law and Order: SVU. Filming took place on 111th St. between Broadway and Riverside. Bottom Right: The Batmobile, outside of Nussbaum. For the remake of Arthur starring Russell Brand. Related: We've also gotten numerous tips that our very own 1020 is featured in a scene in the recent buddy cop comedy movie The Other Guys. According to Bwogger Sam Schube, the bar is "set up as even seedier than a regular cop bar," and stars Mark Wahlberg and Will Ferrell partake in many a 1020 tradition: discharging weapons, biting priests' arms (who, as we all know, are frequent clientele), and of course, urinating off the pool table. Photos by DCS, HEH, HSG, and RV
That's right, Urban Outfitters has officially landed in the Upper West Side--on Broadway near 100th street. It's still above 96th. That means it's close! This is sure to give the 110th-based American Apparel a run for its money in the formerly uncontested onesie/bodysuit market (Playboy Bunny costume sales from Ricky's don't count). But if you were worried about UO's arrival corrupting the serene character of the UWS, never fear! This UO masquerades as four separate storefronts--a hat store, a hardware store, a neighborhood bar, and a bodega. According to Ron Pompei, the creative director of Pompei A.D., the firm that designed the store, "The whole idea was to do this kind of ironic statement of lining the building with storefronts that would be reminiscent of independent businesses. It’s the story about the streets of New York as they once were." Oh, hipsters and their ironic facades (in this case, we mean the architectural ones). Just stick with clever t-shirts and go back to Billyburg.
Great news for fans of ridiculously good looking Republicans--former Massachusetts Governor and 2012 GOP presidential candidate front-runner Mitt Romney will be speaking at Columbia mid-September. Romney will be speaking at the Millennium Campus Conference, a gathering of 1,000 or so student leaders and leading minds for a candid discussion on matters of sustainable international development. Chuck Roberts, CC'12 and executive director of the event, confirms that Romney will speak on "matters relating to global education and volunteerism." "We are expecting some more big names to confirm in the near future," said Roberts. Bwog is just glad to finally have someone other than Jeffrey Sachs headlining a sustainable-anything event on campus (not that we don't love our Sachs, but variety is the spice of life). The Conference will run September 17th-19th, and anyone looking to get in on the action should consider registering now.
The 2011 edition of the US News &amp; World Report's "Best National Colleges" rankings just came out (like, a femtosecond ago), and our humble little university In The City of New York has jumped to 4th place from 8th place last year, putting us right behind Harvard, Princeton, and Yale. The USNWR rankings are arguably the most widely quoted college rankings out there, and we're guessing there's nothing but pure Cristal flowing through Hamilton right now. However, we should note that other rankings have been slowly been released these past few weeks, and Alma Mater did not fare so well in their eyes. Forbes ranked Columbia 13th, the Academic Ranking of World Universities puts us at 8th internationally, and the hodgepodge of rankings over at The Princeton Review puts Columbia in the top 10 lists only for best library (5th) and best college town (1st). I guess you can't win them all. But we'll have a hearty swig of that Cristal now, please. Update: So some of the crazies over at College Confidential believe that USNews miscalculated Stanford's ratings and that it should actually be at #4, leaving us at #5. We don't speak this language but you can investigate for yourself on this nutso thread.
That is great, fresh-faced, American school spirit you're flying there... ΑΔΦ. Didn't it used to be a slightly less patriotic jolly roger?  Bwog ran into ADP's house manager on the street, who could not explain the change in flag, but suspects it may be temporary. 
If you’re one of those types that does nothing over the summer but obsessively check the academic bulletin on the CC website you’ve known about this for a while, but way back in late June the Econ department dropped a bombshell: the introduction of a new “Financial Economics” major replacing Econ-Operations Research. The ostensible rationale behind the change is to spare all the Wall Street-aspiring Econ majors who dream sweet dreams of Lloyd Blankfein from having to worry about things like Rational Choice Theory and welfare economics so they can spend more time worrying about the Black and Scholes formula and corporate accounting (and hopefully bigger checks to the Annual Fund). The major adds a “finance core” to the Econ major and allows electives from a number of departments outside Econ including Math, Stats, IEOR and the B-School. According to Econ Director of Undergrad Studies Susan Elmes, “the department had contemplated adding the major for a number of years due to strong student interest in the subject,” and the final major came about through cooperation with the business school. Additionally, the major is currently “predominantly quantitative,” but Elmes hopes that “over time other departments will offer classes suitable for the major now that there will be a demand for them.” Sociology of Finance, anyone?
 Columbia has been planning an upgrade to Baker Field for months. Those plans have solidified-- sorta-- in the form of a 70-foot aluminum building, reports the New York Times. The building will add to go up within the 26 acres Columbia owns around 218th Street in Inwood, which is even farther uptown than Manhattanville! The new building will provide athletes with more study space for in-between and before practices, as well as office space for coaches. The blueprints were designed by Steven Holl, a professor of Architecture at Columbia. It will be called the Rep. Charlie Rangel Sports &amp; Recreation Facility the Campbell Sports Center. Columbia is expanding, so people are angry. Gail Addiss, an Inwood resident and architect, told the NYT that the Campbell Sports Center will cause "glare" and "more brightness to reflect into people's windows." Other Inwood residents fear that the modern design will clash with the surrounding buildings, clog up traffic, and obscure views. Columbia is also planning a 1-acre marsh between Baker Field and Inwood Hill, along with a boardwalk developed by the same company that created the High Line downtown. Joseph A. Ienuso, executive vice president for facilities at Columbia, combats the traffic argument by reminding Inwood residents that "This isn't Notre Dame. On a good day, 2,000 people come to the game and most of those by subway." Athletes, plebeians, what think you?
In case you guys didn't know, instructors for Core classes that were previously without a professor have been out for a bit now. You can look them up in the Directory or on Courseworks. Protip for NSOPers this week: Take note of your sections and professors! Make friends in your class and gripe about the Iliad before even meeting your instructor; it's the Columbian thing to do. While Core classes are up now, some Bwoggers still have classes that remain professorless. Have all your teachers been announced? Any still anonymous? Let us know in the comments!
 Morningside has food niches vacated and sort-of filled every few years. AmCaf, beloved steak sandwich locale in the early aughts, became a fancy tapas bar that no one you know eats at. The fabled West End became mediocre Havana Central, a shadow of its former Kerouac-hosting, drunk-makeout-and-beer-pong-haven self. You could get full and drunk for less than $20, and sometimes much less, and that's all we really ask for (until Mom and Dad visit-- then it's beet bowls for everyone!) Bwog ate dinner at Mel's Burger Bar last night, and we're delighted to report that you can indeed get full from good food and drunk on good beer for not very much money. Mel's looks great. The floors are black-and-white marbled, there's lots of wood paneling, hanging lamps, red booths, exposed brick, huge chalkboards with beer, food and dessert menus, and six flat-screen TVs showing the Yankee game. The hostess and server were friendly, and the bathrooms spacious and unisex-- ooh la! There are 140 seats, with 18 chairs on an outdoor patio. Bwog and our dining companion sampled two of Mel's punches ($8-9): the Hook, which was a not-too-sweet alcoholic orange juice, and the Haymaker, which was Grey Goose, Bacardi, and some other stuff that got us properly tipsy. There's also a promising-looking "unusual lemonade" with homemade lemonade, Jim Beam, and mint for $8, and a slew of other mixed drinks that aren't as embarassing to order as a vodka cranberry. There are 18 beers on tap ($4-8), 5 cans from PBR ($4) to 21st Amendment Back in Black ($8), and 10 bottles ($5-10). The Southampton White Beer is delicious. The fancy drinks are expensive-ish but strong, the regular beers are roughly 1020-priced. A good way to get a lot of beer: order a 32 oz. or 64 oz. (!) growler to go, from $7-30. There are also stacks of burgers and wings to go. The food is good. For sides, Bwog tried the onion strings, which were thin and crispy and very good, a generous portion of zucchini wedges which were thick and crispy and very good, filling and well-seasoned, and chicken meatballs, also very good, with lots of tomato sauce and some cheese. The meatballs and wedges were also both excellent for breakfast this morning. The Buffalo wings were not quite crispy enough, but spicy and appropriately messy. The entrees were pretty good: the Classic Burger was modeled on the first ever hamburger at Louis' Lunch (which you may have eaten, like Bwog did, after your college visit to Yale, disillusioned but oddly relieved by the experience) which was made with two pieces of white toast instead of a bun. Our bad for ordering a burger on white toast, since the bottom piece got soggy and the burger hard to eat sans bread. Burgers are on buns for a reason. The burger itself, made with Pat LaFrieda beef, was really good, and the soggy toast still made for good solo eating, soaked as it was with burger juice and herbs. The Fall Off the Bone Baby Back Ribs did indeed fall off the bone, and were perfectly sauced, but lacked some crispiness we like with our ribs. Bwog and dining companion suspect that the 6 hr smoked brisket sandwich is the entree to order, along with a regular hamburger (which comes with lettuce, tomato, pickles, and onion). Report back if you try either. Desserts were fantastic: the Red Velvet Whoopie Pie was two thick slices of red velvet cake with icing, whipped cream and chocolate sauce. The Mint Oreo milkshake, thick, with big pieces of Oreo from the extensive shake menu (you can get them spiked or regular) was, in the words of the dairy-enthusiast sitting across from us, "the best milkshake I've ever had in my life." Mel's has a weekend brunch menu with $9 croissant french toast and pancakes, and two omelettes for $11 and $12. Mel's is open until 2 AM Thursday through Saturday nights. There's good soul music and classic rock, and would be good for dancing if tables in the front or back of the house were moved around, Campo-style. We recognized two bartenders from class (Major Debates discussion section &lt;33) and Joyce Jackson, housing goddess, came in to peruse the menu. You'll still want to bring your parents to Kitchenette or Deluxe, but we think Mel's will be good for 1 PM brunch with booze, an 11 PM burger with booze, and onion strings and booze at 1 AM. Mel's officially opens for business tomorrow night at 5. 
The Class of 2014 has begun to trickle in. Bwog extends a warm welcome to the COÖP fresh-people currently spending their first night at Columbia sleeping under the huge Convocation tent on South Lawn. Bwog found COÖP leaders and freshmen in a semi-circle on the lawn this evening, singing "Roar, Lion, Roar" together. One "fearless leader," as his shirt advertised, had a buzzcut with COÖP (sans diaresis) shaved into it. Athletes and RAs are already moved in. Five days till the rest of 2014 shows up, ten days 'till the rest of us move in. Find below the first evidence of life on campus since Commencement. 
NSOP schedules aren't released till tomorrow, but Bwog's been tipped that the 2010 Orientation theme is the Odyssey. You know, like the Core Curriculum, the cornerstone of your Columbia education unless you're in Barnard or SEAS! We cry Columbia-College-centrism, just so you'll stop accusing Bwog of it. We wait with bated breath for the activities such a theme will bring-- a reenactment of the slaying of the suitors? A rendering of Mt Olympus on the dome of Low? Re-live Odysseus' journey to Ithaca on the Lerner ramps? Your new Consent Is Sexy coordinators: Circe and Calypso! 
 Christy Carlson Romano of Kim Possible fame is back at Barnard! She was spotted in the Reslife office today, and is here to finish her degree. Barnard deans have apparently forbidden Barnard OLs from high-fiving first-years as they walk through the Gates yelling and screaming on the first night of college. Columbia and Barnard OLs have gotten some linguistic rules: freshmen are to be referred to as "new students" not "kids"; it's a "residence hall" and not a "dorm." NSOP crew chiefs have been given acronyms to remember what kind of language is appropriate to use when speaking to fresh-people, which makes sense, since in several cases the first-years are a full 7-8 months younger than the OLs themselves. One such acronym: D.O.R.M= Dismal Ordinary Room of Mine Another: R.E.S.I.D.E.N.C.E H.A.L.L= Really Exciting Sensational Individually Designed Enlightened New College Experience that Houses an Abundance of Life and Love Couldn't make this stuff up if we tried. Sleep well, Columbia.
Adjust your bookmarks, tell your friends. Wahoo! 
A new record for old Baby Blue, if that's what that color is. Adam Bazari, a CC’10 Anthropology major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Indonesia.  His prior teaching experience has been focused in hospitals and clinics.  He plans to expand upon these interests by promoting health education in the communities and schools where he lives. Jonathan Blitzer, a CC ’07 English major and Philosophy concentrator has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Spain.  He will be located in Madrid and exploring the legacy of Uruguayan and Argentine writers on the Spanish publishing world. Amanda Erickson, a CC’08 Urban Studies major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Azerbaijan.  As a practiced journalist, she is interested in sharing the English language with high school and college students. Intrigued by the expanding role of young local bloggers and non-profit organizations, she will work outside of the classroom to explore this new generation. Matthew Franks, a CC ’09 English major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship Scholarship to Germany.  Matthew will be placed in a German secondary school where he will instruct his students on English language and American Culture.  Matthew was a previous winner of the Henry Evans Traveling Fellowship which took him to Paris to study design and print-making in the works of Ionesco among others. Alexander Harris-Hertel, a CC’10 German Literature and Cultural History major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.   With a passion for learning and sharing languages, Alex is fluent in Spanish, French, German and Finnish. In addition to teaching English, he plans to volunteer with local outreach organizations to help marginalized communities, Turks in particular, in Germany. Paige Johnson, a CC ’10 Drama and Theater Arts Major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Indonesia.  This opportunity will allow her to teach English to Indonesian students at the secondary level.  While at Columbia, Paige was a recipient of the Mellon-Mays Undergraduate Fellowship. Jamie Johns, a CC’10 History major, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to China in Modern History.  Her research will focus on breast binding – the practice, the movement against it, and the introduction of the brassiere.  She plans to use this topic to explore womanhood and national identity in 20th century China. Alex Jung, a CC’07 Anthropology major, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to South Korea in Anthropology.  His research will be focused in the Jongro, both a financial hub and a traditional Korean neighborhood. He plans to write and uncover the ethnography of one of the most overlooked gay centers in Seoul. Caitlin Lynch, a CC’10 Anthropology major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Brazil.  She will be placed in an advising center or community college removed from the major metropolitan centers. Outside of the classroom, she will work on an ethnographic study on the social role of music in the community. David Nee, a CC ’08 English major, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Austria.  While there, he will be examining the papers and archives of writer Robert Musil.  Since graduation, David has been working as an editor at a publishing house in New York City. Natalie Neumann, a CC ’10 History pre-medical concentrator, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Mongolia.  While in Ulaanbaatar, Natalie will be researching the intersections between traditional, homeopathic and Western medical regimens.  Upon completing her Fulbright, Natalie plans to attend medical school and pursue a career as a doctor. Deysy Ordonez-Arreola, a CC’10 Anthropology major, has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Macau. This opportunity will further her Portuguese and Mandarin skills. She plans to take the Foreign Service Exam and work in the Foreign Services upon her return. Zoe Towns, a CC ’07 Comparative Ethnic Studies major and Creative Writing concentrator, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to the United Kingdom.  While there, she will pursue a Master’s Degree in Public Policy at King’s College London.  Her area of research is on how bail functions in the judicial system.  While at Columbia, Zoe was also the recipient of a Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship. Rachel Vishnepolsky, a CC’10 Math major and English concentrator, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Poland in Philosophy.  She will be investigating the role of intuition in the practices of Mathematics and Logic.  Her study will be based around the work taking place at the unique Lvov-Warsaw School, a Polish intellectual movement in Logic. Emily Wright-Rosenblatt, a CC’08 double major in African-American Studies and English, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Venezuela in Women’s Studies.   She will explore marronage as a method for Afro-Venezuelans to gain political recognition in Barlovento.  She is interested in supporting their efforts to continue the promotion of economic equality and empowerment. General Studies Menachem Kaiser, a GS ’09 Economics-Philosophy major, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to Lithuania.  While there, he will study the current state of Yiddish Studies in the country’s universities and examine its future within Lithuania. *Lusia Zaitseva, a CC’10 double major in Creative Writing and French, was recommended by the IIE National Screening Committee and has been awarded by the French Ministry Teaching Assistant program.  She will to organize writing workshops in order to share her passion for the French language and writing with her students.  Lusia plans to eventually pursue a career in teaching.
 Update, 8/28: Remember that bizarro fire ritual (not this one) they do one night of NSOP? We hear that this year, that's being replaced with a screening of Remember the Titans. Freshmen-in-waiting, break out your day planners...now! The 2010 NSOP Committee released the precious schedule books today, which as always contain more mandatory Orientation activities and suggested socializing opportunities than a rational human being could, should, or would ever pack into a normal week, or, for that matter, a lifetime. The full books are available for Barnard First-Years, Barnard Transfers, CC/SEAS First-Years and Transfers. There is also a CC/SEAS August 29th Schedule for International Students. These are hefty tomes, over 100 pages each, but don't worry, almost half of that's ads. The NSOP Committee has painted this year's books in industrial tones: it's all black, with oddly placed brackets and fonts that your Architecture friends like to talk about. If you want to know where to "stretch it out" with your fellow classmates with an early morning yoga class before a day of walking tours and lectures on college student health concerns, it can be a bit of a daunting task to glean all the information. So let Bwog break it down real easy for you with all the big events you should know: Monday, August 30th: 9 AM-11AM International Students Workshop. Probably a good idea if you want some help with the rather absurd immigration, employment, and banking problems international studies can lead to. 2:30 PM-4 PM Convocation. PrezBo and the Deans want to talk at you for a while. It's a big hoopla. Sidenote, any freshmen who start the band "PrezBo and the Deans" get brownie points. Bwog saw one of our esteemed acapella groups practicing "Roar, Lion, Roar" on the Sundial this afternoon. 4 PM-4:15 PM Family Farewell. That's right, you only get 15 minutes. They're watching. 4:15 PM-5 PM Meet Your Orientation Leaders. They'll tell you more about the events you've already probably read about in this book. 7 PM-8:30 PM Class Act. A little video and skits on life at Columbia. Featuring the Varsity Show, this is always an NSOP gem. Also, this is the exact timing of Barnard's Convocation. 8:30 PM-9:30 PM Barnard's College Night. The Barnard NSOP Committee welcomes new students, shares words of wisdom. Followed from 10 PM-11 PM by Community Night I. 9 PM-11 PM Welcome to the Residential Community. Meet the people you'll live with. Listen to the awkward alcohol spiel. Get drunk! On the Barnard side of Broadway, prefix all subsequent forums and info sessions with Family, and the Bears will be doing it. But Barnardians will say goodbye to their folks at 3:30 PM and meet their OLs at 3:45 PM. Tuesday, August 31st: 9 AM-10:15 AM CC Academic Assembly. Dean Yatrakis, Professor Naeem, and Anna Feuer, CC'11, want you to think the Core is all you imagined it might be. Prof. Naeem is a good speaker, though, so you could do worse. CONCURRENTLY SEAS Academic Assembly. See above, apply SEAS language, and replace speakers for CC with Dean Friedman, Associate Dean McGourty, and company. 10 AM-12 PM Being a Student at Barnard. Meet the deans and learn all about Barnard's expectations of you. Alternative: Watch the Barnard storyline from last year's Vshow. Same thing, right? Barnard will also be cycling OL groups through their Wellness Forum. We at CC envy your health services, so learn to enjoy them. Other such forums throughout the day for Barnardians. 2 PM-4 PM Literature Humanities: The First Class. Professor Christina Christia Mercer gives a broad lecture on the Iliad. She wants you to bring your books. We don't know why. 8 PM-10 PM Barnard's Community Night II. Learn all about the First-Year Focus and community standards. 8:30 PM-10:30 PM Community Night Out. Go out and explore the city with the folks on your floor. Start making a good case now for why you should all go to Queens, because that's the one borough they left out of the walking tours. Seems unfair. Wednesday, September 1st: Various health, student, and career services fairs. Wander around, pick up freebies, read some pamphlets on Health Services and Go Ask Alice! First of the walking tours. 1:30 PM-3 PM Barnard's Charting the Course. First-Year Class Dean Lisa Hollibaugh tries to alleviate your academic fears by describing what your classes will be like. 3 PM-5:30 PM Barnard's Perspectives on Diversity. What it sounds like. Plus, "a live performance of The New Faces of America, a one woman show about what it is like for college students to live and thrive in a multicultural America." All sensitive lessons are best learned through song and dance. 7 PM-10 PM Community Forum. Gather to "celebrate our new community and honor the history of Columbia University." We'd hate to ruin it for you, freshmen friends. You'll have to learn what that means yourselves. Thursday, September 2nd: More academic advising, security forums, Q+As galore. 9:30 AM-11 AM Barnard's Charting the Course. The second edition. Much the same as the first. 11 AM-1 PM Barnard Alumna Book Club Lunch. "Share your thoughts about Mary Beth Keane's The Walking People. Remember to bring your copy of the book so you can delve deeply into discussion!" The alliteration! It burns! Then from 1:30 PM-3:30 PM Keane makes an appearance to read from said book and chit chat with students. 3:30 PM-6 PM Navigating Health Services. First a skit, or rather, "A hilarious look into the lives of first-year students trying to hang out, hook up, and fit in." Followed immediately by Consent 101. SPOILER ALERT: Consent is Sexy. 7 PM-11 PM New York City Event. This year's event? Intrepid Sea, Air, and Space Museum. Peruse the exhibits and dance on the flight deck. Tagline for the event? "It's on a boat." It may be appropriate to ask right now how much of your NSOP experience was dictated by Andy Samberg videos. Friday, September 3rd: Class council information sessions, more events for the international students, and a harbor cruise for Transfer, Visiting, and Combined Plan students. Because it is necessary they be able to spot each other. Also, information on an Iftar and a Shabbat dinner, if you are so inclined. 12 PM-1 PM, or 1 PM-2 PM eBear Essentials. Dean Hollibaugh explains how the Internet works. Finally! 2 PM-4 PM Barnard Commuter Social - "Mocktails" on the Roof. Because mocktails had to enter into NSOP somewhere. But it's a good chance for Barnard students to get onto the roof of the Diana Center. 9 PM-11 PM Open Mic Night. All acts are welcome, but the NSOP Committee specifically notes "dancing to ukulele to interpretive baking." Okay. Who's gonna cook and eat a bread bed onstage? We'd go to see that! Saturday, September 4th: Walking tours, walking tours, walking tours! Also, Transfer, Visiting and Combined Plan students get to go and see The Lion King. But the tickets still cost $20. Note: The one walking tour that goes to Brooklyn is in Park Slope. That's probably where you'll live in 4 years! 5 PM-7 PM Chillin' and Grillin'. OMG we're droppin' Gs left and right! Actually, this is an introduction to Greek Life. 5:30 PM-7:30 PM Barnard Commuter Night in NYC. Apparently "It's a surprise!" So your guess: as good as ours. Sunday, September 5th: 9:30 AM-6:30 PM Meet and Greets. Come say hi to us! And the other student clubs. Yeah, them too, sure. Oh, and guess what? More walking tours! 7:30 PM-10:30 PM Performance Showcase. A potpourri of all that sings, dances, makes dramatic faces, or anything of that sort, on campus. Monday, September 6th: Even. More. Walking. Tours. 8 PM-12 AM Welcome to JJ's Place. The schedule also calls it "JJ's Freedom Festival." We recommend you go in woad and quote "Braveheart" all night long. Freedom! Also, remember that your meal plans kick in on September 1st.
 Holy smokes 2014, you're going to college tomorrow! Let Bwog help you pack. International and West Coast kids are already on campus-- take advantage of your Bed, Bath and Beyond trip! Making friends is stressful. Exhale, friends. With a few simple tchotchkes, your classmates and your floormates will flock to your room, you can talk about what TV shows you all like, and soon you'll be more in style than an umbrella at graduation. Some ideas: Popcorn Popper Having screenings for your friends of movies you downloaded illegally is cool and all, but think of how much cooler it would be if you could serve hot, fresh popcorn while you watched (none of that JiffyPop shit). College students LOVE free food, and they will love you if you give it to them. Electroman Power Strip You’re going to need a power strip at college, so why not make it a cute power strip? Peers with electronic devices will be drawn to your room (more specifically, to your wall outlet) like moths to a flame. Now no one can turn down your room invitation with “I can’t, I have to go charge my phone.” iPhone Karaoke Software The best way to make floormates into long-term friends is to coerce them into singing bad music in front of a large crowd of people. Then you can make a Facebook album before your high school friends make one of their new college friends. Sno-Cone Machine Everyone loves summer, and nothing says summer quite like a Sno-Cone. Bring everyone back into summer mode with your own special Sno-Cone machine—Charlie Brown-themed, no less. Maybe hide during fire drills. Miniature Air Hockey Table Your room will be the party room once it has an air hockey table. This table is small, so it doesn’t take up too much space, but it’s still cool enough that all of your athlete friends will want to come over and play. And athletes are always popular, so by extension, you’ll become popular, too. Desktop Ping-Pong Set Transform your desk into a ping-pong table and have a championship without even leaving your room. Your desk isn’t really good for anything else, is it? Special bonus feature: the ping-pong ball can double as a beer pong ball. The best reassuring news you'll hear all week: beer pong never goes out of style. DIY points: you can also always just unscrew your closet door. Not a cute implement, but a useful one: the Power Sentry has 5 outlets instead of 4.
The Container Store is still open; return your stupid storage boxes today! If you're anything like us, you're spending hours researching and cross-referencing lists of things to take to school.  Living in the storage closets that are Columbia dorms presents its own special challenges, however, so we've compiled a list of the things we Bwog editors forgot when we came to school for the first time, as well as a few things that the more ambitious will take but never need. The Forgotten: Earplugs &amp; eye shades.  You might think you're a deep sleeper but nothing's louder than your roommate's frantic term paper typing at 3 a.m. Shower slippers &amp; caddy. Your dungeon-like bathroom will be shared by no fewer than four people. You'll want to let as little as possible touch those grimy tiles.  While you're at it, don't forget the antibacterial hand soap to wash away all those germs you got taking a shower. Trash can &amp; trash bags. Some rooms come with them, but even if they do, you're going to have more garbage than you know what to do with. Plastic bags from Westside will also suffice. Disinfectant spray, paper towels, &amp; mini-vac. New York is dusty and men are hairy.  You may have checked "neat" on the roommate preference form but remember that the slobs did, too. Rain boots &amp; umbrella. Manhattan is miserable in the rain.  Your sneakers don't stand a chance.' Ethernet cable, extension cords, &amp; power strips. Seriously, no one thinks to bring an Ethernet cable.  Enterprising students have been known to traipse through freshmen dorms selling bookstore cables at a large markup. Bring one 50 feet or greater in length and you'll be set for four years. Packing tape, painter's tape, Scotch tape, &amp; duct tape. For boxes, posters, papers, and roommates, respectively. Stapler, scissors, hole punch, ruler. Never ever lend your stapler out because you'll never see it again. Extra sheets, drying rack, &amp; two hampers. You'll be wanting to dry some things in your room instead of sacrificing them to Mac Gray.  In addition, keep an extra hamper (or basket) for bringing your clean laundry back to your room.  As for the sheets, someone will throw up on them one night right before you go to bed (we promise!) so it's handy to have an extra set. Electric kettle &amp; weekend-sized suitcase. Ramen and tea will soothe the soul and the suitcase can be your weekend escape.  Or you'll just be looking for a way to transport your books to Butler, a tried and true finals tactic. The Unused: Clock.  Trust your cell phone to give you a sense of time when you've lost your own. Organizational goodies like hanging wire cubes, crates, and cubbies.  There's no room in the tiny dorms we're confined to for these. At most, you might find plastic under-bed boxes useful. Don't get swallowed by the Container Store black hole. Iron. C'mon, Mom. Either fold your laundry when it's fresh out of the dryer or don't wear things that wrinkle.  For those few occasions when you just have to put a crease in your pants, there's always that one kid on your floor who has everything. Robe. College life isn't luxurious and everyone's used to moderately naked people.  Hone your towel skills and maybe spend your money on a Slanket/Snuggie instead. 
The NSOP 2010 theme has, we hear, been altered. Instead of The Odyssey, our NSOP spies inform us that it's...2001, uh, make that 2010: A Space Odyssey. Apparently, much distress was caused by Bwog's call of CC-centrism. Despite the fact that the NSOP t-shirts and NSOP schedule books seem to be dominated by the theme of birds (white, Classical-looking birds on the shirts, and black, Twitter-looking birds in the books) and not by apes, or the future, or science fiction, or aliens, or the dawn of mankind, or anything remotely related to the Kubrick 1968 film, this is your new theme. In short, this year's NSOP theme is nothing. NSOP committee friends-- we were joking! It's okay! Everything is going to be fine! The Odyssey is a famous book even if you're an engineer. Or, as one erudite Bwogger (in SEAS) put it this morning, "I mean, who hasn't read Homer, anyway?!" Two other new NSOP treats: Consent is Sexy is no more. It's now the more literal "Keep Sex Sexy." Coordinators get "Keeping Sex Sexy" shirts-- gimme! OLs can also be graded by their groups on the NSOP website; the two OLs with the best reviews get tickets to the Lion King. Update: So we'll get the scoop from NSOP now, but in the meantime, there is an actual 2010: Odyssey Two book. A clip from Convocation, new-theme style: 
 NSOP week will be hot! Waiting for 45 minutes for a John Jay elevator to take you, your mom and your mini-fridge to the 12th floor is going to be no fun anytime after noon tomorrow. And make sure you don't get one of those awkward Convocation seats in the sun. See you bright and early!
International and West Coast freshmen moved in today, campus was calm in the afternoon. Tomorrow, it will be 95 degrees and absolutely insane. Two scenes from the last quiet Sunday till winter break: 
In October 2003 (before Bwog was even a word!), The Blue &amp; White made a long list of advice for freshmen. We'll give you slices of that advice every morning of NSOP, so you can start your day with confidence and finesse and one of those good chocolate chip muffins from John Jay, plus hash browns if yer reeeal lucky. Check back here every morning for our first offering of sage NSOP advice for the day, plus a bunch of other NSOP stuff. These words of wisdom are to be taken with several truckloads of salt. We're here for you, 2014! Don’t go to Wien. Don’t ever go to Wien. Think of Wien as Columbia’s very own Third World country, a place infested with rodents (we assume), unreliable utilities (for certain), undrinkable water (don’t be fooled by the dorm room sinks), and inedible food (before Wien’s Taco Bell was condemned, botulism- flavored tortillas were the most popular item on the food court’s menu). Frankly, if you have to meet an friend who lives in Wien, please, for goodness sake, ask him or her to meet you somewhere else (and avoid shaking hands). In sum, don’t go to Wien... Don’t EVER go to Wien. Nighttime is indeed the right time. When you find out what for, let us know. Undoubtedly, freshman year presents a wonderful opportunity for first-years to make friends. However, it also happens to be a time when friends are lost. For example, shortly after winter break, there will be murmurings of an upcoming registration period for the housing lottery. Suddenly, all Columbia students, save for the seniors, are thrust into a state of panic, and lose sleep contemplating questions like, “Who will I live with next year?” and “Whose feelings are going to be hurt?” In this situation, the best advice the B&amp;W can offer a young worrywart is to practice damage control. In other words, it’s never to early to start alienating certain friends and sucking up to others. 
Behold your dorm room. It’s—It’s—It’s—nice?? Don’t be too disappointed. You’ll stain it too and make it your own. (Fun fact: JJ11 has a tainted legacy. One past resident drunkenly shat on the floor.) Anywho, college may be your first time living on your own, so you probably have some questions. We’re here to help. In times of trouble, Bwog will be your proverbial Jewish Granny, feeding you sage wisdom and literally telling you where to find free food. Dear Bwog, How should I configure my John Jay room to maximize space and look pretty? Sincerely, Befuddled in the Bedroom Dear Befuddled, Your new JJ pad presents two options. First, you could position your bed against the window. This will open up your room, making it seem less like a narrow cell. However, you will lose about a foot of space. John Jay rooms have these awkward protruding corners that prevent your bed from lying flush against the back wall. But, this newly created gap between the window and your bed is not completely useless: it accommodates a narrow nightstand. Another option is to arrange your bed against the right or left wall. Don’t put your bed under wall with shelves. “But I won’t hit my head,” you say. “And it’s partially hidden behind the closet diminishing the visual weight of the bed itself”…or maybe you don’t say that. The point is if you’re lucky enough to have someone else in your bed, he/ she will hit his/her head. So for the good of your one-night stand, don’t put your bed against the wall with shelves. Go configure your crib! Love, Bwog
Orientation has begun! A few highlights from the morning: An OL helping a freshman move pulled a taxidermied rodent out of the trunk of a car. Overheard at the Chastity Belt gate at Barnard, mother to daughter: "stand in front of the gate! Smile! Pretend you're happy!" An OL opened the door to a car, activating the ceiling light. However, a strange mixture of heat and whatever science powers such devices contrived to explode the light, sending sparks down onto a memory foam pillow. Apparently these are highly flammable. And the stench of burning memory foam is the most horrible thing known to NSOP. The burning memory foam was then dumped in one of the Low Plaza fountains. Most people we've talked to today have heard of the incident; one mom said it smelled like chicken. Another OL reports that she saw Steven Spielberg loitering outside John Jay. DSpar was hanging out outside Barnard Hall, wearing white jeans, cork heels and hugging people. Dean Blank (Dean of Studies at Barnard) was heard telling a group of OLs: "Orientation is a time of rebirth and renewal." At the same meeting, another dean told the OLs to cross their arms. They did. Then he told them to switch arms and fold them again. "See how uncomfortable that is?" he asked the group, "that's how new students feel." Reprimand your OL if you see her (or him! Hey, we've got all kinds!) wearing a skirt shorter than where her fingers fall when she puts her hands at her sides. Also, no rolling of the NSOP tshirt. A frat boy approached his friend, an OL and fellow member of his frat. "Have you seen any handsome ones?" Frat boy #1 whispered to Frat boy #2. An OL unpacked four large boxes filled with individual Cheetos bags and Chex Mix bags. There's a Fairway booth at the registration tent with snack packs and Sour Patch Kids. There's a food spread in Van Am Quad (i.e. in front of Hartley and Wallach) with three different kinds of apples. There's a incredibly strange playlist booming from College Walk for all to hear. Some of the strangest: A Schoolhouse Rock ditty: "The Tale of Mr. Morton," Stevie Wonder's "Sir Duke," some classical Chinese music, some Uzbek (we believe) folk music from the Steppe, a Moby song. At 12:23, they started playing "You Can't Always Get What You Want," then cut it off, then all the music stopped. At a trip to Bed, Bath and Beyond yesterday, the bus was so crammed with goods that the smallest OL in the group was asked to crawl into the cargo space at the bottom of the bus and pass out rugs, lamps, and such. We caught up with an award-winning RA (seriously) who told us he was avoiding parents today. His advice to RAs: your job is to make sure the residents are having fun safely, not to get them in trouble. Amen! He recounted his first day of NSOP three years ago: he and his father got in a big fight about a mini-fridge, and then accused his dad of dropping him on his head as a child. We heard a freshman complain to another freshman: "I'm so annoyed that the Orientation theme is the Odyssey. I'm in SEAS!" An OL accidentally rolled a moving bin over her toe. She lost her entire toenail. Moving is dangerous. Send us your NSOP pictures, overheards, and stories to tips@bwog.com.
Dear Bwog, Is it acceptable to hang my super hot poster of Jenna Haze’s ass crack on my wall? ~Bro Dear Bro, Please, no naked chicks. There’s really no need to splash your horniness all over your walls. It’s college! Go tap the real thing. But this isn’t just a heteronormative gendered issue. (Fun fact: the default answer in all University Writing discussions is “gender is a social construct!”) Edward pics are off limits too. Those tear-out Cosmo Girl posters were acceptable at sleep away camp, but you’re a Cosmopolitan woman now.
 Orientation Day One is hardly over yet—there's still Class Act to see, Gates to run through, and high fives not to give. Here are some scenes from the first eight hours of this long trek of a day. 2014, you kids look good out there. Welcome! Pictures and video of Day One to come. Send us your first night stories and pictures! We caught up with some Sex is Sexy coordinators, who showed us their shirts (black and red!) and their badges. Each Sex is Sexy group has a name. Some of our favorites: Consent Builders, No Means No, Yes Means Yes, (VAMPIRE WEEKEND) and Consensual Seduction. Convocation was what it always is: hot, too long, and actually pretty sweet. Kevin "Kev" Shollenberger began his speech by telling the audience they should "be grateful you don't have to wear a black polyester robe today." We learned that there were 159 flags represented at the Convocation march, and that the Class of 2014 comes from 48 different states, and 52 different countries. Cliff Massey Kevin Magos, CC ’12 and NSOP maestro, took the stage next, and talked about Columbia as home. Borrowing our favorite 7th grade strategy for rushed papers, he quoted the Merriam Webster dictionary's definition of home to give us a better sense of what Columbia as home means. Then he quoted Ms. Frizzle and redeemed himself: "it's time to take chances, make mistakes, and get messy." The alum speaker, president of the SEAS Alumni Foundation, brandished his original Columbia ID card during his speech. Feniosky Peña-Mora and MiMoo were both truly adorable as usual. Peña-Mora introducing MiMoo: "you might say this marks the beginning of our sophomore year together." MiMoo and PrezBo both gave genuinely good speeches, rare for Convocation. It's the first time Bwog has heard Columbia administrators talk about ideas like learning for the simple joy of learning, and using college as a time, as PrezBo said, when you can be "single-minded about learning." Another PrezBo gem, speaking for the old folk: "For us, it's not 'been there, done that,' it's been there, and would do it again in a heartbeat." Overheard on the line to the cookout on Low Plaza: An OL to his group: "Do you want to keep consent sexy?" Fresh-person with foreign accent: "Oh, I'm bringing sexy back!" A parent asked an OL if there were bedbugs in Columbia dorms, because she read it about it "in the news." 
Deans marched, ice was broken. PrezBo close-up alert! 
 Tonight is the most important night of your life, the first night of college. You'll probably do something sort of fun. Here's what some of your elders did their first nights at Columbia. It gets much better from here. Don't throw up! NB: Not every Bwog post has bullet points. When I got here I was alone and I hadn't slept in something like 72 hours, and hadn't eaten in just under a day, so I stumbled around for quite a bit, going through check-in, unpacked, and then spent the next ten hours walking these huge circuits around Morningside Heights, coming back up the John Jay stairs to the 9th floor and back down in the heat maybe twenty times, before finally tiring myself out and passing out for half a day. My first night of college I got drunk in Carman then went downtown and got high. I could have skipped the first part. An international student, I moved in a day early. A number of us—students from Canada and Kenya and China—went for a long walk in the summer evening down Broadway, up Amsterdam. We talked about politics and America and things we hadn't expected to happen in the past seven hours, and travels and family and what languages we spoke and what languages we wished we spoke back home and. (Home, no matter where you come from, feels very far away if the people around you are not using the metric system, and say, 'zee,' and correct you if you ask for the "washroom.") Later that night I sat out by myself on the balcony of my John Jay room (I found out the night afterwards I wasn't supposed to), looking northwards to campus and southwards to the city. I fell asleep in a strange bed. I spent the first night talking to one of the girls on my floor—she's been my roommate and/or suitemate every year following. Some other floor members wandered in and out, and at one point someone told us they were going to a party and promised beer if we attended. We both declined, and as rising seniors neither of us has been to a frat party yet. I went to school with Mono and Lyme Disease, so not only could I not drink, but I was so exhausted that I slept through most of NSOP. I remember few things from that week. Word of advice to freshmen: beer pong is an evil, disease-spreading game. Although my beer pong skills may have been at their prime for my entry into college life, I could not use them and thus lost them. However, I was unaware of this, and bragged about how skilled I was. Imagine how unimpressed my highly skilled friends were when I played for the first time in months! Embarassing. Haven't touched the pong ball since. My 18th birthday fell on the second day of orientation and I had this brilliant idea to take a shot for every year of my life. Then I went to a COOP party and danced like a hooligan. I think this was the night my RA dubbed me and my friend The Mischevious Ones. Don't remember much else. I went to a frat (pretty sure it was Beta) party my first night. The few college parties I've been to before that were strict on letting guys in without girls so I went with this one NSOP friend who I convinced to drag along like a good chunk of her Carman floor with me. I remember going up to the steps being like "hey, I've got GIRLS!" or something. They didn't care. Probably cared more about guys actually, for recruiting. Anyways, afterwards I went with a few NSOP friends and walked (walked!) all the way down to 90th St. or so and back drunkenly. Needless to say, I hardly interacted with anybody in this story again. Shows how far NSOP goes. We started the night by using the beer pong table we stole from campus the night before. Stealing that table was a story all in itself because we ended up walking into Carman around 3 at night, bloodied up and hammered. God knows how we got by the security guard. That story, however, will not be explained because the current story ends much worse. So back to beer pong. I had filled up a camel-bak with around 8 shots, 2 monsters and some gatorade. With that gone, I was pretty drunk but wanted to play beer pong anyway. Many patrons from our floor and floor 12 came in to to compete in the awesomeness known as beer pong.  A few games and Bon Jovi songs later, we got written up. I poured out most of the booze, but then tried denying the giant plastic jug of vodka behind my back that I was trying (read: badly trying) to hide. Upset with Sgt. Buzzkill of the 12th floor, we decided to go to Pike's beach party. I don't really remember much of the short trip there, but next thing I know I have a drink in my hand and I'm ready to go. The next memory is me allowing people to line up and five-star my back as hard as they could. From there on out, there is nothing that I remember though it has been told to me from multiple people. I was apparently launched from Pike by the frat boys because I lined up in a corner and bull charged (with my head down) the whole crowd of people. My next memory is the wake up the next day. I awoke in my bed in quite an unusual state: still drunk, swimsuit only, broken phone, bed soaked in some kind of liquid and a peeled banana smashed all over my ass crack. Apparently my roommate's friend thought it would be funny to peel a banana and smash it under my suit. 
 This morning, your Blue &amp; White advice comes from the 19th century. “In conclusion let a word of warning be given to all who are about to begin their work in the School of Mines. Whatever course you may select, stick to it. Every one is good, and if you desire success after graduation remember that 'ability is the measure of success and salary.'” —From “Advice to Mines Freshmen,” The Blue and White, Vol. III No. I (1892) "Our advice to newcomers and those of old who may need it, is to enter thoroughly into the spirit of the system now established here. If they are unfamiliar with the best manner of doing this, the instructors will only be too glad to put them in the way of it. To all who will act in reasonable accordance with these principles The Blue and White extends a welcome free from foreboding.”—From “Advice to Freshmen,” The Blue and White, Vol. III No. I (1892) 
 For CC ’14er Gabby Beans, last night's Class Act was a welcome opportunity to, as the 75-page NSOP manual put it, "sit back, relax, and enjoy." But she found that difficult to do with a thousand little kazoos buzzing in her ears, and the sounds of Michael Bublé inexplicably wafting over the freshpeople-packed room. Her report follows. PS: Write for us! Go to events and tell us what you see! Take pictures, help us with layout, hang out with us, do anything you're good at. contribute@bwog.com. After being herded in to Roone Arledge Auditorium like the bright-eyed freshman cattle we undoubtedly are, I encountered, alongside he more conventional event program, and a sporting event calendar, a miniature kazoo. That little kazoo foreshadowed the surreality of what lay ahead. The performance began with a slideshow featuring a quiz about Columbia and Barnard’s history: SEAS was the "School of Mines", etc.. Next they dimmed the lights for another slideshow filled with more of that "important" information. I think it’s safe to say that maybe two of our class of over 1,600 actually read this info, as the combination of Michael Buble and the incessant cheering of OLs was not conducive to attentiveness. The program continued with a skit involving Alma Mater on the phone with Dean Shollenberger. Next followed a surprisingly enjoyable and well-made 50’s style NSOP PSA video. In addition to providing “real talk” about what we new kids can expect from our NSOP experience filtered through a kitschy, “Leave it to Beaver”-esque lens, there was excellent use of the word “willikers." Things only got stranger from then on. (New!) Basketball Coach Kyle Smith performed what he called “a little 1989 diddy from Public Enemy” and Justin Ifill, CC’06 and Vice President of the Columbia College Young Alumni, beatboxed with alarming proficiency. However, the highlight of the event, the Varsity Show presentation,  truly engaged the audience. Highlights included the opening dance-number replete with admissions letter envelopes and a skit about RAs. Although enjoyable, I found the number involving the boy in love with his phone slightly foreboding (Editor's note: ROLM phone skit-- a Class Act favorite for years! Columbia's ROLM phones were also featured on This American Life, hosted by Ira Glass). Hopefully in the next week, none of us will be so lonely as to look to an automated voice messaging system for love and attention. The program concluded with a presentation of the class banners and a procession of the new students down Broadway through the 116th street Gates. The procession meant parading past manic OLs, disgruntled Morningside Heights residents, CUMB, and an especially spirited dude with a killer Jamaican accent. Even though the OLs seemed genuinely psychotic, I would be lying if I said that it didn’t make me happy to see people so excited for our entry to Columbia. Mr. Ifill said that “before the cyclone begins make time for some fun.” Class Act was bizarre, but it was most definitely fun. Who knows, maybe next year I’ll be one of those orange clad-maniacs. 
 Nino Rekhviashvili, BC ’14, participated in a large and fire-hazardous ceremony at Barnard Convocation last night. She reports here. If you'd like to contribute to Bwog, please email us at contribute@bwog.com! At 7:00 PM, hundreds of freshly moved-in first year Barnard women wearily congregated in Barnard Hall for Convocation. DSpar, maestro of ceremonies, reminded fresh-faced Barnardians of Millicent McIntosh’s 1950 mantra, “You can have it all.” Then DSpar channeled her inner Spiderman, noting that with great power , comes great responsibility. “You can have anything, but not everything,” she said. We were entertained next by a slideshow of celebrity alum (Miranda! Soon-t0-be graduated Kim Possible! Joan Rivers! The omnipresent Anna Quindlen!)  Soon after, candles were distributed and the entire room was glowing as students passed candles around. Cheers, and congratulations ladies!
 Dear Bwog, It’s fucking hot. ~Sweat Bead Dearest Sweat Bead, Bwog suffers from an acute case of back of the knee sweat. Every step feels sticky. So, we feel your pain. The good news is that NYC cools off by the end of the month. In the meantime, put your refrigerator to good use. Girls, refrigerate your bras. It really minimizes your cleavage sweat problem. If you don’t want your undergarments to smell like 40s, try freezing a spoon. Press it on your eyelids and the underside of your wrists to cool off. And finally, wear fewer clothes. It’s NSOP so they’re going to come off soon anyway. Love, Bwog
Bwog spent thirteen hours at Orientation yesterday. Here's some of what we found. (Hey Housing! We love you very much, wanna let us move in early?) 
If you don't have a fake ID today and plan on going to a bar in New York City that isn't a teen club  you should get one tomorrow morning. Below, tales of stories of Bwoggers' first fakes. Hi, Mom! I got my first fake ID in the parking lot of a Ross Department Store in downtown Los Angeles, it said I had "blonde" eyes. A merciless club bouncer took it away in Savannah, Georgia. I got my first fake when I was vising my sister at Columbia when she was a freshman. It worked beautifully for three years until one day on a skiing trip to Hunter, I lost my wallet and someone turned it in to the Lost &amp; Found. Before giving my wallet back to me, the security guy asked me when my birthday was, so I told him. He then took out my fake and told me that I was committing a felony. He said he'd call the cops on me if he let me have it back. Toronto's Yonge Street presents, for a few blocks, a slew of greasy basement shops cramped underneath the strip clubs and sports bars at street level. Several of these advertise: "$25! Best Fake ID In Town!" I picked my first up during Toronto LGBTQ Pride 2009. It's perfect, although it looks only about as good as you could expect for the cost: in Toronto they see that it's a Quebec ID and ask me only si je parle français (I do), while in New York they see that it's in French and give up trying to read it. I (wisely) skipped my Frontiers lecture winter of freshman year to get my fake. It was freezing cold and raining/snowing, and when my friend and I first got to , the place was closed for lunch. We wandered around in the cold for hours, but the first ID they made misspelled my last name. Identity-fraud wary and proud of my semi-anglo last name, I insisted the guy make me another one with my name properly spelled. Two Maine IDs for the price of one. I went to International to pick up a party-size bottle of Smirnoff, feeling like I knew what was up and how to play it cool – I mean I grew up in Brooklyn and I had my fake for like almost a whole year. When I got to the front of the line, said bottle of sminoroff in hand, the guy asked to see my id, so I – cool as cucumber – pulled out my trusty Delaware State id card – a non scan-able piece of junk I bought for $65 on Eighth Street in NYU land two summers previous.  The back of the card actually read “THIS IS NOT A TRANSFERABLE ID CARD.”  But hey, it worked – I mean most of the time.  And I never even learned my address in Delaware. Things continued to go smoothly, the guy did the usual glance at the card, glance at you thing, handed it back and began to ring up the vodka.  I pulled out my credit card and handed to him.  He looked at it. “This isn’t the name on your id.” My fake id had my first and last name on it and the credit card had my mother’s first and maiden name on it. “What is this?” “It’s my mom’s credit card! I promise!” “It doesn’t matter whose it is –it’s illegal to use someone else’s credit card, did you know that? Be careful next time,” He said handing back the credit card. "Crestfallen, humiliated and sure my night was ruined, I re-opened my wallet. “Hey, um, can I pay with cash then?” He paused for a half second, then shrugged “Sure.” So an early lesson in Morningside: International is tough on credit cards, lax on ids. 
Scraps from Day Two. Fresh-people, keep sending us those tips: tips@bwog.com! One freshman writes: John Jay was completely packed, with freshmen spilling out onto every available seat outside, especially the lawn. This was a prime moment for Housing to turn on the sprinklers and completely hose everyone. Also in attendance were WKCR volunteers, first trying to drum up support, and then frantically scrambling to save their records from water damage. Another SEAS fresh-person sent us a picture of the SEAS 2014 beanies, and expressed her pride that SEAS kids could sport their new hats while they studied for the Chem placement exam (and their CC counterparts took their first Lit Hum class in Roone.) 
More advice from old-school Blue &amp; White! Listen and learn! Stop drop and roll! Take Art and Music Hum as soon as possible. The further in debt this top-notch education puts you, the more difficult it will be to sit through hours of bull. The topical discussions will rarely satisfy the interested student. That leaves a room full of dissatisfied or disinterested students, who are sitting in the dark, often times literally. Yes, there are excellent sections of these classes, sections taught by the most competent grad students and learned professors. But, good luck finding one of those on a long list of “instructor TBA.” Here at Columbia, there is a well-known fact that, if no other sense of spirit or cohesion pervades our campus, we can all be united in whining. In many instances, the ability to offer a complaint will serve you well as a social lubricant. Here are a few key grumbles The Blue and White suggests you commit to memory: “When will those clowns at the Spec learn how to copy edit?” “I had forgotten we have a football team.” “Those Lerner ramps are a big waste of space.” “You actually eat the John Jay hamburgers?” “Man, I didn’t realize that advising sucks so much.” “My Lit Hum professor blows.” If you arrived at Columbia hoping you’d be able to retain and then marry your significant other from high school, think again. For the gentlemen, College is the one shining moment to sow wild oats and bask in the delicious rays of sexual irresponsibility. For the ladies, we’re truly sorry, but your boyfriend is cheating on you. 
 When 2 o'clock rolled around today, it was finally time for the Class of 2014 to close the Iliad (or at the very least close the Sparknotes tab in their browsers), and trudge off to the Literature Humanities lecture with Professor Christia Mercer. Emma Stein, CC ’14, was on hand to share the fun with everyone left out by this CC-centrismfest. During the non-stop fun that is NSOP (well, aside from those pesky "required" diversity seminars), students understandably were not thrilled with the prospect of sitting in a class of 1,400 for two hours, though some JJers expressed relief at the prospect of AC. Many came with cell phones brandished, ready to combat boredom with more force than Achilles used to desecrate Hektor’s corpse. But these preparations were unnecessary. Mercer anticipated the freshmen's need for humor (and in particular, humor induced through gratuitous amounts of nudity). This, she was willing to provide, grabbing the attention of the girls (and guys too), with photos of Orlando Bloom's abs (when he played Paris in “Troy”) that she promised were "clearer on computer." After finishing up her lecture on key points in the Iliad and some crucial questions, she moved on to a discussion phase that even she acknowledged might be a bad idea. Students talked amongst themselves (with surprisingly limited chaos or diversion) and afterwards shared their thoughts with the class, bravely standing up in front of 1,400 of their closest friends. Some fumblings ensued, but Mercer applauded all. Delighting everyone perhaps even more than the abs did, the program ended thirty minutes ahead of schedule.
Dear Bwog, I got locked out of my room after showering. Again. With running mascara rivaling the Corpse Bride, I trudged down to the Hospitality Desk. That’s the fifth time this week. This has got to stop. Frustrated, Tim Burton Extra Dear Tim Burton Extra, We promise the Hospitality folks are unfazed. They’ve probs seen everything from nip slips to Spiderman boxer briefs. Even so, getting locked out is fucking annoying. Two options: Option A) The Counterfeit Key* Step 1) Find a SEAS kid. Or someone mechanically skilled. Or someone mildly sketchy. These may overlap. Step 2) Present your savior with an old gift card or credit card. Step 3) Line up your VING key with the card and drill deftly and defiantly. Way to stick it to the man. * Always keep this key in you shower caddy. Option B) The Door Disabler Step 1) Find a screwdriver. Step 2) See that black triangular hinge at the upper corner of your door. It controls the force requires to open the door and how quickly it closes. Remember that time you went to check on that kid stumbling down the hall and, before you knew it, the door slammed behind you. If you’d dismantled that hinge, you would’ve caught the door. Love, Bwog
 Filed by Katheryn Thayer, BC ’14, from the Being a Student at Barnard event last night. Want to write for Bwog? contribute@bwog.com! Early yesterday morning, hundreds of groggy Barnardians filed into LeFrak to discover what it means to be a Barnard woman. The deans gathered to welcome incoming students and make them feel comfortable asking questions, seeking guidance, and working at their own pace in their new environment. Dean Blank encouraged girls to greet each other in the elevators and make eye contact in the hallways. But it wasn’t all feel-good-summercampy—she also very bluntly stated that “these will not be the best years of your lives”, and explained that there is a huge amount of adjustment and growth ahead. Despite the misleading event title, this was not so much a girls’ finishing school lecture as it was an introduction to the supportive community BC students have available to them. Dean Young commented that Barnard is focused on individual attention and advising, and also hopes that students realize how many people are involved in helping them reach their full academic potential. Dean Hollibaugh assured nervous fresh-women that everyone is on their own timeline (ladies, thank God we don’t have to do the Core) and that no one should expect to fully embody the ideal Barnard Woman. She eloquently explained that there is no perfect Barnard prototype student; instead we work as a group to collectively represent a community of women with wide ranging talents and interests. And this is about where the meeting could have ended. In what is rapidly proving to be the NSOP standard procedure, all important information was cushioned by about 75% mundane droning. Today, this included a reenactment of a typical student-advisor meeting, a discussion with a panel of current BC students on their advisor experiences, and the same tired don’t plagiarize lecture we heard every fall in high school. To whoever is planning the deathly boring orientation meetings—cut it in half?
The Prince of Denmark, spotted lurking on Barnard's campus! Observe. And freshmen, keep tipping! (tips@bwog.com) 
From our Mapril issue of The Blue &amp; White, Maddy Kloss charts a map of where to find Morningside Heights' best-known fictional characters. Click to enlarge in a popup window. 
 Five years ago, in The Blue &amp; White, Chris Beam, CC ’06, answered all the questions anyone has ever had, past present and future, about Butler Sex. It remains one of the great masterpieces of our time. If you don't know, now you know. When it comes to self-aggrandizing myths, Columbia rivals the Greeks. The owl, 1968, Kerouac and Ginsberg at The West End: they all supposedly comprise Columbia’s collective unconscious. But despite what the tour guides tell you, these legends are dead to the average student. Only one myth still matters, as proven by the hush that descends when an anecdote begins—and ends—with “So we got off on level nine…” “When you get to school, one of the first things people say about is, did you know Ghostbusters was filmed there?” said Andrew, a recent Columbia graduate who preferred to withhold his real name. “The second thing is, did you have sex in the stacks?” Butler sex is our generation’s equivalent of panty raids the tales emerge late in the party, after all other conversation topics have been exhausted. One person in the room has done it, five people have friends who did, and everyone else has thought about it but never acted on the urge. It is one of Columbia’s few unacknowledged subcultures, and perhaps its most universal—an extracurricular that unites students of all political bents, racial make-ups, and religious persuasions. We all know the regular Butler cliques: the smokers, the boho-chic grad students who pound fists outside Room 301, the bearded men who sip tea in the lounge and loudly quote Heidegger. But the Butler sex community has no identifying mark. No secret handshake, no pinky ring. Most Butler lovers show scruples in revealing their secrets, and then only in hushed tones. The movement’s existence may be universal, but its stories have gone untold. Until now. Unoriginal Sin: The Case of The Butler Masturbator Butler has an effect on its inhabitants that can only be described as magical. Just as a soft lens forgivingly blurs the flaws of its subject, Butler turns every student into a romantic lead—the phenomenon known as “Butler goggles.” Immersed in their work, everyone becomes a strong, silent typist. But when Anthony Perri whipped out his swollen fiddle and began playing for the girls, the honeymoon ended. “He pulled out a book—the History of Abortion or something—and sat on the floor staring at me for half an hour,” said Joya Banerjee CC ’04, who was studying on the library’s third floor mezzanine. “I happened to look down and he had his dick out of his gym shorts (short shorts by the way) and was wanking off.” Perri was arraigned a year later when Banerjee spotted him again in the library, this time pretending to browse for books while eyeing a gaggle of sorority girls. The case has since been sealed, according to a spokesperson for the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office, and Banerjee never pressed charges. “It was probably the most action Butler has seen in quite awhile,” she said. “Lucky me.” Spectator covered the events with all the requisite gravity, quoting everyone from security officials to witnesses who had “heard the scream” and provoking a small debate about library security. But it failed to address one essential angle: that Perri’s behavior, however disturbing, was entirely consistent with Butler Library’s character. He had just taken it too far. The Butler Effect “Any time you have guys and girls in a room together, there’s a scene,” Andrew said. “At Butler there’s drinks and stuff to talk about, but none of the meat market pretensions of the West End.” Whereas the ‘Stend’s Thursday night clientele descends on that bar with a single purpose, Butler conceals its sexuality beneath a thin sheen of studiousness. By dressing up flirtation in the decidedly unsexy garb of academia, Columbia students mask what they do worst with what they do best. “I wanted to work in Butler so bad because of all the dating possibilities,” said Annie BC ’06, who currently mans the circulation desk. “In the most desperate times, I’ve even rearranged my schedule to get shifts on the busiest nights.” The move paid off. She has cultivated a sizeable flock of admirers, including colleagues, professors, and grad students, one of whom “stands by the computer terminal for minutes on end and looks at me, contemplating whether or not to come over and chat before he leaves,” she said. “Once he asked me for 50 cents for a banana because he was starving and broke.” Caitlin Keryc, CC ’05, met a long-term boyfriend for the first time when he asked her out for coffee in a reading room. “I’ve been told it’s because I smile too much,” she said. Keryc’s experience is an exception, as many women see Butler as a restraining order waiting to happen. Triveni DeFries, CC ’06, has returned to her desk on many occasions to find a phone number waiting. A med student once trailed her all the way from Butler back to McBain. The Butler Effect is undeniable. It gives its beneficiaries the courage of two shots of whiskey. It makes pickup lines of Virgil’s verse and ice-breakers of periodic tables. The momentary correlation between academic achievement and sexual prowess makes us all Casanovas. Inside Voices Reading rooms form only the tip of the Butler iceberg. Below the surface, deep in the stacks, the library’s legendary reputation is conceived. Disclaimer: sex in the stacks is illegal. Intercourse and all forms of TV-MA-rated pleasure-giving are prohibited in the libraries just as they would be in any public space, according to Terry Kirchner, director of Access Services for Columbia University Libraries. “We strive to maintain an environment in all the Libraries that is safe, comfortable, and conducive to study and research,” he wrote in an e-mail. But in a steel cage match between school policy and hormones, the glands always win. The fear of getting caught by security does little to deter dedicated sex-havers. “If you plan it out, there’s not much chance of getting caught,” Andrew said. “You might think it’s a good idea to find the darkest, skinniest hallway. But then you’re if someone goes in there. You gotta be three-quarters down an aisle that has two exits.” Like any art, Butler sex demands technical mastery. Location, timing, and approach all vary according to one’s sense of adventure and dedication to the craft. The Classical School teaches that one should enter the stacks just before closing time through the doors on the third floor. The doors don’t lock behind you, allowing for late-night exits. The Midnight Society recognize premeditation as a luxury some of us cannot afford. After hours, the best point of access is through the basement. The western staircase, right by the computer lab, takes you down to the lower level. Walk east and then south to the stacks elevators and ride them to any level. Followers of the Revisionist School understand that limiting oneself to the stacks can feel constricting. Take the elevator to the sixth floor and continue up the stairs as far as the grad student carrels, where phone booths, musty alcoves, and fire hose closets await. One intrepid student noted that “the roof, in addition to being too cold for sex all but a few weeks out of the school year, is gravelly.” Anyone expecting comfort should stay home. But none of these traditions have untangled the central paradox: Butler sex is about as sexy as gefilte fish. You do it for the story more than the experience itself. But sometimes it’s barely worth the story. One student, deep into his term paper for Richard Bulliet’s class on domestic animals (famed for its emphasis on bestiality), abandoned it for 1020, only to return with company an hour later. They found one of the wooden Eisenhower-era phone booths on the 9th floor. “It took forever,” he lamented in an e-mail. For Miriam Datskovsky, BC ’07, the Spectator’s sex columnist, it didn’t take so long. She described a failed escapade in the Arabic literature section, during which stack fright killed the moment. “You shouldn’t try it with someone who has chronic ED problems,” she said. You Lost Me At Hello There is a distinction between Butler sex and reading room romance. While both join to form the myth of Butler, the library’s cultures of study and nookie rarely intersect. Converting an innocent flirtation into a shelf-knocking romp could very well be the single most challenging act of social (not to mention physical) gymnastics at Columbia University. Andrew, a veteran of two library trysts, does not see much connection between the furtive glances exchanged in Room 209 and the popularity of Butler sex. “I separate those two things,” he said. “If I were cool enough to approach a girl in the library and invite her up, then maybe they wouldn’t be separate.” Strategies abound. In the oft-cited but rarely-used “one-card monte,” a student fills out a reserves card with a call number and a message to “Meet me in five,” and furtively slides the invitation across the table. Then there’s the point-blank “I’m about to graduate” move, which may arouse just enough pity to succeed. Andrew has fantasized about taking women to the same section in the stacks—something subtly evocative, like early Greek erotica—and keep a running tally in a book jacket. “Turns out not to have worked exactly how I wanted it to,” he said. “But there’s always grad school.” The study-sex culture gap can’t be bridged for one simple reason: Butler sensuality can only survive under a strict policy of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. The silent enchantment that Butler casts over its occupants is fragile. The least disruption—the ring of a phone, the drop of a pen—and the spell is broken. Indeed, a student’s sexiness relies on obliviousness. At risk of pushing an analogy too far—otherwise, what’s the point of making one?—Butler is romance at Columbia. We put ourselves out there for the taking, striking a pose with one eye on our book and the other on the cute guy across the table, hoping he’ll notice how consumed by work we are. But the instant he summons the courage to spill his soul and take action, the illusion falls away. Eye contact becomes awkward. Throats are cleared. He relocates upstairs. We’re left with a vague sense of disappointment and a pile of books we weren’t really reading anyway. BUTLER GLOSSARY Butler goggles: The skewing of perception and slipping standards of beauty that result from hours of studying. The Butler Effect: The confidence-inspiring atmosphere of the library that results in numerous botched advances—and the occasional success. Hat Trick: This rarely attempted feat entails an approach, an invitation, and subsequent copulation all in one smooth motion. One-card monte: The inviter presents the invitee with a reserves card, marked with a call number and a personal note. It’s a gamble. Stack fright: Performance anxiety in Butler. 
 In July, we wrote about Kenneth Cole's new and somewhat surprising friendship with Columbia. The details were slightly murky, but we knew that it was something to do with community service and a summer internship. Today, Deans Moody-Adams and Peña-Mora sent around an email officially announcing the Kenneth Cole Community Engagement Program. Prospective Kenneth Cole fellows should consult this list of course requirements; CC and SEAS prospies will have to select two courses from separate lists of four. The courses focus on community building, taking the form of Sociology, Urban Studies/Planning, Poli Sci, Science and Society, Engineering for Developing Communities, and so on. You'll also get a summer internship and summer housing. And unlimited sleek black clothing—because you're a real New Yorker now! PrezBo is teaching a new class this fall, but you probably can't take it. The course is A Free Press for a Global Society, and it sounds awesome, at least to Bwog. The course description: A Free Press for a Global Society examines both the U.S. experience in developing a system of freedom of the press and the international experience as well.  The course will then consider how a more integrated system might evolve over the coming decades.  This is a pressing issue, for individual nations and for the worldwide community, because the increased interconnectedness of the global economy, the rise of global problems (such as climate change and financial regulation), and the emergence of technologies that make global communication possible all depend upon a free flow of information and ideas.  Students will undertake in depth examinations of First Amendment law, international treaties and principles, public policies affecting the press, and a range of perspectives on these issues.  Miklós Haraszti, former OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media, will co-teach the course with President Lee C. Bollinger.  Guest speakers will be invited to address the class.  Students are invited to participate in a variety of ways in the conference of the same name held in November. Unfortunately, only Poli Sci majors/concentrations were forwarded an email about how to sign up for the waiting list for the class... since only 10 undergrads are allowed in the class and you can't register online. If you feel like begging, contact the people on this list. Just don't take our waiting list spot.
It's listening time, kids. The Blue &amp; White bestows more gems of wisdom: So you’ve arrived on campus, and you’re eager to find that work-study job that pays ten dollars an hour to sit on your derriere and do homework. Well, oh most Francophilic freshman, the B&amp;W has some advice for you: avoid the Butler Reserves. It might look like a desk job, but you’ll soon find yourself leaving the desk, trudging through the labyrinthine shelves for some patron whom you desperately want to patronize. Instead of Butler, the B&amp;W suggests you try finding employment at the Physics library. Do you know where the Physics library is? Do your fellow freshmen? Exactly. . Remember that you’re the smartest student in your Literature Humanities section. If, however, some insidious usurper poses a threat to your status, casually remind your professor of where the real brains are by citing only sources in Church Slavonic penned by scholars with names like Dionysius the Pseudo-Areopagite. 
 Orientation can be fun, provided you're drunk or Kenneth the page. Columbia is very nice to you during NSOP (relish it!) and rents out the Met and everyone smiles and tells you where Pupin is when you ask them. There is, however, the underlying problem that you don't know any of these people, and there's only so many times you can ask someone where they're from. While NSOP at Columbia has its rough moments (never-ending ice-breakers, your first John Jay breakfast), it could be much worse. Feel better about everything as you discover what people at other schools are forced to do. At Wesleyan, the delights are endless: there's a play called Booze and Lose: "find out what happens when a group of students get together for a party. See how quickly common sense, good judgment, and emotional control evaporate when mixed with alcohol." The program promises to provide impressionable young-things with a sense of "how to make better choices or face the consequences." Zoinks! There's also a square dance, and a "Bend It At Beckham Dance"-- "come prepared to bend the gender binary in fun and fashion." A change of pace from the same-old, same-old Orientation activities at Beck University, certainly. Brown has a truly baffling pre-Orientation program called The Third World Transition Program. Brown says we can call it TWTP for short. Thanks, guy. Heaven knows why we're surprised to find out about the existence of a Third World Center at Brown, but surprised we are all the same. TWTP will help people who have, presumably, lived in a wolf pack, or perhaps a far-off ring of Saturn for their first 18 years, make sense of all the big bag "-isms" out there. Under1Roof is looking better everyday, right? Yale clearly doesn't have time for this shit: the first day of their "Opening Days of College" (that's we're-better-than-everyone-else slang for "Orientation") program contains little besides a $10 "Express Lunch", a $20 dinner in the Dining Hall, and a 4.5 hour immunization program for everything from measles to German measles. There is also a performance showcases Yale's diversity called "Kaleidoscope," a title we could not have anticipated. UPenn also shuns subtlety with an event titled "Laws Related to Alcohol In the United States." There's also a toga dance party at the Archaeology Museum. Best toga gets a $50 giftcard to the bookstore! Johns Hopkins had a "Beer Goggle Challenge" obstacle course last year. This time around, they've decided to be a little more obtuse: all we know about the "Playfair" is that it'll be a night of "insane fun," but "we can't give you any more details." There's also a "Pimp Your T-Shirt" event, and a play called Sexcapades about a boy who travels into the future from the 1950's and learns about "STIs and the best places to have sex on campus." Those attending HorrorFest are asked to come in costume. Later, Tom DeLuca, the Corporate Hypnotist, will do a Hypnosis show. Being asked to dance with a thousand strangers who you will eventually become friends with and have sex with seems to be the theme this Orientation season. Cornell will host its first-ever (!) Hoe Down, with music from a local bluegrass band. Bizarrest of all: the Class of 2014's Official Ice Cream Flavor (!!) will be unveiled at the event.
 Dear Bwog, I'm the Forgetful Jones of names. Help! Love, Elephant Envy Dear Elephant Envy, You’re meeting hundreds of people, so it's natural to forget some names. One Bwogger recalls a ten minute long conversation with a complete stranger, who slightly resembled someone she had met earlier.  Oops. Bwog finds that facial hair can be helpful with name recognition (“that’s Sergio with the ‘stache”). Usually, it’s okay just to ask for a name refresher. But, there’s the rare moment when you’ve been hanging out with someone for a few hours, you start to introduce your new pal, and you blank. Bwog recommends stuffing (free) food in your mouth and gesticulating. One subtle motion says it all: “I suddenly decided to take a large bite of something and, now that I’m chewing, I can’t properly introduce you, so I’ll just gesture until you introduce yourself.” This and all the Natty will start your Freshman 15 off right. Battle that budding blubber by vigorously dancing with the people whose names you learn. Love, Bwog
 Hey 2014, in the next few weeks you will be introduced to a dizzying array of organizations, acronyms, slang, and food carts. Bwog knows it can be difficult to keep track, so here to ease your bureaucracy-induced agita is Bwog’s CCSC correspondent to untangle the web that is Columbia’s undergraduate student government. F@CU - Funding at Columbia University Like Zach Galifianakis, it has the power of the purse. See F@CU's most recent funding decisions here. The purpose of F@CU, according to itself, “is to facilitate, support, and enrich student development in the form of student activities of campus.” But if that doesn’t tell you much, you’re not alone. Essentially, F@CU is responsible for distributing the Student Activities Fee. F@CU is composed of the incoming and outgoing Presidents and Treasurers of each undergraduate Student Council, for a total of 16 members. These titans of student activity funding meet during reading week at the end of each spring semester to hear out the proposals of the governing boards (ABC, CI, CSGB, IGC, and SGB) and make their decisions. F@CU has an uncharacteristically (for Columbia) straightforward website, and they explicitly tell us why they made the decisions they did. The money allocated by F@CU trickles down through the governing boards to fund everything from Bacchanal, to the Varsity Show, to the CSC Lunar Gala. And those are just a few events, F@CU funds also provide for the day-to-day needs of hundreds of student organizations. F@CU can also make special allocations to groups other than the governing boards. For instance, in the past F@CU has allocated money to WKCR, the radio station housed in Lerner. The Governing Boards ABC - Activities Board at Columbia One of the governing boards that gets its cash money straight from F@CU, ABC has a few functions, but its most important is to fund student groups using money allocated by F@CU. Nearly 160 organizations with a wide range of goals and functions fall under the purview of ABC. Each of those groups falls into one of  these categories: pre-professional, academic, competition, cultural, special interest, performance, publication, media, performing arts and large scale events. Groups that fall outside of those categories are funded by other governing boards. ABC also serves as liaison between organizations under its umbrella and the Office of Student Development and Activites and enforces guidelines through a Judiciary Committee. CI - Community Impact Community Impact is Columbia’s largest student service organization - over 900 members! CI is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization that has been around for nearly three decades. CI has partnerships with more than 100 community organizations and agencies who do service work in the Harlem, Washington Heights, and Morningside Heights communities, including service organizations, social service offices, religious institutions, and schools. CSGB - Club Sports Governing Board CSGB is governing board responsible for, you guessed it, club sports. IGC - InterGreek Council IGC is the self-governing student organization that provides guidelines and support to its member organizations within each of the three Greek councils at Columbia, the Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Council, and Multicultural Greek Council. SGB - Student Governing Board SGB serves the needs of student organizations whose concerns are religious, spiritual, political, ideological, activist, humanitarian or identity-conscious in nature. The Senate and The Councils Columbia University Senate The Senate is Columbia’s überlegislature, and a testament to the fact that we were the first University with a formal bureaucracy. The unwieldy body represents “faculty, students, and other constituencies.” The plenary meetings of the Senate take place roughly once per month throughout the academic year. Hyperbole aside, here are the cold hard facts: The Senate has 107 voting seats, with 62 reserved for faculty, 24 for students, 6 for officers of research, 2 each for administrative staff, librarians, and alumni, and 9 for senior administrators including the president, who chairs monthly plenaries. Action on the Senate floor may not seem as immediate as that in meetings of your Student Council (or Government Association, hey Barnard!), but these heirs of Webster and Calhoun get to weigh in on some of the Columbia community’s most pressing issues: the much-discussed-outside-Butler smoking ban, the possibly-travel-expenses-increasing calendar and study days debacle, and “rules governing political demonstrations.” CCSC - Columbia College Student Council The Columbia College Student Council is elected by students of Columbia College to serve as their primary representative, advocate, and liaison to the Columbia University community, including its administration, faculty, alumni and students, as well as to the public. The CCSC is charged with gathering and expressing student opinion, actively representing student views, appropriately addressing student concerns, ensuring that college students are fully apprised of all information of impact to their undergraduate experience, responsibly and equitably distributing student activity fees, and working with other student groups to program college wide events designed to foster cohesiveness within the entire undergraduate population ESC - Engineering Student Council The Engineering Student Council is elected by SEAS students. Unlike the other student councils, however, the ESC Executive Board is elected by ESC members rather than by the entire student body. ESC represents the interests of SEAS students and acts as the primary liaison between those students and the administration. ESC also runs CUAssassins, “the best way to legally carry a pretend gun on campus.” GSSC - General Studies Student Council GSSC represents the undergraduate population of the School of General Studies and acts as a liaison between the student body and the General Studies administration, the larger university community and other individuals and organizations. SGA - Student Government Association All Barnard students are members of the Student Government Association by contributing their student activities fees, which fund over 80 SGA recognized clubs and student programming. The SGA Representative Council, elected each spring by the student body is the primary liaison between students and the administration. The SGA advises on policy issues, coordinates Tri-partite committees of faculty, administrators and students and co-sponsors student programming. As both a funding and governing board the SGA works in collaboration with student groups to enhance campus life, affect change, instill a sense of Barnard pride and promote community.
We hear Campo has been a real shitshow (always the fresh-person word of choice to describe anything) the last few nights. Explore your other options, limited as they may be, with bar trading cards, originally posted in last year's Orientation Blue &amp; White. Have fun post-gaming your Intrepid party! Illustrations by Stephen Davan. Click to enlarge. 
Advice: Drinking Alcohol Edition Carman Hall’s unwritten pillars of social wisdom (Now, written!) Residents of Carman floors 1-5 are restricted from using Carman’s “slow-ass” elevators to descend. Exceptions may be granted for laundry purposes. If a resident plays music at a volume sufficient to penetrate Carman’s foot-wide cinder block walls, other residents must retaliate. A music war will then commence. Getting involved in floor-cest means getting involved in a floor-fracas. Laundry left leads to laundry theft. Never utter the phrase “I drink, but I never get drunk.” You’re living in New York now, Dorky-McDork-Dork. Get used to excess. 
 Zoe Camp, BC ’14, was on a boat last night. This year's New York City Event started off with a heavy dose of déjà vu. 2014ers strolling—or in the case of the many high-heel-clad girls, clopping—onto the flight deck of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum were greeted by a clapping, whooping sea of NSOP types. For a moment, it felt like Class Act and Convocation all over again. But it was Thursday night now, and we knew better. But enough with the nostalgia. This year, NSOP did away with the zoo animals (très lame!) and mummies at the Met and treated the incoming class to a dance party, complete with a nautical theme—how else to explain the vaguely screensaver-ish fish backdrop framing the dance floor and the otherwise odd choice to play the Lonely Island's “I'm on a Boat”?—and a mostly genuinely danceable playlist featuring the likes of Deadmau5, Lady Gaga, and Major Lazer. Those not in the dancing mood were in for an unpleasant surprise, however, as the only other option for the night was to sit on the floor of the flight deck and chat. Still, the night was comfortable, the view of Manhattan spectacular, and the absence of ice-breakers and refreshing change of scenery made for some of the least awkward (and... dare one say most normal?) conversations to be had all week. As an added bonus, the $2.50 bottles of water and the lack of comfortable seating united all four schools via one of the most powerful methods of peer bonding known to man—griping. Still, most of the complaining fell off within an hour or so, as more and more 14s found their way to the dance floor. By the time the night's special guests—Chicago mash-up duo The Hood Internet—took the stage, the Intrepid felt more like a club than a museum. For an hour and a half, guests got to experience a great show, complete with trippy, Super Mario Bros-inspired backgrounds, pulsing lights, and some ingenious musical concoctions, the crown jewel being a mix of The Ting Tings' “Shut Up and Let Me Go” and Estelle's “American Boy”.  The spectacle was so alluring, even the wallflowers by the edge of the deck began to drift over to the dance floor. And so, four hours later, a flood of tired, sore freshmen trudged off the Intrepid—this time without the sea of clapping NSOP staff members—and began a long journey home. There was no clip-clopping—many girls had gotten blisters from dancing to Justin Bieber in high heels—just the quiet shuffle of bare  feet on the pavement. Still, the class of 2014 was smiling: they were on a boat. Sort of.
The Columbia EcoReps are hosting their semi-annual "Reduce, Reuse, Save" Green sale starting today. That's for you, fridge-less freshman! From noon to 4 pm in John Jay Lounge, the EcoReps will be peddling used dorm essentials-- lamps, furniture, etc-- for cheap. The sale will also continue from September 7-9 in Broadway Lounge from 3-7 PM each day. Save yourself the Bed, Bath &amp; Beyond schlep, and do good things for Planet Earth. The Power is yours! 
Each May, Bwog invites outgoing seniors—campus leaders, academic stars, and other Columbians eager to answer the question, "Would you rather give up oral sex or cheese?"—to reminisce, voice their petty grievances, and give their advice to incoming first-years. Here are our favorites: the funniest, the truest, and the most useful. The Academics A good title on a paper will help you far more than you might realize. Take classes that get you out of the classroom or out of your head. Do most of your Lit Hum reading. Butler = death. Go to office hours; most professors want to interact with students and are incredibly personable. Take classes whose ideologies/praxes vary radically Complaining about your work will not get it done any faster. Also, no one wants to hear it. The Social Stuff Come to orientation with your claws out! Whatever you want, you had best stomp over people to get it (/sarcasm)! Or you could do what I did and take the backseat/spend your first semester in your room watching Arrested Development and eating mozzarella sticks. Wow. Still do that. Try to have at least two or three different groups of friends, and especially look to avoid having only friends/suitemates within the student activity that absorbs most of your time. You’ll value the change of scene. Surround yourself with people who know when you need to be challenged or supported. Being quiet in a situation—social or academic—is not nearly as conspicuous as it feels. Stop and Chat &gt; Wave Hello &gt; Awkward Ignore The City Get a bicycle and explore this town with the urgency of someone who’ll be permanently exiled from it any day now. Also, never agree to do an unpaid internship for more than 3 hours a week. The 1 train splits from the 2 and 3 trains at 96th street (learned during orientation week freshman year). Hopstop.com will get you around the city. Yep, 4 years in the city and I still use it. Push yourself! I am, at heart, totally lame, and given the choice between a) going out and b) watching Battlestar Galactica in my pajamas I am always inclined to the latter. But one of my best memories is romping downtown with fellow then first-years, that at the time I didn’t even know, and getting cut in line at Misfits by Jessica Simpson (she is really short, by the way, and not that hot). The School Spirit (!) The Columbia Community is more than just the students and faculty. It’s the maintenance staff, security guards, street vendors, waiters/waitresses, managers, and bouncers. Do some “Columbia” stuff before you leave, even if it’s cheesy – Pillow Fight, Backyard BBQ, Varsity Show, Orgo Night, etc. Columbia has almost everything you want. The money, the books, the people who believe in you, the secret nooks—they’re all there, but you have to find them, especially the books. They’re all there, on ILL, Borrow Direct, or offsite. You’re about to spend four years with a 24-hour library, teachers who do genuinely care about teaching you, a real college quad, a Core Education (and its SEAS and BC equivalents) that costs a ton of money to keep in place, and one of the smartest and most accomplished student bodies in the country. And it’s all in New York City. In short, to quote leader-of-all-redheads Conan O’Brien, “please don’t be cynical.” The Life Lessons: Never use the word "problematize." If your dorm is within wafting distance of JJ’s, close the window. Speaking of windows, you can use your sill as a refrigerator—but only between November and March and never for milk. There is always an exception to the rule (be it Schrödinger’s equation or the housing lottery). Skip Cubmail and go straight to Gmail Sweatpants do not help anyone get laid. If you believe you can do something, then do your best to do it. You may fail and, like me, find yourself stranded at a bus station in the middle of nowhere (twice). But everything will work out if you push hard enough and keep moving. Free beer always draws a crowd. Don't stress. It’s a waste of energy. At the end of the day, it all gets done. A smile and a healthy dose of perspective will take you a long way. If not, there’s nothing that a couple good friends and a Heights Happy Hour can’t fix. When I was a freshman, I asked two of the school’s outgoing journalistic luminaries a similar sort of question. Bari Weiss, now with the Wall Street Journal, said you should “never hedge, and stick up for what you believe in.” Avi Zenilman, formerly of the New Yorker, said “Screw that. Always hedge, you’re just a college student anyway.” Don’t take anything personally. Just manipulate your insulter to get what you want. Change all your declarative sentences to questions and they will award you a bachelor’s degree! And When All Else, Fails, Remember: You're not going to figure it all out during your first semester. Or even your first year. You don’t know how much you don't know. Don’t listen to anyone's advice. And do your homework. 
Hurricane Earl is ready to spew some nasty moderate rain over Manhattan.  Barnard Director of Public Safety Dianna Pennetti sent out a rather alarmist email to students this afternoon and here's the takeaway: There's a Tropical Storm Watch in effect for Manhattan this evening.  So it might rain and be windy like Claremont Ave. in December, but that's it, really.  Oh, and even though it's enough of an emergency to warrant an email, NSOP activities aren't being canceled. Good luck, sailors! Dear Students, The NYC Office of Emergency Management has issued a Tropical Storm Watch for our area as a result of Hurricane Earl. Although the storm is not expected to hit NYC directly, we can still expect approximately 1/4" to 1/2" inches of rain and high winds of up to 39-57 mph from 3:00 PM to 8:00 PM today. At the moment, we do not expect the hurricane to impact operations at the College but please take note of the announcements and precautions below. For students participating in the New Student Orientation Program (NSOP): All weekend NSOP programs will continue as scheduled unless otherwise noted. For students who are planning to move in over the weekend: Continue to monitor news reports of the storm and carefully consider the day and time you plan to move in. If there is any possibility of weather-related danger, it is best to wait. After 9am on Monday, Sept. 6, you may pick up keys at the Office of Residential Life. For those on campus: Ensure you have an adequate supply of essential medications. Keep windows and doors closed. Remove outside loose items. Have flashlights and extra batteries available. Travel through the tunnels whenever possible. Avoid standing near or under large trees. Report incidents of broken glass, water infiltration, or any other safety hazard to Public Safety at x88 or 212.854.3362 Avoid traveling in bad weather. Refrain from jogging or walking in parks. Turn off non-essential electrical equipment such as server monitors and work stations. Back up data on servers and personal computers in case of power loss. Have cash on hand in case ATM machines are affected by power loss. Turn off wall switches to prevent a surge when power is restored. Over the weekend, you can contact Residential Life by calling Public Safety. In the event of a power outage, cooling centers will be set up at The Diana Center, Lehman Library and Lefrak Gym. As this is a developing situation, it is important to watch for further campus alerts on the website and over email. Thank you for helping keep our community safe! Dianna Pennetti Director of Public Safety
In CC taking UW in IAB after NSOP and COBOP? NP! Alright freshpeople, we know you've just been thrust into a world where 3/4 of the rest of the population seems to speak in just letters. Here's a quick little guide to campus acronyms and initialisms we've put together to help you out: The Schools CC - Columbia College. Columbia's largest undergraduate school famed for its Core Curriculum. SEAS - School of Engineering and Applied Science. Note the lack of an "s" at the end of "Science" and realize that if you ever call it "Fu" or "Fu Foundation," your friends will never let you live it down. GS - General Studies. Common abbreviation for the School of General Studies, Columbia's undergraduate school for "nontraditional" students. BC - Barnard College. The all-women's college across Broadway from Columbia's main campus. TC - Teacher's College. North of the main campus. They train teachers. JTS/UTS - Jewish Theological Seminary/Union Theological Seminary. These are not the same, even though both are theological schools affiliated with Columbia. SoA - School of the Arts. Offers the MFA degree and more importantly, James Franco. SIPA - School of International and Public Affairs. GSAS - Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. GSAPP - Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. CUSSW- Columbia University School of Social Work The Government (Check out our Guide to Student Government for a more in-depth explanation of these groups and other student gov’ goodness) CCSC - Columbia College Student Council. Represents CC (let's see how fast you learn) students. ESC - Engineering Student Council. Represents SEAS students. SGA - Student Government Association. Represents Barnard students. GSSC - General Students Student Council. Represents GS students. The Bureaucracy ABC - Activities Board at Columbia. Governing board that funds (non-political, -spiritual, or -activist) student groups on campus. Being on ABC is a very powerful position, and it's to a club's advantage to have good friends on the board. SGB - Student Governing Board. Funds the other stuff ("religious, spiritual, political, ideological, humanitarian, or activist in nature"). CCE - Center for Career Education. Located in the lower level of East Campus, CCE can help you find jobs, critique your résumé, or even set up interviews. CSA - Center for Student Advising. The umbrella organization that your (four-year, non-major) advisor falls under. IGC - Inter-Greek Council. Governing board for the fraternities and sororities, which can't be overseen by the ABC or SGB. The Lifelines CPS - Columbia Psychological Services. With main headquarters on Lerner 8 and satellite offices all over campus, CPS offers free therapy to anyone who has paid the Health Services fee. CAVA - Columbia Area Volunteer Ambulance. Also known as Columbia University Emergency Medical Services, CAVA is  known for helping your super drunk friends. "Getting CAVA'd" is seen by some as a right of passage in Carman and CAVA's number, 212-854-5555, is worth programming into your phone. RA - Resident Adviser. There is one per floor or every few floors in a dorm. Consult these people for your daily needs (vacuum, getting sexiled, condoms, etc.). CA - Community Adviser. A sort of "super RA," CAs sit towards the top of the housing hierarchy, usually on a high floor. The First Bonds NSOP - New Student Orientation Program. Occurs the week before school starts and before most non-freshmen move in. For some, a week forever blurred by alcohol. For others, The Most Fun Ever. For most, it's fine and you want college to start already (September 7th, kids!) COÖP - Columbia Outdoor Orientation Program. Composed of three outdoor pre-move in programs: COHOP (hiking), COROP (river canoeing), and COBOP (biking). Vshow 116 caricatured the COÖP cult: summoned by a conch call, COÖPers worshiped a frisbee. We know it was the single greatest experience of your life, ever. Now, ssshhh. CUE - Columbia Urban Experience. Another pre-move in program, though CUE participants stay in the city and don't talk about poop as much. The Neighborhood EC - East Campus. A primarily junior/senior residence hall with coveted townhouses, EC offering ample suite space for Saturday night shit shows. Party-goers are plagued by indecision. EC's far from the physically nicest senior housing, but still, it's the most fun, provided you're okay with vomit in the elevators. IAB - International Affairs Building. Home to SIPA. Some people incorrectly refer to the building as SIPA when IAB is its actual name; debate ensues. Check out the roof for one of those transcendent "I love Columbia" moments. LLC - Living-Learning Center. Comprising Hartley and Wallach Halls, the LLC has a mandatory application process for prospective residents (except for freshmen). It's known for having a stricter noise and alcohol policy than most other dorms, but that doesn't really stop people from getting crazy. The Education CC - Contemporary Civilization (not to be confused with Columbia College). Part of the Core; essentially a "Greatest Hits of Philosophy" course. CC students take this in their second year. CULPA - Columbia Underground Listing of Professor Ability. Provides students a space to review professors and classes. Recently, CULPA introduced the Oracle, which provides predictions for which sections of Core classes profs will likely teach (these aren't available during course registration). MMA - Michele Moody-Adams. Dean of CC and VP of Undergraduate Education. Also acceptable: MiMoo. NINJa - NINJa Is Not Jake. Columbia's network of printers. See our guide to read about how to take the most advantage of them! TA - Teaching Assistant. Responsible for grading, proctoring, and other things actual professors don't want to do. UW - University Writing. A semester-long writing course that is taken by all students in their first year. The Entertainment CMTS - Columbia Musical Theatre Society. They put on musicals throughout the year, and your CMTS will make you go. Columbia has several students with serious Broadway creds and other talented performers, so prepare to be pleasantly surprised. CTV - Columbia Television. Television run by Columbia students with original programming as well as a news show. We just don't know anyone who watches it...except when they're high...but still not so much. CUFP - Columbia University Film Productions. The school's film club. They make movies. CUMB - Columbia University Marching Band. Columbia's scramble band that plays during football games and other events. They are best known for Orgo Night, when the band marches into Butler 209 the day before the Orgo final and puts on an irreverent comedy show. CUPS - Columbia University Photography Society. These are the people you see wandering around with cameras so fancy that they need their own acronym guide. NOMADS - New and Original Material Authored and Directed by Students. They put on original works throughout the year, and your NOMAD pals  will make you go. TIC - Ticket and Information Center. The booth in the lobby of Lerner where you can get tickets for shows and events, as well as discounted movie tickets. Movie ticket prices in NYC are astronomical, so TIC will save you serious dough. WKCR/WBAR - Not really acronyms, but rather call signs for the radio stations run by Columbia and Barnard, respectively. The Community CCO - Columbia Community Outreach. Sponsors a day when Columbia students volunteer to help the greater New York community. A lot of Columbians volunteer on other days too; many just don't talk about it. CQA - Columbia Queer Alliance. A place for the LGBTQ community. They sponsor First Friday and recently been vocal in advocating for gender neutral housing. CPU &amp; CPR - Columbia Political Union &amp; Columbia Political Review. Non-partisan political organizations that is probably most known for publishing their magazine, the Columbia Political Review. IRC - Intercultural Resource Center. Located on Frat Row, the IRC houses students pursuing, according to the website, slef-discovery and intercultural exchanges. OMA - Office of Multicultural Affairs. Does what it sounds like it does. ROOTEd - Respecting Ourselves and Others Through Education. Under the OMA, this group is dedicated to exploring issues related to diversity in the U.S. And they're a billion other religious and cultural groups with punchy acronyms. Check out this list! Go crazy! Things That are NOT Acronyms Bwog - It's actually a portmanteau. You know, French and shit. Did we miss any? We've tried to cover the major ones here, but feel free to add more in the comments!
Class of 2014: among your many distinctive traits (you got 2400's on your SATs! You got 2380 on your SATs!) you will also be the first Columbia class to see physical proof of our new campus, just a few blocks uptown in Manhattanville. You'll hear a lot about Manhattanville in the next few weeks and next four years, since the new uptown branch of our Morningside campus is, after years of back-and-forth and debate, actually going to be built. It's a truly controversial and confusing topic, but here's a run-down of the basics, recent news, and what's to come. Manhattanville is, basically, a 17-acre site that includes 129th to 133rd Streets between Broadway and 12th Avenue, the north side of 125th Street, and three properties on Broadway from 131st to 134th Streets. It will serve as an extension of Columbia's campus: including academic (mainly science and Business School) and residential buildings, a secondary school, and new stores. Your fearless leader, PrezBo, has made expanding Columbia into Manhattanville one of his most prominent initiatives as President. It will, no doubt, come to define his legacy. Many Columbians and local residents have been resisting the Manhattanville expansion for years. Columbia’s main community opponent was Community Board 9, whose 197a rezoning proposal was defeated by Columbia’s own 197c rezoning. Their main concerns centered around the Manhattanville residents living in 135 apartments in the area that would have to be relocated for the project to go through. The University has been quick to point out that development in Manhattanville will create thousands of new jobs, and that all displaced residents would be housed in equal or better housing. Columbia responded that the Manhattanville area was "blighted"-- the lack of stores and residents in the 17-acre area proved that the neighborhood was struggling. Eminent domain, the process by which government can seize private property, was brought to the bargaining table. If Columbia could convincingly argue that the neighborhood was blighted, they could use eminent domain to appropriate private property (i.e the buildings and apartments in Manhattanville) and begin expansion. Nicholas Sprayregen and the Singh family were the last two property owners resisting expansion. A good profile of Sprayregen, one of the drama’s most important characters, can be found here. After years of protests, much debate, some big names, a few court cases, and a hunger strike (!!!!!!), this was exactly what happened. In December, the Appellate Division of the NY State Supreme Court ruled that Columbia could not use eminent domain to expand in Manhattanville, and the project's future was suddenly dark. This June, however, the New York Court of Appeals upheld the use of eminent domain for Columbia, and expansion in Manhattanville was officially approved. Construction began this summer. You'll see plenty of it in the next four years, and soon enough (maybe by the time you come back for your 10th college reunion) there will be a new campus. Stay tuned to Bwog to read more about the future of Manhattanville as it unfolds.
Upperclassmen, you've seen this one before. Peter Sterne, CC'14, writes from the Health Services Skit. NSOP is a strange time when normally impersonal and bureaucratic instruments of the administration try to humorously (and cornily) appeal to incoming, naïve freshmen. Every department does things differently: the Division of Student Affairs gives us Dean Shollenberger, who has Alma Mater’s cell phone number; the Athletics Department shows off a basketball coach who raps not-very-well; and Public Safety cracks jokes about Harvard and Columbia’s football teams. Health Services’ skit, which the NSOP 2010 brochure promised would be “a hilarious look into the lives of first-year students trying to hang out, hook up, and fit in,” with its heavy reliance on implicit (sometimes explicit) masturbation jokes, was no exception. Though peppered with stilted dialogue designed to highlight the various departments and websites that comprise Health Services (“If you’re feeling sick, you should visit the Primary Care facility located on the fourth floor on John Jay, where you can receive immediate care and even be referred to another primary care physician!”) the scenarios were at least relatable. Even so, a few skits bordered on after-school special territory. In a Saved by the Bell tribute, the Barnard girl CAVAs her roommate and then tries to talk her into counseling for her crippling drinking problem (“I got some literature for her, but I’m not sure that will be enough. I may have to take her to get counseling.”). Still, one scene was particularly inspired and redeeming: A girl, unable to sleep as a result of her roommate’s loud moaning, complains to her friend, a future Peer Mentor. This resident giver of advice helpfully offers that he wait until his roommate is out of the room before “doing the deed.” The protagonist finally confronts her roommate, who advises that they “do it together” in order to better relax and get to sleep. The hilarity of misunderstanding ensues: “it” is not in fact masturbation, but rather a simple breathing and moaning exercise suggested by StressBusters. Albeit a little hamfisted at moments, the show was a surprisingly solid effort at staying in tune with student concerns. Then we went to "Keeping Sex Sexy," and all was forgotten.
Due to the change in the Navigating Health Services theme, Bwog was briefly under the alarming impression that consent was no longer sexy. To our great relief we confirmed today that consent is, in fact, sexy. Still. And... exhale! Proving that the Health Services team is an upbeat, if maybe not particularly creative bunch, today's Navigating Health Services event kicked off with an energetic performance of the same eyeroll-inducingly twee (but very informative!) play that was performed last year and probably every year before then as well. With a wholesome cast of characters including one named Denise (is this the default name for all Columbians these days?), the kids new students learned all about things which many had never encountered before: masturbation and S &amp; M, for instance. (And also Primary Care and ASAP and all that stuff.) After the hour-long show—or before, depending on the OL group—all the orange-clad mama and papa Orientation ducks led their baby ducklings to various social areas around Columbia and Barnard. These included Lerner Party Space and the Diana Center (which one Columbia student "ha never heard of"). It was time for a presentation by the sexual health peer educators, also known as the Keepers of the Sexy. To everyone's delight, ice was broken not with a round of Elephant Master or Two Truths and a Lie—what kind of sexual health forum would that be?—but with the Penis Game, an old classic. Then, students participated in an exercise which involved writing down a definition of "hookup" on a slip of paper, sticking the paper into a balloon, blowing up the balloon, playing balloon-catch, popping the balloon, and reading someone else's definition of "hookup." After the students had been sufficiently distracted, the leaders recaptured their focus by shouting, "Penis!"—because apparently no other word is as consistently effective at getting a freshman's attention. (Bwog would have been fine with "Shh," but hey, whatever.) Finally, everyone discussed body language and personal boundaries. The event ended with a large container of Purell for balloon-spit, courtesy of one of the peer educators. Hey, personal hygiene is sexy!
Tomorrow, there will be no more advice. So relish it today. Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to get out of the Foreign Language requirement! Deans don’t like to enlighten frosh on how it can be done, but The Blue and White cornered one administrator and he spilled the beans. Apparently, to be granted an exemption, a student must undergo a full weekend of diagnostic testing (which can cost upwards of $1,500) to determine that he or she is unable to learn a language. Once exempted, the student is required to take a few additional Major Cultures courses. Though The Blue and White has never met anyone who was deemed worthy of the Language Requirement exemption, it fervently believes that such an individual exists, and he or she could be you. Don’t even consider Majoring in Philosophy. Concentrate in it. It’s more philologically apt, anyway. 
 The quick takeaway from James Piereson’s recent WSJ op-ed (excerpted from a longer piece in The New Criterion), “Where Columbia Beats Harvard”: our Core Curriculum is far superior to Harvard’s set of abstruse distribution requirements. So that’s neat! In fact, add to this upset CU’s recent jump up those knuckleheaded US News rankings, and Columbia is well on its way to, um, becoming Harvard! Which is what we all really want, right? But what does it mean to favor an unchanging syllabus over one that allows its students a good deal more choice? Buckle up, Fourteeners—Piereson’s piece brings with it your first bout of Core-induced self-reflection! The two curricular models, Piereson notes, are historically at odds. While Harvard only last year installed a new version of their “Core Curriculum” (now the Program in General Education), it’s still largely distributional. Students take courses in a number of areas organized around the idea of “understand the sources of change in modern life,” including “Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding,” “Ethical Reasoning,” and “United States in the World.” (Bwog is quoting from the version in The New Criterion, as it’s less reductive, and also not published by Rupert Murdoch.) Piereson suggests that Harvard’s list of distribution requirements stresses a concern for how you study, rather than what you study, and bemoans the resulting lack of structure. While Harvard presumes the undergrad will have a set of principles to guide course selection, Piereson worries, “What principles will guide the choice of principles?” The Core, meanwhile, stands for Piereson as a beacon of stability, resistant to the pressures of academia that force Harvard’s curricular revisions. Pragmatically, it provides “a common vocabulary of for all members of an institution and a baseline of knowledge on which academic specialization and non-classroom discussions can build.” Though Literature Humanities may preclude you from taking upper-level courses freshman year, well, maybe it should: you’ll be better prepared for (and will get more out of) those seminars, the argument goes, with a thorough grounding in the classics. All the same, Piereson’s characterization of Harvard’s curriculum as wishy-washy isn’t quite fair, nor, we must admit, is his Core-hyping. He notes that the Core often suffers in quality—it’s expensive, and Mark Lilla, multi-tasker though he may be, can’t teach every section. Piereson also dismisses, perhaps too casually, the now-familiar complaint that the Core tilts disproportionately toward Dead White European Males. Let’s snicker at his close-mindedness and leave it at that. This, along with Piereson’s disdain for recent academic trends and The New Criterion’s decidedly conservative cultural bent, makes it easy to cast the curriculum debate along ideological lines. While one could consider Harvard’s constant curricular reevaluation liberal, and our eternal Core more traditionalist-conservative, it’s not so simple and partisan. Rest easy, Freshies: Columbia’s not telling you to agree with Plato (though you probably should). Instead, the Core Curriculum exists to give an understanding of where he slots into the long-term human intellectual project. It’s grounded in the idea that a successful liberal arts education will draw upon an appreciation of that project. As quoted by Piereson, former CU president Nicholas Murray Butler (yes, that Butler) is firm on the Core being bigger than ideology: “For those students enamored of the cruder and more stupid forms of radicalism, early instruction on the origin and development of modern civilization and the part that time plays in building and perfecting human institutions is of the greatest value. For those who are afflicted with the more stubborn forms of conservatism, early appreciation of the face that movement is characteristic of life and that change may be constructive as well as destructive is most desirable.” The Core, then, fits somewhere in the middle. ALSO: SUCK IT, HARVARD. --SCS
We'll say no more. Find below the Postcard From Morningside from the new issue of The Blue &amp; White, out soon. 
 The Core, it has been said, is good for cocktail party chatter and not much else. You'll be able to schmooze with people about Woolfe and iambic pentameter, yadda yadda. This post supplements the rather specific knowledge Columbia bestows on you (hey, no snark alert: we kind of love the Core) with some genuinely useless knowledge that might be fun when you try to mingle with upperclassmen tonight. You know that dorms are named after donors or whatever, but we thought we'd dig a little deeper. Bwog did some of our famous shoe-leather reporting and hit up ancestry.com to learn more. (To our great dismay, Bwog was unable to locate meanings for “Furnald” or, um, "Harmony." Your guesses are welcomed in the comments.) Carman:  English: from an Old Norse personal name Kar(l)ma{dh}r (accusative Kar(l)mann), composed of the elements karl ‘male’, ‘man’ + ma{dh}r ‘man’, ‘person’. English: occupational name for a carter, from Anglo-Norman French, Middle English car(re) ‘cart’ (Late Latin carrus) + Middle English man ‘man’. Dutch: variant spelling of Karman. Altered spelling of Germann or Korman. Hartley: English (mainly northern): habitational name from any of various places so called. Several, in particular those in Hampshire, Kent, and Devon, are named from Old English heorot ‘hart’, ‘stag’ + leah ‘wood’, ‘clearing’. One in Northumberland has as the second element Old English hlaw ‘hill’, and one in Cumbria contains Old English cla ‘claw’, in the sense of a tongue of land between two streams, + probably heard ‘hard’. The surname is widely distributed, but most common in Yorkshire, where it arose from a place near Haworth, West Yorkshire, also named with Old English heorot + leah. As a Scottish name, it comes from the Cumbrian Hartley (see forebears note). Irish: shortened Anglicized form of or surname adopted as equivalent of Gaelic Ó hArtghaile ‘descendant of Artghal’, a personal name composed of the elements Art ‘bear’, ‘hero’ + gal ‘valor’. Hogan: Irish: Anglicized form of Gaelic Ó hÓgáin ‘descendant of Ógán’, a personal name from a diminutive of óg ‘young’, also ‘young warrior’. In the south, some bearers claim descent from an uncle of Brian Boru. In northern Ireland a surname of the same form was Anglicized as Hagan. McBain: Anglicized form of Gaelic Mac a’ Ghille Bhàin ‘son of the pale or white-haired lad’, in some cases a descriptive nickname for an albino. variant of McBean. River: Possibly English (see Rivers), or an Americanized form of a like-sounding name in some other language, perhaps German Riffer (see Riffey). Ruggles: English: patronymic from a pet form of Rudge. Schapiro: Jewish (Ashkenazic): variant spelling of Shapiro. Wallach: Jewish (Ashkenazic): from Middle High German walhe, walch: ‘foreigner from a Romance country’, most probably a nickname for someone from Italy; or, German: habitational name from Wallach, a place near Wesel; or, Scottish: variant of Wallace (Scottish and northern Irish: from Anglo-Norman French waleis ‘Welsh’ (from a Germanic cognate of Old English wealh ‘foreign’), hence an ethnic name for a Welsh speaker. In some cases this clearly denoted an incomer to Scotland from Wales or the Welsh Marches, but it may also have denoted a Welsh-speaking Scot: in western Scotland around Glasgow, the Welsh-speaking Strathclyde Britons survived well into the Middle Ages). Watt: Scottish and English: from an extremely common Middle English personal name, Wat(t), a short form of Walter. Wien: German and Jewish (Ashkenazic): habitational name from the city of Vienna (German Wien, Yiddish Vin). The place name is first recorded in the Latin form Vindobona, and is of Celtic origin. Before the Holocaust there was a large Jewish population in Vienna. From the 17th century onwards the Leopoldstadt district was officially designated as a Jewish quarter, and many families bearing this surname no doubt originated there. Norwegian: habitational name from any of seven farmsteads in eastern Norway named Vien, earlier Vivin, from Old Norse viðr ‘wood’, víðr ‘wide’, or vé ‘(pagan) sacred place’ + vin ‘meadow’. Woodbridge: English: habitational name from Woodbridge in Suffolk or Dorset, both named from Old English wudu ‘wood’ + brycg ‘bridge’, i.e. a bridge made of timber or one near a wood. and if you go to Barnard... Brooks: English: from the possessive case of Brook (i.e. ‘of the brook’). Jewish (Ashkenazic): Americanized form of one or more like-sounding Jewish surnames. Americanized spelling of German Brucks. Reid: nickname for a person with red hair or a ruddy complexion, from Older Scots reid ‘red’. topographic name for someone who lived in a clearing, from Old English r¯d ‘woodland clearing’. Compare English Read. Hewitt: English, Welsh, and Scottish: from the medieval personal name Huet, a diminutive of Hugh. See also Hew. The surname has also long been established in Ireland. English: topographic name for someone who lived in a newly made clearing in a wood, Middle English hewett (Old English hiewet, a derivative of heawan ‘to chop’,‘to hew’). Plimpton: English: habitational name from Plympton in Devon, named in Old English with pl¯me ‘plum tree’ + tun ‘settlement’, ‘farmstead’. It may also be a variant of Plumpton, from any of several places so named, which have the same etymology. Sulzberger: German: habitational name from a place called Sulzberg.
Bwog will have a relatively slow Labor Day Weekend, back in full force on Tuesday. But there's only one thing we really want to say today, and here it is. Have a fantastic first night back, ladies and gents. We missed you. 
New semester, new root vegetables at the Columbia Greenmarket. On most Wednesdays (except for today, which is Sunday!) Bwog will preview what's new at the Greenmarket that week, what's in season, what's going out of season, any news that might aid your quest for good tomatoes. Today's Market: Fall produce is arriving early because of the incredibly hot summer. Winter and butternut squash are starting to arrive at the market. Peach season is coming to an end. If you want peaches you better get them now. Milk Thistle is now selling chickens and eggs. The eggs are naturally green shell because of the breed of bird they keep. Stannard sell beef/chicken/pork. Not new news but few people seem to know about it Raindance is also selling chicken. Come early for this they go fast. Ardith Mae and Raindance Farm are not expected to be at Market this Sunday. Madura Farm is selling popcorn. The Monkshood cherry tomatoes are fantastic right now. Coming up: Wagner Farm will debut at the Market next week, selling grapes and grape juice. Dipaola turkey is making a return appearance come September. What you missed: The Greenmarket now accepts food stamps (EBT) and Debit and Credit cards. To use your card, go to the managers tent. Someone will swipe your card and give you tokens to shop with.
 Sometimes, fresh-people, in a seminar, or at a party, someone will reference something that used to exist and doesn't anymore, and you will have to nod your head or laugh knowingly. Ah yes, Morningside is like, so gentrified, you will say. We asked alumni of The Blue and White and Bwog for places, events, and trends that once were and are no longer. Here's your leg up. When at least some people on campus wore fleeces and baggy-ish jeans JJ's at 4 AM (now open until 2 AM, was a bar when your dad went here) McIntosh Hall and the old WBAR studio in it Flashing, not swiping, your CUID to get into Butler A respectable 1020 (was once an upperclassmen bar before the West End became Havana, now your first NSOP stop) Shit in the McBain showers Arson in the McBain shaft Using AIM AmCaf The Village Pourhouse used to be Mona, a bar that was better than the Village Pourhouse. Before Mona, there was SoHa. Girls used to dance on the bar. "There would be massive drunken dancing," one alum whispered over GChat, "and then you'd just start making out with random decent-looking girls." CoBag (Columbia Bagels, open 24/7. Bwog editors coined the 'Morningside Heights Happy Meal': a 40 and bagel at 3 AM) "I once saw a rat in Ferris" The West End basement when Lil' Jon was popular (fabled Columbia hangout of everyone, ever, including Obama and Jack Kerouac, with fantastic burgers and lots of beer pong) Creepy Wein doors that had horizontal slats at the top (for oxygen, we believe) The yearly letter Foner would write to Spec explaining that he is not a Gyllenhaal The old Westside Good Spec reporting (MEALAC!) Vampire Weekend performing at ADP and St. A's CUCommunity (offered a share in Facebook, but they turned it down. Bummer!) Manhattanville protests 40's on 40 without the playpen and drink tickets 
In May of last semester, CULPA came out with the Oracle, an algorithm that hoped to achieve the impossible--to predict the scheduling of Core Curriculum professors. For those wishing to avoid blindly selecting their Core courses, the Oracle stood as a beacon of hope. Unfortunately, when put to its first test this semester, the Oracle's results proved to be no better than Professor Trelawney's. In CULPA's own words, "they were almost completely useless." Only the predictions for Music Humanities presented a statistically significant degree of confidence. But the good people of CULPA are resilient! Though this first attempt at divination may have failed, the CULPA team will not give up on cracking the mysterious Core scheduling code and plans to release a new algorithm later this semester. You can read a full statement from the CULPA team here, and if you're into that kind of thing, you can check out all the fancy numbers here. In case the Oracle let you down and who you thought was your gold nugget LitHum professor is actually the Trunchbull, never fear! CULPA has just come out with a new tutoring marketplace to supply you with upperclassmen who can answer all of your questions about kleos and Achilles' apotheosis. CULPA's really got your back! If you're interested in helping your fellow struggling Columbians, sign up to be a tutor.
 Your student council presidents would like to say hello and impart a few words of wisdom. Listen to them! Lara Avsar, SGA President Welcome (back) to Barnard! I hope you had a wonderful summer! Whether this is your first time on campus or the first week of your last year, get ready for a great 2010-2011! I honestly hope that y'all are as excited as I am for events like CU Homecoming, Spirit Day, Big Sub, and Midnight Breakfast!  (First-years, you will figure out the awesomeness of these events soon enough!) Also for the first-years, the best advice that I can give you is to get involved and enjoy every minute of your time here.  I think the seniors will agree with me when I say that it goes by way too fast.  One opportunity to get involved is through SGA First-Year Elections. They will be held at the beginning of the semester and I really hope you will consider using this opportunity to become leaders on campus.  If you have any questions or concerns about this (or really anything), feel free to email me (la2257@barnard.edu) or stop by the SGA Office (304 Diana). Learned Foote, CCSC President Welcome to Columbia College! You'll soon learn that this is a decentralized university. And when you're walking to 3 different buildings to accomplish 1 task, you'll be happy that we enjoy a dense city campus. As you choose between hundreds of different organizations to join, both on- and off-campus, I recommend you check out student government. Whether you care about academics, pre-professional advising, or even vending machine selections, chances are that the Columbia College Student Council is involved somehow. We write and pass policies that impact student life, carry on College traditions, and more. Every year, a number of first-years get involved in our projects, and-- with a bit of hard work-- gain access to the top administrators at Columbia. You can absolutely do the same. Come to a meeting, join a committee, run for election, or just e-mail ccsc@columbia.edu to vent a bit. Cheers! Jacqueline Thong, GSSC President Welcome to orientation! This is said to be the best part of a GS student’s experience here at Columbia. So, embrace it! If there is one piece of advice I can give you, it is to make the most of your relatively short time here. Beyond learning as much as you can while at Columbia, you should get to know as many people as possible. In other words, I don’t want to see you for the second time on Graduation Day. It’s about whom you know as much as what you know. Historically, GS students have not been the most active participants of on-campus activities. This year, as president of GSSC, my goal is to devote 100% of our energy to improving student life and encouraging GS students’ participation around campus. Let me give you a list of big, not-to-be-missed events: Right after Orientation, we will have a Kick-off Rooftop Party at Hudson Terrace, exclusively for GS students. So, be sure to come out and mingle. Then, you might want to start making a stack of official Columbia business cards in time for the alumni networking luncheon. Around spring time, you might want to start looking for a date to bring to the fabulous GS Gala. Finally, start polishing up those hidden talents of yours for the 2nd Annual Talent Showcase, and join us to be wow-ed by your fellow GS students. These are some highlights of the many activities we have in store for you this year. So, remember to pick a GSSC September-October event calendar postcard, and watch out for the oh-so-useful weekly reminder emails. Be sure to say ‘hi’ when you are around campus, I would love to know what you are up to and how you are! I wish you all a great semester ahead. Chris Elizondo, ESC President The next four years of your life will cover every adjective in every dictionary of every known language in the universe. Columbia is an incredible institution and has an array of opportunities, but never forget that it was your drive and ambition that got you here and they are sure to get you through and beyond the Gates of 116th. Welcome to the family and attack the City of New York with every ounce of energy in your body, make sure you enjoy your classmates and rip through any conceptions of social normalcy you came to college bearing. Let the madness ensue...
Use condoms. Have a good year! Guide by Stephen Davan. Click to enlarge in a pop-up window. RAs and other Good Samaritans, you can download a PDF version of this map for printing in color or greyscale. Columbia Condoms: Gotta Catch 'em All!
Morningside Heights likes to pretend that it is a college town. In recent years, that has been an increasingly difficult image to maintain: there's about a bank per block between 110th and 116th Streets, and many independently owned stores have closed in the last few years to make room for big chains like Chipotle and Ricky's. Bwog's been around for a while (your editor has lived here for 20 years), and we know it hasn't always looked like this. But before we get all Lower East Side on you, there's hope! There are still several independently-owned Morningside oldies worth your business. Go to them! Samad's: Delicious Middle Eastern (especially Lebanese) goods, a deli with hummus, tabbouleh, Greek salad, delicious muffins,  and exceptionally nice people. You can have a decent lunch here for $5. And people who actually live here like to shop here. West side of Broadway between 111th and 112th. Janoff's: Mostly frequented by Architecture majors. Shop here for all your art supplies. Weirdly inspiring for theme parties. Been in the 'hood for decades. East side of Broadway between 111th and 112th. University Hardware/Housewares: Every kind of hook imaginable for your dorm needs, cutlery, furniture, fans, everything. Incredibly helpful and nice staff that makes move-in ten thousand times easier. West side of Broadway and 113th. Mondel: You never really see anyone in here, but it's managed to stay in business longer than any Morningside shop that Bwog's parents can remember. Old-timey shop, decent chocolates. West side of Broadway between 113th and 114th. West Side Stationers/Ivy League Stationers: Morningside mini-chain (there are two locations, one at 108th and Broadway, the other at 116th and Broadway) that's actually worth frequenting. Good deals on school supplies, helpful staff. 108th location gets less business but has a slightly larger variety of goods. Book Culture/Book Culture on Broadway: Another lil' Morningside chain. We know you use it to buy your textbooks, but the original Book Culture is the only independent bookstore (not a Barnes &amp; Noble) for miles. Go to browse, go for fun. Knowledgeable, helpful staff. Laurent Ghislaine's 108th Street Clothing Stand: Cheap and surprisingly good vintage jewelry and clothing, mostly good sweaters and super-cheap old-timey winter coats. Ask to see her incredible collection of earring studs, mostly $3 for a set. About as local and independent as you can get. Tell us your favorite small Morningside/UWS shops in the comments.
 Like Shakespeare and Sarah Palin, college students enjoy making up new words. HuffPo (that's Huffington Post to you students who, er, haven't read this article yet) recently did a piece on the language college students speak at schools that... aren't Columbia, apparently. Here is Bwog's comprehensive A-Z lexicon of all the words and phrases you will actually need to successfully navigate your next four years' worth of conversations (or at least, well, Bwog posts). "El Presidente": See PrezBo. "There goes El Presidente down College Walk, tall and proud—off to survey a couple more acres of New York real estate for another satellite campus, no doubt!" "Strong, beautiful": of, pertaining to, based on, or deriving from Columbia's sister school, Barnard College. "Let's head over to Hewitt for some strong and beautiful pasta from the Action Station!" CC: Contemporary Civilizations, Core Curriculum, or Columbia College, depending on context. "CC is a huge pain in my ass."/"CC is a huge pain in my ass."/"CC is a huge pain in my ass." CrackDel: A popular local deli known in particular for its "Spicy Special." Peak hours occur between 2AM and 4AM on Fridays and Saturdays. Not to be confused with HamDel. "Oh man, those Bud Lites at Delta Sig gave me the 4AM munchies like something fierce. Let's go grab a sandwich at CrackDel." Bonus: CrackDel delivers! 212-280-7329 DSpar: The strongest and most beautiful of the Barnardians, rarely spotted in heels lower than four inches. "Anna Quindlen and Dorothy 'Double-D' Denburg may be pretty hot stuff over at the 'nard, but no one holds a candle to DSpar." FroSci: The bane of CC existence. Also known by the less apparently phonetic "FoS," or simply as "Frontiers." FroSci was coined by the Class of 2013, and has proved controversial in Bwog comments. Jim: "Want to go to that party at Beta and get really wasted?" Bob: "I wish I could, but I've got to finish this stupid FroSci problem set." FroYo: A tasty snack or dessert. Not to be confused with the foreign substance that comes out of the softserve machines at John Jay and Hewitt. "Oreo crumbles or no oreo crumbles, this shit isn't cutting it. Let's leave campus and go to Pinkberry for some real froyo." HamDel: Another, less popular Columbia deli, located on Amsterdam betwen 115th and 116th. Also home to the famous Amy. "I could really go for a Cubano right now at HamDel." Hawkma: short for Hawkmedinejad, the hallowed name of the frightening carnivorous bird that circles campus sometimes and devours weasels and other small mammals. Rose to fame in the 2007-2008 school year, the same year that the equally terrifying Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad came to speak at Columbia. "That's nice that your family is here to move you in, but I wouldn't take your little brother outside today; I heard that Hawkma is hungry and on the prowl." HuffPo: A popular website for US news. Special because it has its own College section. "I read on HuffPo that there's a German college offering a flirting course. Maybe they should teach that at SEAS." Hum: a suffixal free morpheme used in conjunction with "lit," "art," or "music." "I'm really not a humanities person. I'll get Lit Hum over with now, but I'm leaving Art Hum and Music Hum 'til second semester of senior year." Hungarian: A cake- and cookie-filled wonderland where people go to write and eat desserts that often taste of cardboard. There's no Internet and no outlets, so it's good for speed-writing papers. People who hang out there like to pretend a lot of things. "I would go study at Hungarian, but I don't own a pair of oversized glasses." MiMoo: The grooviest CC dean around. "Everyone made fun of me when I said I wanted to be a philosophy major, but MiMoo assured me that being a thoughtful person is just as important as providing a real service to the world." MoWi: That supermarket people shop at, generally when they can't make it to a better supermarket. (Grumble, grumble) "I wish I had more time to go grocery shopping and didn't have to run to MoWi; these berries are three times moldier and three times more expensive than Westside's." Philo: The very old, very entertaining literary society that holds weekly debates/open mic nights, among other events. Ellie: "Why is that kid walking around Lerner in judicial robes?" Ben: "Oh, he must be in Philo." PrezBo: That dude who runs our school, or the related hairstyle (toupée optional). Origin: VShow of years past. "Love your new haircut—rocking the PrezBo!" VShow: Shorthand for the Varsity Show, which will put on its 117th performance this May. Used to be an actual variety show back in the day, now it's a musical about Columbia with some dancing and sometimes some laughing. It's tradition, kids. Vag, the: The crude but unstoppable nickname for Barnard's new student center, which was donated by alum Diana Vagelos. Known by boring people as the Diana Center. "Have you been to the Vag yet? I hear a lot of important people have gone inside. Let's go see if it's open." War on Fun: The explanation for your being written up twice already. Coined on Bwog by alum Katie Reedy. "Damn this War on Fun! I'm going to have my forties and drink them, too!"
A few points of note from today's lovely Labor Day. Bwog spent $7 on a bagel and orange juice at Nussbaum this morning, and remembered how our money goes so quickly here. Dinner at Mel's Burger Bar is 10% off tonight and tomorrow with a Columbia/Barnard ID. We also hear that Hewitt isn't swiping IDs till tomorrow morning, so there should be a free dinner there, too. And overheard on 115th and Broadway, a very young man wearing a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles shirt: "I'm going to McDonald's and I'M NOT WAITING!" And one first-year to another: "So, like, Mao, right? How do you pronounce his name?" If you're buying books today, pause. The bookstore is offering a new Textbook Rental Program. You can rent textbooks for half their original price, and keep them until 10 days after finals. You can mark them up and highlight them, too. Look for books with a "Rent Me!" sticker. And, sweet heavens, someone is already playing Claire de Lune in Lerner. Enterprising tipster Conor Skelding noticed these sweet words in the sky over Morningside Drive this morning: 
 ’14ers out there may have realized that Bwog can be a valuable source of information about Columbia. However, even seasoned Columbians may not know some of this carefully checked, entirely reliable trivial knowledge. Great for parents weekend, when you want to steer away from the topic of grades and significant others. Columbia has its own glacier named after it, Columbia Glacier. It is one of the fastest moving glaciers in the world, and has been retreating since the early 1980s. It is nestled in Alaska's College Fjord, among a group of glaciers named for the Ivy League and Seven Sisters schools. It was christened in 1899 by the Harriman Alaska Expedition. Melvil Dewey, creator of the Dewey Decimal Classification, was librarian of the University and also founded the first library school in the U.S. at Columbia. Despite this, Columbia libraries principally use the Library of Congress Classification system. Columbia has its own (unofficial) wiki. Famous architect I. M. Pei was commissioned to bulk up the Columbia campus in the 1960s. His design included two 23-story towers which were to face each other across South Field. Pei's Master Plan was eventually rejected. You probably heard about United States President Barack Obama, but did you know that Toomas Hendrik Ilves, the President of Estonia, received his BA in psychology at Columbia in 1976? Or that Abdul Zahir (Afghan Prime Minister) received his M.D. from the Med School? More Medical School glory: Amelia Earhart enrolled at Columbia as a pre-med student in 1919. There are two Columbia campuses in New York that are not in New York City. These are the 157-acre  Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory in Palisades and the 60-acre Nevis Laboratories in Irvington. Since sharing their only Ivy League title with Harvard in 1961, the football Lions have had only three winning seasons (in 1971, 1994 and 1996). However, the Lions have other athletic strengths. A Columbia crew was the first from outside Britain to win at the Henley Royal Regatta. Since 1969, during the Vietnam War, the University has not allowed the US military to have Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) programs on campus. Those students who were determined could participate in ROTC programs at other nearby colleges and universities. Past writers and directors of the Varsity Show, Columbia's annual student musical, have included Columbians Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein. Columbia's Science and Technology Ventures currently manages some 600 patents and more than 250 active license agreements. Patent-related deals have earned Columbia up to $230 million per year in the last decade. 
Today is a hard day. Time for those rosy-colored (or Colt 45-colored glasses, perhaps) to come off. Classes begin tomorrow, and now you can only get drunk two or three nights a week. Let's remember NSOP 2010: A Whatever Odyssey together. We'll see you in discussion section, fresh-people. We helped you configure your John Jay bed, and told you what to bring and what to leave (there's still time to send your iron back home! That's on Bwog's to-do list right after writing this post.) College, Day One, was bonkers. Burning memory foam, lost toenails, and PrezBo's smile-grimace dominated. The day in a lot of words, pictures, and video. You probably spent your first night getting not-enough-drunk at Carman. So did we! Your fake ID probably sucks. So did ours, till we took our ex's older sister's! You got locked out of your room in your towel! We've been there. Even if NSOP seemed like a slew of tepidly-fun mandatory events, it could have been much worse. We gave you guides to Columbia's rather tangled web of student government, and to many of Columbia's infinity and one acronyms. In case you're not sick of Morningside's bars already, re-enjoy these bar trading cards. The Class of 2010 passed down some Senior Wisdom. A guide to M-Ville, a guide to all the free condoms on campus. You all yelled "PENIS!" We helped you remember things you've never experienced, we all sang Ma$e.
 You know the drill, unless you were born in 1992. On the first day of classes, professors say sweet, funny, strange and wonderful things to try to keep you in their classes, and also because they are sweet, funny, strange and wonderful people sometimes. When your professor says something worth sharing, email tips@bwog.com or write it in the comments and we'll compile all the first day inspiration later in the week.
 It’s the first day of school, folks! Savor the crackling sound of creasing book binds and the strong scent of newly sharpened pencils. Freshpeople, Bwog can’t believe you kids are already starting classes. It was only last week you were loading taxidermy rodents into your blue bins. After a week- long orientation, get ready to feel disoriented again—but in a good way. You’ll be forced to challenge your own assumptions and consider new perspectives. That’s what college is all about. Still, there are ways to maximize the classroom experience, especially for seminars. Back in the September 2008 issue of The Blue &amp; White, Alexander Statmen penned “Seminar Etiquette: A Primer.” Bwog presents an abridged version sprinkled with a few of our own words of wisdom. Before you even start class, you’ll be faced with the choice of where to sit. Come a little early, so you aren’t stuck with a desk at one of the ends of the row or semi-circle. The first seminar class often opens with a go-around: name, hometown, major and maybe a special fact. If you sit at the first or last desk in the row/ semi-circle, you’ll be the first or last one to introduce yourself, which can be awkward. In a seminar, students’ doodles and professors’ age spots are equidistant from your eyes. People are looking and, yes, judging. True success in a seminar only follows if you understand the bipartite goal of the seminar: learn as much as you can, and act cool while doing it.  Silence will help you achieve both projects. For the greater part of any class, you should not be talking. The seminar is a fundamentally social thing, and the greatest sins of the seminar student all stem from solipsism. Successful seminar engagement calls for great subtlety, finesse and clarity. Students will often preface a comment with something like: “yeah, I was just going to say that.” If you were about to say something, and someone else said it, then you don’t have to. Other times, people use “I was just going to say” as a disclaimer, when they really mean to say, “I am about to say something trivial or noncommittal.” If, after a particularly scintillating comment, you want to voice your simple agreement—and there may be good reason to do so—then be direct: “I was just going to say that. I agree completely.” Now that’s a sentiment everyone can get on board with! Think of speech like a bank account: there’s no need to use the ten dollar word, when the ten cent word makes perfect sense. Don’t raise your hand just to say you think something is interesting. Only saying “I find this quotation very intriguing” is a cop out. Explain why. When dissenting, do not avoid active disagreement—it’s fun, and flattering. If you had said something painfully stupid, no one would have thought it worthwhile to respond at all. Go out of your way to set a pleasant tone: talk to classmates before and after class and don’t use isolationist body language (e.g. pulling your hoodie over your head). Enthusiasm is cloying only when it seems calculated at winning favor and grades. Meaningless acts of alacrity are the most meaningful of all. Fortunately, as is true nowhere else in life, if you pay enough attention to being cool in a seminar, real success will follow. Because, in a seminar, the best way to seem cool is to seem smart—and the best way to seem smart is to be smart. 
Columbia University health economist says weight gain in pregnancy can predispose you to obesity, opens a whole new realm of “yo mama” jokes. Columbia’s National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse claims that 27 percent of public high and middle schools are just cesspools of gang activity and drug trafficking. In other news, street cred for attending public schools goes up one bajillion points on the Morningside markets. Coyotes are back in Westchester (next stop Columbia), and they’re getting aggressive. Gear up. The Associated Press basically calls Columbia a shopaholic leading the way for other universities to pig out on recession-rate real estate. A Columbia lecturer, spoiling for a linguistic fight, calls Ebonics a “complex and distinct” language. We await his new course at the Language Resource Center.
 Things are going to work a little different for on-campus dining this year. A round-up of the changes, straight from Housing &amp; Dining, follows. Ferris Booth and JJ's Place are now dining halls. This means they take meal swipes and operate in the same manner as John Jay Dining Hall did. But don't worry, Ferris Booth and JJ's Place aren't turning buffet-style like John Jay; food there will be made-to-order. Ferris Booth will still have the same pizza, pasta, salads, and sandwiches as before, and the stir fry place will serve omelets for breakfast, hot wraps for lunch, and stir fry or curries for dinner. There will be a new soup station and an area that has cereals and bagels, but Ferris is doing away with packaged items and bottled beverages. JJ's Place will still serve the same food as well, and they are also adding more breakfast items. Lots of changes are coming to Hewitt, all stemming from meetings with various campus groups: They are doing away with cookies and cakes at lunch and replacing them with seasonal fruit. There will now be "Meatless Mondays." The Home Station will now offer two entrees, one of which will always be vegetarian. There is a "nut fridge" coming next week--basically a countertop cooler, which, according to Barnard Dining Director of Operations, will feature "much healthier version of peanut butter, almond butter, and cashew butter" as well as other nuts. Catering for student groups is available from JJ's Place. John Jay has a new, as Dining Director Victoria Dunn puts it, "themed cook to order" salad station. Students can create their own salad and have a sautéed meat top it. Cafe 212 now serves pasta made to order, just like Ferris. There are a lot more chairs in Ferris. A lot. Dining has added over 60 more chairs to the 3rd and 4th floors of Ferris. The 4th floor will turn into a dining hall during peak lunch and dinner times, but it will be a student lounge during other hours. New decor has also been added to JJ's Place, including a foosball table. Snack, ice cream, and beverage vending machines have been added in front of JJ's Place. With these changes also come changes to the actual operational hours of the halls: John Jay Monday - Thursday: 11:00am to 1:30pm for brunch, 5:00pm to 8:00pm for dinner. Sunday: 10:00am to 1:30pm for brunch, and 5:00pm to 8:00pm for dinner. Closed Friday and Saturday. Ferris Booth Monday - Friday: 8:30am to 8:00pm. Saturday: 10:00am to 1:30pm for brunch and 5:00pm to 8:00pm for dinner. Closed Sunday. JJ's Place Sunday - Thursday: 8:00pm - 1:00am. Closed Friday and Saturday. 
Unless you've got to pick up your fresh, stamped coconut. Pretty long line at Ferris, too, but we're hearing good things about the new swipe-y system.
Rolling out the red carpet for the first day of school! 
Fresh-people, it's the first day of school. If you haven't switched from Cubmail to Gmail yet, something is terribly wrong. Being a Columbia student means dealing with e-mail. Craploads of it. You have an account through the school, but you’d do yourself a favor by getting a colorful Gmail account from our friends at Google. Why? Infinite storage space, accessibility from any computer, rapid-fire messages that don’t clutter your inbox, the best spam filter available, and a fun chat feature! Bwog dug through our archives to find Mark Holden's September 2006 guide for how to forward your Cubmail to Gmail, and we've brought it up to date for your sanity's sake. Step 1: Join the club First, you need to get a Gmail account, if you don't have one already, and shame on you if you don't. To sign up for an account, simply visit http://gmail.com and click the large "Create an account" button in the bottom-right corner. We'll wait while you sign up and read the all-important Terms of Service; this one is super-long. …Done? Good! Next, we need to forward all your Columbia mail to Gmail. To do that, go to http://uni.columbia.edu, click "Login to Manage Your UNI Account," and log in. Once logged in, click "Email Forwarding" under "Configure Mail Settings." At the top of this page, click the "Forward" button. In the big box shown, enter your Gmail address. Since we don't want your Cubmail quota to be filling up, uncheck "Keep a copy of messages in this account." See how difficult dealing with Columbia's mail interface is? Luckily, this is the last time you'll ever do so. Say your bitter goodbyes; if you feel any sort of nostalgia, slap yourself in the face right now. Step 2: Set up your accounts So now all your Columbia email is forwarded to your Gmail account. But you may be wondering — when I respond to a message someone sends me, will it show as my Columbia address or my Gmail address? This is especially important if you chose "hottchik6969" or something goofy like that for your Gmail name. Fortunately, you can spare the world from your silliness. Log in to your shiny new Gmail account and click “Settings” in the top-right, then click the “Accounts and Import” tab. See the option “Send mail as?” Surprise surprise, that does exactly what it sounds like—it allows you to send mail from your Gmail account and have it appear as if it’s coming from another account. Click "Send mail from another address." Enter in your name and Columbia email address and click "Next Step." On this screen, choose "Send through columbia.edu SMTP servers" and enter the following information: SMTP Server: send.columbia.edu Port: 465 Username: Password: Select "Always use a secure connection (SSL) when sending mail" and click “Add Account." It should crunch for a bit, but here comes the nifty part. Gmail sends a verification email to the account you’ve just specified to make sure you really own the account. But since your email is already forwarded, the e-mail goes straight to your Gmail account. So go to your inbox, grab the code, and verify your account! You should now see a "When receiving a message" setting under the "Accounts and Import" tab. Select "Reply from the same address the message was sent to" so that when you send an email from Gmail it still shows up as from your Columbia email address. Voila! You can now receive and send email from your Columbia account in Gmail with no one on the outside world the wiser. Go take a break and celebrate with some champagne. Step 3: Be an e-mail packrat Gmail gives you almost three 7.5 gigabytes of storage (and growing). That’s twelve thirty times as much as Cubmail offers. It’s enough so that you’ll probably never have to delete a message. That, in fact, is Gmail’s great strength, and it’s where "archiving" comes in. Anything you want to be able to refer to later, highlight and press "Archive"–the message will leave your inbox, but be availible forever. To access archived messages, you can click “All Mail” on the left, or use Google’s immensely powerful search technology to find exactly what you want. Enter your query in the text box right next to the Gmail logo and hit enter to find any e-mail containing that search term. Voila! Here’s a further explanation of searching in Gmail. As with the keyboard shortcuts, it’s well worth spending some time now to learn the ropes. It will prevent much greater headaches later. Step 4: Streamlining with labels and filters (or the "secondary inbox") You’ve probably used folders in the past to group your email (I’ll bet you had one for your college applications). Labels are similar to folders. The nifty thing about them, though, is that one message can have multiple labels at the same time. So if you have an email from one of your professors (label "classes" or "LitHum") that’s really important and needs action soon, you can also apply the label "!important" to it so that you’ll remember to deal with it. Pretty cool so far. But the real power of Gmail comes when you combine labels with filters. Supposing, for example, you’re a member of some campus group whose members are especially prolific with the email exchange (cough blueandwhite cough), you probably don’t want all those messages cluttering up your inbox. However, you do want an easy way to read and manage them. Enter filters. Filters simply specify a certain set of actions Gmail should take when it receives an email that fits certain criteria. So for our imaginary student group’s mailing list, go to "Filters" under Settings, create a new filter, and enter for "From" some mailing list address. Here comes the magic. Go to the next step and tell Gmail to archive the message and apply a label for the group. Now, whenever you want to view the messages for that group, you can simply click the group’s label on the left. The label will even tell you how many unread messages there are! What you have created is in effect a secondary inbox within your main Gmail account. Don’t tell me that’s not useful. Step 6: Priority Inbox As if you needed another reason to forward your messages to Gmail, in the last few weeks, Google has been rolling out a brand-new feature called Priority Inbox for Gmail users. If you haven't gotten this feature yet, it should come up as a little red link in the top right soon. Priority Inbox uses voodoo "algorithms" to figure out which emails are important and puts them in a "priority" inbox, in addition to applying your normal labels and filters. This means that, for example, emails from the mailing lists you interact with frequently will be put in the priority inbox whereas emails from other sources will be sorted into your regular inbox. Does your life feel a little better already? Priority Inbox is still a new feature and obviously isn't perfect. The fact is that it will get better over time, as it learns more about you and your emailing habits (the Future is here; be afraid). To help this process, you can manually prioritize or demote certain emails. To do this, select a message and press either the yellow flag with a plus to prioritize or the gray flag with a minus to demote. The flags next to your messages might also highlight a previously unnoticed feature of Gmail: the "personal level indicators." These really make dealing with mailing lists easier. If a message was sent to just you, two arrows (&gt;&gt;) appear next to the message. If a message was sent to a group, including you, one arrow (&gt;) will appear next to the message. Finally, if the message was addressed to a mailing list that you're a part of, no arrows will appear. Nifty! Step 7: RTFM! Look up this acronym. What I’ve discussed here only scratches the surface of the sophisticated uses to which you can put Gmail’s filters, labels, accounts, and forwarding if you’re creative. If you want to learn more, the best place is Gmail itself, then searching the web. Check out stuff in the Labs (the green flask in the top right). Read the help pages. Learn. It will pay off in saved time and headaches down the road.
The weirdest part: the "Social Experiment" is an official Res Life program. What's all this, then? Leave your best guesses in the comments. 
B-School party outside Schermerhorn! Empanadas, asparagus in filo, tons of alcohol, fancy waiters, lots of ambition. There are legitimate ropes and officious B-school employees telling you not to eat the food. So just walk around those officious employees and take the food. 
The Bwog editors didn't take the summer off! Here are the highlights from when you were reading People instead of Bwog these past few months. GS Valedictorian Brian Corman "borrowed" a joke from a comedian in his speech. The 2011 Class Council used an idea from V116 for a new freshman initiative. F@CU announced its allocations for the various governing boards, including a major cut for the IGC. The New York State Court of Appeals upheld Columbia's use of eminent domain for the Manhattanville expansion. Columbia has a long history of schooling spies. The Barnard administration cooperates with the producers of Gossip Girl for future plot lines. Joseph Gordon-Levitt and the Batmobile were spotted on campus. Columbia jumped to #4 (#4!) in the U.S. News &amp; World Report rankings. The Economics Department created a Finance-Economics major. Urban Outfitters opened their UWS location, and Mel's Burger Bar finally opened its doors--try their alcoholic milkshakes. 
 Bwog always knew Columbia had more folklore than we get credit for. Erik Kogut spent his summer in the Rare Books &amp; Manuscripts Library in Butler, digging up Columbia history gems and discovering some long-forgotten traditions. Today, he tells the incredibly strange but true tale of Columbia's Black Avengers. Erik is keeping his own fascinating blog on Columbia history here. Check back for A Columbia Moment every few weeks, and if there's some Columbia history or folklore you'd like us to investigate, email tips@bwog.com. It's never been easy to be a first-year. Columbia fresh-gentlemen between in the early 1900's may have had it worst. For a few decades, freshmen were at the hands of the Black Avengers. The Black Avengers were a group of nine to twelve Columbia sophomores who ruled from the shadows, donning hooded black robes to discipline first-years. Their leader was known as the "King" and presided over the court that judged the unwitting defendants. In order to protect themselves, members could only reveal their identity after they became a junior. The Black Avengers policed the campus with a particular relish for cruel and unusual punishment. First-year students who broke any of the class restrictions were liable to be locked for a few hours in the stocks or decorated with an irremovable "dog-collar" with a humiliating sign attached. Freshmen deemed particularly "fresh" were kidnapped by the black-robed sophomores, driven to New Jersey (where else?) and paddled. According to Black Avenger law, freshmen couldn’t grow mustaches nor could they remove their beanie, symbol of freshmandom. Hipsters were also cruelly targeted with edicts against smoking in dormitory lounges and wearing bright flannel. Naturally, some freshmen tried to rebel against the draconian sophomores. In 1904, Kingdon Gould (yes, that Gould) decided he wouldn’t wear a beanie after all. The Black Avengers swiftly struck! But Gould fought back and gathered a crowd. By the time President Butler came out of Low, 200 boys were fighting on campus with young Gould drawing a pistol and firing a shot over the heads of the sophomore assailants. After the dust settled, an investigation was announced only to fail when Kingdon pleaded on behalf of the sophomores. Kingdon later took a proper beating like any other freshman. As the Black Avengers grew in campus stature, their punishments became more and more public. A Spectator sub-heading from the mid-20s read “Great Crowd Perches on South Field Stand to Watch New Manner of Punishment”. The new punishment was a "Humility Box," a sort of cage where students had to stand with signs around their neck. The administration eventually co-opted the role of the Black Avengers (you know, like how 40s on 40 became Senior Playpen). The Dean kept a list of incompliant underclassmen and oversaw an "official" court. By the time the Great Depression rolled around, the Black Avengers had died away.
 Jenny Slate, a CC alum, is apparently not being asked back to the SNL Cast. Analysts speculate the move may be related to her decision to drop the F-bomb in her debut performance. (NYT/HuffPo) Irrigation may help to mitigate the effects of climate change, according to an Earth Institute study. (Sify) The B-School takes 3rd in a ranking of the Best Business Schools for Hispanics. In other news, people salivate over college lists. (Poder 360) Another study says it's okay to put something called BPA in dental fillings for children, but that name (aka bisphenol A) still sounds hella ominous. (MSNBC) The Times wants your back-to-school photos (and yes they obviously mean YOU), so we say send 'em. (CityRoom)
 Unless you were born, like, literally yesterday you know what what's going on. But first classes continue today and we have a feeling our wonderful faculty will continue to make wonderful remarks. So if you want to share something you hear, hit up tips@bwog.com or the comments and we'll put it on teh internetz. Cool?
 Dear Bwog, I don’t mean to sound obnoxious, but people here aren’t as cultured as I expected. No one shares my music taste or gets my quirky brand of humor. It’s not that I’m so sophisticated or anything; there’s just some basic knowledge I assumed people had. I guess I just haven’t met people on my wavelength. Classes already started, and I still haven’t found my crew. ~Crewzing Dear Crewzing, There's no need so shocked when someone hasn’t heard of that semi-obscure band you worship. The patronizing question, “You really haven’t heard of Prezbo and the Deans*?” makes people feel uncomfortable--especially when combined with the toxic eyebrow raise. Of course, displays of superiority aren’t limited to music. If you dumped out the contents of 2014’s brains, you could reassemble and compile a comprehensive encyclopedia. In other words, Fourteen-ers, you know your shit. Kudos, but Columbia’s contained campus doesn’t have a lot of space for people mounted on high horses. That nice guy from the Great Plains may not be familiar with some Dadaist art exhibit downtown, but he definitely knows a few things you don’t. And don't be so surprised when that soft-spoken preppy girl down the hall actually has fantastic music taste. Friends come in all shapes, sizes and styles. Now that that’s out of our system, let’s talk timelines. Your buddies during the first week of college won’t necessarily be your go-to-crew for the next four years. Sometimes, months pass before you meet people you feel like you really mesh with. And that’s totally fine. There are 7,169 undergraduates here. You’ll find someone. Obviously people are drawn to Columbia for its academic opportunities, but you have a solid five weeks before you even need to think about midterms. Soak up the sweet sun of September and put off problem sets for parties. Marvel at your classmates; you may end up marrying one of them. But actually. If all else fails, you live in the greatest city in the world. Much Love, Bwog * Bwog’s dream band name. It’s like Diana Ross and the Supremes, but not.  Plus, Diana and Prezbo both have great hair.
 So this popped up on our radar a few weeks ago from the questionably titled blog The Art of Manliness. Basically, it's an article from a 1954 issue of the questionably titled True Magazine for Men which showcases this guy, Don, who is a senior at Columbia.  He is transformed from unfashionable preppy 1950s Ivy Leaguer to fashionable preppy 1950s Ivy Leaguer with the addition of fresh new threads (and some color photography). It starts to get real, however, when Don not only shows his new look off for the camera, but starts spontaneously dancing around with a buddy in front of Hamilton. So basically for all you freshpeoplemen wondering how to dress at this place we call Columbia, this is how you do it.
Dorm name tags and floor themes are an unabashedly sweet (if often trite) manifestation of Res Life’s quest for community. Every now and then, though, a failure to communicate, or an RA phoning it in on the brainstorming process will produce a floor theme that gives us pause. Here are some of our tipsters’ favorite bizarre (some successful, some less so) floor themes. Send us your favorites at tips@bwog.com or leave 'em in the comments. The sixth floor of Broadway appears to be attempting a Monopoly theme - but how quickly we leap from life-sized board games to the world's oldest profession (see last picture below). Just over on Hogan’s sixth floor, they are attempting another popular game: Taboo. Each resident fills out his/her card with words describing them. We can only assume that all the residents fear they will, in form with the game, not be able to use these words when referencing each other—that would explain why all of the cards remain blank. Across the street at Barnard, a freshman writes: “The door tags on our floor are unfitted, boxy t-shirts. Our bulletin board dons a cupcake collage—a cake for each hall member. I think our theme is the Freshman Fifteen.” Another freshman, this one on the sixth floor of John Jay, tells Bwog how his door tag was used as an icebreaker (because nothing is sacred). A pouch with a slip of paper told him he was now a detective tasked with sleuthing out answers about a floormate. Questions ranged from the obvious “What’s your favorite movie?” to the obscure “Summarize the 20th century in no more than 10 words.” Bwog wonders what use such information would be to a detective. No matter, though, as the door tag pouches have already become a dumping station for student group flyers (because nothing is sacred). In Carman Hall, the dormwide theme is “Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?” Some floors have taken an orthodox approach to the theme, while others have made a fly-by-night swipe at it. On Carman’s eighth floor, Ms. Sandiego appears to be stealing all the world’s Lucky Charms. Does Carman really just like hearts, stars and horseshoes? Or, as Bwog suspects, were these just incredibly simple door tags to make? 
Today is the first Every Other Wednesday of the year, which means it's time to check in with our friends at the CU Arts Initiative for a smattering of on- and off-campus events. Tickets sold for on-campus events this week: 313 Check out: First Friday: Cruising // 9/10 @ 10:30pm // Lerner Party Space // $5 //  Tickets Barnard College Department of Theater: The Physicists // 10/21-23 @ 3:00pm and 8:00pm // $10, $5 with CUID // Tickets Tickets sold for off-campus events this week: 561 Holler at: Columbia Night on Broadway: American Idiot // 9/15 and 9/16 @ 8:00pm // $25 // Tickets Fuerza Bruta // 9/17 @ 8:00pm // $39 // Tickets Mets Game // 9/17 @  7:10pm and 9/18 @ 4:10pm // $24 // Tickets Avenue Q // 9/29 @ 8:00pm // $46 // Tickets
John W. Kluge, CC '37 and a major donor to the University, passed away today. Kluge came to Columbia on scholarship after leaving Germany for America at the age of 16. He went on to become a billionaire primarily in the telecom and media industries. Over his lifetime he made several gifts to Columbia acknowledging his scholarship, most notably a $400 million gift in 2007, which was the largest ever to a University to be devoted solely to financial aid. He also is the namesake of the Kluge Scholars program, and his death is a heartfelt loss to the university community.
Hawkma's back, ladies and gents! This delicious scrap was found outside Milbank. 
Very sad news tonight: Tara Riesner, a third-year MFA student in the School of Arts Writing Program, passed away last night, according to an email sent to School of Arts students by the SOA administration. The cause of her death was not revealed. Emails sent to SOA students indicate that Tara passed away in a Columbia residence. We send our deepest condolences to Tara's family and friends, and we all mourn this loss to the Columbia community. We'll provide updates and information about a memorial service as we learn more. Update, 9/9: Spec is reporting that the death was a suicide. We'll update as we learn more.
 This year, Club Sports teams might find it harder to foot their bills with this surprise change in University policy. (Spec) Dabashi is optimistic and defends civil liberties, freedom and building of the Cordoba House. (CNN) Columbia is smart and buys land for the future. But we already knew that. (USA Today) Feeling hot? At least you're not a firefighter on Staten Island. (Gothamist) You know how Google is creepily starting to take over everything? Gmail, Gcal, Google docs, Google maps etc...Well now it has your mind. Yes. It's psychic. Try it! (NYT)
Every week, Bwog will bring you the latest and greatest in your local fruits, veggies and meats so you'll know which seasonal goodies to look out for. Today - apples, eggplants and foreign meats, oh my! What's New Greenmarket welcomes Roaming Acres Ostrich Farm! Now you can buy ostrich jerky, filets, steaks, burgers, ground, fresh ostrich eggs, empty ostrich emu eggs, ostrich oil, soaps and ostrich leather products. Apparently it tastes like beef. If you have EBT/food stamp benefits, get a Benefits Card and ask the market manager to stamp your receipt every time you spend over $10. With five stamps you’ll receive two Greenbucks, which can be exchanged for fresh fruits and vegetables in the market. We’re early in apple season, so check out Samascotts for a ridiculously large variety of apples. Find out why eggplants are called eggplants at Gonzalez. Wine &amp; Food Associates will be selling wine from the Fingerlake region. Pumphouse Red is a hit and Widow Walk Reisling is highly recommended for a hot afternoon. Don’t miss the cooking demo around noon at the GrowNYC tent. Free samples for all! Mark Your Calendars Join farmers from Greenmarket for Sunday Farmer's Supper at Henry's Restaurant (Bway &amp; 105th) on September 26th from 5pm to 8pm. It's a three course dinner featuring food from the market and wine from Red Tail Ridge. Dinner is $65 and it will all benefit the Greenmarket's Youth Education Project. Reservations are required. Sign up at the market or at Henry's. Don’t Forget The Greenmarket now accepts food stamps (EBT) and Debit and Credit cards. Update: DSpar spotted buying apples at Stannard Farm stand!
 The first two days are up. Your profs did what they could to hook you in. Here are the highlights from the crazy geniuses who walk among us. Keep 'em coming! Adam Cannon, Intro to Computer Science/Programming-Java "Cheating is like pornography; you know it when you see it." Padma Desai, Principles of Economics Desai: "Do you want to use clickers?" Class: "Nooo" Desai: "Good, because I don't know what the hell they are." Charles Doubleday, Organic Chemistry "So the more you pull apart the two hydrogens the more they start to say...eh...I just don't care." Aaron Fox, Social Science of Music Describing the derivation of social science: "So during the Enlightenment, God lost and science won. That's the short version...But I mean I guess right now God is kind of making a come back." Aaron Fox (head of the Music Department), Social Science of Music Opera singing in the background: "I'm always next to an opera class... always. I hate opera. Don't tell anyone I said that." Giuseppe Gerbino, History of Western Music Describing the ancient Greek perception of music: "Music is an auditory experience... of the order of the universe!" V.R. Berghahn, Modern Germany "My parents told me to come back to Germany to become a professor, where that’s considered a very elevated position. Not like in this country where we’re treated like part of the furniture." George Saliba, Introduction to Islamic Civilization "Princeton was not mad that they lost. Princeton was mad that they lost to Columbia. That, I call chutzpah... (later on) Beat Princeton." Xavier Sala-i-Martin, Intermediate Macroeconomics "The difference between micro and macro is that macro is useful." "He said, 'in the long run, we're all dead.' And he was right! He's dead now!" "Every Korean now has 6 Ph.D.s." "In a few years, the Chinese are going to want their money back. Not because they're Chinese." Achille Varzi, Intro to Symbolic Logic "There will be a surprise quiz next week. Now, we only have class Monday or Wednesday, and the quiz will be a surprise. So when is the quiz? It can't be Wednesday because then if it is not on Monday, you will know on Tuesday that it is on Wednesday, and then it is not a surprise! So then it must be on Monday... but wait! Then you know it is on Monday! So then it is not a surprise! There can't be a surprise quiz!" "But I will still give you a quiz. And you will all be surprised. So I win." Anthony Webster, Intro to Accounting and Finance In reference to i-bankers: "They make money off you on the way in and way out, heartless parasites...and on that happy note: important accounting quantities." Gareth Williams, Augustan Poetry "I want to examine how some of us think that Latin resembles dentistry." Wael Hallaq, Major Topics in Islamic Law On why we study Islamic Law: "We must always ask why we study this thing called Islamic Law. Why is there a thing called Islamic Law? Why is there a thing called Mathematics, or Science? Why is there a thing called the Columbia Business School? That, perhaps, we cannot answer." Ross Posnock, Modernism in America "One of the best things about being bourgeoisie is being able to call other people bourgeoisie." James Shapiro, Shakespeare I: Early Shakespeare On cell-phone policy: "If your phone rings twice I will throw it out this window and give you $100. Mine survived the fall, but it's one of those small, thick ones - maybe we can do an experiment!" On the syllabus: "Who's read Lucrece or Venus and Adonis? The rape poem and the cougar poem?" Dr. Peter Norden, Studies in Operations Research "I was once told that if you walk into the center of Seoul and yell out Kim, Lee, or Park, 98.7% of the population of South Korea will turn around."
Junior and senior ladeez just received an email from Student Affairs with the following subject line: 
 In our newest feature, HolidayHop, Bwog will explain religious holidays so you don’t have to pretend to understand them. Tekiah… Shevarim Teruah… Tekiah… These Hebrew words are spoken between blasts blown from the shofar, a ram’s horn. On Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish new year, the sounding of the shofar is meant to wake Jews from complacency (and those literally sleeping in shul). This clarion call reminds them of the importance of the new year and repentance. Traditionally, during Rosh Hashanah, apples and honey represent life. The roundness of apples represents its cyclical nature, while the honey symbolizes its sweetness. Another ritual called tashlikh, involves emptying pockets of bread crumbs into a river or ocean as an allegory for ridding oneself of sins. Rosh Hashanah opens the “Days of Awe” or “Ten Days of Repentance,” when Jews are supposed to scrutinize their actions over the previous year and make amends. A major portion of the holiday, then, addresses divine consequences.  God opens the Book of Life on Rosh Hashanah and, as written in one of David’s psalms, the evil are “blotted out from the bok of living” ("יִמָּחוּ, מִסֵּפֶר חַיִּים;    וְעִם צַדִּיקִים אַל-יִכָּתֵבוּ," for you nifty Hebrew readers). Perhaps David’s words are some of the earliest on divine retribution. Take that, Dante! Columbia services are listed here. L'Shana Tova!
 ZagatBuzz is giving away an $100 gift certificate for Mel's to the first person who guesses the number of lightbulbs in the sign. Just email buzz@zagat.com with “Mel’s Bar and Burger” in the subject line, along with your guess. Start counting!!
New classes, new freshpeople, and now a new Morningside. They've changed everything! Bwog can hardly recognize the place. On the decorative front: There are the flags -- and not just the new ones on Furnald and Hartley Lawns. Lehman Lawn has recently acquired four in yellow, green, red and blue -- one for each year. Class spirit...woo! The athletically-inclined will be pleased to find that there are new ellipticals in Dodge, and that the Parks Dept. has finished the new bike path along the Hudson River between 85th and 104th in Riverside Park. 203 Math got carpeting. Now don't scoff - this couldn't have been a small feat, what with the 150 tiny holes they must have had to cut out in the carpet before installing it! Amirs has also redecorated. On the academic front: To add to the pain of registration, adding and dropping core classes now requires your SSN. Columbia is offering Georgian courses this year. On the culinary, economic and environmental front: There's a fancy new coffee machine in the Mudd lobby. Taste-test pending. Brownies has red velvet cakes for $2.50. Vending machines now charge $1.75 for soda, up 15 cents from last semester. Now what will we chase with? Ferris charges 50 cents per disposable plastic takeout container. Apparently they're trying to encourage students to be eco-friendly. We've heard rumors of rentable and reusable containers with token deposits. Stay tuned! On the canine front: Last but not least, with the most uncomfortable change of all, this sizeable "comfort" dog (not to be confused with his visually-impaired-leading counterpart, the "service" dog) has been known to frequent the Hamilton elevator. 
 During filming, a Bwogger approached a GG tech person and asked which characters were coming to Barnard. "None of them," the tech-lady replied. "We're just pretending they go to Columbia." UPDATE: More pictures from the filming, this time of Serena (!) thanks to the quick lenswork of Elissa Mendez-Renk: 
 At the Package Center: After foolishly spending too much for stamps in the stamps machine, a twitchy freshperson holds up the envelope and asks an employee: "Where does the stamp go?"
In case you haven't dined at Ferris or needed an Add/Drop form yet, you might not have seen Lerner 4 &amp; 5's newest look: 
Looks like the trees on Philosophy lawn got a makeover. 
The friends and students of one of Bwog's favorite professors, Karl Kroeber, have started a blog in his remembrance. Send in your favorite memories! LA prison unveils new zapper to control rowdy inmates. Florida pastor Terry Jones may or may not burn Korans. Artist Amir Baradaran discovers that cab drivers don't want to be on TV--even the Taxi kind. Watch his movie during your next drunken cab ride from midtown! California federal judge declares the US military policy of "don't ask, don't tell" unconstitutional. Update: Meghan McCain, CC '07, was on the Daily Show last night to promote her new book Dirty Sexy Politics. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 It’s helpful to have a job when you’re a broke college student – preferably one that doesn’t require you to take the subway. To help you out on your quest for employment, we did a little legwork and found out who’s hiring in Morningside. Ricky's (114th &amp; Bway) is looking for all positions, including stylists. American Apparel (109th &amp; Bway) wants you. Don your golden onesie! Vine (116th &amp; Bway) is looking for full- and part-time hostesses and servers with experience. Pinkberry (112th &amp; Bway) is also hiring. If you make a good first impression, the manager might hire you on the spot. Campo (114th &amp; Bway) isn’t actively hiring right now, but we’re told that they will be within the next couple of weeks. Amsterdam Restaurant (119th &amp; Amsterdam) will be hiring within the next two months. Book Culture (112th b/w Bway and Amsterdam) is apparently pretty full, but send your resume to david@bookculture.com and you could get lucky. Community (113th &amp; Bway) isn’t hiring right this second, but they tell us that the restaurant business changes from moment to moment, so you should probably drop off your resume and application anyway. Amir's (113th &amp; Broadway) is hiring cashiers. It rhymes! Kitchenette (123rd &amp; Amsterdam), Deluxe (113th &amp; Bway), Le Monde (112th &amp; Bway) and Vareli (112th &amp; Bway) aren’t actively hiring, but applications are welcome. 
A tipster forwarded us this email that was sent out to the Computer Science department mailing list. Students with poor food storage habits, you have been warned! hi all, the refrigerator in the CS lounge is disgusting; the smell of rotting food hits you in the face when opening the door, and we can make penicillin out of the mold growing in there. We will be giving the refrigerator a head-to-toe cleaning tomorrow; if there is anything in there you want to save, please retrieve it before morning. Once we have cleaned and sanitized, please be mindful of your colleagues and do not let food sit petrifying in the refrigerator. remember . . . your mother doesn't work here . . . you are responsible for cleaning your own mess :) thanks, Patricia Photo via Wikipedia
Though incomparable to the crowd at their Roger the talking squirrel video (claymation is cool!) screened at Barnard, the Columbia EcoReps tour brought out 12 starry-eyed freshpeople, from CC, BC, and GS. Anna Etra explains their latest initiatives for saving the planet for the rest of you environmentally sensitive ’14ers. Two CC seniors led the tour starting at the Sundial on College Walk. After a brief introduction about the Columbia EcoReps, Griff and Zack explained the green initiatives starting in the residence halls. The school is gradually performing sink upgrades, installing low flow showerheads and dual flush toilets. The greening of Columbia, spearheaded by EcoReps, aims higher than the city of New York’s PlaNYC. The city’s plan is to reduce all five boroughs of New York gas emissions by 30% by 2030. Columbia’s aims to do so by 2016. “This starts in the halls,” Zack said. The dining halls have been providing greener options, including local food, milk and fruit. The Barnard dining hall separates its waste into food waste and non-food waste to go into their big composter. Once in a while, the dining halls will have a harvest dinner, which includes an extra high concentration of local foods. Sometimes local farmers come and talk about the food they produce. “It is like bringing the Farmer’s market into the dining hall,” Zack explained. The tour covered Faculty House, a building tucked away near Morningside Drive, which was the first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified building of its time. It is now considered up to the Gold LEED standard. This certification is achieved based on different factors including proximity to transportation and what activities go on inside the building, i.e. sucking up to professors. When completed, the inner science building should be at least LEED silver standard and the Diana, on Barnard’s campus, is in the process of getting certified. The group continued to Morningside Park, a great place off Morningside drive to “quench your green thirst,” said Zack, “and see the biggest ‘Who is Salt?’ advertisement in the city.” Unfortunately, there was no spotting of Hawkmadinijad on the tour. Appropriately enough, there was an enthusiastic vegan serenading us with the message to take the cruelty out of food, as the EcoReps tour walked through the Grant community projects. After two years of bureaucratic madness, the community started to build gardens with the help of some Columbia students. They are now in the process of expanding the gardens and making them handicap accessible. The community garden on Columbia’s campus (look out for sunflowers outside Pupin!) is a source to take advantage of even more locally, but has a policy that if you take something out, put some energy back in. The garden operatres on a relatively small scale, and currently the only plants available in the garden that can sustain the entire community are the herbs. The tour could see the green house on top of Milbank Hall from afar, and discussed the differences between Barnard and Columbia’s recycling programs. The tour concluded at the farmers market with the encouragement to talk to the farmers about why they choose to make their products in the manner that they do. What do you think of Columbia's efforts to go green? Let us know in the commments! Photo via Flickr/jamieleto
In our newest feature, HolidayHop, Bwog will explain religious holidays so you don’t have to pretend to understand them. Early this morning, the first of Shawwal, the tenth month in the Islamic calendar, Muslims across the world awoke for the fajr, the pre-dawn prayers. Then, for the first time in 30 days (since the start of Ramadan, the month of dawn-to-dusk fasting and abstinence), they will eat in the light of day.  This light meal—usually in keeping with prophetic tradition it will involve something sweet, often dates—is the first act of celebration of Eid ul-Fitr (roughly translated, the festivity of the conclusion of the fast). Eid, as it is more commonly known (although not to be confused with the longer Eid al-Adha), is a complex and rich holiday, but to brutally encapsulate its celebrations and remembrances, it is a day of thanksgiving—thanks for the health and strength and faith to complete the fast—and a day of renewed faith, forgiveness for past grudges, and the wishing of Allah’s blessing upon all. Yet for all its importance, it is a day most Americans have trouble recalling as, like all the Muslim holy days, it is calculated by a lunar calendar not in sync with our own. The sighting of the new moon marking the beginning of the new month of Shawwal, which was spotted last night, ends the Ramadan observances. Believers, dressed in new clothing of the best they can muster, congregate in a field, a community center, or a mosque for the Eidsalah/salat/namaz (whatever one’s culture calls it), special prayers marking the day. The prayers are followed by a khutbah, a sermon instructing the faithful on items to keep in mind, such as rituals and instructions on the paying of zakat (alms). As with any day of thanksgiving, the giving of alms and service to those less fortunate is an essential component of observance. This year, most of these gifts will inevitably be directed towards the suffering millions in Pakistan. After prayer and sermon, families withdraw to homes or community centers for a large celebration (food, fireworks, the whole shebang) with family, friends, and acquaintances. Gifts are given to children, usually in the form of sweets, which are generally quite copious at these celebrations (as there is actually an Islamic injunction against fasting on Eid, why not celebrate the bounty?). While American Muslims typically take the day off for Eid, the celebrations often carry over into the weekend, carrying with it the sense of thanks and spiritual awareness that breaks upon the ummah (the community of the faithful) with the Shawwal moon. Bwog hopes that the Muslim community of Columbia is celebrating this day with family and friends. Eid Mubarak!
Attention first years! Bwog knows you've probably grown tired of the drabness of your Carman prison cell dorm room, but we have good news! There is currently a poster sale being held on College Walk to supply you with all of your wall-adorning needs. Get ready to grapple with one of the toughest questions of first year--how to decorate. Do you hang up a movie poster? Your favorite album cover? A map? These bits of paper will define your identity to all those who enter your home, including friends, parents, and one-night stands. Choose wisely, friends. 
 We called it Cooking With Bwog 2.0 last year, but you get the idea now. Delicious weekly recipes from Matt Powell of the Culinary Society, using lots of ingredients you can pick up at the Greenmarket. Look out for much more Bwog foodie stuff in the next few weeks. This week: lamb kabobs and palmiers. Eat well, don't do your reading yet. Recipe of the Week: Lamb Kabobs Summer never ends! Don't abandon the grill just because you have discussion section now. This week’s recipe is adapted from a grilled lamb kabob. Lamb is an often over-looked meat in the diet of college students, but it can be a fantastic change from the typical chicken and ground beef. Ingredients: 2 lb. boneless leg of lamb, cut in chunks Salt and Black Pepper ¾ tsp. Cinnamon 3 cloves of garlic, minced 1 C of mint, chopped Olive Oil Red Wine Vinegar Red Onion, cut in small chunks Mixture of red, yellow, and green bell peppers, cut in chunks Directions: 1. Toss lamb chunks, salt, pepper, cinnamon, garlic, mint, olive oil, and vinegar in a bowl. Do not go overboard on oil—a couple tablespoons should do the trick. Let this mixture marinate for 3 hours at least. 2. Sauté lamb chunks in a skillet over medium-high heat to get most of the cooking done. This should take about 8-10 minutes, depending on how effective your dorm stove is. 3. Skewer, alternating the lamb, onion, and peppers. You can also add green onion, tomatoes,and whatever else you find suitable. 4. Broil for 5 minutes on a pan covered with foil. I like to serve this with a light arugula salad and pesto. Serves 4-6. Dessert of the Week: Palmiers Palmiers are the perfect handheld dessert for sweet tooth cravings. Here's a simple version of the French dessert. Ingredients: 2 ½ C Flour 2 tsp. salt 3 sticks of butter, frozen 12 tbsp. ice water 2 C sugar 4 tsp. cinnamon Directions: 1. Stir flour and salt together in a chilled metal bowl. Grate frozen butter into the bowl and toss to coat. 2. Add iced water and mix. Dough should hold together when squeezed. If you need to, add a bit more water. 3. Form dough into a 7 X 7 square and wrap in plastic. Chill for 30 minutes. 4. After chilling, roll out onto a floured surface, making sure it does not stick. Roll into a large rectangle with the short end facing you. After rolling out, fold into thirds like a letter. Re-wrap and chill another 30 minutes. 5. Repeat the step above at least 2 times. 6. Sprinkle a clean work surface with the cinnamon-sugar mixture. Roll out the dough on the sugar as big as you can without tearing the dough. Fold in the two long sides so they meet in the center. Repeat. Fold on half over the other and press down gently. Sprinkle with additional sugar. Chill 30 minutes. 7. Cut slices of the roll that you have created. Place slices on a baking sheet covered in parchment paper. Bake at 425 degrees for 10 minutes. Flip over a bake another 8 minutes. Food Events: At Columbia: The Culinary Society has their first meeting of the year on Tuesday, September 14th. 9 PM, Lerner Ramp Room East. In New York: The Top Chef: Just Desserts Premiere The brand-new show premieres on Wednesday, September 15th. Throughout the city on Wednesday, Top Chef Dessert trucks will be driving around, many of the city’s bakeries will be giving out free samples, and many restaurants are providing free desserts for diners on Wednesday. Follow Bravo TV on Twitter or Facebook to find out more.
Dying to hit up Fashion's Night Out and ogle at clothing worth more than your tuition, but too lazy to head all the way downtown? No worries, the Columbia Bookstore's got your back. To celebrate Fashion Week, the bookstore will debut its new School House Rock collection. Apparently, "campus pride is always fashionable." The House of CU is timeless, forrealz. Columbia University is also ethical! All School House clothing is made in a living wage factory in Sri Lanka, so when you support CU, you also support our friends in Sri Lanka. Plus, from now until the 20th, if you bring the postcard pictured here, you'll receive 20% off your School House purchase. Everyone wins!
 If you're still cursing the housing gods for your 90-square foot single in Wien, cheer up! Though you'll probably be stuck there all year, at least Housing's tried to make it a little nicer for ya. Check out our list of all the new renovations, and let us know what other new changes you've seen or would like to see in your dorms in the comments. Maybe someone will listen! Broadway Renovated floors 3, 4, 5 including new paint, new flooring, and new lounge furniture. Renovated laundry room and painted basement level. Renovated 14th floor lounges including new carpet, paint and new furniture. Installed electronic locks on all room doors. Brownstones Various small projects including painting and floor refinishing based on the priorities of the groups in residence. Added electronic Lenel readers for access to the remaining seven Brownstones. EC Renovated the 14th floor including replacing the flooring, new kitchen appliances, and all new furniture. Painted laundry room. Added floor bulletin boards in the high rise. Added bicycle racks on the plaza level. Harmony Renovated existing apartment on the first floor to create a new six person suite. Hartley/Wallach Installed new Lobby/Lounge windows on the first floor campus side; Amsterdam side to be completed this fall. Hogan Renovated floors 2, 3 and 7 including new kitchen cabinets and appliances, new separated shower and toilet room, new paint, flooring and furniture throughout Renovated laundry room on 7th floor John Jay New beds were placed in all rooms on floors 5 through 13. McBain Revised floor plan to add 23 beds in the building; new rooms have new flooring and paint. Installed flat screen TV’s in the floor lounges. Watt On floors 3 and 4, refinished the hardwood floors, added new bathroom shower enclosures and new vanities Wien Bathroom renovations on floors 2 – 8; on floors 3 through 8, bathroom renovations created a separate male and female bathroom; on the 2nd floor the layout was changed to create two unisex bathrooms. New corridor lighting on all floors except 9 which lighting replaced last summer New carpet on floors 2 - 8 Wireless Added Wireless service to 8 additional buildings (600 W 113th Street, Hogan, McBain, River, Ruggles, Watt, Wien, Woodbridge) CUIT also improved the existing wireless service in Broadway Local Law 11 Repairs Repairs to building exteriors in East Campus, Schapiro, and Woodbridge Coming Soon Video displays in four residence halls: Broadway, Hartley, Ruggles, and Wien Photo from Wikimedia Commons
The Times recounts last night's Fashion's Night Out. New MTA service change signs prove just as useless as before. (Gothamist) The New York City Ballet wants you (to give them money). (WSJ) Citibank helps their female employees avoid sabotaging their careers. (Gothamist) Terry Jones graces the Today Show with his presence this morning. (WSJ) Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog's heart is with those that were affected by the 9/11 attacks on this solemn ninth anniversary of the tragedy. While Columbia's American flag flies at half-mast today, there are no events or memorials planned to take place on campus.
As you surf the interweb while nurturing your first Friday Night Hangover of the semester,  Bwog's Saturday Morning Cartoons offers you a giggle that hopefully will not bounce your belly too hard. Cartoon by Abigail Santner
 Columbia has created a University-wide student group website that allows students to browse, join groups, and participate in discussions. Student group leaders can post notes, events, and send messages to their fellow members. Among the most useful tools on the site is the events calendar, which can be filtered using many different criteria (e.g. filter for study break events to score  free food!). Image via Wikimedia Commons
It's true—there really ain't no party like a B-School party. The following was spotted by admirers Friday evening: 
Joseph Gordon-Levitt returns to Morningside Heights for the filming of Premium Rush! 114th Street has become Columbia Pictures' storage closet, while Nussbaum offers prime views of JGL himself. If you're lucky, you may even get to see stunt cars drive backwards on Broadway! Top-left photo by Annie Liu.  Top-right photo by Robyn Gordon.  Remaining photos by Megan McGregor.
 The drones are coming! (NYPost) The hipsters are coming? (Gizmodo) Lady Gaga has arrived - in the classroom (HuffPo) Money buys less happiness in New York (WSJ)
The Brooklyn Book Festival is taking place today until 6 p.m. at Brooklyn Borough Hall.  All events-panels, forums, booths- are free to attend! Famous people, like Venus Williams and Sarah Silverman, will be there, along with Columbia's own Professor Gary Shteyngart and Librarian Karen Green. Get your intellect on! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Residents of the Block (dorms on 113th and 114th) are invited to the year's first BlockTalk, and it's happening this afternoon! Free treats will be served up by Columbia's very own NOM^3. The nomming goes down in the Broadway lobby at 2. Go forth and eat! Update: Free ice cream is available in Lerner until 3 PM, courtesy of CCSC .
Spotted on the corner of 113th and Broadway: Photo by Caitlin Hoeberlein
 Hello, friends! Hope you've had a lovely first week of the semester, and that none of your classes have discussion sections. The first Bwog meeting of the year will be tonight at 7 PM in the student meeting room on the main floor of the Diana, at Barnard. We'll meet for about an hour, and talk about how you can get involved, what's coming up on Bwog, how Bwog works, and pitch ideas. Can't wait to see you all there. If you have any questions just email editors@bwog.com. Image via Wikimedia Commons
If you’re like us, you’ve spent hours of valuable registration appointment time agonizing over whether to take a class with a visiting associate professor or an adjunct assistant.  What do these titles actually mean?  Bwog’s expert on esoteric distinctions, Jon Edelman, breaks it down. According to the faculty handbook, there are twenty-three possible titles for the Arts and Sciences faculty, not counting the over 500 named professorships that go to members of “unusual academic distinction.” At the bottom of the tenure track are Instructors, doctoral candidates who will become Assistant Professors when they complete their Ph.Ds.  After roughly six years of original scholarship, good teaching (as measured by course evaluations), and service to the department (working on committees and such), Assistant Professors can be granted tenure by the already-tenured members of the department and become Associate Professors.  Usually, if they publish enough, they’ll go on to become full Professors. Professors with “exceptional scholarly merit of the highest distinction and extended service to the university” can be appointed University Professors by the trustees.  Only eight professors can hold this title at once, unless one of them is seventy, in which case an exception is made in anticipation of his or her retirement. Adjuncts, on the other hand, have it rougher.  Although there are Assistant, Associate and full adjunct Professors, and many are very accomplished, their positions can be terminated at will.  The wages are lower, and the work is part-time.  Many adjuncts hope  to get picked up for tenure-track jobs, but it doesn’t often happen unless they write a major book. There are also assorted Lecturers (both part and full-time), Professors of Professional Practice (for the grad schools) and visiting faculty from other schools, who also have Assistant/Associate/Full distinctions.  Does any of this mean anything about how good your professors will be?  Who knows?  In the meantime, we recommend sticking with CULPA. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Pearls of wisdom, comin' at ya from Lerner 5. 
House G.O.P Leader, John Boehner, open to compromise on tax cut. (NY Times) At last night’s VMAs, Kanye and Tay Swift resolved the Swiftboating incident—in song and over Twitter, the way celebs are supposed to do these things. (AP) "Tireless" Tasini charms voters with his adorable sense of humor, challenging embattled and ethically questionable Charles Rangel. (Spec) After a rained out Final, Nadal and Djokovic play on. (USOpen) Happy first Monday! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 For those seeking a soulful September jam, Columbia’s latest singing sensation, Tara Priya, CC ’08, offers a nostalgic escape from the autotune avalanche. Her sound is a throwback to the likes of Billie Holiday and Etta James, but never anachronistic. With influences ranging from Tupac to opera, Tara has developed a powerful voice of her own. We'll be posting a few stories about enterprising alums this week and next. If you know an alum doing something worth writing about, tell us at tips@bwog.com. Carolyn Ruvkun writes. “I struggle a lot with the genre question,” Priya said, “it’s tough to characterize my style, because I don’t fit into the musical categories of my influences. My contemporary inspirations are retrosoul artists—Amy Winehouse , Duffy, Nicole Willis—as well as bluesy pop artists, like Gavin Degraw, John Legend, and Adele. I grew up listening to Bob Dylan, The Beatles, Billie Holiday, Sam Cooke, Etta James, Smokey Robinson, Otis Redding—so folk, pop, jazz, blues, funk.” Priya is remarkably thoughtful about each of her musical inspirations, acknowledging that some influences aren’t necessarily heard directly in her music. “ I often wish I could write songs that adhered to the styles of any of these artists, but instead, I borrowed certain aspects of each. Dylan made me value lyrics, The Beatles made me value a clean and simple song structure, jazz teaches you melodic richness and diversity, the blues teach you the importance of emotion, and funk taught me to have fun with/in a song. I grew up listening to lots of rap, thanks to my older brother, and I always want to sing slightly percussively.” She lands on the genre of “lyrical retropop” but claims the classification still “may be incorrect.” As a young diva, Priya was scolded by her kindergarten teacher for disrupting class by constantly singing. Her music was better received at Columbia, where jazz and classical coaches “shaped” her voice and supported her singing career. Priya credits a certain Hartley security guard with a taste for 70s soul for giving her excellent recommendations. “Lyrically speaking,” she adds, “a lot of my songs are based off of experiences I had in college: Romance! Drama! Philosophy!” The Core, in real life! Encouraged by her professors and peers, including a Columbia-Juilliard exchange student with whom she now writes songs, Priya decided to pursue a singing career not by dropping out like a few of her successful Columbia contemporaries, but speeding through school. In 2 ½ years, Priya graduated as an Economics major. “I didn't set out to graduate in 2.5 years," she said, "but from day one at Columbia, I always felt antsy, like I wasn't supposed to be there, which is strange, because all through high school, I dreamed of going to Columbia. I really wanted to be 'out in the world' doing things; I especially wanted to spend more time performing in the city." It was hard leaving her friends, but "it had been even tougher pretending that I liked college for two years." What’s next?  Having just released her EP, Priya is performing in California. She even has a slot at the Miami Music Festival in November.  “Basically, I'm working on getting my music to people, finding out what people think, and building a fanbase,” she explains, “The industry has changed a lot, and record labels don't want to invest in artist development anymore. Getting signed to a label would be great, at some point...until then, I'm managing myself, recording myself, promoting myself...oh yes, and singing!” 
Brandon Christophe tipped us about an arrest on campus. We'll update you as soon as we get more information, but if you saw or heard anything, please email us at tips@bwog.com. Update: James McShane, Department of Public Safety Vice President, explained what went down. He sent us the following in an email: I believe that the original incident was a dispute in the soup kitchen at 114th and Broadway. At approximately 11:25 AM, the 26th precinct initiated a foot pursuit. The pursuit began at 114th street and Broadway and the suspect entered on to the Columbia campus. This pursuit was heard by our Operations Center, and Public Safety Units assisted. Upon arrival, the suspect, a non-affiliate, was apprehended and handcuffed. He was removed to the 26th precinct for processing. Several Police cars entered college walk in response to the pursuit. So basically, someone unaffiliated with Columbia ran onto campus during a police chase, and Columbia Public Safety and the NYPD worked together to catch him. Team work! Kudos to the hardworking people who keep Columbia safe.
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Sept 13 “Activities Fair,” Low and Butler Plaza/Lawns, 2:00 pm – 6:00 pm,  *Almost every publication, singing, and theater group on campus is hosting auditions, taking submissions, looking for new members. Stop by and say hello to all of them! Including Bwog! “Awakening Giants, Feet of Clay: India and China,”  2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:45 pm, Pranab Bardhan Sept 14 “Taking Stock of (Analytical) Marxism,” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Pranab Bardhan, Jon Elster, John Roemer “Journalism School Address: Dean Baquet, Washington, D.C., Bureau Chief for The New York Times,” Main Lecture Hall, Journalism, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Dean Baquet Sept 15 “Hispanic New York and the Latinoization of the United States,” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Paul Berman, Gabriel Haslip Viera, Fances Negron-Muntaner, Milagros Ricourt, Virginia Sanchez Korrol, and Ray Suarez “Tea Demonstration and Lecture,” Casa Italiana, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Genshitsu Sen (Grandmaster Soshitsu Sen XV) Sept 16 “The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs): Can We Keep the Promise?” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Kandeh K. Yumkella, Nafis Sadik, Jomo Sundaram, Rebeca Grynspan, Robert Orr, and Elisabeth Lindenmayer “Muslim Students Association’s Fast-A-Thon 2010,” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 6:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Ambassador H.E. Abdullah Hussain Haroon, Ibrahim Abdul-Matin Sept 17 “Millennium Campus Conference 2010,” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – Sept 19, 5:00 pm, Various “Public Lecture on Black Holes and Stargazing Session,” Pupin Hall, Pupin, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Janna Levi Full List After the Jump! Mon, Sept 13 “Activities Fair,” Low and Butler Plaza/Lawns, 2:00 pm – 6:00 pm * Almost every publication, singing, and theater group on campus is hosting auditions, taking submissions, looking for new members. Stop by and say hello to all of them! Including Bwog! “Rethinking Cold War Culture,” 918 IAB, 4:30 pm – 6:00 pm, Heonik Kwon “Awakening Giants, Feet of Clay: India and China,”  2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:45 pm, Pranab Bardhan “Translating The Second Sex: A Discussion with the Translators of the New English Edition of Simone de Beauvoir’s Classic Feminist Work,”    Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Constance Borde and Sheila Malovany-Chevallier Tues, Sept 14 “Game-changing Triad: Fast Algorithms, Many-core Hardware, Open Software—A Case Study with Biomolecular Electrostatics,” 210 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Lorena Barba “Cities and Climate,” Altschul Auditorium, 4th Floor IAB, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Cynthia Rosenweig “Inwood Skies: Imaginary Landscapes—Art Exhibition,” Russ Berrie Medical Science Pavilion and Lasker Biomedical Research Building, Medical School Campus, 5:30 pm – 7 pm, Andrea Cukier “Forum on Migration: Better Fortunes?: School Enrollment and Living Arrangements of Migrant Youth in Six Western Countries,” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Marta Tienda “Taking Stock of (Analytical) Marxism,” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Pranab Bardhan, Jon Elster, John Roemer “Journalism School Address: Dean Baquet, Washington, D.C., Bureau Chief for The New York Times,” Main Lecture Hall, Journalism, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Dean Baquet “Free Screening of 2010 Oscar-Nominated Film: Ajami,” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Uri Cohen Wed, Sept 15 “Christian Democracy in Post-Communist Europe?” Lindsay Rogers Room, 7th Floor IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Anna Grzymala-Busse “The Formation and Function of Disclosure Rules in China,” 101 Warren (WJW) Hall, Law School, 12:10 pm – 1:20 pm, Jane Fu “Energy Technology Perspectives 2010,” Kellogg Conference Center, 15th Floor IAB, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Nobuo Tanaka “The Decline and Fall of Richmond Hill: Commodification and Place Change in Late 18th to Early 19th-Century New York,” 963 Schermerhorn Extension, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Nancy D. Munn “Hispanic New York and the Latinoization of the United States,” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Paul Berman, Gabriel Haslip Viera, Fances Negron-Muntaner, Milagros Ricourt, Virginia Sanchez Korrol, and Ray Suarez “Tea Demonstration and Lecture,” Casa Italiana, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Genshitsu Sen (Grandmaster Soshitsu Sen XV) “Philosophy Forum: Intersections of the Philosophy of Language and Linguistics,” 720 Philosophy Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Student Discussion Thurs, Sept 16 “Colloquium in Climate Science,” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Jim Benedict “Accuracy and Inaccuracy in Teachers’ Perceptions of Young Children’s Cognitive Abilities,” 503 Hamilton, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Douglas Ready “The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs): Can We Keep the Promise?” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Kandeh K. Yumkella, Nafis Sadik, Jomo Sundaram, Rebeca Grynspan, Robert Orr, and Elisabeth Lindenmayer “Muslim Students Association’s Fast-A-Thon 2010,” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 6:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Ambassador H.E. Abdullah Hussain Haroon, Ibrahim Abdul-Matin “The Interrogative Mood: A Novel?” 413 Dodge Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Padgett Powell Fri, Sept 17 “Has Drake Passage Been Open Since the Paleocene?” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, David Barbeau, Jr. “Millennium Campus Conference 2010,” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – Sept 19, 5:00 pm, Various “Dialogues: Jacqueline Rose and Mohammed Fairouz in Discussion,” 301 Philosophy, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Jacqueline Rose, Mohammed Fairouz, Gayatri Chakvorty Spivak, Nicholas Kitchen, and Yeesun Kim “Public Lecture on Black Holes and Stargazing Session,” Pupin Hall, Pupin, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Janna Levin 
It's a million degrees out on Low Plaza, and Bwog's gallons of Oreos are melting fast. Come get 'em! The Blue and White and Bwog are hanging out at Table 125, right next to the fountain on the Amsterdam side of Low Plaza. Seriously, so many Oreos and tea biscuits. We're looking around for the best free food at the fair as we speak. The College Republicans—right across from Bwog—have baguette slices with truffle oil and prosciutto, sparkling water with lime, and cookies. Who said college conservatism was dead? More updates to come. Leave your favorite Activities Fair free food in the comments. 
Adam Kuerbitz was there! CCSC literally kicked the year off with a howl last night when University Senator Kenny Durell initiated the gathering with a blast of his vuvuzela. After reviewing representatives on rules of conduct and voting processes, CCSC President Learned Foote introduced CCSCtv, an initiative to post Youtube videos advising students on matters the council is discussing. Foote says the videos will increase transparency, a general goal of the council this year. And just when you thought it was safe... the meal plan debate! While the numbers are still unofficial, a recent poll shows significant increases in student dissatisfaction about the new options. Thirty percent of the 150 surveyed consider the new plan to be “terrible.” Council members and visitors alike agreed that the decision to close John Jay Dining Hall on Fridays and Saturdays, making Ferris Booth the only place to spend your fake money (really your parents’ fake money), is massively inconvenient. Even first year students commented on how inconvenient the new policy is compared to last year. President Foote has disregarded those particular comments. Four students running for Elections Board positions spoke after the meal plans fiasco. Candidates discussed plans to increase participation in council elections and innovations for the process. University Senator Alex Frouman forced candidate Vikas Vavilala CC ’14 to think on his feet when he asked the hapless first-year how he would help Frouman specifically get reelected. Always the politician, Vavilala masterfully avoided the question somehow. We finished with the promise of free food: come out Wednesday from 6 to 7:30 in the Broadway Room in Lerner and again on Saturday for Passport to Columbia in Roone Arledge Auditorium from 8 to 10. Head to Pourhouse on Thursday night at 11 for Senior Inauguration, which is most definitely not just free drinks.
Woodland creatures will find you in the night, and they will defile you. Mark Hay, superhuman, tells the terrifying tale: Something about the sound of nail upon metal, the grating and skittering and scraping of it, irks me dearly—so much that it can pull me from the deepest slumber. So when I awoke yesterday to that chalkboard screech and clatter, suffice it to say I was irritated. Surprising, how quickly the welling annoyance in one’s heart can condense with confusion and then sink leaden into one’s gut in bold terror—this I learned when I opened my eyes to investigate and saw a furry little face peering down at me. The squirrel was perched half a foot over my bed, atop the radiator box beside my headboard. Somewhere in the back of my mind, I had always feared this day, but had suppressed it behind a conviction that it could never happen. I sleep with my window open. I like the breeze. And I use no mosquito screen (the pests seem to, like most other living creatures, find my flesh too repulsive to bother sucking me dry). Somehow this woodland denizen had scaled the façade of 47 Claremont, perched atop my sixth floor sill, and decided to pay me a visit. I always figured any unexpected visitors would be pigeons. I coiled up off of my stomach, back arched and resting on my haunches, eyes wide and hands hanging in front of my chest in prissy caution and terror—a dead mirror to the squirrel’s natural posture. I screamed: “Squirrel!” He moved back a pace, cocked his head. We sat for a moment, wondering at each other. I decided upon a course of action. Stretching out my hand a foot before his face, I began a beat-poet snap, accompanied by a mixture of pleas and commands: “Leave, shoo, go, please, please, get, get out, go!” With each snap, my visitor withdrew a step, two, out the window, onto the sill. I slammed down the window and stood, shirtless and disheveled, staring at my exiled guest. He seemed confused—bold as New York squirrels are, they seem unable to understand how they could be denied access to any corner of the city. He turned, giving me a clear and long view of his little, fuzzy ass, and then descended. Mothers and daughters, close your windows. Morningside Heights is no longer safe; your dorm is no longer sacred.
Carolyn Ruvkun, our Monday Daily Editor, lives off-campus. Even though most things are better for people like her (you don't have to use Columbia bathrooms!), you are a half-person without swipe access to any dorm. Carolyn went on a quest to right these terrible wrongs. Follow these simple steps to get the Swipe Sticker of Dreams. Go to 310 East Campus, where a lovely secretary will give you a form. (I was literally sent to 5 different places first, so reading this is useful.) Take the time to fill out this form. Kristen Sylvester, housing associate and all around awesome person, told me that most swipe access applicants in SEAS and CC are accepted, but it’s still worth giving detailed answers. The form asks which residence halls you want access to and why. I just said all of them, in the off chance I decide to go hunting for Harmony. Write that you have friends who live in and belong to clubs that meet in all the residence halls. Bonus: you’re a piano virtuoso and need access to practice rooms. (Lerner pianists, there are pianos elsewhere!) This form is taken to Public Safety, Student Affairs office and a few other places, just to verify you’re legit. According to Kristen, Housing is in the process of revamping the commuter access application process to make it more streamlined. Kudos, Columbia. In a couple weeks, you’ll hear back from Cristen Kromm, Assistant for Residential Programs, and Nikkia Sharpe, Manager for Housing Service. Go pick up your shiny new sticker at the Hospitality Desk. Access granted. Welcome to the inner circle. Update: Eerily prescient, Tracy Parker and Nikkia Sharpe, just emailed Bwog about the new and improved process. It's online now! Moving is totally overrated. Check it out here. In case you were worried, you still have to fill out a form and you still get a shiny new sticker. So, our advice isn't totally moot.
Dear Friends: Please join the staff of The Blue &amp; White and the Bwog (pictured at right) at our first meeting of the year, happening tonight, Monday night, at 9:00 p.m. in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. First-years and new writers/artists/editors are especially welcome and encouraged to attend. We'll be planning our October issue and mapping out content for the magazine and Bwog for the rest of the year, so if you've ever wanted to get involved with the magazine and/or the Bwog, please stop by. Additionally, there will be food. Free food. B&amp;W! The Editors
The Orientation issue of The Blue and White will arrive on campus this week.  We'll be posting the entire magazine on Bwog over the next two weeks.  Stay tuned! As hordes of students slouch toward campus reluctant to see the start of a new semester, The Blue &amp; White salutes five of them who refused to waste their summer internships pushing paper and fetching coffee. Hannah Serena Goldstein BC ’13 As the Sex and Dating intern for Time Out New York, I always had a good answer to the inevitable, "So, what are you doing this summer?" question. The title was, of course, more than just a sure-fire conversation starter and I bore it well – and perhaps a little too proudly. Like many editorial internships, mine involved the usual copy-editing, topical writing, and as the listing promised, "limited administrative work." But for all the generic clerical duties, I reassured myself that the time spent scouring event listings for anything with ‘date potential’ –from stargazing nights at the High Line to "In the Flesh" sexy book readings and classes in dialogue writing at the Gotham Writers’ Workshop – would make my resume stand out in the stack. No question or topic was too risqué as I became a shameless and unflappable interviewer. I’d call up managers of erotic bakeries and ask in a perky voice, "Is it true that your bums are covered in fondant?" The job had its unsexy moments to be sure, but I took the raunchy with the staid and kept my spirits high, reminding myself how much I was like Carrie Bradshaw. Late one Thursday night near the end of my internship, I found myself on-assignment with a few friends at the entrance to a make-out party at a popular adult entertainment venue downtown. This was it, my final challenge, to be faced in a metallic minidress and black pumps. Lips glossed and eyebrows cocked, I strutted towards the dimly-lit entrance with all the confidence of an experienced Sex and Dating intern. "You got ID?" interrupted a bouncer sharply. Caught off-guard, I stumbled backwards, met his eyes with uncertainty, opened and closed my mouth. Didn't he know who I was? I looked sheepishly at my friends’ uneasy, underage faces. I’d blown it. Defeated, I walked away. Sarah Camiscoli CC ’12 Meet Abelardo, the multicolored parrot star of Plaza Sésamo, Latin America's version of Sesame Street. Abelardo may be just a Muppet, but he is basically my boss -- as the International Research intern for Plaza Sésamo, I have spent countless hours this summer in support of his work educating millions of Spanish-speaking children. He and I aren't that different, really. Abelardo, the first and only cousin of Big Bird, is eager to solve problems and learn about new cultures, and that happens to be exactly why I took on this internship. Whether I’m selecting the most attractive images from Muppet photo shoots, researching racial tolerance in other countries, or analyzing cell phone usage surveys of Nigerian farmers, my job requires me daily to confront the challenging complexities of cultural differences as I help the staff of the Sesame Workshop to create educational programming. Abelardo has also demonstrated for me some of the basic tenets of children's television. For instance, all bullying must be strictly verbal, never physical.  Teaching sharing should be taught by showing one child give a portion to another child. And even though Sesame Workshop champions female empowerment, most boys under the age of four still do not take female educators seriously and would rather a male Muppet explain the workings of the number "2." My political and sociological sensibilities could, at times, earn me a stern look, like they did when I implied that an Egyptian female Muppet donning a ponytail is promoting overtly Western values. But I tried always to channel my inner toddler and memories of those happy hours spent watching a colorful, clumsy bird stumble over the alphabet. Personal viewpoints aside, at least I now know my anthropology major and all that talk of cultural hegemony actually has an application in the real world -- or at least the world of Plaza Sésamo. Dexter Thompson-Pomeroy CC ’12 On a Tuesday morning in June, I touched down at Mother Teresa International Airport in Tirana, Albania, for my U.S. State Department internship.  I knew next to nothing about the country, the State Department, or my duties pertaining to either. Jet-lagged from a long, uncomfortable flight, I found myself on my first day of work walking around the poorest suburbs of Tirana, home to Albania's worst living conditions. The cityscape I saw that day was riddled with shoddily constructed homes and appalling sanitary conditions. Amid coal mines and thermal energy plants – Tirana and its environs  also double as Albania's industrial center - Romanis ported water back and forth from the Lanë, a river on the east side of town that moves slowly, thick with pollution. Two weeks later, I was put in charge of organizing the U.S. ambassador's visit to one of these Romani refugee camps and met with embassy staff and their NGO counterparts to ensure that the visit ran smoothly. Like many former Soviet states, Albania adores pretty much every aspect of America - even those aspects most of us here don't find so wonderful. George W. Bush Street, President Wilson Square and the "Laura Bush steak" on a local restaurant menu, for instance, are not gimmicks geared at tourists, but are what Albanians, I came to understand,  see as sincere appreciation for America's aid to the country's refugees and the ethnic Albanians of Kosovo. Although I devoted a lot of time to doing fieldwork and talking with Albanian people across the city, not all of the experience matched my idealized view of life in the Foreign Service, nor was Tirana quite what I expected. The city had only become the capital in 1920, and it has little cultural or historical heritage. But I looked for the best in the city's seemingly lackluster culture despite the bad techno and bland meat dishes. Mornings involved traditional Albanian pastries and discussions of soccer and politics with the locals at nearby cafe. These pleasantries were enjoyable of course, but the work at the embassy -- even if less pleasant -- was far more telling of the city's history, politics and culture.  At the embassy, I read cables about ethnic violence in Kyrgyzstan and heard stories from diplomats about their military service in Turkmenistan at the time of the death of the local dictator, Turkmenbashi.  I could have listened to all of Tirana's techno and eaten all of its Laura Bush steaks and still not have gained as much a sense of the city's sound and flavor as I got from hearing those first-hand accounts. Mujib Mashal, CC ’11 On any given morning, look at the front page of any national newspaper and you’ll be sure to find at least one headline telling of the latest developments in Afghanistan.   After nine years, the place remains an endless fount of news.  So for me, a history major intent on getting an insider's look at journalism, an internship with the New York Times Bureau in Kabul sounded pretty perfect. At the Times, there was, of course, the share of usual internship chores. Every day, I split my time between browsing the Internet for recent articles on Afghanistan and translating hours of Afghani politicians’ ramblings. But for all the mindless transcribing and typing, there was, in turn, the rush of covering breaking news. Contacts were surprisingly forthcoming when I approached them for interviews and information: from political leaders to police commanders, I wasn't denied an interview once during the whole summer. Even over controversial issues, citizens readily volunteered their statements for the record - impressive in country where freedom of expression is still in its infancy. But behind the thrilling news, I found stories of profound sadness. On a trip to the Western province of Herat, I stood by a photographer as he documented Afghani women who burn themselves as an act of both suicide and sacrifice.  The photographer spent four days with the burn victims in a hospital, and I visited the hospital several times a day, but because of my sex I was forbidden from entering the women's rooms.  I spent the day in my hotel room translating and transcribing interviews instead. But these were not like the other tapes I had worked with. Sitting at my computer, I listened to the audio file: five words of an interview, followed by long stretches of painful screams as the doctor changed bandages or applied medicine. On the second day of our trip, one of the patients died. As the ambulance snaked through the crowded bazaar, verses of the Quran played from loudspeakers attached to the roof, announcing that a corpse was on board. I followed closely behind, my stomach churning. As the ambulance turned into a narrow alley of dome-shaped mud houses, a little girl who had arrived before us chased after it, calling out "Maadar." The body and the funeral procession moved inside the house. The ambulance was paid off. I stood in the narrow alley with my driver, in silence, listening to the sounds of mourning that filled the air. Stephanie Aligbe, SEAS '12 Most Columbia students know about the system of tunnels that course below our campus, but few can actually navigate their way around the underground network with confidence.   I like to think of myself as the exception to that rule. This summer I dedicated myself to learning the subterranean system. Come September I would be able to move from Dodge to Schermerhorn with all the stealth and speed of a ninja.  Or so I thought. That can't be done, I quickly learned. There are cameras littering most of the tunnels. But my internship with CUIT's Network Field Services (NFS) brought me as close to a complete knowledge of the Columbia tunnels as any undergraduate can have, though without the ninja skills. Working with NFS this summer not only  gave me the access to the tunnels but also gave me more than enough free time to learn that I can use the tunnels to travel from any given point  on campus to the next. The cameras serve mostly to prevent theft, and as a CUIT employee, it's expected that I would be in the tunnels where much of the phone and Ethernet wiring is located. While tracing wiring, I once stumbled across a path between Carman and Furnald. I wound up traversing a long, dim tunnel, silent save for an intermittent thud that grew louder as I continued to explore.  Although my heart was pounding as I stepped deeper and deeper into the dark, I managed to resist the urge to scream.  With my mind haunted by visions of all the unsavory subterranean trolls I might encounter before I reached the light at the end of the tunnel, an ascending flight of stairs suddenly deposited me on a sun-drenched plaza outside of Furnald. Even more shocking than Columbia's bowels though, are the things people leave behind at the end of the year. During my rounds I found many refrigerators -- some clean, most rancid-- some vacuum cleaners, a Playstation 2, and a slew of power strips and textbooks. While CUIT forbids its employees from reselling these items, it would be a tremendous journalistic oversight not to mention that some people may have "profited" off these fortuitous discoveries. ...Well, really, just the PS2. Ed. Adam Kuerbitz Illustrations by Nora Rodriguez 
In the highly likely event that you did not consult your 2010 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report this evening, Bwog has picked out a few highlights for you. Instances of burglary have gone way down in the past few years; the McBain arsonist sets fires no more. Forcible sex offenses almost tripled from last year, though, more than half taking place in res halls. The War on Fun rages on; disciplines for alcohol and drugs have increased every year. But hey, as the old adage goes, can't stop, won't stop. 
Registration opens in a few minutes, at 9, for the World Leaders Forum. Register here, and see the full schedule of events below. Update: Nigeria has dropped out and Spain is now "unconfirmed." Jigmi Y. Thinley, Prime Minister of Bhutan Wednesday, September 15, 2:00 p.m. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, President of Nigeria Monday, September 20, 3:30 p.m. In partnership with the School of International and Public Affairs “Challenges of the Drylands” A discussion with leaders from Eastern Africa. Monday, September 20, 5:00 p.m. In partnership with the Earth Institute José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission Tuesday, September 21, 10:00 a.m. In partnership with the Alliance Program and School of International and Public Affairs Meles Zenawi, Prime Minister of Ethiopia Wednesday, September 22, 4:00 p.m. In partnership with the Committee on Global Thought José Manuel Ramos-Horta, President of Timor-Leste Thursday, September 23, 4:00 p.m. In partnership with The Earth Institute, Advanced Consortium on Cooperation, Conflict and Complexity (AC4), and the Vale Columbia Center José Sócrates, Prime Minister of Portugal Thursday, September 23, 5:00 p.m. In partnership with the School of International and Public Affairs Ivo Josipović, President of Croatia Friday, September 24, 11:00 a.m. In partnership with the Harriman Institute Abdullah Gül, President of Turkey Wednesday, September 24, 3:30 p.m. In partnership with the School of International and Public Affairs
Freshmen won't learn about this 'till CC next year, but it's time to participate in a few time-honored traditions: making fun of fresh-people CCSC candidates, and voting in real-people elections on Primary Day. 2014 CCSC campaigning began about a half hour ago, so expect to see a lot of posters outside the smokers' benches at John Jay and Carman. A list of the enterprising freshmen: Party Name Presidential Candidate VP Representative Representative Representative : D (Columbia Destination) Emma Dora Ruth Ziegellaub Eichler Lisa Zhou Stephan Luma Jess Geiger Kelly Gergoudis Cristal's Party Cristal James The Party Matthew Chou Geneva Smith Nolan Kier Krishna Hegde Kem Walker Morningside Wide Stephen Kyle Cook Candice Herschel Nim Gumaste Jack Walden Columbia Progressive Trio Nicolas B. Leeper Andrew T. Glicklich Robert Wren Gorden Iüni Isaiah New Anoushka Asgari Samantha Hing David Baruch Katherine Ynsinaire The Kiwi Krew Conan Cassidy Joanna Kelly Roko Rumora Daphne Chen Jessica Eaton A schedule of this year's CCSC race: campaigning goes from today at 9 to Sep 17 at 5 pm. September 15, 2010 at 6pm (in Lerner Broadway room) — Campaign kick-off event and first year study break Sept 19 at 9pm in John Jay Lounge — Debate Sept 20 at 9am – Sept 21 at 5 pm — Elections voting (online) Results announced after 5pm on Sept 21 Today is also a big Primary Day. Vote or whatever! (But seriously, vote!) You can fill out an absentee ballot today and tomorrow at the Lerner Ramps, next to the TIC office, courtesy of the Columbia Voter Registration Coalition. If you're local, find out where to vote here.
 If you want to make money after college, you should already be in SEAS. (Newsweek) Unless you can sing. Hey! Columbia beats Harvard again! (Spinner) Acquaint yourself with the language of the future. (NY Times) Learn how to use those newfangled electronic voting machines: no hanging chads! (Gothamist) And a comprehensive guide to today's New York Primary. (Capital New York)
Well not Revson Plaza, really. What do you call that spot on the EC/SIPA/Law School plaza that's right behind the Law School and looks down into the Wien courtyard? As of sometime in 2011, you'll call it the fancy new Law School extension, and if you have Law Library privileges, you'll call it "the reading room that looks like Star Trek mission control." The expansion plans are the doing of Ennead Architects, a firm previously known as the Polshek Partnership. They are responsible under that name for well-known projects such as The Standard Hotel (the one over the High Line) and a number of expansions and redesigns of already iconic buildings like Carnegie Hall. Neither Ennead nor the Law Library could be reached for comment, but full plans for the expansion currently appear on Ennead's website. The plans calls for an addition that blends into the modern facade of the existing building, emphasizing vertical and minimizes horizontal lines. The addition departs, however, from its host structure in medium - the panels in between the vertical fins you see below are made of glass, and so are those fins themselves. Click through the plan drawings to get a better sense of the new space (be warned, you'll be prompted to get the latest Adobe Flash if you don't have it). Here's another view: Seats at the long tables probably give an excellent view of sky and surroundings, from a flying boardroom sort of perspective. How cool it would be to drive the law school spaceship - from your newly designed, state-of-the art, full-visibility cockpit - straight into Wien and then into the heavens! Screenshots from ennead.com
Translators Constance Borde and Sheila Malovany-Chevalier explained their efforts to faithfully render Simone de Beauvoir's Le Deuxième Sexe, or The Second Sex. First published in 1949, it has been called the Bible of Feminism. Borde and Malovany produced the first translation of the entire work, and the first translation by women—answering the thirty-year-old call for a new translation truer to the original text. Hosted by the Barnard Center for Translation Studies, the event was moderated by Louise Von Flotow, a specialist on translation and writer in English. Bwog noob and tipser-extraordinaire Conor Skelding reports back. In the United States, Von Flotow explained, translations go unheralded and translators unnoticed. Every translation is valuable not only in the work translated, she said, but as a triumph in itself which makes timeless ideas accessible to a new intellectual climate. Translations are interdependent with their time, affecting and being affected by the climate in which they are born. The first English translation of Le Deuxième Sexe, by H.M. Parshley, dates to 1953. It was controversial and not without flaws. In 1983, Margaret Simon wrote an article exposing serious problems—namely, that 10 to 15% of the text was ignored in the translation without explanation and that the existentialist underpinnings of the work were ignored in favor of an over-scientific interpretation. English translations, both within and beyond the United States, either glossed over and excised the “perverse” sections or grossly exaggerated the sexuality and graphic nature of the book in male-oriented terminology. However, since Knopf owns the exclusive rights to Le Deuxiéme Sexe in the United States and the 1953 Parshley translation continued the sell well into the aughts, Simon's criticism went unheeded. Around 2004, Knopf relented and Borde and Malovany entered the scene. The history behind their endeavor established, Borde and Malovany told their story of how they approached the proposition of righting the wrongs of the much-maligned first translation. Whereas the 1953 translation aimed to lighten “the burden on the American reader," Borde and Malovany recognize and embrace a complicated philosophical treatise. They strove to preserve Beauvoir's tone and grammar and their unabridged translation conveys the author's sometimes indiscriminate language. The pair described being one hundred pages into the translation and realizing that they needed to include the copious amounts of semicolons composing " very own grammar.” In Malovany's words, "I truly believe Beauvoir could have used a better editor. Or editor." After the pair of translators spoke about their experiences translating and Le Deuxième Sexe, Anna Bogic, who is involved in research on the first translation's roots, rose to defend it. Translation isn't one person's sole work but rather a collaborative (and combative) effort including publisher and editors, she argued. Bogic expounded how Parshley recognized the import of Beauvoir's existentialism, but a letter from higher up called the philosophy a "dead duck." The letters elucidate that Knopf aimed for the book to be French counterpart to the Kinsey Reports, and thus scientific. Also, as books were priced by weight at the time, Knopf feared a book costing $10—so Parshley was ordered to make the encyclopedic work concise wherever possible. Parshley too attempted to correspond with Beauvoir by mail in order to consult her, but only received one response. During the somewhat overzealous justification of the first translation, Borde and Malovany seemed doubtful. Indeed, it is hard to take seriously a "defense" that merely seeks to legitimize obvious omissions and failures on all sides. Borde's head remained slumped in her right hand. Photo by Conor Skelding
Caitlin Lynch writes from the year's first SGA meeting. The first SGA meeting of the year began, as these things do, with logistics: Bryn Mawr will host seven Sisters Conference this year, details on sign-up to come; Student Activities Fair is this Friday from 12–3 on Lehman Lawn, over 50 clubs will be represented. More logistics! The Student Organization Committee granted the right to allocate use of lockers in the Patron Saint of Barnard College Anna Quindlen Conference room. The Food Advisory Board checked in, with news from Hewitt: There’s a new to-go station near the card-swipe area. They put out fresh fruit for lunch dessert instead of cookies, and people got mad, so now they have both fresh fruit and dessert. Meatless Mondays! Greek Life recognition will be tabled until October 18, 2010. Until then, an internal committee will be formed that will: Meet once a week to discuss how Rep Council should resolve the issue of Greek Life recognition and develop at least three viable options for how to proceed. Present these options to the Rep Council who, following discussion, must pass one of the options. They are not deciding what to do about recognition of Greek Life; they are merely deciding how to SGA should proceed with the issue of Greek Life recognition. A Town Hall on Greek Life Recognition is being planned for before October 18th to create an open forum for the Barnard Community to discuss the issue. And Sean Zimmermann checks in from the first ESC meeting of the year. VP Policy Heidi Ahmed reported that the council has been working on strengthening the gender netural/open/whatever housing plan, and there should be a new proposal for Deans Peña-Mora and Moody-Adams by the end of the month. The committee hopes that a decision will be reached by the end of the semester. There is--surprise!--a SEAS Senate election in progress. Because no one actually knew about this, campaigning has been suspended and candidate registration will re-open to allow more SEAS undergraduates to run. SEAS Senate seats split earlier this year; there is only one undergrad Senator. Freshman voting officially starts September 20th, but there have already been complaints of campaigning before the official start date. Hold your horses, eager engineers! In a 12-8 vote, it was decided that ESC shirts will be dark-on-light, not light-on-dark. 
But what's the Columbia way? Depends what you want to do. If you want to learn about Plato, but do it decidedly off-campus, there must be a way! In that noble pursuit, Bwog presents a feature dedicated to the alternative ways to learn. All you have to do is take the subway. Drawing is a delightful break from doing problem sets and reading Bwog comments. It's just not that easy to actually take drawing classes at Columbia: woe betide us to discover via CULPA that Basic Drawing, offered in the Visual Arts Department, can sometimes come with a heavy burden. An informant who also took the class confirms, "With some teachers you'll have to do a full-size life portrait within a few days, and during finals week!" Eegad! No one should be discouraged from taking Basic Drawing - you might get a great teacher who will give you very little homework. But you will get homework, and if you tend to stress over your grades, you will probably stress at least a little over your grade. The same is true in classes in other arts methods, especially those you might have no experience in as a non-major. So if you want a low stress way to learn to draw, sculpt, paint, or even weld, Bwog recommends you head to the Art Students League of New York. Classes at the league range in price depending on how long they are, how often they meet (prices are almost all monthly) whether a live (you know, naked!) model is present, and whether an instructor is present. Drawing classes every evening for five evenings a week will run you 200 for the month, but you can get two evenings a week (one with instructor, one without) for as little as $70 for the month. Some classes are pay as you go - show up at 5 Monday through Friday for a 1.5 hour class with no instructor, but a live model, and draw for only $7. On Friday and Saturday there are walk-in morning, afternoon and evening classes for $8-12. The League atmosphere is friendly; no one will know you yet, but if you stick with it, they will soon. The student population is completely mixed—students like you, retirees, and people working full time (especially in night classes) who need a creative outlet. No one is judgmental, and being surrounded by an unfamiliar crowd reminds you that you really are not in school. You're just another real person who wants to learn to draw. Take the 1 to Columbus Circle and head to 215 57th between Broadway and 7th Ave.
There's a green flag up on the Amsterdam side of South Lawn, but there are still those weird fences and terrible, sad, dead grass. There's a cute toddler hanging out there. Every cloud has a silver lining, etc. 
 Smoke Jazz &amp; Supper Club-Lounge is offering Columbia students a 20% off discount card! The corner of 106th &amp; Broadway has been a jazz hang for a long time, but only opened as Smoke Jazz &amp; Supper Club-Lounge eleven years ago, a significant improvement from the previous Augie's. Smoke, with its relaxed and intimate setting, draws notable regulars. Weekends tend to feature big names, but according to Armand Hirsch, CC ’13 and sick bassist, weekdays are best for just hanging out. Tuesdays offer “greasy, soulful organ music,” while Wednesdays are reserved for Funk and Soul. Come Thursday, Smoke hosts a featured artist, followed by live hip hop. Armand is playing Tuesday, September 21st, so you should go check him out. And our very own Professor Chris Washburne, Head of Jazz at CU, Chair of Ethnomusicology, and Director of Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program, plays Latin music every Sunday night with his band. Go experience the magical and mysterious form of spontaneous creation that is jazz improvisation. It’s so refreshing to watch talented musicians just jam, and Smoke seems like a genuinely chill place. Plus, with the new 20% off student discount card, you don’t have to break the bank. Good deal!
Allow us a personal anecdote, gentle reader. A few weeks ago, Bwog was sitting in a tire on the floor of our friend's mom's minivan, heading out of town for the weekend with a few friends. We spoke about Bacchanal, and suggested a few artists to our Bacchanal-affiliated-pal in the backseat: NOFX and blink-182, one friend, who dressed as Travis Barker for Halloween, suggested. We imagined The Worst Bacchanal Ever: Kenny Chesney would headline. The choice was, of course, clear by the time we reached the I-95: Weezy F. Baby, supported by DMX and Mariah Carey. Seriously, just think about it for a second. Only such an assortment would tempt us, we decided, to fly home from our study abroad locales in the spring. This is Bwog's Official Position on Bacchanal 2011, but now the kind folks at Bacchanal are letting you have your equally valid and potentially absurd say. Bacchanal invites you to email ColumbiaConcert@gmail.com with your suggestion for the 2011 lineup. The artists cannot be determined by a majority vote, since availability and cost are factors, but suggestions will help shape the final decision. This is what college is going to be like in April if you vote correctly: 
In an occurrence that we've been told "happens every year," a speaker at the World Leaders Forum has dropped out: Nigerian President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan will no longer be speaking next Monday. Additionally, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, President of Spain, is now "unconfirmed." As of right now, all the other speakers will still be in attendance. Stay tuned for more updates!
The latest issue of The Blue and White will be on campus this week. Early this summer the New York State Court of Appeals decided that Columbia University may legally take possession of Nick Sprayregen’s assets in Manhattanville under eminent domain law. Now an appeal to the Supreme Court is his only chance to save his property; if the Supreme Court declines to hear the case, Sprayregen’s Tuck-It-Away storage buildings could be demolished within a year. As Columbia begins to raze the neighborhood around him, Features Editor Liz Naiden asks Sprayregen to reflect on the recent decision, the prospects of appeal, and the future of Manhattanville. Blue and White: When you heard the decision in June, what was your reaction? Nick Sprayregen: We were always concerned that, if they were going to render a quick decision, they would probably go against us. And so when we heard that the decision was coming and it was only a few weeks after the hearing, I figured it was probably not going to be going our way. We were especially disappointed with the decision because it seemed that the court totally abdicated its responsibility to examine the facts in a comprehensive manner and to render a thorough decision. It’s one thing to issue a decision where there is a very lengthy review of the facts and the law. But in this case it was apparent to us that they gave virtually no consideration to the voluminous—in our opinion—evidence to buttress our case. I can only assume that what we have done over the last five or six years did not make any difference. B&amp;W: What do you think they overlooked specifically? NS: There are specific requirements in the law that allow the government to take private property for use as a civic project, and the fact is that never before in New York State has private property been forcibly taken to hand over to a private university or a school. So on that basis alone, we were shocked that we didn’t prevail. The statutes don’t specifically say that a private school constitutes a civic project. In terms of the blight issue, we were shocked also because, the fact is, this area was not blighted. Columbia bought and managed what they now call “blighted” property, and they should not be able to benefit from the work of their own dirty hands and misdeeds. Something is really unfair and wrong if the entity applying for eminent domain intentionally brings on conditions such as vacancy and disrepair and then cites those very conditions as evidence that the area is blighted. Plus, there has never been any independent blight study on Manhattanville. That is just one of numerous differences between us and Atlantic Yards. Long before Ratner and the Nets ever came up, there were studies stating that Atlantic Yards was blighted. But here, every blight study has been done since Columbia declared its interest in the area, and by firms employed by Columbia previously. Another interesting aspect of this is that part of the basis of the Manhattan court ruling in our favor was its reference to the most recent and important United States Supreme Court eminent domain case, which is Kelo v. the City of New London in 2005. In the lower court they made specific reference to that. In our papers we make numerous references to Kelo, yet in the State Court of Appeals’ decision, they ignore it! They ignore a United States Supreme Court decision just from a few years ago having to do with eminent domain. It’s one thing if they take it on and come up with a position that’s counter to ours and it’s thought-out, it’s reasoned, and there’s law to back it up. But there is not one sentence on Kelo in the entire Court of Appeals decision. B&amp;W: You said that never before in New York state has eminent domain been used to give private land to a private school. But eminent domain has been used to give land to other private entities in the past, correct? NS: Well certainly the most recent example is in Brooklyn. Traditionally, until about the last 50 or 60 years, eminent domain has been used for what the Constitution says is its use—in this case, for the government to build something for the public benefit. So, for example, if it were an expansion of the CUNY or SUNY system, everything would be off the table. You may not like it, but that would be “public use.” If it’s a highway, public hospital, likewise, it’s public use. Unfortunately, what’s gone on in the last 50 or 60 years is there’s been a bastardization of that so it goes from the Constitution saying only “public use,” to “public purpose,” and then to “public benefit.” And now we’ve gone so far that any type of economic development can be used to justify eminent domain. If you have any type of business, you’re susceptible to having it taken away just because there’s a larger or more powerful entity that says, “I’ll be able to generate more tax dollars or more jobs from your property than you can.” And to me, that is an unbelievably slippery slope, totally at odds with our Constitution and totally at odds with what our country is supposed to stand for. B&amp;W: Do you think there are any instances where private interest can serve the public good? NS: Yes. But anything that moves away from the clear-cut delineation in our Constitution of public use runs the hazard that it will snowball into more and more abuse because once you start moving away from public use, there’s really no bright line anymore. That being said, the participation of private entities in projects that use eminent domain can be acceptable. Because I think there’s no doubt that, in many instances, the private sector does a better job of doing things than the government. But it needs to be a project that is initiated and governed and controlled by the government. The fact is that the Manhattanville project only exists because of Columbia University. The government’s power of eminent domain is only being used here because Columbia couldn’t gather the land itself. Aside from that, it was Columbia’s lawyers, Columbia’s consultants, Columbia’s engineers, Columbia’s money that wrote all of the re-zoning texts, that wrote the general project plan that was a justification for the use of eminent domain and that ultimately wrote the conditions study that determined that there was blight in the neighborhood. How can it possibly be fair to use of the government’s power of eminent domain so that a private entity can say “I want my neighbor’s property and in order to justify it, first we’re going to buy up all the land that we can and let it deteriorate and then we’re going to hire a consultant to do the blight study who’ll be paid by us and who is already working for us and has been working for us for years to justify the use of eminent domain!” It’s almost comical when you take a step back and look at it conceptually. B&amp;W: So Columbia initiating the project is problematic, but if the state had initiated eminent domain for a public use and contracted to a private company to provide some service, it would be okay? NS: Precisely. In Kelo, the majority voted that the use of eminent domain was justified specifically by the nature of the plan for reuse. The Kelo decision lays out five or six aspects of a legitimate eminent domain reuse. One of those was that the entire plan was laid out by the city. Another was that the identification of any private entities to be hired was not known at the time that it all took place. In this case it’s exactly opposite. I’ve never been against the University’s expansion. The University likes to paint me as someone who’s against their expansion; that I’m someone who’s against progress. That’s not true. The fact is that I’m against the use of eminent domain for a private entity. And as you can see walking around here, this project is going to happen regardless of what happens with me. They’re already starting, alright? They even started before they got the decision overturned. It was going to happen no matter what. They said otherwise in their public announcements. They kept saying “I don’t know how we can proceed without the full basement.” And they came up with this brilliant idea to marginalize me and the other property owners by saying to the community we won’t use eminent domain on the residents, only on the businesses. Behind the scenes—and we know this through our Freedom of Information request—Columbia had been feverishly working with the city and the various housing agencies to enter into agreements to take over the residential buildings. So yes, they’re not using eminent domain, but they’re still trying to move out the residents against their will. They also promised that the residents will stay here for another 15 years or so. Well, I got a residential building right next to me here, that’s a residential building right over there. So why is it that I’m going to have to move out maybe in the next six months from here so Columbia can have my land when they’ve already promised that they’re not going to take the land of the two buildings right next to me? There are just such logistical holes in their argument that they must have everything. It’s outrageous and it’s especially outrageous coming from a school, an Ivy League school like Columbia! You know, I really say shame on the administration. It’s nothing but greed. B&amp;W: You know, of course, that a few years ago, there was a lot of student action at Columbia surrounding this. What do you think of the student involvement in the process, and what role do you think students can or should play in the future? NS: We did have the support of various student coalitions and groups who were terrific throughout all of this. I was very impressed with the student journalism covering all of this as if it was a significant story. When Columbia cites all of the community dialogue, it’s all window-dressing and it’s all bullshit. The fact is that when you look at the parameters of the original ‘02 plan and when you look at the final plan they’re almost exactly the same! No significant changes, there was no modifications of any meaningfulness. So I think as a student, regardless of your feelings on this one issue, I think you should be damned disheartened to see how much the university doesn’t care and doesn’t take into account the opinions of others. All of this talk of community dialogue and giving back to the community is all backed by nothing but cynicism. Whatever the administration does and what has been done is all because they think it can gain something. But other than that, they will keep on marching forward until all the other opposition is gone. B&amp;W: What’s next for you and your company? NS: Well, we are busy preparing our brief to the United States Supreme Court, which should be ready and be submitted within the next two to three weeks. We’ll see—our chances are unfortunately very, very, very low. We’ll be okay, but the deck is so stacked up against everyone. The vast majority of the people, unfortunately for them, didn’t have the resources to do what I’ve done for the past six years . And still at the end of six years we get morally bankrupt higher court of New York decision, which are basically rubber stamps for whatever Columbia and the state wants to do. To add insult to injury, we got a notice about three weeks ago that the state had applied to the same court of appeals, and the court of appeals approved their decision to force me to reimburse them $100,000 for printing costs. From what I understand, the granting of costs like that is never done when it’s in a battle between an individual and a government, and especially in a case where we might have won. It’s usually in a case where there are two private parties and one just brings on these frivolous claims and lawsuits, so to try to work to stop them you levee printing costs, legal fees and all. But to do it in this case is outrageous. I think they were trying to send a message to others in New York—don’t try to take on the state. We’re going to beat you down, you’re going to lose, and we’re going to punish you. I really just wanted to make a difference in how eminent domain is used in New York State. If this is upheld, it will make things worse for everyone. And this whole sorry case will go into the books of what is referred to as making bad law. B&amp;W: If the Supreme Court were to refuse to hear the case, what would be the time frame for the Columbia’s takeover of Tuck-It-Away? NS: Our understanding is that once we submit the case, the opposing party—New York State—has 30 days to submit their response and then by the year’s end we’ll hear one way or the other. When they make their decision it’s just a one sentence, either “we accept the case” or “we won’t accept the case.” So we could be gone less than a year from now. B&amp;W: Demolition is already going on in Manhattanville. What has it been like for you to watch some of the buildings around you in the neighborhood kind of… NS: Go down? It’s remarkable, especially in the last several months. The University’s been moving very fast to demolish buildings. It’s disheartening. I’m beginning to see that if things don’t turn around and go our way, this business and everything in it will be demolished as well without a second thought.
But they'll probably be gone by the time you read this! From your friends in the Poli Sci department: There are spots open in President Bollinger's fall course, POLS W4270 A Free Press for A Global Society, which meets MW 4:20-5:35pm. If you are interested in joining the class, please email nen2001@columbia.edu ASAP with your name, UNI, school and year. Interested students must be able to attend tomorrow's meeting. Admitted students will be contacted tomorrow morning to confirm.
Get Caffeinated! Free Coffee in Lerner courtesy of Peer Health Exchange.
Tipster "D" just walked down 113th to find a few policemen leading a handcuffed man down the block. University Hardware's front window is completely shattered. The break-in took place around 1 AM, when one Hogan resident heard the huge sound of the shattering glass. (We're going to sleep, details to follow tomorrow morning. Comment or email tips@bwog.com if you heard or saw anything, or have any details to add about the story.) 9:25 AM: The manager at University Housewares just confirmed the drunk-and-angry-at-girlfriend story though he has yet to view the official police report. Workers are coming to replace the glass at 2:00 pm today. Although he has never experienced anything like this in the time he's been in business, he remains unconcerned about future break-ins, saying, "This is a safe neighborhood. I guess sometimes people just get emotional." 3:20 AM: An NYPD officer still on the scene told Bwog that the suspect was a drunk male upset at his girlfriend who "just wanted to smash" stuff. He is confirmed to be in custody. 1:45 AM: Cop car remains on the scene, but its lights are off. Street is calm. More updates to follow. 1:35 AM: There are four policemen on the scene, waving flashlights. The suspect was just moved from the first police car to a second police car. The police car with the suspect just drove off, followed by a second police car. One police car is still on scene. Update, 1:30 AM: The suspect was just put into a police car on 114th and Broadway. A photo from the scene, courtesy of Katheryn Thayer: And a sort-of photo of the suspect getting into the cop car, courtesy of Anish Bramhandkar: 
 History Ph.D. candidate, CC instructor, and HuffPo columnist Meghan Doherty tells the world about Plato's Republic. And calls you all "elite." (HuffPo) Did you know that Ivy League football players can make it to the NFL? Will that change your mind about going to football games this season? (Bloomberg) A new Columbia University Center for Medicine as a Profession (yes) study calls for more disclosure of authors' financial relationships with pharmaceutical companies. You can read the paper here. (WSJ/Archives of Internal Medicine) Ethically questionable U.S. Rep. Charlie Rangel won his primary yesterday. (NYT) Nightline---the late-night counseling line for Columbia and Barnard---is holding their first info session for prospective counselors tonight at 9:00 in Lerner. To see their other times/locations or find out more see their website. Update: Mitt Romney will not be coming to the Millenium Campus Conference. After all that! (Spec)
Bwog contributor Lily Icangelo wandered into an art exhibition in Dodge showing through Thursday. You only have to pass Dodge, Milbank, or Lerner so many times before viewing them as mere obtrusive chunks of space keeping you from the finer things of life, such as break dancing to Destiny’s Child on the lawn. In reality, the buildings of our school actually hold some pretty awesome things, from adorably ancient Slavic Language professors to thousands of scores of music. One such gem hanging out in Dodge (for a limited time only!) is the Visual Arts Alumni Exhibition at the LeRoy Neiman Gallery located in room 310. Ten to fifteen minutes is all you really need to look at each piece in the show, making the gallery the perfect place to decompress after that strenuous ear training class you just walked out of. The exhibit features a wide range of mediums including oil painting, sculpture, printmaking/woodblock, and video art. Some works certainly pop out, including Anna Craycroft’s “The Agency of the Orphan.” But be careful not to stumble over it (as this Bwogger so embarrassingly did) as it's placed in the middle of the gallery. Other noteworthy pieces include a video and two mixed media pieces by Mary Simpson and two vibrant works by Arlen Austin entitled “Let’s face it we are undone by each other” and “Let your nonanthropomorphic caring be accountable to irreducible difference.” The gallery was not crowded on Tuesday morning, but surprisingly students started walking in to stroll around the gallery—not because the show is not worth seeing, but because, well, it was early on a Tuesday morning. So stop by the art gallery before it closes on Thursday. Its hours are 9am–5pm. Photos by Lily Icangelo
Some things were just always meant to be brought back: blink-182, basically anything hipster, and now, @LEE_BOLLINGER. That's right folks, fire up your favorite Twitter client; your beloved President is back. For the unenlightened, @LEE_BOLLINGER is the Twitter account of one Lee C. Bollinger---or rather, an anonymous ghost-Twitterer who purports to be him. His statuses are what we, with blissful ignorance, imagine a day in the life of PrezBo is like, with updates such as Saw Quigley buying just soup at Morton Williams. Impossibly sad. and "President Wins Nobel Prize" What? I won? Why has no one called me? This is great. Just as an earlier hiatus was met with a status update, @LEE_BOLLINGER has now returned from a year-long break, saying he finally found his Twitter password. Whether he'll keep tweeting regularly as he did in the past or disappear again after one or two tweets like last Fall remains to be seen. The reason for the break in tweets will probably also forever remain a mystery. Does the author have more time now? Graduated and passed it on to a protégé? Some of us at Bwog believe it to be the latter, as his recent tweets just lack that perk and glimmer that 2009 @LEE_BOLLINGER had. But we're hoping that he's just waking up from one of his infamous naps.
Lerner wasn't exactly quiet this morning—still our Glass Box of Reverberation that we love so well—but the clatter seemed somehow different, almost mournful. As always, a faint tinkling of "Clair de Lune" troubled the air, courtesy of the fifth floor open-air piano. Conspicuously absent, though, was the usually accompanying (and conflicting) piano tune, typically "der Erlkönig," or anything headachey by Liszt. The Second Law of Lerner Hall: for every too-loud pianist, there is an equally unknowing pianist on an adjacent ramp. Why was this day different from all others? Where was the second player? A quick, hopeful jaunt up the ramps (could it be?) brought the answer, and with it, deliverance: Lerner is now only mildly cacophonous because the piano lounge has lost a piano! While that pesky fifth floor baby grand remains (as does its oft-ignored brother in the basement), this disappearance marks a good first step. Taking upon his or her shoulders the burden of a generation, someone did the unthinkable-yet-necessary for us all. Be the change you want to see, right? One down, two to go 'til we study in peace.
 In a remarkable failure of unregulated supply and demand, an estimated 160 people showed up for the lecture "Taking Stock of (Analytical) Marxism," which was held in a common room at the Heyman Center for the Humanities with a legal capacity of 80 persons. Bwog's Katheryn Thayer squeezed in. The EC entrance, usually congested by students getting signed in for weekend dorm pre-party hangouts, took on a different character Tuesday evening, when it was crammed with students, professors, grad students, and random adults hassling the guards for entrance to the unexpectedly popular lecture on Analytical Marxism. Steve Gurton, an adult student of panelist Jon Elster with experience at the Center for International Conflict Resolution, took time to discuss the esteemed professors’ views on Marxism, even though he was pissed he couldn’t just be let in to see the event. He explained that Elster, noting the downfalls of capitalism (his office is physically at the far end of the Columbia Political Science building), spent his academic career deconstructing Marxism with the intention of reconstructing and reexplaining it. He was looking for a big discovery, but found that the theories behind Marxist thought were sometimes helpful and sometimes not quite coherent. Gurton hypothesized that the turnout for what many consider an obscure topic was so huge because right now, with the global economic collapse, more people are interested in social welfare and wondering what Marx had right. The door security, finally taking pity on the girl waiting half an hour to hear about the intricacies of Analytical Marxism, finally let me into the discussion, now halfway through . At this point, John Roemer was finishing his speech on the class exploitation correspondence theorem, which tries to make concrete some of the abstract principles  Marx laid down. There are many ways of producing a good, but capitalists want production to be cheap and use as little labor as possible. Roemer ultimately found, however, that breaking down Marxism into theories and applying them sometimes produces conclusions contrary to Marxist philosophy. Earlier in the lecture, panelists differentiated “Bullshit Marxism” (all seemed to agree it’s alive and well) from Analytical Marxism, separating indoctrination from actual political ideas. Marxist academics try to extract theories from Marx and use them in useful applications, much like how economists and political scientists extract theories from past events and data. The first speaker, Jon Elster, wanted to examine the truth of Marxism because he was part of the revolutionary party and so, as Gurton described, delved into the study and interpretation of Marx’s philosophy. The final speaker, development economist Pranab Bardhan, started by saying that he thought, “the unifying principle is that Marx asked great questions...” even though he often had the wrong answers. Of these answers, Bardhan took issue with the faults in Marxist theories on impact of globalization, state, transition from agriculture, relation between technology and institutions, and crisis; citing both errors and achievements in each category. Pranab obviously valued the discussions incited by Marxist thought, but quoted Alfred Whitehead in saying, “a science which hesitates to forget its founders is lost.” While none of the speakers seemed to be clinging desperately to Marxism, the thoughtful and stimulating conversation implied that it makes sense to keep history in mind when analyzing now and beyond. The questions raised by Marx are still relevant and useful in fields of sociology, history, and economics, and from the looks of it will continue to play an interesting, if small, role in discussion.
Hillel is offering free food at their hizouse for their first event of the year. Reported provisions include "sweets and desserts of all kinds". Check it out on the 3rd Floor Terrace of the Kraft Center for Jewish Life (606 W. 115th St. across from Schapiro). Update: There is chocolate fondue. Score.
The newest issue of The Blue and White will be landing on campus soon.  In the meantime, Mark Hay investigates Craigslist and the black market for academic essays. Editor's Note: To protect confidentiality, names marked with asterisks have been changed. On any given day this past summer, a student trawling Craigslist.com would have found numerous ads for school essay writing services. This Blue &amp; White reporter monitored the New York area's site on 20 randomly selected days from July through August, and found on average nine to 10 ads explicitly offering to write a student's essay from scratch -- not to mention scores of posts for dubious and vague "editorial/tutoring services." One such apparently aboveboard ad posted by a student at NYU's Tisch School boasted, "I tutor a various array of people from all over the world in Manhattan and Brooklyn and have helped many students to better their grades and understandings in and about writing and English in its various forms." When asked if his or her services included full essay writing for a fee, the student responded, "Yes...I do a lot of that." Combined with the broad ads masking essay services under tutoring or editing (roughly half of those opaque advertisers contacted for this piece offered to write a full essay when the service was requested), it becomes near impossible to tell how many essay writers are active at any given time. One may roughly estimate, though, that well over 100 are active just on the New York section of Craigslist.com—some recent graduates trawling for a quick buck, and a couple dozen hardened professionals who have turned this practice into a job, at times banding together in individualized essay writing firms, the latter constituting approximately 30 percent of advertisers. The simple answer is to blame this bounty of unethical services on the wild frontier of commerce that is Craigslist.com. But much as with the escort or narcotics services advertised in stealth on the site, anonymous postings have just re-popularized ancient trades to a new market, which previously relied on word-of-mouth advertising in the years before Craigslist first extended its services to New York in 2000. We're no more devious now -- just more efficient. "I've been at this for eight years and working with the firm for five," said Jackson*, an essay writer at one of the larger, original content-producing "firms" who was contacted via e-mail. Another independent provider, Paul*, has been making quick cash by writing student essays since middle school, but he has been able to make a full-fledged job out of the practice for three years now. "After graduating and while at a dead-end job, I talked to a family friend who has been doing this for 20 years. figured I would give it a shot myself, advertised on Craigslist, got a few replies, got some money, and I was hooked," said Paul in a recent e-mail interview. Although Craigslist.com helped Paul get his start, it is hardly his lifeblood. "Word-of-mouth is my best asset," he said. "The people I ‘meet' off Craigslist refer me to their friends and so on." Jackson's experience echoes Paul's. "Most of my customers are repeats due to the quality of my work and the nature of my personality," said Jackson. " maybe 25 regulars per semester and then one or two new ones. Out of the new ones, sometimes they become regulars or I never hear from the again." Keeping repeat customers necessitates regularity and quality of work--job offers stop coming if you turn in late, sloppy papers. Professionals typically receive an initial inquiry; acquire the paper topic, syllabus, and guidelines; negotiate a price; and write the paper. An amateur provider usually charges $13 to $15 per page, while old hands like Jackson can charge $25 per page for undergraduate work and $35 per page for graduate work. Open-ended papers requiring the selection of a subject or additional research may incur an additional $10 to $15 hourly research fee, and overnight deadlines can similarly merit a bump in price. Paul, who maintains what he considers an average flow of work, will handle between two to ten papers a week, averaging five pages. "I usually do a five-page paper in an hour," said Paul. Assuming one cuts to the mean of his workload, charging $15 per page, Paul can make $450 in a five hour work week. This is not to mention other services Paul provides--like completing online distance education courses on behalf of customers--and the more substantial fees someone like Jackson can generate. And it's not dreck -- he, like so many others, guarantees at least B-level work, and many are more than willing to advertise their credentials as graduates of Berkeley, University of Chicago, Harvard, Princeton, and so on. One might even say that these ghostwriters represent the ideal established by basic rhetoric courses like University Writing -- they have isolated the skill of essay writing and honed it to an almost factory-level precision. "I have had some instances where the professor gave the student a bad grade, for example a C on an English paper, and I knew the reason was he/she knew the student didn't write the paper but that's rare and has only happened a few times," said Paul. "My clients are satisfied and will write to tell me that they received the grade they desired," said Jackson. "When they come back unhappy, I review the comments and help them make arguments to raise the grade—many times they are successful." These services achieve such great success in part because they are nearly impossible to detect, if carried out correctly—these essays are "custom-tailored," so to speak, and not lifted from easily searchable Internet sources. Jackson is not aware of any of his many clients ever having been caught, and Paul knows only of a few cases where his work was detected, but still, punishment came only via middle-of-the-road grading, not disciplinary measures. Professors may also not be on as close a look-out for these services as they are for other, more typical forms of cheating -- in other words, they have bigger fish to fry. "The most common method of plagiarism is using Internet sources without attribution," said Scott Halvorson, Dean of Students at GS. "In most cases, a faculty member brings the complaint, sometimes with the help of plagiarism prevention services such as Turnitin," a Web site which compares student papers to Internet materials and a database of other papers for copied elements. Jeri Henry, Senior Assistant Dean of the Office of Judicial Affairs and Community Standards for Columbia College and SEAS, is hesitant to identify what types of plagiarism are most prevalent, most detected, or most suspected, but assures all that educators are well-trained in detection methods. With these ghostwriting services, however, a student could slip by unnoticed if only essays were assigned. Detection services will not catch them, and, as the financial model for the services depends on repeat customers, a teacher is likely to see only plagiarized work for a whole semester, thus never detecting a difference or suspecting foul play. The disparity in quality of thought, structure, and writing style between writing an essay and an in-class assignment would still make it difficult for a professor to prove plagiarism. Conceivably, a writer's papers for other students could be floating in a database for cross-checking, but even the most advanced software cannot pin down voice as easily as copied content. And Paul, Jackson, and their cohorts will, if asked, attempt to alter their voice or approximate their client's style to confuse detection. "We recognize there is no foolproof way to guarantee all instances of academic dishonesty are detected," admitted Henry. "But even in instances of ‘creative cheating' , the likelihood is that someone else—a roommate, a classmate, a teammate, a friend—is aware of the behavior. It is OJA's goal to foster a community where students hold one another accountable for responsible decisions—academic and otherwise." Translation: For this sort of cheating, the University relies on informants and peer pressure to stem the tide. But as anyone who has seen On the Waterfront, Scent of a Woman, or almost any episode of The Sopranos knows, community ethos favors peer loyalty to peer monitoring. It seems a futile endeavor. Henry's response points to one reason why it is so easy for providers to operate—blame is heaped upon the student, not the essay provider. " are more shocked that the students hire me, not that I write for them," said Jackson. "That's how they perceive them, as snotty kids." And while Jim*, who offers editing services, refrains from writing papers because he considers it an unethical circumvention of education, he sees it mainly as a trespass by students, rather than providers. "Most larger colleges and universities have support services Using Craigslist to get the same strikes me as a little shifty," he said. The only obstacle for a provider of such services is conscience. But most of them have found handy rationalizations for their services beyond just the need for money. "I went to a private Christian school that had a lot of Ethiopian kids come in. They needed help with schoolwork so I would do their homework at times," said Paul of his origins. Henry, Halvorson and Jim all bat down these rationales as delusional, given services available to students. "I usually respond ," said Jackson, "that most of do not attend ‘rich-kid' schools where they can casually sit around a dorm with friends and then go study at their leisure. That being said, I do get college students who to wealthier schools too; however, most of the time it's people who work and have kids." This may account for the University's insistence that plagiarism holds steady year-to-year and school-to-school, while Halvorson admits he has had, "conversations with frustrated students who feel that the problem is getting worse, not better." Indeed, GS would seem to fit Jackson's profile of a school where a sizable percentage of students hold down both a job and family life. Setting aside ethics momentarily, the practice makes a frightening amount of economic sense for any student. Theoretically, enrolling in six classes per semester for eight semesters at Columbia, carefully selecting classes that only required take-home finals, final papers, or term papers (not a difficult task), one could graduate Columbia with a degree and decent GPA without ever lifting a finger. In fact, if one speculates that each class would entail four five-page papers, one final ten-page paper, and ten hours of research for a consummate professional charging $35 per page and $10 per research hour (something of a middle price range), one could comfortably buy a Columbia education for $55,200 in addition to tuition and fees, undetected. Considering the man-hours one would otherwise spend on such courses, a student might easily earn back that fee by re-appropriating their time. Such is the power of the Internet and a wad of cash that a reporter might even put his name on these pages never having lifted a finger to write them, and the reader may never know. Illustrations by Cindy Pan
Item: a necklace made with black and blue beads. Centerpiece is a series of bronze semi-circles. Location lost: No idea. Possibly IAB, Mudd, or Pupin.
We beat Harvard -- at least our investment portfolio did with a reported 17.3% return, bringing our endowment to $6.5 billion. (NYT) World Leaders Forum drama! Columbia praises Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, then takes it back. (Spec) The CC-Barnard relationship: things are still complicated. (Spec) Take a lunchtime break a la Music Hum. (NYT) Yale sophomore/hipster/aristocrat is Kanye's new right hand man. (IvyGate) Bill O'Reilly's note to self: When on national television, try to remember the name of the candidate you're talking about. (Gawker) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Every week, Bwog brings you the latest and greatest in your local fruits, veggies and meats so you’ll know which seasonal goodies to look out for at the Greenmarket this week! What's New: Raindance Farm is having a sausage sale. Watch out for Monkshood Nursery's luscious red carrots. Stannard pumkins and squashes are here. Apparently the squashes in particular are beautiful to look at. They also have indian, sweet and bi-colored corn, and sell chicken, pork and beef. Knoll Krest is selling Challah bread Everyone's excited about Gonzalez Farm's okra. Don't Forget: Next Sunday will be a kids day. The event will be from 12 to 1 at the market managers' tent. There will be a scavenger hunt, apple tasting, children's art as well as a information on canning by Beth Linskey from Beth's Farm Kitchen Join farmers from Greenmarket for Sunday Farmer’s Supper at Henry’s Restaurant (Bway &amp; 105th) on September 26th from 5pm to 8pm. It’s a three course dinner featuring food from the market and wine from Red Tail Ridge. Dinner is $65 and it will all benefit the Greenmarket’s Youth Education Project. Reservations are required. Sign up at the market or at Henry’s. There's a frequent shoppers program for those with EBT. Get your receipt stamped when you make a purchase of $10 or more from your account. 5 stamps = 2 greenbucks! They have free token pouches! You can use your credit/debit card to buy tokens that can be used in the market at the manager's table. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 
 After college, we all want to change the world, in some small way. Has your life ever been ruined by spilled salsa? Yeah, ours too. Luckily, CC ‘09ers Michael Charley and Tom Stewart have come to the rescue with the Salsabol. A bowl with an elongated lip to push salsa back onto a chip as you scoop upwards, the Salsabol promises the perfect proportion of dip to chip every time, without breakage or spillage. The men behind the madness sat down with Bwog to discuss the trials and triumphs of leading a Rebolution. Bwog: So, Bwog is walking down the street, minding its own business, when you guys jump out at it, with Salsabol in hand. Can you sell Bwog a Salsabol in thirty seconds? Michael Charley: The first thing is that you're gonna need a new shirt, because it's covered in red splotches and stains from the salsa that spilled on it. The next question is, how have you been living your life without one? And finally, you really can't afford not to have one, because when everybody else has one, you're going to be the laughingstock of the party. Bwog: I'm sold. Tell me about the design and production process. How does something like this go from an idea to a mass-produced product from a factory? MC: We had to do that with quite a bit of trial and error. They don't really teach you about overseas manufacturing in Columbia. Tom Stewart: It started last summer. I had had the idea of the Salsabol a couple of years ago, and it continued as a running joke. I offered it to Michael, and he was excited. Some guys from my architecture internship were teaching me some of the software I used to make the first 3D model of it. Then, Michael started getting involved in understanding how we might go about getting a producer, samples, testing. Bwog: How does one do that? MC: So, China's an interesting place. You show up, and you realize that no one speaks the language you're trying to speak, and the people who think that they speak the language you speak, don't at all. You'll ask for a bowl, and they're gonna try to sell you dog food or something. But in about six months of sampling and production we finally got a first shipment. Bwog: You guys must be aware of the CaliBowl, which is a similar concept. MC: They're definitely our biggest competitor in terms of design and sort of, company ambience. TS: When I first saw the CaliBowl, my immediate reaction was “Aw, man, someone else kind of has this idea,” and then I looked more closely at it, and decided that I don't really care about the CaliBowl. We have a product that's a lot more focused than theirs is. Theirs is less of a chip and dip set, less of a centerpiece kind of thing. The other flaw with the CaliBowl, is that, if you have a CaliBowl on the table, and you walk by it, you can't tell that it's special. With the Salsabol, we wanted someone to look at it and say, “What is that? Why is it shaped like that?” Bwog: How have sales been overall? MC: It's always up and down. We'll be sitting around twiddling our thumbs one day and somehow, a ton of orders will get entered and we'll spend the entire day frantically packing boxes. Bwog: What are your plans for the Salsabol's future? TS: We're going to pair the Salsabol with a platter to really make it a centerpiece chip and dip set. Then, ideally, we would be able to expand into some other colors. The good thing about it is that a large fraction of people who hear about it, love it, and love to tell other people about it. We all learned in Frontiers of Science about the “hub and spoke” method of social interaction, so we're trying to find the hubs. Bwog: Did your experiences at Columbia shape the idea, and if so, how? TS: I didn't really think about Columbia directly, but, as we continue to approach new problems every day, I think I'd be a fool not to say that I'm prepared for something. Having met Michael, a guy that would be crazy enough to do this thing with me, maybe that's attributed to Columbia as well. In a recession economy, failure is not bad, people are so used to it that you can go out and try something completely crazy, and if it doesn't work out, no one even notices. If it does, you have a great story. MC: A great story, and a foundation for new things you want to do. We're learning to be well-versed in things that, a year and a half ago, sitting in a seminar at Columbia, you could've said that to me and I would've said “What are you talking about?” But that's what we're doing, and I'm stoked. Postscript: Bwog got to test a Salsabol at its first meeting (you should've come). While no salsa spilled out of the bowl, some did get on the outer lip, and some got on our shirts in the transfer from hand to mouth. Thankfully, our lives were unruined. Photos from salsabol.com. Used with permission.
While we wait for the latest issue of The Blue and White to come back from the printer, we'll be posting most of the articles on Bwog.  Today, Liz Naiden visits New York's forgotten beach town. The beach is not quite "beautiful." The calming tide and unending shore of Rockaway may appeal to the cramped spirit of a visitor escaped from Manhattan for a day, but the ocean is no sharp, stunning, turquoise. The sand is not gold. White sunlight coats the water's surface; pale green seafoam turns beige dunes to brown, and a smooth grey boardwalk frames the scene. Absent the alien oranges, reds, and greens of umbrellas and towels in the height of summer, Rockaway Beach is like a washed-out photograph. Two hours away from the city by subway or car, "The Rockaways" is a lonely peninsula hanging off the bitter edge of New York. The Atlantic stretches south to the horizon, and to the north the bay is wild with the desolate sandbars and forested islands of Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge. Its physical and visual isolation make Rockaway perhaps the closest thing to a small town accessible by subway. Rockaway feels like a small town because it once was. The area first developed as the waterfront sanctuary for 19th century New York's richest families, but as rail reached the island in the 1890's so did middle-class vacationers and a new wave of permanent residents. Immigrants of Irish, Italian, and Jewish origin especially settled there throughout the early-century boom that turned New York into the world's city and Rockaway into a bustling community with a notable beachfront tourism industry. But by the 1960s the upper classes had abandoned their Rockaway villas for the Hamptons and middle-class patrons of the boardwalk, hotels, and small amusement park were leaving the city in droves. Competing Coney Island became the convenient day-trip of the working class while Rockaway's beachfront declined. In its place rose a rigid row of more than a dozen modernist towers. Like their look-a-likes citywide, many of the towers would become low- and middle-income housing. As crime and unemployment increased in the city through the 1970s, so it did in the Rockaways. Shuttered warehouse buildings and swaths of high grass are all that remains of the former beachfront boom. But at Far Rockaway, the wide end of the peninsula at the end of the A line, remnants of the small civic and commercial center remain. Far Rockaway has aged without becoming derelict; most buildings have been slowly run down but have never fallen out of use. The result is not the distraught ruins of urban decay, nor is it a rehabbed, redeveloped, "cool" district. Addicts of apocalyptic abandonment will find Gowanus; fashionable rediscoverers congregate in the Lower East Side. Those enthralled by neither extreme--the nostalgic historians--find Rockaway, where the former life of many outer borough neighborhoods is preserved as if sealed in a bottle. Past Far Rockaway convenience stores and restaurants dot the main streets, but much of the space that beach-goers walk – from the subway to the water – remains barren and deserted. These empty swaths have played host to chunks of multi-unit residential development over the last two decades. An influx of new residents, attracted by new and relatively inexpensive condos, have injected a jolt of money and intrigue into a mostly forgotten place, and in 2008, the New York Times published a guide to eating, sightseeing, and apartment hunting in Rockaway. But it may be years before the new arrivals change the character of the Rockaways and bring activity back to this sun-bleached husk of a once-vibrant area. For now, only the drone of countless jets en route to John F. Kennedy International Airport disturbs the calm. Illustration by Liz Lee
As much as we lucky few loved having our LitHum class in Carman, classes just weren't meant to be taught in dorms. A tipster sent us this delightful sign, discovered on the fourth floor of Schapiro residence hall, not to be confused with CEPSR/Schapiro Center. 
 
The Columbia Queer Alliance is giving out free sushi in the Lerner Party Space from 7:30pm to 9:00pm. Go go go! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
It rained! Outside, like it normally does, but also inside 417 IAB. Thanks to Kristina Chen for the pictures, and big ups to Professor Sadighian for thinking ahead. The storm was actually pretty insane.
If you thought Columbia bureaucracy was frustrating, think again. Several Columbia international students still have yet to arrive on campus due to delayed visas. (Spec) France's Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Twitter account is hacked, and Sarkozy tells the Romanian people how he really feels. Prezbo, on the other hand, only seems to be worried about his cereal. (Gawker) The Gulf oil disaster is finally (almost) over. (CNN) Yesterday's storm was even worse than you thought. (NYT) This man may have sold you your fake ID. (WSJ) Update: The Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal (CUSJ) will be hosting Emilie Marcus, editor-in-chief of Cell journal, today from 10am to noon in Earl Hall Auditorium. Bwog hears that free food is the best cure for a Friday morning hangover, so get to Earl Hall before all the food is gone! Photo from Flickr/fadilfb
The 9th Annual Fun Run took place this morning at 8:30am—an hour so early that Bwog was only just getting home when the race began. We hear that the race went swimmingly, but Bwog's still bitter about getting waitlisted. Here's a sample playlist from before the race began: Run (Vampire Weekend) Born to Run (Bruce Springsteen) Running Down a Dream (Tom Petty) Ready to Run (Dixie Chicks) What an appropriate theme! Send us more pictures, and leave more fun run songs in the comments, plz.
Item: A notebook with a yellowish cover. It has a red sticker with a cross cut out on the front, and the name "Alice" written underneath. Location lost: Not sure. Possibly Mudd.
Bwog hopes you all had a lovely Thursday night. If you think you might've lost something, tipsters Lily Keane and Maggie Alden have sent us photos that could help you retrace your night. Valiant fighters against the War on Fun, Bwog salutes you.
The Barnard EcoReps have gathered today in front of the Barnard Gates to celebrate Park(ing) Day, an international movement to transform public parking spots into welcoming, more people-friendly spaces for one day. Today, 50 Park(ing) Spots may be found in all five boroughs of New York. For more information, check out blog.parkingdaynyc.org. Bwog visited Greenborough's parking spot, located on Broadway between 113th and 114th streets. It looked like fun! People were mingling and eating pizza. There was even a bed for lounging. 
Last night in the Roone Auditorium, the Muslim Students Association held their annual Fast-A-Thon. This year benefited Pakistani flood relief. The attendees had mostly been fasting since sunrise, so people came hungry. The program began with a call to prayer, and then those inclined were invited to pray. Following that, food was distributed and the program began, in which speakers brought home the staggering disaster that has taken place in Pakistan. Students had been invited to fast from sunup to sundown, without food or water. Though the event was not during Ramadan, fasting is still encouraged for six days in this Islamic month in order to emulate the Prophet Muhammad's fast. Ava Asiaii, BC '14 explained, "Fasting makes you able to appreciate the freedom to eat whenever you want." In order to express solidarity with the Pakistani people, the much awaited menu featured Pakistani cuisine, including chicken tikka, biryani, okra and naan bread. For dessert, gulab jamun was served. The food was a fantastic break from John Jay. Notably, the ambassador of Pakistan to the United Nations, Abdullah Hussain Haroon, spoke. He delineated the extremity of the tragedy—twenty-one million displaced, one million domesticated animals killed, and more than three thousand dead, with all those numbers still rising. At the peak of the flood, the waters of the Indus were fifty to one hundred miles across, destroying the most fertile and populated parts of Pakistan. Says Haroon, “The Indus is a life source. It gives life to millions of people. At times, its damages and hurts those who it sustains with its plentiful waters.” But the worst is not over. The cotton crop, which was soon to be harvested and composes 70% of the country's economy, was wiped out. Rice plantations and staple foods are gone Land delineation is unclear, and the ground is too soaked to plant crops. The torrential force of the flood destroyed communications infrastructure, bridges and homes. Haroon commended the world for pledging money to help but, as of yesterday, they have only received $18 million. The UN estimates that it itself can sustain ten percent of the refugees, only 2.1 million out of 21 million people, at maximum efficiency. It is not operating at maximum efficiency. The tragedy is worse than Katrina, the 2004 tsunami and the 2005 Pakistani earthquake combined, in terms of numbers of displaced persons. Haroon concluded with a call for much needed aid to Pakistan The second speaker was Ibrahim Abdul-Matin, author of Green Deen: What Islam Teaches About Protecting the Planet. He posited that natural disasters are partly man-made. His recurring question was, “What side of history do you want to be on?” He decried the “throwaway culture” of which Americans are a part. He asked us to do simple things that contribute to using less water, less fuel, and to saving energy. Next Henna Mahmood, CC '11 and President of the Organization of Pakistani Students, spoke about their efforts both to raise $100,000 and educate Columbians about Pakistan. In five days, they have collected $10,000. Sannia Qazi, a representative from Islamic Relief, stressed that no gift is too small, that even fifty cents is a meal. She told the audience that what was done is over, but if action is not taken to prevent the spread of disease and feed the refugees, the death toll will rise, and soon. Finally, a grad student adviser read from the Qur'an and exhorted the audience to be “as generous as the free-blowing wind.” A Barnard alum explained her efforts to collect used clothes and ship them to Pakistan. Pakistan International Airlines ships relief goods for free. The event ended with the the thought, “We are all each others' people.”
 A few dozen boxes of cold Famiglia pizza in Lerner lobby (on the Broadway side, next to elevators) and scattered around the SGO, leftover from an SDA events. Hay, acronyms. Cold pizza is still pizza!
We're back again with Cooking with Bwog. In this week's edition, the Culinary Club's chef extraordinaire Matt Powell  features the last of summer with Island Burgers and Taleggio Pear Paninis. Forget about yesterday's downpour and live like it's still 90 degrees out. Island Burgers I must insist that although the weather does not reflect it, it is still technically summer for another week. I made this delicious burger for myself this week. Most people tend to use ground beef and ground beef alone when making burgers, but I prefer to combine half ground beef and half ground pork. It makes for a tastier and juicier burger. Of course, you can make a more traditional burger, but I like to spice mine up a bit. Burger ingredients 1 lb. ground beef 1 lb. ground pork 2 tbsp. red wine 2 tbsp. Tabasco sauce ¼ C panko crumbs (or bread crumbs) 4 tsp. minced fresh garlic (can be found at farmer’s market) 5 cloves of garlic, minced (can be found at farmer’s market) 4 tsp. curry powder (I used 7 seas curry.) 1 tsp. cayenne pepper ½ tsp. allspice Sauce ingredients ½ C mango, diced finely ¼ C mayo Juice of half a lime 4 buns Sunflower sprouts (can be found at farmer’s market) Thinly sliced red bell pepper (can be found at farmer’s market) Directions Mix all burger ingredients together in a large mixing bowl until well distributed and combined. Handle as little as possible. Pack into four patties with a slight indentation in the middle of the burgers (this allows for a better shaped burger). Grill on an indoor grill or cook on the stove using a nonstick pan. Cook to medium-rare. While burgers are cooking, combine sauce ingredients and mix well. Toast buns. When burgers are done, assemble burger in the following order: bottom bun, sauce, pepper slices, burger patty, sunflower sprouts, and top bun. Serves 4. Taleggio Apple Panini I am typically strongly against vegetarian entrees. I like to have meat for my meals; otherwise I just don’t feel full and end up sitting through my afternoon classes starving for something more substantial. This sandwich is the exception. Ingredients 1 loaf of ciabatta, sliced (available at farmer’s market) 1 Granny Smith (or other tart) apple, very thinly sliced (available at the farmer’s market) A couple thick slices of taleggio cheese 4 handfuls of arugula (available at the Farmer’s market) Drizzle of honey (available at the farmer’s market) Ground Black Pepper Olive oil Directions Assemble the sandwiches by stacking the ingredients in the following order: 1 slice of ciabatta, apple slices, taleggio, arugula, a little honey, some pepper, and 1 more slice of ciabatta. Brush a little olive oil on the outsides of the sandwich. Grill in a panini press or on a skillet. Take away from the heat once the cheese begins to melt, and eat immediately! Serves 4. Cooking Events On campus Culinary Society will be having their first free food event on Tuesday, September 21 at 9 pm in the Lerner Ramp Lounge East. The theme will be Gourmet Snack foods. Come for a delicious treat! In the city Go for a weekend excursion to the Highline! A stand featuring the “Flavors of Fall” will be selling doughnuts and frostings for cheap! Mexican Restaurant Week is running from September 16th to the 30th! Make sure to go to your favorite Mexican food restaurant for discounted meals, and check out the other Mexican cultural events happening all over the city. A cooking demo by Zarela Martinez is one of scheduled events (September 23rd at 6 pm at the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian).
On Wednesday night, Columbia's Donald Keene Center of Japanese Culture hosted Dr. Genshitsu Sen, the former Grand Master of the Urasenke school of the Japanese tea ceremony. Bwog, recognizing that there is such a thing as too much coffee, spent the evening in the audience at Casa Italiana, to learn about the Japanese tea ceremony, from the master himself. Some sense of the gravitas of the occasion was immediately conveyed when I walked into the room, full with people dressed in either traditional Japanese garb, or formal evening attire. Dr. Sen was warmly introduced with the endorsement for the next Nobel Peace Prize, and received sincere demonstrations of appreciation from the well-heeled crowd. His opening remarks consisted of courteous compliments and thanks to New York, Columbia, and the Keene Center, making the evening seem that much more decorous and sincere. Despite only understanding through his translator, it was obvious that he was far more youthful and vigorous than one might expect from his 87 years. Constantly gesticulating, grinning and cracking jokes, his presence was warm and inviting, alleviating any sense of alienation that could arise from such formalities. Dr. Sen sketched a brief history of the culture of tea in Japan, (which they inherited from China), but spent most of the lecture explaining the timelessness of the tea ceremony, and the importance of the ritual in everyday, modern life. "It's just a beverage, of course," he said of matcha, the powdered green tea that is served, "but when I drink it, I look at the deep green tea, and the round bowl. I think of it as symbolic of our planet." The lecture was followed by a demonstration of the ritual tea ceremony by several former students of the Urasenke school, a process entirely made up of symbolic demonstrations of thoughtfulness and consideration. Each specific tool is symbolically purified with a silk cloth by the host, who then uses them to prepare a bowl of tea for each guest. Each element and step of the process is acknowledged by the guest, who repeatedly bows in appreciation. I was particularly struck by the laboriousness of the preparation, whisking the tea with a bamboo tool to create bubbles, straining it with a linen cloth. As the tea was served, the guest would either turn the bowl and pass it to the next guest, saying "after you," or acknowledging that they were about to drink it. It is essential that the guests and hosts acknowledge each other, and make each other feel welcome, a surprisingly simple sentiment often disregarded in daily life. Rather than feeling distanced and unwelcome by this extreme formality, I was rather heartened by the rigorousness with which the process was adhered to. Dr. Sen repeatedly emphasized the importance of the symbolic actions, from thinking about your individual place in the world, to the integrity of setting yourself a complicated task instead of taking the easy route, like drinking Snapple. Neither boring, nor kitschy, it was a genuinely thoughtful occasion, with much more modern resonance than one might expect from an antiquated practice.
Columbia students will be shooting a short video on the Millennium Development Goals at 6 PM at the Sundial, and they need lots of extras. Free pizza (this time hopefully warm) will be provided. Bwog guesses that this video is being created in anticipation of this weekend's Millennium Campus Conference, a meeting of student leaders to discuss international sustainable development. Since one of the makers of this video expects it to go viral, we suggest you head over there soon. This could be your last chance at fame before the apocalypse!
 This summer, Columbia introduced the Financial Econ major, allowing undergrads to enroll in B-School classes (and perhaps partake in B-School bacchanalia) and inching Columbia a little closer to pre-professionalism. Today, that inch becomes a mile: the Center for Student Advising has just announced a Special Concentration in Business Management. You can apply here. The Concentration is open to twenty students, who must be juniors or seniors in CC or GS. Concentrators will take classes taught by B-School professors in "financial and managerial coursework." Students wishing to grasp on to the final shreds of their liberal arts education will be able to take electives in sociology, econ and psychology. Concentrators will also have access to B-School events, have formal networking opportunities with B-School faculty and students, and generally sort of go to Business School while they're in college.
The latest issue of The Blue and White will be hitting campus this weekend! Meanwhile, we continue to post the articles from the issue on Bwog. "At Two Swords' Length" is a feature presenting opposing opinions on an issue.  This time, Nina Pedrad argues that yes, you can change, while Jeff Stern says otherwise. Positive It was seventh grade, end of the year. Students poured out of every orifice of the middle school, horny for summer and the new Blink-182 album. Horny, all of them. Except for one girl. Me, little Cindy. I watched the "cool" girls as they left math class, all glitter gloss and butt jeans. I watched them flip their crispy straight hair, adjust their push-up bras until A became B. They sashayed into the arms of their cool boyfriends, skater boys with large penises (so I'd heard). I licked my braces and yearned for the touch of a man with frosted tips. I wasn't what you'd call "cool" or "freshly showered." I was short, gangly, and rocked an uncomfortably large pyramid of hair. When I wasn't asked to the spring dance, I turned to my algebra books and a cold glass of milk for support. I stared down at my chest. Still flat. I had conquered my finals, but knew my greatest challenge would be physical, not mental; breasts, not brains. I left for camp that summer with cotton underwear and a dream: that I'd return as something better. "Stupid," I thought, licking my braces. On the bus, I watched the cool girls sit on the cargo shorts of cool boys, giggling. My own laugh sounded like a hyena on methamphetamine. But that summer at camp, something changed. Some things, actually. It started with one innocuous bottle: "Boobs B-Bigg," a breast nourishment formula. I found it on the side of the road. It was a sign. My t-shirts started fitting better. My training bras stopped fitting at all. I was growing faster than I could finish a lanyard, morphing from concave to convex like two perky balloons inflated by a helium tank. Boys started looking at me. Lame boys, at first. But jocks with big penises (so I'd heard) once I hit a C. My chest became my ticket in. I borrowed underwire bras and cut my shirts lower. The breasts were just the beginning. My braces came off in late July. By September I was the most popular girl in school. I'd spend hours straightening my hair and picking the right song lyrics to quote in my AIM profile. Other girls wore what I wore, walked the way I walked, shopped at the Wet Seal I shopped at. The change was more than physical. I became Li'l Cindy. I started doodling in my Algebra books, littering my speech with things like "ohmygod" and "shut your stupid face!" I traded in my naivete for a flask of cheap gin. I flicked off anyone I thought was lame, dumb, or a-sexual. By December I was dating a high school senior named Hammer. Hammer drove a truck and fondled my breasts in public. I liked him very much. One day, though, Hammer found a freshman with Ds. He broke up with me and that's when things went south. Hungry for attention and uninterested in middle school boys (who were very tiny, as it turns out), I turned to a string of different men. Mike, Chuck, Robert, Vagabond Outside Safeway... I became what many experts would call "a whore." My skirts became shorter, my knees more calcified. I spiraled until I was a washed up druggie with more venereal diseases than friends. I had no hopes, no dreams. I lost my Social Security card in a game of strip UNO. Innocence? That was my porn name. That wasn't who I was anymore. I passed by a kid I went to middle school with the other day. Jeff. "Boy, have you changed Little Cindy!" he said, putting money in my g-string with his clammy hands. I said, "It's Li'l Cindy now. Little died a long time ago." Negative Like all children sent to middle-class preschools, I was once read the tale of The Very Hungry Caterpillar. Challenging Kirstie Alley at her best game, the insect gorged itself until it transformed into a poorly-drawn, geometric butterfly. Unfortunately, my own attempt at such a transformation fell flat. It was the summer before eighth grade. "This summer's gonna be different," I thought as I aggressively spiked my hair with the bottle of CRUST (the gel with 85-percent ground crustacean for real hold). Seventh grade had just ended and I was eager to leave behind the horrible memories of swirlies, wet willies, and aggressive punches that knocked the Giga Pet out of my sweaty little hands. I mean, I wasn't a HUGE loser...there was always that fat sweaty kid in Honors Algebra who picked his "back-ne" under his Epcot shirt. But flattering comparisons aside, I knew it was time to kick my transformation into high gear and finally leave my loser brethren in the dust. My mom seemed thrilled when I asked her to go shopping—she was eager to replace my Pikachu shirts with more mature fare. I needed to start attracting real girls, the kind who had thick, hot-pink retainers and who wore training bras from Limited Too. My mom and I walked confidently through the men's department of Saks 5th Avenue to the real destination—Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, the mecca of good-looking white guys who reek of SUCCESS. $300 later, I walked out with enough clothes embroidered with those two, sexy letters and that one curvaceous ampersand to fill a two-week stint at sleep-away camp. And not just any sleep-away camp. THE sleep-away camp. River Way Ranch Camp. The camp where whores like that Cindy go to get away from their parents and test out their sexualities. I wanted to do things with girls. Yes. I knew how sex worked! YES! It's when the guy sits down on the girl and then... Right? That's it right? And then the guy touches... You say it first. Regardless, I walked around confidently with my hard hat of wiry spikes and my A &amp; F wardrobe. I was a new person entirely. That's when I met her. Jessica. She was so beautiful, behind her headgear and eye patch. Yes, I met her at archery, but that was the magic of it. I couldn't participate because my hands were too sweaty. She couldn't because, you know, she only had one eye. That night, drunk off one too many Fantas, it happened. We went back to my bunk. I could tell she was kinda slutty by the way she confidently pranced into boys camp. Before I knew it, her large, wet tongue was down my throat. It was aggressive. Braces touching braces. Awkward, stifled breathing filled the cabin. And then she put her hands on my pants. Until she felt it. My big, hard wookie. We stopped making out and she pulled the Chewbacca action figure out of my pants, putting it closer to her good eye. "What the hell is this?" She asked. Before I could even answer, she pantsed me. Jar Jar Bink's big yellow eyes stared back at her from my underwear. "You're a freak," she said as she adjusted her eye patch and walked out the door. I wasn't cool. I was a loser. I'd always be a loser. It was all just a gelled façade. I took a sigh and accepted it. At least my hands would never judge me. Illustrations by Stephen Davan
 Columbia ranked as the 19th most dangerous college in the country. (DNAinfo) Friday's Tornados murder New York's trees. (Times) More money, more problems. (ai5000) Waitlist woes. (Spec) Photo from Wikimedia Commons
Bagels, pastries, and muffins from Nussbaum &amp; Wu are at the Sundial right now! Update, 3:00 p.m.: More free food in Broadway Lounge--tacos with rice, meat, and beans!
Baker Blast is upon us--the first football game of the season begins today at 12:30 p.m.!  The Lions take on the Fordham Rams at the Baker Athletics Complex. Mel's Burger Bar is sponsoring the tailgate area. The first 500 students to attend get a free tee-shirt and Student Rewards Program credit.  Go Lions! Photo via Columbia University Athletics
On this chilly Saturday morning, Bwog's Saturday Morning Cartoons offers you insight into love at Columbia. Cartoons by Abigail Santner
Overheard at Saint A's: "What's Barnard?" Photo from Wikimedia Commons
As seen on McBain 3: Photo by Grant D'Avino
Today (well, technically yesterday at sundown) is the holiest day of the Jewish year, Yom Kippur. On this Day of Atonement, Jews fast and pray solemnly for forgiveness of the past year’s sins. Completing the Ten Days of Awe that started with Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur is reserved for Jews to prove their devotion to spirituality. Kol Nidre, a prayer for repentance, begins Yom Kippur and sets a tone of introspection. The final blowing of the Shofar at tonight’s service, Ne'ila, seals the Jews’ fate in the Book of Life for the next year. Historically, Yom Kippur has thrown off the goyim schedules. Sandy Koufax, legendary lefty, even refused to pitch a game. And on this holy day, Columbia schedules its first football game, depriving Jews from watching their glorious athletes. Consolation prize: make sure you get invited to a break fast tonight. Sundown is 7:42, festivities begin immediately. 
The new issue of The Blue and White appears on campus this weekend.  Today, Hannah Lepow reviews the latest book by History Professor Eric Foner. The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery by Eric Foner W.W. Norton &amp; Company, Inc. October 4, 2010 / $29.95 Eric Foner, distinguished Civil War and Reconstruction historian, Dewitt Clinton Professor of History, and Columbia lifer (CC ’63, GSAS ’69) prefaces his new book by admitting that there is no shortage of Lincoln biographies on bookshelves today. (A few notable ones even bear his name on their spines.) Nevertheless, come October, The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery will join the weighted shelves of Lincoln history. Breaking the recent trend of sensationalized biographies, Foner is not interested in Lincoln’s relationship with his wife or children or his medical or mental health. Instead, he gives a close reading of the president’s policy on American slavery by evaluating Lincoln’s words and actions. The Great Emancipator emerges from Foner’s analysis a dynamic, intellectually curious leader, a man willing to fundamentally change his perspective on the South’s peculiar institution. It is in this sense that The Fiery Trial stands out from its peers. It is important to note that The Fiery Trial is no primer. Foner has written a Lincoln book for Lincoln lovers, and dense chapters on the political makeup of the 1850s offer little explanation for those who do not already know something about the Know-Nothing party. And while Foner pays due deference to Lincoln’s rhetorical highlights, the book does not focus its close reading on the Gettysburg Address or the Second Inaugural. The strength of The Fiery Trial is in its research—quotes from major historical figures such as Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner and columnists from the New York Times join the voices of letter-writing citizens and small, abolitionist presses to support Foner’s conclusions, painting a fuller picture of the struggles within antebellum America than simply focusing on Lincoln’s most famous words would. While this meticulous detail can at times read abstrusely, the tightly-packed narrative is informative and forward-moving. It is not necessarily a quick read, but it is a propelling one. While Foner does not move his narrative beyond Lincoln’s words and actions (only in the epilogue does he dedicate a few pages to criticism of the president’s successor, Andrew Johnson), his analysis centers on issues remarkably similar to our own. The first abolitionists were Christian evangelicals — a group now less beloved by liberals, but still ideological radicals highly visible in the public square. And change was, and still is, the catchword of the day. Foner quotes Senator Timothy O. Howe of Wisconsin advising his nephew: "...Don’t anchor yourself to any policy. Don’t tie up to any platform. The very foundations of the government are cracking... No mere policy or platform can outlast this storm." As the widening divisions between left and right once again shake American politics, it is Foner’s emphasis on Lincoln’s pragmatism — a quality that President Obama often cites as a key source of inspiration — that most clearly resonates with the reader. Rather than aligning himself with any particular party or ideology, Lincoln’s “firmness in the right," as he said in his Second Inaugural, guided his actions. The Fiery Trial’s release is timed to the 150th anniversary of Lincoln’s election in 1860, and even the title — from one of Lincoln’s messages to Congress, urging its members to realize how their actions would affect history and be remembered by it — serves as a fulcrum between past and present, emphasizing Lincoln’s continued relevance. Illustration by Abigail Santner
A bicycle collided with this dude, and now he's speaking out. (City Room) Steve Jobs clashed with a Long Island University student. A snarky email exchange ensued. (NY Mag) Man vs. Cannoli at the Feast of San Gennaro (WSJ) Brooklyn residents are battling opossums. Brooklyn opossums are battling rats. (NY Post) Image via Wikimedia Commons
Head over to the Harmony mezzanine lounge right now for free bagels, cream cheese, and orange juice. Hurry before it runs out!
 Procrastinating instead of reading Politics, Bwog was scrolling aimlessly through the sidebar of its iTunes library when "FREE WEEZY" caught its eye. Thus a quest began, and Bwog has spent the last weeks feverishly scrolling through iTunes and checking available Wi-Fi networks for the cleverest and most outlandish. If you think we missed a good one, leave it in the comments. iTunes Libraries Aaron Phillips' Library Bob Loblaw's Law Blog BORA has nice music c.v.s. foomp. FREE WEEZY music FOR ME Newfun NO! I don't want butter on my toast Oh, yes...you may butter my toast allllll you want planetary systems Poopie RAAAAAAA Shallow Mailbox Tyra's Hot Shiz Virus!! Don't Click! Wi-Fi Networks Aurelia Aurita clown Dragon's Breath ExoticBallhairCompetition FRATPARTY golagy GoldCheetah Heathbar Net IT'S SO FLUFFY South Africa lock and load NOURtorious G Ocampo snorlax stegosaurus The Kremlin White Castle Image from Wikimedia Commons
The sought-after economist was spotted yesterday during an interview for WNYC/BBC/PRI's "The Takeaway" in the cozy nook of our very own Starbucks. Photo by Jon Hill
By all accounts, Passport to Columbia was a treat and a half. Photos by Hans Hyttinen (on behalf of CUPS) and Meredith Moore. 
 Hello, Tonight the second Bwog meeting of the year is happening at 7 PM in the Student Government Office on the Broadway side of Lerner 5. "But what if I missed last week's meeting," you ask. "Is it too late?" "No," says Bwog, "you should definitely come to this meeting. There will be free food, which everyone loves. Everyone." "If I went to last week's meeting, should I go to this one, too?" "Of course you should. Also, Bwog meetings are fun. Last week, we used a Salsabol." See you there! Image via Wikimedia Commons
Hi, guys. This is the first installation of our weekly Bwog weather report. It's sort of a trailer, as you'll see from the critical acclaim in the video. We'll be doing this every week, and Pat Blute, who you may know as Dean Quigley from V115, or as the generally incredibly funny and nice dude that he is, will be your host. He will tell you the weather in silly ways, but we promise that he will always actually tell you the weather. Your weekly forecast will be brought to you by Accuweather, since we don't fuck with that Weather.com shit. It's an experiment, and we need your help in a few ways: a good title for the feature (leave suggestions in the comments) and we want as many of you as possible to be involved the Bwog weather report. If you want Pat to drop by your club meeting and announce the weather, he will. If you are on the football team and want Pat to stand on the field while you're playing and say the weather, then he will. So let us know at tips@bwog.com. Without further ado: your weather! Full-screen for the full effect. Thank you times twelve to our cameraman Zak Dychtwald. 
The first issue of The Blue and White has landed on campus! In today's selection, Mariela Quintana investigates the trials of Columbia's urban surfers. If you want to surf in college, you go to the University of Hawaii or one of the University of California campuses. You don't come to Columbia to ride the pipe. But that hasn't stopped a cohort of beach bums from making their homes in Morningside Heights. These student surfers are single-minded in their pursuit of breakers and swells, and though their numbers may be small, their passion for surfing is anything but. "I spent every possible free second that I had at Columbia trying to surf in Long Island and New Jersey," said Michael "Wojo" Wojcieszek, SEAS ‘10 and a native of the Jersey shore. After Wojo discovered a fellow surfer and Jersey boy in Matt Ward, SEAS ‘11, the two almost immediately began weekly trips out to Far Rockaway, Queens--compared to Jersey, a local-enough surf spot. All things Columbia were made secondary to riding the waves: John Jay became an impromptu surf shack, boards jammed into closets and hung from ceilings. Whenever possible, Wojo would choose 9 a.m. classes to free his afternoons for shred sessions. He recounts with pride stumbling late into a chemistry final, while Ward brought his board to exams, leaving for post-test surf sessions posthaste. The surf buddies even had hoped to turn their ocean devotion into dollars. Two years back, they took to the roof of Mudd with fiberglass molding equipment as part of a plan to launch a board sculpting business. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Columbia maintenance objected and shuttered the operation. Attempts to create a club team also fell short. "Asset Management deemed us too risky," Wojo recounted somewhat bitterly of the Athletic department's vetting system that evaluates proposals for new student sports groups. Even though graduation has now ended Wojo's time at Columbia, he and Ward still make the jaunt out to Far Rockaway with their surfboards stashed under their seats on the A train. Outer-borough commuters often give strange looks--it seems many New Yorkers have forgotten that their city is, you know, on the water. For others, the surfboard itself is a foreign object--a mystified MTA rider once stopped the two to ask why and where they were going sledding. But the end of the line brings surf-friendly company. "Once you get off the train, there are kids on skateboards and you can smell the beach. You almost think you're in a real beach community," recalled Ashley Ellenson, SEAS ‘11 and another Columbia surfer. "Then people start talking to you and you hear their Queens accents and you remember you're still in the city." Although Rockaway attracts surfers from all over the city in the late summer, Wojo and Ward prefer the beach in the dead of winter. They are quite literally riders of the storm: wintry squalls form waves ripe for carving. Ward talks of blue lips, wind chill, and "flushing" – when a wet suit takes on too much icy water. "It's just about the worst thing that could happen to you," he insisted. "Ever." Whatever the conditions, Ward won't budge: Rockaway is his beach, and he's faithful. "Anyone who says East Coast surf is bad hasn't really surfed the East Coast," he said. The Surfrider Foundation, a beach advocacy organization, would seem to disagree: in its annual beach report card, the Foundation gives Rockaway and other Long Island beaches a "poor" grade for surfing quality. That echoes the opinions of other Columbia surfers who choose not to practice their pastime in the New York area. "I'm sure people generally enjoy it, but in the end to proclaim oneself a surfer in this city is more of a self-conscious posture," said Alex Ludlum, GS ‘11 and native Californian. Ellenson remains unfazed, "It's Rockaway. We'll take what we can get." Surfing quality aside, Wojo insists one thing matters: "All that traveling and time spent in the water isn't worth it if you don't have someone to share the stoke with." Collage by Cindy Pan
As we speak the Tobacco Working Group, a committee of students, faculty and administrators, is presenting their recommendations and very long report to CCSC. Briefly, the group recommends that the university establish (and actually enforce) a "consistent distance rule" delineating a radius around Morningside campus buildings where you can't smoke. Details to come! Update 9:52 PM: According to Class of 2011 President Sean Udell, the report will now go to "what's the Christian name for a waiting room?" The report states that the Tobacco Working Group will submit its recommendations to Vice President Scott Wright, although it is unclear what action will be taken next and by whom.
 Bwog's Dad jokes that he married Bwog's Mom because she had memorized the entire lineup of the '69 Mets . If only that were still something to be proud of...
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Mon, Sept 20 “Challenges of the Drylands” Low Library Rotunda, 5:00 pm – 6:30 pm, Jeffrey Sachs, Belay Begashaw, Upmanu Lall, unknown African leaders “Free Press vs. Government Control: How Journalists Confront Political Corruption in Berlusconi’s Italy” Main Lecture Hall, Journalism, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Alexander Stille, Piercamillo Davigo, Marco Travaglio, and Peter Gomez Tues, Sept 21 “Prime Minister of Spain Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero” Low Library Rotunda, 2:00 pm – 3:00 “President of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso” Low Library Rotunda, 10:00 am – 12:00 pm “Dog Days” Event Oval, Diana Center, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Natalie Angier Wed, Sept 22 “New and Old Europe after Lisbon” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves “Prime Minister of Ethiopia Meles Zenawi” Low Library Rotunda, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm “Pakistan Floods: Prospects for a Sustainable Recovery and Rehabilitation” 1501 IAB, 7:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Hassan Abbas, Asif Zaidi, Akbar Zaidi, and Batool Hassan Thurs, Sept 23 “President Jose Manuel Ramos-Horta of Timor-Leste” Low Library Rotunda, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm “Prime Minister of Portugal Jose Socrates” Low Library Rotunda, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm “Behind the Pulitzer Prizes” 523 Butler Library, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Sig Gissler Fri, Sept 24 “President of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Josipovic” Low Library Rotunda, 11:00 am – 12:00 pm “Geoengineering the Climate: Ethics, Potential and Politics” Satow Room, 5th Floor Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Eli Kintisch and Scott Barrett “President of Turkey Abdullah Gul” Low Library Rotunda, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm FULL LIST Mon, Sept 20 “Romanian Language Day” and “Ploaie in Desert Screening” 1219 IAB, 12 pm – 2:30 pm, Corina Chertes, Mona Momescu, Nicolae Iorga, Corina Suteu, and Ilinca Negu “U.S. Military Engagement in Africa: A Discussion with AFRICOM’s Chief of Staff” 1501 IAB, 12:10 pm – 2:00 pm, Colonel Mario LaPaix “Tiger Ecology or Tiger Economy? The Science of Saving Wild Tigers” 208 Knox Hall, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, K. Ullas Karant “Peace Building Fieldwork Symposium” Jerome Greene Annex Lounge, 4:00 pm – 8:00 pm, grad student presentations “Challenges of the Drylands” Low Library Rotunda, 5:00 pm – 6:30 pm, Jeffrey Sachs, Belay Begashaw, Upmanu Lall, unknown African leaders “Free Press vs. Government Control: How Journalists Confront Political Corruption in Berlusconi’s Italy” Main Lecture Hall, Journalism, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Alexander Stille, Piercamillo Davigo, Marco Travaglio, and Peter Gomez “Political Turmoil in Tokyo” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Gerald Curtis “Book Club: Chagrin D’ecole” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, discussion with Sophie Queuniet Tues, Sept 21 “President of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso” Low Library Rotunda, 10:00 am – 12:00 pm “Prime Minister of Spain Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero” Low Library Rotunda, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm “Global Attractor for Klein-Gordon Equation in Discrete Space-time Interacting with a Nonlinear Oscillator” 214 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Andrew Comech “Oil Spill in the Gulf” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Andrew Juhl, Ajit Subramanian, Martin Mendez, and Kathleen Callahan “NF-kB, MicroRNAs, and the Control of Inflammation” 401 Hammer Health Sciences Center, Medical Center, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm, David Baltimore “Dog Days” Event Oval, Diana Center, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Natalie Angier Wed, Sept 22 “Critical Intersections: Economic and Reproductive Justice” Diana Center Lobby (Registration), 9:00 am – 4:00 pm, various “Campus Vibes Lunch Series on Diversity” 302 Diana, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, discussion “New and Old Europe after Lisbon” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves “Prime Minister of Ethiopia Meles Zenawi” Low Library Rotunda, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm “Gilles Deleuze et la Cinema” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Francois Dosse “Engineering the Immune System” Alumni Auditorium, Medical Center, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm, David Baltimore “Pakistan Floods: Prospects for a Sustainable Recovery and Rehabilitation” 1501 IAB, 7:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Hassan Abbas, Asif Zaidi, Akbar Zaidi, and Batool Hassan “Taare Zameen Par Screening” 403 Knox Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:30 pm Thurs, Sept 23 “The Atmospheric Circulation Response to Temperature Changes in a Simple GCM” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Amy Butler “President Jose Manuel Ramos-Horta of Timor-Leste” Low Library Rotunda, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm “The Caucasus: An Introduction—Book Launch” Garden Room 2, Faculty House, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Lincoln Mitchell “Family and Domesticity Across the Cold War Divide: North Korea in the 1950s” 918 IAB, 4:30 pm – 6:00 pm, Andre Schmid “Prime Minister of Portugal Jose Socrates” Low Library Rotunda, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm “Development and Transition—Lessons from China” Skyline Level (4th Floor), Faculty House, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Justin Lin “Forum on Migration: Back to Brazil” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Maria E. Torres-Guzman and Christian Munch “Behind the Pulitzer Prizes” 523 Butler Library, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Sig Gissler “Q House: Summer Camp Art Exhibit” Ruggles 201-207, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm “Eid Mela” Satow Room, 5th Floor Lerner Hall, 9:00 pm – 11:00 pm, various Fri, Sept 24 “President of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Josipovic” Low Library Rotunda, 11:00 am – 12:00 pm “Managing U.S.-China Economic Relations” 102 Greene Hall, 1:00 pm – 2:30 pm, Timothy P. Stratford “The Life and Science of John B. Biebold, 1944-2010” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 1:30 pm – 4:30 pm, various “Geoengineering the Climate: Ethics, Potential and Politics” Satow Room, 5th Floor Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Eli Kintisch and Scott Barrett “President of Turkey Abdullah Gul” Low Library Rotunda, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm 
Etthiopian Prime Minister Zenawi, who allegedly detained political opponents and intimidated voters at the polls, is coming here. Some get offended; others say it opens up “academic space” for discussion. Tensions ensue in the Spec comment thread. (Spec) Ahmadinejad, Take Two. (NyPost) Divided Dems plan to go all out against the G.O.P by focusing on the extremist Tea Party and linking Republican rivals to what they actually say. (NYtimes) Johns Hopkins suffers a stampede of elephants, mammoths, and bison. Actually, this is just how one guy describes girls. Classy, mister. (Jezebel) Photo from Wikimedia Commons
EC resident Ye Liu spotted these plumes of smoke rising over Harlem. We'll keep you updated when we find out more. Update: The fire appears to be coming from under a train bridge in East Harlem near 138th St. No word yet on what caused the fire. The fire was at the Harlem Metro North station. From the Computer Science Department: There was a fire underneath the Metro North Railroad Bridge located near E.132nd Street and the Harlem River Drive. The fire extended up the anchorage of the bridge and affected the 3rd rail.
What a treat! The super sleek two-level Trader Joe's is finally open! It's on 72nd and Broadway, only yards from the subway stop. This is actually a big deal for Upper West Side food politics. UWS shoppers now face the following options within 10 blocks of each other: Fairway, Zabar's, Citarella, and TJ. For the record, Zabar's has the best lox. And honestly, that's what determines Bwog's vote. Image via nyracked.com
The September issue of The Blue and White can be found all around campus. You might not know the following figure—but you should. In Campus Characters, The Blue and White introduces you to a handful of Columbians who are up to interesting and extraordinary things and whose stories beg to be shared. If you’d like to suggest a Campus Character, send us an email at editors@theblueandwhite.org. In the getting-to-know-you alliteration name game, Patrick Blute, CC ’12, introduces himself as "Portable Pat"—fitting for someone who's been skydiving in New Zealand, snorkeling in Guatemala, and dog-sledding in Sweden. It might come as a surprise, then, that this well-traveled cosmopolitan hails not from a global city like New York or Los Angeles but Harwich, Massachusetts, a sleepy town on Cape Cod that still bears the traces of its agricultural past. "I was practically raised under a rock in an idyllic neighborhood," he recalls. "To get to my house on Idle Way, you have to go down Paradise Path and Happy Way." Blute first ventured out as a high school senior when he won an internship with the Student Travel Association that took him on an all-expense-paid trip to 14 countries on four continents. Having grown up "writing own adventures" in Harwich, Blute compares himself to a shaken bottle of carbonated water: his whirlwind tour unscrewed the cap. With Blute's craving for new creative opportunities, Columbia proved a natural ending point for his world tour. Campus productions such as XMAS and the Varsity Show attracted Blute because of their made-from-scratch origins. "It's really about selling Columbia to the community, and nothing does that better than humor," he says, hinting at his aspirations for a career in marketing. He has entered and placed in various video contests promoting everything from the band Pink Martini to Bridgestone tires. "When I enter a contest, I try to get in the mindset of why they're selling this," explains Blute, putting his psychology major to use. Blute cuts from one scene of his life to another. "I try to live it up and think of the movie that will come after," he says. "I think in terms of movies." During this reporter's two and a half hour phone conversation with Blute, he played his didgeridoo, demonstrated his Jennifer Coolidge voice, and rapped acoustically. "Everyone kind of knows some rap songs, but do they know them acoustically? Why you at the bar if you ain't poppin' the bottles?" he asks, deadpan, quoting Nelly's ubiquitous nightclub jam, "Hot in Herre." Friends agree that Blute soaks up life with refreshing and infectious enthusiasm. "He's the quintessential friend: kind, fun-loving, and sincere," says Meredith Kirk, CC ’12. She plans soon to join Blute on one of his trips—in this case, a wedding in Canada. According to Kirk, the betrothed couple knows Blute in a "classic Pat" way. Blute is a friend of the future bride, whom he met while travelling through Europe. The bride had hoped her then-boyfriend would join her and Blute speculated that he planned to propose at the airport upon her return. His prediction came true, and naturally, the couple invited him to their wedding. "I'm just surprised he hasn't found his way across the world again," says Emily Wallen, BC ’11, a fellow founding member of the Blute's Tuesday night Karaoke crew at the Abbey. Sure enough, Pat spontaneously declared halfway through our conversation, "That's it, I'm going back to Australia… or New Zealand. Oceania! I'm definitely going." —Carolyn Ruvkun Illustration by Stephen Davan 
Dinosaur B-B-Q, reigning champion of Morningside barbeque, is a little crowded and a little overpriced. Leaving Harlem Bar-B-Q (2367 8th Avenue, between 127th and 128th Streets), Bwog realized that we'd rather just hang out in the Dinosaur mosh pit and pay a few extra bucks.But Harlem Bar-B-Q is not a bad restaurant, and if you're looking for decent and cheap uptown BBQ, you could do worse. Jason Bell, of last year's famed food feud, reports: Customers are greeted with a basket of warm cornbread. Gingery, buttery marmalade snuggles in the basket too, bringing sweet, fruity heat to the rough and savory bread. Proteins were successfully executed. Rotisserie chicken marries fatty skin to juicy flesh, a tender and surprisingly flavorful dish that narrowly avoids poultry's usual pitfalls: rubbery, dry meat and insipid flavor. Actually, the barbecue sauce slathered all over the chicken tastes remarkably different from the mediocre wing sauce; spicy and complex, this sauce contributes acidity to an otherwise straightforward composition. Whether or not this sauce truly differs from the wing sauce remains uncertain—perhaps the kitchen corrected a seasoning mistake between course one and course two. Of course, ribs always prove more controversial than chicken: fall-off-the-bone soft versus competition style firm, fatty versus lean, sauced versus dry. Harlem's decision to feature baby back ribs complicates matters further, since St. Louis style ribs and spare ribs dominate most restaurant menus. Less meaty than other cuts, baby back ribs also picked up a cultural stigma from those catchy and annoying Chili's commercials. Smeared with sticky sauce, Harlem's ribs pull apart easily, incredibly soft and lightly smoky. These are not "authentic" barbecued ribs by any measure, lacking a characteristic pink smoke ring, any appreciable texture, and the depth of flavor achieved in well-seasoned pits. Tasty enough, Harlem's ribs satisfy a momentary barbecue craving, and at $7.99 for lunch, they leave hungry wallets smoke free. But! Crispy wings were more soggy than they were crisp, and barbecue sauce that tastes like ketchup doesn't deserve a second taste. Sides are slightly expensive, requiring an extra dollar to "upgrade" baked potato, French fries, or yellow rice to sweet potato fries, candied yams, potato salad, or mac and cheese. Collard greens raise the bill two dollars. Ordinary fries look and taste ordinary, a member of that ambiguously edible "frozen fry" species. Pony up the extra money to get a bowl of excellent collards, infused with shredded pork. Harlem Bar-B-Q's sweet tea is, sadly, cloyingly sweet straight-up Nestea. Harlem Bar-B-Q is, alas, quite ordinary.
Last week, we saved potentially spilled salsa with the guys from Salsabol, and sang soulfully with Tara Priya. This week, Colin Drummond, CC'09, buys a house...on TV. We’ll be posting a few stories about enterprising alums this week and next. If you know an alum doing something worth writing about, tell us at tips@bwog.com. Colin Drummond, CC'09, was once known around Columbia for his position as V-Show's Cupcake Czar and membership in the EC "Mansuite." Now, you can see this former B&amp;W Campus Character on your TV Screen! Colin Drummond has hit it big: he landed a role in an adorable Lowe's commercial. Bwog: How did you land the Lowe's commercial? CD: After a summer at home, I returned to New York to start an acting career. I quickly realized I didn't like the rejection associated with the audition process, and decided to pursue something more stable. I started interning at Hungryman, a commercial production company. Two months later, I started freelancing with them as a casting associate, which is what I do now. During a recent casting for a Lowe's commercial that sought to target a new demographic, the "Millennial Generation," the director was having a difficult time finding the right actor. After four days of casting, he decided to put me in front of the camera. He liked me, I guess, and so did the agency, and I got the job. Bwog: What was the filming experience like? Did you really have to be underwater? CD: Filming was awesome. I had been on set for a few Hungryman commercials as a production assistant, and being on set as an actor is 100 times more fun (and pays better). There were four days of shooting, one in a Lowe's store in NJ and three more at a house in Eastchester. I did all my own stunts—I was really underwater (my "wife," Reyna, would shake her leg when she was done delivering her line), and that was me hanging off the gutter (with a harness)—though the weirdest part about the shoot was wearing a wedding ring. I don't usually wear rings, and I was very self-conscious about it. Bwog: Have randos seen the commercial and called you up about it? What's the reaction been like? CD: I've gotten a lot of texts and emails from friends who have seen the commercial. It's been showing a lot on ABC Family, I guess. I know the cinema version showed before Sex and the City 2, Get Him to the Greek, and Twilight: Eclipse. I haven't actually seen it yet, but I guess it's part of the AMC pre-roll—those 20 minutes of ads and stuff before the trailers. All in all it was a great experience. It's only a commercial, but it was fun to play at being a star. Someday down the road I would love to continue acting, but for now I'll continue with the casting gig and see what comes my way. Bwog: What's life like post-college for you? CD: Life post-college can suck sometimes, but I think if you're enthusiastic when things go your way, and you work hard and don't complain when they don't, you'll do fine. (If I were still in college, I would phrase that sentiment as a redefining of Machiavelli's virtu and fortuna, but I'm not. So I won't.) Bwog: What else are you up to? CD: I'm writing a Broadway musical for James Nederlander. Bwog: Have you ever been to Lowe's before? CD: I always used to shop at Home Depot, but now I know that Lowe's is better.
Grant D'Avino keeps us in the know! First, Sean Udell updated the council on the findings of the Tobacco Work Group and on the status of open housing. The Tobacco Work Group Final Report is finished and has been submitted to VP Scott Wright. However, it remains in a purgatory of sorts; there is not even a consensus as to which administrative office has the power to implement (or not to implement) a smoking ban. Few details were available on open housing, but more will be made public once a report has been released to Deans Moody-Adams and Peña-Mora. Next, Ganiatu Afolabi presented the findings of CCSC's meal plan poll: 59% of students rated the dining plans "Good" prior to the changes that took effect this semester. That number has dropped to 17%. 41% of the class of 2014 rated last year's meal plan options as "Good." They must have enjoyed the meals they had at Days on Campus. She concluded her presentation with commonly heard student complaints: The lines at Ferris Booth are too long, and the tables are no longer accessible as a lounge area. JJ's Place is no longer a hangout spot. As one student told her, the changes to JJ's "completely ruined the culture of Columbia." Meal Plan D is more expensive than buying the same number of meals individually. The council then heard a presentation from University Senators representing a handful of graduate schools, as well as CC. Tao Tan, CC ’07 and CBS ’11, emphasized that "you have friends in the Senate" and that a close working relationship between Senators and council members is beneficial to both. "If you're having trouble writing your CC paper, or your girlfriend dumped you, I probably can't help you," he said. "But I can help you find someone who can." The council then took a three-minute cookie break. Refreshed following snack time, the council heard from Mary Waldorf, recently hired to work as a student advocate in University Event Management. The new S.A.V.E. (Student A/V Equipment Training) program will allow students to be trained in using A/V equipment and help student groups to save on tech fees. Students trained through the program will be qualified to replace professional technicians groups currently paid for by the hour. The meeting ended with a reminder to attend "A Time To Stir: Columbia 1968," a screening of the documentary and discussion with its director, Paul Cronin. The screening happens on Wednesday at 6:30 PM in Roone Cinema, and "refreshments will follow the event." Fact: food follows CCSC. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Dear Friends: Whatever your interests, tonight presents you with a new invitation to join the staff of The Blue &amp; White! Writers, reporters, word-smiths, and ombudsmen otherwise are encouraged to attend our general meeting tonight at 9 p.m. in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. It's only our second meeting of the year, but there's much much to talk about as we prepare our next issue with your help! For the artists, sketchers, portraitists, and designers divers among us, there will be a special meeting of the graphics staff at 8 p.m., also in the Chapel. We'll be welcoming new talent, organizing for the new semester, and introducing a new position on the senior staff for interested illustrators this fall. (Did we mention the free food? We don't let our artists starve.) We hope to see you soon! The Editors.
At around 6:30, three cars, including a taxi, were involved in an accident on the east side of Broadway and 115th St. The scene is pretty much cleared now, except for a few cops taking down license plate numbers and talking with the drivers. Another cop walked into the street with a broom and dustpan to clean up shards of broken glass. Photo by Conor Skelding
Head over to the Lerner Ramps at 9:00 for condensed milk and toast, courtesy of the Asian American Alliance. There's also a big pile of pizza for you (right now!) at the Peer Health Exchange info session, in 603 Hamilton.
Lookie here! It's a certain group of students doing a thing together, and singing the fight song! Bwog thinks they are great. And that's all for tonight, folks. 
 Morningside may get a historic district, so watch out for higher real estate values and lots of older people looking pensive. (Spectator) Choreographer Luca (not Luka) Veggetti finds a home for his ballet Maa this season at Miller. (Capital) Don't you wish your permanent shelter could look this trendy Tishrei through Elul? (Curbed) Gov. Paterson vetoes HIV/AIDS rent protection bill; goes home, sleeps at night (NY Daily News) They're climbin' in your escrow, they're payin' all your closing costs. (US Magazine) Photo courtesy of James Thompson's Flickr
 A tipster sends Bwog this photo of a FedEx truck vs. fire hydrant outside Appletree. And the aftermath, at around 1 PM: 
 Last night, ESC debated whether Backyard Barbecue, one of the largest council-run events of the year, should be continued. President Chris Elizondo explained that the event, which is “food-centric,” may not provide as much “bang for buck” as other possible student events. Sophomore Council President Mary Byers said that students often get annoyed by the event’s long lines, especially when compounded with the shutdown of the dining halls that makes it impossible for students with late classes to eat. Additionally, VP Intergroup Narayan Subramanian expressed his view that “throwing food at students does not sponsor community” because students simply eat and leave. However, Senior Council President Amanda Tan said the barbecue has been “the highlight of spring semester” for the last three years, and she opposed the cancellation of the event. President Elizondo explained that the barbecue would only be canceled if three of the four councils (ESC, CCSC, GSSC, SGA) voted to cancel the event. ESC voted to form an exploratory committee to investigate if the barbecue should be continued, and if not, how the extra funds could be allocated. However, the councils will need to make a decision quickly—if a decision is not reached in approximately two weeks, Dining will schedule a shutdown and the event will continue as planned (yes, Dining schedules shutdowns that far in advance). Other highlights of the meeting include: The freshman ESC parties—DemocraSEAS, Fu Crew, and Fu Yeah—officially stopped campaigning yesterday at midnight, and voting begins today. Surely this will also be the last of the party-name salacious wordplay, right? ESC has finalized the updated senate elections timeline: ESC Senator campaigning begins on Wednesday, Sept. 22 and ends on Tuesday, Sept. 28. Though the delay means that the senator will not be chosen before the CCSC/ESC Retreat, it successfully increased awareness about the election. There are now 5 candidates, a notable increase from the single candidate running previously. 2010 Class Representative Nathan Levick reported that Casino Night planning has begun. He commented that he has much in common with his CCSC counterpart—like him, she was “forced against her will to take position,” so meetings between the two are expected to go well. The Engineering Student Council’s website is back up... after someone unplugged it during NSOP. Besides the website, the council announced that its new server is also ready for use. The council purchased an extra server for Columbia groups that require more advanced web services—such as streaming—at the end of last year. Any group can present their website idea to the council and receive web hosting. The server currently hosts the 99columbians project. Photo courtesy of TheCulinaryGeek's Flickr. 
Find a fresh issue of The Blue and White around campus.  In this Blue Note, Michael Adame investigates the World Cup's impact on campus life. When the United States exited the 2010 FIFA World Cup tournament in the first round of the knockout stage, Columbia University economics professor and U.S. Soccer Federation President Sunil Gulati admitted that the Americans' crushing defeat at the hands of the Ghanaian team was "a missed opportunity" for all involved. Gulati might as well have been describing the atmosphere in his home-field of Morningside Heights, where enthusiasm for the U.S. team overflowed from neighborhood bars in the early summer but quickly waned as one game followed another, and another, and another. "I think most people appreciated the World Cup kind of how they appreciate the Olympics: the world comes together to compete, but the games and results aren't too distracting from everyday life," said Margaret Robotham, BC ’12. Undaunted by the apathy of Morningside's summer bar scene, Robotham began attending pick-up games organized by intramural soccer enthusiast Mustafa Hameed, CC ’11. Hameed's impromptu football federation constructed goals and field markers from backpacks and garbage cans at 101st and Riverside. Robotham and as many as 60 others played matches on Sunday evenings to avoid heat and, naturally, double-booking against televised Cup matches. The success of an athletic activity as social function came as a pleasant surprise to Hameed. "How often do Columbians interact with people in Morningside outside restaurants and bars?" he asked. "We got to meet a lot of people and play a fun sport. That was my motivation and why I consider it a success. It’s what the Cup is all about." Of course not all Columbians frustrated by the lack of soccer nightlife opted to exercise. Some, like Catherine Chong, CC ’11, chose to explore. "We searched for alternatives nearby, but they just didn't feel right," said Chong, who ventured out to Fort Greene, Brooklyn, seeking an authentic South African bar to enjoy the games. Mimosa in hand, she made connections with fellow soccer fans from the neighborhood and overseas. "I realized that day...that communities do not exist as atomized entities but rather as streams that overlap," she said. "We're easily able to step into any stream if we just make the effort." In light of the casual footballers and daring city explorers among Columbia's summer cohort, the World Cup seems a missed opportunity only for those who missed out.
Item: Hard plastic Starbucks drink cup. It looks like an iced coffee cup, but it's re-useable. Location lost: Lerner lobby or the print room next to it.
Peter Sterne saw Jeff Sachs IN REAL LIFE! His report from the World Leaders Forum follows. Yesterday evening, Jeffrey Sachs hosted a panel discussion with an assortment of East African leaders. Despite not knowing exactly who would be on the panel, over 400 undergraduates, grad students, and honored guests crowded into the Low Library Rotunda to hear about the "Challenges of the Drylands." "The toughest development challenge on the planet, " he began,  "are the extremely arid regions," such as the drylands centered northeastern Kenya and the border with Somalia. This is an area where people herd cattle instead of growing crops and there are more problems than in "the Book of Job, with drought, flood, drought, then epidemic," not to mention armed conflict. Thankfully, the Earth Institute has started to promote the development of drylands regions in Eastern Africa through the Drylands Initiative which already includes Uganda, Dijibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, and Sudan, and will include Eritrea. After hearing from other prominent organizers in the movement, it was finally time for the African leaders to give their perspectives. The first to speak was the Director of the Drylands Initiative in Karamoja, a region in northern Uganda. The Karamojong people of Karamoja, she explained, spend their time traveling and "looking for water and pasture for their cattle." Since water is so scarce, they can never afford to settle down in one place, and as a result, "it's hard to have schools and other things." The water scarcity also leads to ethnic conflict and cattle-stealing, and while the latter may evoke idyllic notions of a simpler time, the reality is the Karamojong have automatic machine guns and are dying of starvation, dehydration, and war because the Ugandan government has ignored their needs while focusing on "the rest of the country, which is rich in culture and rainfall, and sedentary." With the assistance of the Drylands Initiative, the Ugandan government is now trying to bring water sources to the people so they can settle in villages, trade in their weapons, and develop their society. The next leader to speak was Roble Ohaye, Ambassador to the UN for the Republic of Dijibouti. Perhaps overestimating the geographical knowledge of the average Columbian, he assumed that we knew Dijibouti's neighbors, "Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia...and our fourth neighbor, the Red Sea, by far the most peaceful." He explained how Dijibouti may run out of freshwater within twenty years, and that there is no rainy season. In spite of the difficulties, he clearly had pride in his country and its social-welfare policies. "Dijibouti," he volunteered, "is the world's least-known welfare state." Education is free, and "Dijibouti guarantees free health care to all its people, both citizens and refugees." Following him was Somalia's Special Envoy to the United States, Abbukar Addow Arman. After admitting that "when it comes to famine and failed states, Somalia is the poster child," Arman devoted most of his short and fairly pessimistic speech to an entertaining and engaging analogy dealing with Somalia's place in the world: "Imagine a patient who suffers from multiple chronic illnesses and is comatose. Half his family debates with one another over which illness to treat first...and the other half is corrupted, they just go through his pockets.... Then the international community asks, ‘Why isn't he paying his bills? Why doesn't he take care of his family?'" It was a brilliant illustration of all the external pressures that act upon Somalia and why Somalia's development must be dealt with "in a holistic manner." All the panelists having spoken and the lecture having gone over its allotted time, Sachs made some quick closing remarks, encouraged undergraduates to check out the new Sustainable Development major, and opened the floor to questions. One girl went up to the microphone and asked how the disputes between the Egyptian and Sudanese parties and the Eastern African bloc nations would affect the Drylands Initiative. Dr. Belay responded, "Egypt is very far from here and not included in the program." Map from Wikimedia Commons
Bwog braved the line yesterday at Trader Joe's and would like you to be well-informed before you make the harrowing 40-block trek to buy groceries. Because you might get really pissed if, say, you showed up there tomorrow only to find there is no wine. That's right: unlike its Union Square brother, this Trader Joe's is drier than a cabernet sauvignon. State law requires they open a separate wine shop to sell it in, and as of right now, Trader Joe's has no plans to build a new wine store in addition to the existing one in Union Square. THANKS, PURITANS. Winelessness aside, there are some redeeming qualities—like the fact there's this whole grocery store thing going on. Sure, you can't make sangria out of them, but basic staples are considerably cheaper than Westside and Fairway, and Trader Joe's is big on organic without imposing the significant financial penalties of Whole Foods. They also have a wide range of inexpensive specialty ingredients, such as toasted sesame oil—that's right, toasted—and spices. And not just the typical spices like cinnamon and oregano, but also those weird ones you buy for that one meal you cook your boyfriend and then forget in the back of your cabinets only to smell it for weeks afterward whenever you open the door.  Oh, plus there's the Pound Plus bar of chocolate, a highlight of their extensive candy selection. In addition to being cost-efficient, it's also quite fun. They have those cool escalators you can put a grocery cart into. Chances are, you'll spot your TA. The walls are decorated with weird memorabilia. They have free samples of prepared meals, and free coffee. And the best part: at the check-out, to let you know that a register is free, an employee will hold a big red flag with their number on it and wave it calling “23” until you present them with your groceries. Semaphore! There really is something for everyone, whether you're a seasoned foodie or just someone who wants to make a recipe other than Easy-Mac for the first time...that doesn't call for wine. No wine. (Ugh, Puritans.) Enjoy the photos, and go try it for yourselves! 
Freshpeople: you're learning. Found on Carman 8 by Conor Skelding. This has happened before.
The Blue and White can be found in buildings all over campus and on Bwog. In this Blue Note, Sam Schube discovers a rather unusual collection in the Rare Books and Manuscript Library. For an archive that prides itself on sterile preservation and meticulous organization, the Rare Books and Manuscript Library is the last place you'd expect to see anything unseemly, let alone sinister, gruesome, or bizarrely bestial. But the Library took on a decidedly grislier shade last spring when Andrew Alpern, Architecture ’64, donated a collection of over 700 works by the late, prolific, and reclusive illustrator Edward Gorey. With a deft hand and dark wit rivaling that of Charles Addams and Tim Burton, the Chicago-born Gorey worked as an illustrator for Anchor Books, an animator for PBS, and a Broadway costume designer before passing away in 2000. Columbia's new collection consists mostly of Gorey's books, illustrations, and etchings, with the odd Gorey-designed necktie thrown in. The Gashlycrumb Tinies, an illustrated alphabet which narrates the demise of 26 children in verse – "M is for Maud who was swept out to sea / N is for Neville who died of ennui" – is the epitome of Gorey's morbid humor. The collection, however, is more than simple macabre. "It's not like some slasher movie," says librarian Jane Siegel. "It's something I can handle." But Siegel adds, "It's not really for children, either." She makes a point--works like The Insect God, which Gorey billed as "An admonitory tale of Temptation, hapless Greed, Abduction, and Unspeakable Ritualistic Practices," might not be the best bedtime story. The library's display of Gorey's 1980 ephemera collection titled F.M.R.A. (say it aloud!) shows the same macabre absurdity. An illustration of élites in black tie staring at a severed mummy's hand clutching a jewel is displayed next to monochrome etchings of elephants rendered in his heavily crosshatched style. "They're kind of German expressionist," Siegel says, noting that she expects the collection to be popular with 20th century art specialists and researchers. Given the sheer breadth of the collection, it's not surprising that Seigel says the works are still being catalogued and that display designs are subject to change. But even though the organizational task at hand may be (truly!) monstrous, the librarian--true to her trade--praises Alpern's pack-rat mentality. "The thing about a good collector is that he really is obsessed," she says. Drawing a pair of Gorey-patterned neckties from a long cardboard box, she adds, "and if you're a good collector, you have to have the ties." Illustration by Adela Yawitz
 
 The appearance of Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi at the WLF today has drawn some protest online. Will we see political activism on campus? (Various) Why you skip class (kind of) and what to do about "anxiety-related school refusal". (WSJ) Not that this affects the vast majority of you campus-loving college students, but it looks like the unlimited MetroCard will stay unlimited, though it will jump to $104 from $89 per month. (NYT) In slightly more exciting subway news, the MTA will add television screens to the shuttle train between Times Square and Grand Central. The screens will apparently exclusively show baseball highlights, so you'll be able to pretend to watch Jeter &amp; Co in the playoffs while trying to ignore homeless people. (WSJ) Bloomberg is taking steps to attract and retain young artists in New York, the dirty art-grubbing plutocrat. (Capital NY)
 PrezBo was unwilling to display the recent gains posted by the endowment at the Fun Run on Friday.
Hannah Lepow finds out what it takes to get tickets to one of New York's most famous productions. You can find the print version of The Blue and White around campus or on Bwog. The only people crazy enough to brave the outskirts of Central Park before the summer sunrise generally fall into two categories: homeless people and people who decide to leave their perfectly nice homes at 2 a.m. in a desperate attempt to get tickets to Shakespeare in the Park. But occasionally, the two categories overlap, a lesson this reporter learned on her very first SiP jaunt. Armed with a sleeping bag, a Scrabble board, and two fellow Columbians, she decided to brave "The Line"--a human caterpillar that crawls along Central Park West, awaiting a new dawn and the chance to get free tickets to this summer's Al Pacino-starring production of The Merchant of Venice. Enduring The Line required only two virtues: patience and the ability to sit anywhere -- on the ground, on the grass, on the sidewalk, and in front of a what appeared to be a homeless man sound asleep on a park bench. When the man awoke, he seemed less indigent than indignant; he had actually been waiting in The Line and was furious we had cut ahead of him. We were bewildered as he screamed "What's good?" at us repeatedly, but a nearby member of The Line reassured us. "It's okay," she said, after the man stopped yelling. "He does that to everyone." Aside from these occasional dramatic outbursts, life on The Line is quiet, stationary, and highly regimented. You are not allowed to leave The Line. You may not have someone take your place on The Line. You may not be joined by anyone in The Line. It is comparable to a voluntary, temporary, and highly literate prison. Only questions from solicitors--who, guaranteed a trapped audience, turn out in abundance--"Are you registered to vote in New York?" "Would you like to take this psych test?"--or from curious passers-by--"What's this line for?"--break the monotony. When Central Park finally opens at 6 a.m. and The Line is ushered into the park, we are over 900 strong. The first got there at 10:30 p.m. the night before; the last surely will not get tickets, which are distributed at 1 p.m. Still, The Line is worth it. While us denizens will return to our normal lives slightly sleep deprived and with sore backs, it's a small price to pay to see Shakespeare under the stars--and Al Pacino in a red velvet cape. Illustration by Grant D'Avino
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi is, you may have heard, speaking at 4 PM today in Roone. In preparation, the west side of 115th and Broadway is lined with police barricades. Get ready for Minutemen Part Deux! Barnard Public Safety is concerned that the "peaceful counter demonstration" will hinder your foot traffic plans; read their full email after the jump. Dear Barnard Community, As you know the World Leaders Forum is being held at Columbia University. This is to advise you that the NYPD expects a peaceful counter demonstration to be held on Broadway this afternoon, in protest of a speech being given by the Prime Minister of Ethiopia at 4:00PM. Protesters will be gathered on the west side of Broadway in the vicinity of 115th Street, although depending on the number of protesters the group may span from 116th Street and continue south. Pedestrians should plan their travel routes accordingly. Dianna M. Pennetti Director of Public Safety
 Update, 6 PM: It's over! Anti-Zenawi protestors are getting back on the buses. At around 5:30, the pro-Zenawi group was almost entirely gone, but the anti-Zenawi protestors filled all of 115th, blocking foot traffic, chanting, and singing. A few students, just inside the 115th gates, are holding anti-Zenawi signs. A full report from the shockingly calm lecture to follow, plus more news and analysis. Update, 4:30 PM: Here are the handouts being distributed by each side. More major news outlets have showed up and shouts of "Shame on Columbia" and "Shame on Zenawi" are loud and strong. Update, 4:05 PM: Anti-Zenawi protestors chanting "Killer! Killer!" at pro-Zenawi group, who are shouting back, giving thumbs-down signals, and generally ignoring them. Din can be heard from top of low steps. More photos added below. We'll have a full report from Zenawi's lecture itself shortly. Update, 3:15 PM: Undergrads, unaffiliated with any group, are handing out signs on east side of 115th and Broadway, across the street from the protests. One has a picture of Zenawi at the World Economic Forum that reads "World Leaders Forum OR War Criminals Forum?" Also handing out flyers on Zenawi's alleged suppression of freedom in rural areas in Ethiopia, and his alleged election crimes, with quotes from Peter Takirambudde, the Africa director of Human Rights Watch. The cashier at Pinnacle told Bwog that the protest was exciting, since she could actually see it. "It's nice," she said. A few Ethiopians in suits (a few from Zenawi's government) are in Pinnacle and M2M, taking a break from the protest. One is buying udon in M2M. The guys at Hooda were confused by the protest-- "I don't know what's going on." The manager at Morton Williams was indifferent. "There have been protests before," he said. Anti-Zenawi protestors are holding up signs that read "Shame on you, Bollinger, Sachs and Stiglitz." Free transportation to Morningside was provided for the anti-Zenawi protestors. At around 1:30, crowds started gathering on 115th and Broadway: the anti-Zenawi group, who arrived on a charter bus and are sporting Ethiopian-flag scarves, is protesting behind police barricades outside of Morton Williams. The pro-Zenawi group, a slightly larger contingent, is outside of M2M, chanting "we want Meles!" and holding signs, pictures of Zenawi, and waving flags. Update, 2:30: More from 115th and Holy Shit There's An Actual Protest: Both groups are chanting, with the pro-Zenawi group singing the national anthem. Anti-Zenawi protestors are handing out signs saying "Release All Political Prisoners now!" The signs include a picture of Birtukan Midiksa, an Ethiopian politician and former judge who is serving a life sentence in Ethiopia. Zenawi has refused to discuss her release. "In Ethiopia," the leaflet reads, "under iron fisted rule of Meles Zenawi, there are estimated 35,000 political prisoners and very many political dissidents have disappeared from the face of the earth!" Mamuye, an anti-Zenawi protestor, called Zenawi a "pure dictator," and told Bwog that they are unable to protest at home because of lack of freedom of speech in Ethiopia. Mamuye said that Zenawi "mustn't speak," since he has "misled the world." Mamuye also claimed that there is no free press in Ethiopia, nor are there any fair elections. Over on the pro-Zenawi side, Gabriel, an Ethiopian ex-pat from Columbus, Ohio, told Bwog that pro-Zenawi protestors came from all over the country. He called Zenawi a "very brilliant man," who does not believe in fighting. Gabriel told Bwog that Zenawi "wants to get Africa out of this mess," since, "Africa is backwards because of some bad leaders." Bwog learned that both the pro-Zenawi and anti-Zenawi factions were bussed in from across the country. We met protestors from New York, D.C, Virginia, Massachusetts, and Ohio. Many of the pro-Zenawi supporters are wearing white baseball hats that read "NILE, Our Future." Soloman, another pro-Zenawi Ethiopian ex-pat, explained that Ethiopians are trying to regain control of the Nile River's resources. Soloman also told Bwog that he supports Zenawi since the Prime Minister has built and supported hospitals and schools in Ethiopia, and has supported use of the Nile's resources. Several people on the pro-Zenawi side told Bwog that the anti-Zenawi protestors were supporters of Ethiopia's "old regime." Bwog was told that this old regime was responsible for thousands of ethnically-motivated murders. A protestor on the anti-Zenawi side told Bwog that the pro-Zenawi supporters had been "paid" to rally for Zenawi. Lots of security outside Roone already, some WLF employees are standing outside the bookstore, watching the scene. Look out for Mark Hay's report from the Zenawi speech itself, and we'll post more as we find out more. As always, if see you something, say something: tips@bwog.com. There are about a dozen cops on the scene now, clearing the traffic island on Broadway and 115th. 1:30 PM: More pictures and video to follow shortly. Send all tips to tips@bwog.com! Video sent by the lovely and talented Maddy Cohen, reporting by Conor Skelding. Ethiopian Protest On 115th from bwog on Vimeo. 
Even in the most meticulous of lists there is always some item forgotten when packing for college. This is where University Housewares and Hardware comes in. Across each of the cozy stores there is housed everything that a student could want or need. The maestro behind this operation is Bob Fendell, the friendly face behind the cash register at University Housewares who somehow managed to take phone calls, ring up customers and converse with Bwogger Gabby Beans on Tuesday. Bob Fendell started working at Columbia Hardware in 1984, when the store was still owned by his uncle. Seven years later, Columbia Housewares was born. Although the Hardware store had outgrown the store space, Fendell was anxious about opening the new location: "I remember walking in to the store and thinking, ‘How am I going to fill all of this space?'" Fendell loves Morningside, and us. Morningside, he says, "is almost like the UN, people from different areas, countries and ethnic groups all getting along. I've worked here since I was 25, and now I'm 49, but I don't feel like I'm aging. With the students there are always new faces and ideas." But the transient identity of Morningside is not only defined by the movement of students. Having worked in the area for twenty-four years, Fendell has seen many businesses come and go. But he isn't bothered by the influx of chains in the neighborhood: "Columbia is a good landlord. They want to have individuals… they wouldn't just rent to a 7/11." Fendell is- surprise, surprise- a handy man, has used nearly all of the tools in Hardware and is well qualified to advise you on any home improvement projects you might want to undertake. He's also a gadget guy and is constantly revamping Housewares' stock with interesting new acquisitions "whether it's a new way to cut garlic or make toast." So next time you're in the store buying mounting hooks or a shower curtain, be sure to say hello, and be thankful you're not in Bed, Bath and Beyond.
Today is an Every Other Wednesday y'all, which means it's time to see wtf is up over at the TIC. Tickets sold for on-campus events this week: 695 On-campus events on sale now: Ferris Reel Film Society Presents: Iron Man 2 // 9/23 @ 9:00pm // Lerner Hall // 3 bucks //  Tickets Barnard College Department of Theater: The Physicists // 10/21-23 @ 3:00pm and 8:00pm // $10, $5 with CUID // Tickets Tickets sold for off-campus events this week: 561 Holler at: Fall for Dance Programs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 // 9/29-10/2 and 10/6-8 @ 8:00pm // $13 // Tickets In the Heights // 9/30 @ 8:00pm // $47.50 // Tickets Mets Game // 9/30 @  7:10pm // $16 // Tickets Howl, The Film - Columbia Night // 9/30 @ 7:30pm // $10 // Tickets Rigoletto // 10/5 @ 8:00pm // $29 // Tickets Les Contes d'Hoffman // 10/6 @ 8:00 PM // $29 // Tickets New York Philharmonic // 10/6 @ 7:30 // $49.50 // Tickets Billy Elliot // 10/7 @ 8:00 // $42.50 // Tickets Phantom of the Opera // 10/8 @ 8:00 // $47.50 // Tickets
Dear Bwog, Before I came to Columbia, I never realized how awkward elevator rides are. I usually just start fake texting to avoid eye contact, but is that bitchy? ~Awkward McAwkward Dear Awkward McAwkward, Yeah, elevators are mad awkward; you’re fucking confined to a 20-square-foot box. Still, you don’t want to move your lazy ass up the stairs, right? If only there were some sort of 'vator vortex to prevent sweaty/mysteriously slimy people from getting all up in your space. But alas, this is the plight of the Hellevator. Worse than the sardine-can-squish is the painful pairing—when you’re stuck in an elevator with only one other person. Even so, that’s no reason to be a Bitch and a half. In her Senior Wisdom, Sari Ancel, SEAS ’10, presented a fantastic friendship formula: Stop and Chat &gt; Wave Hello &gt; Awkward Ignore. “Awkwardly ignoring someone you know is not only super mean, but also not worth the effort of pretending not to know them.” It's common decency, folks. Fake fiddling with your phone is just rude. An elevator isn’t necessarily the ideal location to share your deepest darkest secrets with a stranger. Still, there’s nothing wrong with cracking a sweet smile. Don’t go overboard though; a full toothy grin is creepy. Instead, try for the cute Jim Halpert-esque half-smile. And you never know, maybe you’ll make a friend. Bwog remembers a simple smile exchange evolving into a semi-friendship. After said smiles, Bwog’s elevator-mate extended his hand and introduced himself. How classy. Remember kids, eye contact is sexy! Much love, Bwog P.S. One Bwogger was initially so awkward in elevators she was confronted about it by a stranger. True story. She arrived at Columbia having been taught never to speak in an elevator. At the school she attended for 13 years, an elevator operator enforced strict rules of decorum: students were expected to face forward, keep their hands to themselves and stay silent. The rules had some merit, though. Everyone's shouting over each other in a little box is a recipe for claustrophobia. For those who follow the code, the elevator grows to be the perfect place for shutting down, even for a few seconds. As a result, graduates of this fine institution, though usually friendly, become socially inept when they board an elevator. One day during NSOP, the Bwogger’s silent elevator meditation was interrupted by another rider. “I’ve seen you at least five times today in this elevator and not once have you even acknowledged me.” Startled, the Bwogger looked around the elevator, only to realize that she and the scolder were the only two people there. After frantically explaining her elevator riding indoctrination, she left with a renewed commitment to proper elevator etiquette.
All right, Bwog hopes you're hungry Columbia. First, CCSC 2013 is hosting a "pie and cider" event in the McBain lounge from 8 to 9 tonight. We've heard '13ers have been instructed to "bring friends" so feel free to bring yourself and as many homeless people as your guilty liberal conscience will allow. SEAS 2013, not to be outdone, is "engineering" a "nachos and stuff" event in the Broadway room in Lerner from 9 to 10. We haven't heard anything about "bringing friends" so bring as many robots and/or Pokemon cards as you care to apply sufficient force to in order to relocate them to Lerner. If you haven't eaten enough, the Hong Kong Students and Scholars Society is celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival on Furnald Lawn from 9 to 11 with mooncakes, hot tea, and performances from CU Lion Dance, Chinese Yo-Yo and Radiance. There will also be free food in Lerner 569 tonight at 8pm for the first Rotaract General Body  Meeting. Happy eating!
The class of '14 has spoken: The Kiwi Krew swept the first year elections, except for Cristal James who took one of the Rep spots, displacing Jessica Eaton. Stay tuned for the official numbers. From Kiwi rep, Daphne Chen: "Speaking for myself I can promise that I am actually genuine about trying to make this year better for Columbia College students.  I can't make anyone believe that, but just speaking for myself."
Tuesday afternoon, a slew of Columbians filled Low Rotunda to learn a thing or two about the global economy from José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Spanish Prime Minister. The flags of Spain, the U.S., and Columbia were arranged behind the podium to welcome the leader (who does kind of resemble Mr. Bean!) to speak on “The New Economic Order and the Millennium Development Goals.” Interpreting devices lined the chairs of the full auditorium, which led to several audible remarks along the lines of, “I wonder if he’s going to speak in Spanish!” If the technological clues were not enough, a woman announced shortly thereafter that Zapatero would, indeed, be giving the speech in his native tongue, then proceeded to connect the audience to an automated messaging system instructed us to dial “1” for English and “2” for Español. Four speakers comprised the line-up of the longest and most built-up introduction of all time, all referencing the goals of the UN’s Millennium project: First, provost Claude Steele spoke on how the “responsibility of a global center of learning” such as Columbia to provide a venue in which “difficult conversations are encouraged and respected” is crucial in today’s world, where we sometimes compromise the discussion of real issues for the sake of political correctness. Next J-Sachs quipped, “I can’t tell you how much fun it is to have you in our home.” His upbeat introduction, however, was followed by more serious references to the Prime Minister’s recent speech in front of the General Assembly regarding the global economy. He urged the global audience to “build the demand and show what can be accomplished with the proper funding.” “An agenda of hope, not an agenda of fear,” was the ideal for the next speaker, Jesús Caldera, Executive Vice President of the Ideas for Progress Foundation (more interpreter-fumbling!). Caldera, who served as the Minister of Labor under Zapatero, extolled the Prime Minister’s effort to improve human rights and the economy. “Social capital” above all, he remarked, is what leads us to progress. “Commitment to a truly progressive agenda in Spain,” noted Joseph Stiglitz, CU professor and final introductory speaker, has been Prime Minister Zapatero’s biggest improvement. Stiglitz praised Zapatero for his innovative actions toward making his country freer, more socially secure, more diverse, and more tolerant. Stiglitz’ repeated description of the prime minister as “a source of envy” for world leaders certainly set the tone for (finally) the sharp and encouraging analysis of Zapatero’s speech: “The disappearance of poverty is conceivable,” emphasized the prime minister. Zapatero dove right into the issue of the global economy post-crisis, focusing on the necessity of cooperation on an international scale to curb the already devastating effects of the collapse. In line with the words of his preceding speakers, Zapatero honed in on the importance of dialogue between and mutual support among nations. The economy of today is unlike that of previous decades; the global interconnectedness of today’s world necessitates “international financial institutions” and a penchant for green. If we do not act against climate change,” he argued, “we cannot experience stable growth and development.” And like any smart speaker, Zapatero brought the issue home with a little CU flattery. He reminded us of our history of political activism, referencing the student hunger strikes in the '70s and urging us, as one of the “most prestigious academic institutions in the world” to open the floor for dialogue and debate.
 Don't even think about parking here tomorrow.
 DREAMS DO COME TRUE. The cab stopped in front of Deluxe, and our tipster peeked into the cab to see the lights, the cash cab-quizzer, and a camera man following the cab.
Should ROTC come back to campus? The Ivies debate. (Yale Daily News) What was all that fuss about? Here's what the Ethiopian PM had to say. (Spec) Real people appreciate Milano too! (Serious NY Eats) Mark Zuckerberg is too cute! He's giving $100 million to Newark's failed public school system. (Gawker) See the aftermath of last night's thunderstorm. (Gothamist) Photo via flickr.com
 Paparazzi on Claremont! Nate, Blair and Chuck were talking to each other off-set, just like regular friends do! Update: Leighton Meester spotted from behind the bushes 
Every week, Bwog brings you the latest and greatest in your local fruits, veggies and meats so you’ll know which seasonal goodies to look out for at the Greenmarket! This week: lavender, baby boos and duck sausage! Today's Market: Lavender by the Bay is making a guest appearance this week with fresh and dried lavender as well as other related products. In case you missed it last week, they've still got ostrich. Stannards has decorative squashes including goose neck squash, baby boos, turban squash and Indian corn. There are many colored cauliflower. Try them all! There's duck sausage at Hudson Valley Duck Farm. Knoll Krest is selling Challah bread. Coming Up: Milk Thistle is selling fresh chicken. Henry's Supper with the farmers is this Sunday. 
While insults were hurled outside the gates, all was peaceful in Roone yesterday afternoon as Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi addressed the issue of "The Current Global Environment and its Impact in Africa" as part of Columbia University's World Leaders Forum. Mark Hay reports on this smooth-talking politician's calm yet controversial visit to Morningside. From the protests outside, one might have expected more of a ruckus in Roone yesterday as two-decade Ethiopian leader (currently Prime Minister) Meles Zenawi prepared to take the stage. But it seems that Columbia has learned from Minutemen, head-kicking, and Ahmadinejad fever: no bags were allowed into the event, suited men ominously lined the south wall, keeping sentinel watch over the full crowd, and the question and answer segment was kept pegged to artificial pacifism. Though docile, the crowd inside represented the staid counterpart of the protests outside—a slightly larger group who view Zenawi as the face of an independent and growing Africa, as a paragon of stability and savvy, cheering wildly at his every answer; a slightly smaller group who view the man as a dictator limiting free press, jailing and intimidating opposition parties and minorities, and manipulating his Western allies, cheering with equal vigor but less mass at every critique of the man and then grumbling to each other in Amharic. And clever man that he is (view him as the devil or, as he seemed to wish, the savior, he is a smooth operator), Zenawi did not want to stir the waters. Zenawi’s address itself presented little of interest on the surface. He focused in on an element of Ethiopia lauded by Joseph Stiglitz in his introduction of Zenawi: economic progress via uniquely African methods. In a soft and drowsy, yet audible academic’s voice, Zenawi presented the audience with his summarization of neoliberalism’s flirtation and eventual abusive and destructive relationship with Africa. The reforms of neoliberal financial lenders “were sold as the ultimate salvation of problems,” said Zenawi. “The reforms could not and did not lead to salvation,” but instead, he argued, created three consecutive lost decades for Africa. In the past this may have been a daring assertion, to march into the universe’s financial hub and speak ill of the reigning financial order, but Zenawi knows when to tap discontent with existing institutions, to mine the discontents of the world as he accuses the larger world of mining Africa. And he knows when to play the cards of hope, ideals, and faith. For, not to fear, said Zenawi, “there is a silver lining for Africa because of the global economic crisis.” There is a chance for Africans to determine their own future, to overcome the handicaps imposed by circumstance and foreign hands, and to find salvation, utilizing itself as a source of vital resources and the site of a future manufacturing hub. It’s a happy note that jabs at America and its old financial order, but does so in a way that feels inclusive to spurned Americans and calming to those jittery with apocalyptic visions. The audience, their curiosity piqued by the protests and screeds flowing in over the past weeks, attempted to draw Zenawi towards confronting the more dubious aspects of his legacy. What of his 99.6 percent victory in the last elections? Well, said Zenawi, that was just the percent of seats won in the parliament, meaning it only represented a 50+1 victory in 99.6 percent of precincts—not a hard task when one has provided seven years of growth and stability. What of free choice for Africans when a man who tethers the press voices it? Well, Zenawi has “contributed fair share to fighting systems in Ethiopia that were unmistakably oppressive” and given a voice to everyone. But when his former enemies speak they are less than grateful accepting the man who overthrew their regime, and so some toes must be stepped upon (i.e. it is apparently fair to deny Voice of America broadcast rights because it is dominated by old regime allies and the U.S. restricts VoA broadcasting in America as well). How does one prove that Ethiopia gets along with its neighbors? Well, we are on good terms with all of them but Al-Shabaab in Somalia and Eritrea, but they’re Al-Qaeda-linked and no one wants Ethiopia to go soft on that. On and on, Zenawi slid by offering up calm, rational and almost totally convincing explanations for his track record, eliciting raucous applause and nods of enlightened understanding from most in the crowd. But there remained the little cracks in Zenawi’s arguments—how can a man with clear ethnic enemies in distinct regions of his nation have secured a 50+1 percent majority even in those regions? When one man, who grilled Zenawi about political prisoners and limitations on the press, attempted to redirect the Prime Minister to answer the entirety of his question, or to offer more than one showy example in his favor, he was emphatically denied the opportunity to follow up by the moderator, Professor Mamadou Diouf. In his introduction of the event Provost Claude Steele, as so many others, defended Zenawi's presence by claiming that the PM would face a lively dialogue with students, perhaps forcing him to answer questions he would not in his own nation. Instead of a dialogue, Zenawi faced a platform through which he could answer questions on his own terms (short and sweet and tinged with guilt, authority, and a sense of competence) without fear of refocusing or substantive discussion and argumentation from the strong and willful minds trapped prone before him by the moderator’s lash. Steele and the university promised a robust and uninhibited dialogue, that was the key to justifying Zenawi's presence to detractors, but such a thing does not exist if students may receive answers, but not question them, follow up on them, or explore them farther. This question aside momentarily, Zenawi may not have shown any more than he would have liked, but he did show a finesse and wit that explain his decades-long retention of power far better than claims of coercion or of national adoration. The man caters to the interests of his hosts, playing on American financial misgivings, preoccupations with regional stability, showing the abstract signs of progress and promise one desires from an ally. He legitimized himself by appealing to what Americans wish to see in Africa, telling us all "that making progress, that are getting out of the circle of poverty and violence.” And those thornier issues of rights, legitimacy and democracy, he swept under the rug with a backhanded compliment. Zenawi commended students for attempting to learn about Ethiopia in response to the hubbub around his visit, even if what they figured out wasn’t consistent, as he said, with reality. Perhaps at some point the University ought to re-invite this man—though dubious, he has a sweet silver tongue, and is an enigma to unravel—so that we might pull out our misconceptions once more, and examine them in more detail, in a real and enduring dialogue in which the quality and depth of and completion of an answer to a question is respected more than the quantity asked. Photo from the Wikimedia Commons
The complete numbers have just come in for the class of 2014 CCSC election, and it was a close one! So close, in fact, that second place finisher for President, Matthew Chou, contested the results. But before we get to the grounds of the appeal and the response of the Elections Board, here is the the complete list of winners and the vote tally: President: Conan Cassidy Vice President: Joanna Kelly Representatives: Roko Rumora, Daphne Chen, Cristal James Results for President/Vice President Candidates Round 1 Round 2 Round 3 Round 4 Round 5 Round 6 Conan Cassidy/Joanna Kelly 77 79 83 88 105 164 Matthew Chou/Joanna Kelly 68 69 73 82 101 0 Isaiah New/Anoushka Asgari 43 46 50 57 0 0 Nicolas Leeper/Andrew Glicklich 27 28 31 0 0 0 Steven Kyle Cook/Candice Herschel 19 20 0 0 0 0 Emma Ziegellaub Eichler/Lisa Zhou 18 0 0 0 0 0 Results for Representative Candidate Round 1 Round 2 Round 3 Round 4 Round 5 Round 6 Round 7 Round 8 Round 9 Round 10 Round 11 Roko Rumora 38 38 38 38 39 40 47 55 58 76 117 Daphne Chen 42 42 42 42 42 45 49 54 54 68 0 Cristal James 36 36 37 37 38 38 39 46 52 0 0 Robert Wren Gordon 24 24 24 25 25 25 25 29 0 0 0 Katherine Ynsinare 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 0 0 0 0 Krishna Hegde 19 20 23 23 23 24 24 0 0 0 0 Jessica Eaton 17 17 17 17 17 17 0 0 0 0 0 Nim Gumaste 11 11 11 12 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 Stephan Luma 6 8 8 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kellie Gergoudis 6 6 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Nolan Kier 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Jess Geiger 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CCSC Election Board's response to Matthew Chou's appeal Dear Matt, The CCSC Elections Board has ruled on your appeal and has decided against the appeal. To understand our reasoning, we are giving our explanation under each of your points. First, I believe the election (and election events, such as the debate) were not sufficiently advertised. Given that there are about 1100 freshmen in the college, and only 252 votes cast, only 23% of the freshman class voted, an amount scarcely representative of the freshman student body. There were no posters on campus, posts on Bwog, or any other methods (as far as I or those I talked to could tell) by which people could find out how to vote. For example, at 9pm today, 4 people came up to me (ironically, the margin of victory) and said that they would vote for me later in the week. The elections and election events were fully advertised on flyers throughout the first year dorms. The Elections Board personally hung the flyers; while flyers can be taken down or covered up, the Elections Board made a good faith effort to advertise in this way. Further, an email was sent out to the first year student body advertising both the debates and the election voting. A calendar was mailed to both the Spectator and Bwog, and the Elections Board announced the beginning of voting on its website/blog. In terms of the number of votes cast, this was not out of the ordinary for a first year election. This number is roughly similar to the number of voters for the past two years (in First Year Elections). Second, rules ambiguity prevented The Party from sufficiently "getting out the vote." If I had known that we were allowed to send out reminders to vote, as the Kiwi Krew did last night, I would have prepared a much better infrastructure beforehand to enable persons to vote. For instance, I could have texted every person I met face to face during my rounds around the dorms with a link to the voting website! Instead, I had to tell countless people these past few days that I couldn't send them the link, and that instead, they had to check the depths of their CUBMail for the one elections email (which had a subject title not indicating that it was the one and only link you'd get to vote.) It was only until last night, when I saw the Kiwi Krew organize a coordinated status spam of all their Facebook pages, that I heard that the moratorium ban on "web content," which "includes but is not limited to Facebook/Gchat/Gmail/AIM status, emails and text messaging" was allowed. (Section IVE, Rules and Regulations) I hurriedly threw something together, but I believe the damage had already been done. The Elections Board held a rules meeting on Sunday, September 12 where we explained the rules. At this meeting, we explained how the rules are interpreted and that actions like those of the Kiwi Krew were acceptable. Further, the Elections Board is always available by email, and you were welcome to email us at any time for a clarification of the rule. Third, I believe The Party was disadvantaged by the formatting of our bio. When I submitted the bio to the Board in both plain text and file form, it was formatted very clearly, with bullet points indicating our party positions. During voting, everything was muddled into one big block of text that looked wholly unprofessional. We were not told that our bio would appear that way, but we were told that the content, once posted, couldn't be changed. First impressions matter a lot, and that bio did not make a good one. This is the set-up of the system and something that affected all candidates equally in that anyone who chose to have bulleted formatting would have the same format you did. Text on the web frequently experiences formatting changes. Lastly, in a possible violation of rules, the Kiwi Krew is openly advertising on Facebook that they have won the elections (I've attached a screenshot). According to Section XII, Part E, "Election results become official 24 hours after their announcement or after the last appeal is decided." Given that election results have not become official, the Kiwi Krew should not be able to establish themselves as rightful victors. By doing so, they preclude any sort of meaningful appeal action. Contesting a result (which implies the possibility of change) becomes much more difficult, as changing the result of the election would be perceived as "stealing the election" from already "official" victors. The Elections Board considers the election and the moratorium over from the time the results are announced (11:01pm last night). The Kiwi Krew is welcome to advertise victory. That does not stop you from appealing the election. The Elections Board believes firmly in the legitimacy of these elections. We believe that the elections and associated events were advertised and that voting was legitimate. As such, we are denying your appeal. Please do not hesitate to contact the Board. All the best, Alex Rosen Chairman CCSC Elections Board
The new issue of The Blue and White can be found around campus.  Today, Claire Sabel reviews the a book on how the global reach of universities is changing the world. Ben Wildavsky The Great Brain Race: How Global Universities are Reshaping the World Princeton University Press April 2010 / $26.95 Coming in fourth nationally, Columbia University achieved its highest ranking ever in this year's U.S. News and World Report list of the nation's best colleges and universities. The August publication of the list gave students, faculty, and administrators plenty of reason to celebrate, but the race to the top of these rankings is only one leg of a much larger, global race that is increasingly pitting American colleges and universities against their international peers. Author Ben Wildavsky chronicles this growing globalized competition within higher education in his new book, The Great Brain Race: How Global Universities are Reshaping the World. Tracing key trends in education since World War II, Wildavsky argues that undergraduate and graduate institutions at home and abroad are escalating the same kind of consumer-driven race for global dominance that has characterized the corporate world for decades. Students are the new consumers, and academia is the latest commodity to be had. The U.S. education sector is at the head of this Great Brain Race, in many ways, according to Wildavsky. Elite American research universities are the most desired destination among international students, and the U.S. attracts up to two-thirds of all the world's graduate students. The U.S. also pumps more money into higher learning than any other country in the world, spending more than double the percentage of its GDP on post-secondary education that China, India, the European Union, and Japan do. Columbia ought to come in near the head of the class by these measures—of the more than 2,000 U.S. colleges and universities reporting international student enrollment, Columbia ranks third in attracting the most students from abroad, and its sizable endowment enables it to finance one of the biggest annual university budgets in the nation. But when it comes to naming the leaders of the Great Brain Race, Wildavsky skips Columbia and instead heads downtown to Washington Square Park. There, under the leadership of President John Sexton, New York University is pioneering the development of "satellite campuses," off-shoot schools that seek to mirror in other countries the presence of the main university. Unlike, say, Columbia's French studies program at Reid Hall in Paris, a satellite campus is more than a single department with a branch housed overseas in a far-flung building or two. These are not simple study-abroad programs. Instead, a satellite campus is intended to be a self-contained college in its own right, operating separately in a host country while still maintaining close ties to its American counterpart. NYU's Abu Dhabi campus, for instance, will have all "the research and creative power of a major research university" when it opens for classes this semester, the university has said. It will grant degrees indistinguishable from those of the Washington Square campus, and it will have its own faculty who can transfer to and from NYU's main New York campus. Although the initial student body is expected to be almost entirely from the United Arab Emirates, the satellite campus hopes eventually local students will make up as little as 40 percent of the population, along with people from the rest of the Middle East, India, and the U.S. If this satellite campus concept sounds familiar, that might be because it has much in common with commercial chains like McDonald's and Hilton Hotels. Like any major corporation, NYU is seeking to establish itself as a worldwide brand—the dream is a "global network university," where students can spend several semesters in New York and several in Abu Dhabi, or at another of the future locations in Europe and Asia envisioned by NYU administrators. But this trend goes beyond NYU, and is certainly not the one-off project of an ambitious university. Wildavsky cites a report identifying 162 such branch campuses around the world, primarily offshoots of universities in the U.S., U.K., and Australia. This bold concept of a globe-trotting undergraduate career, however, is a far cry from a Columbia education, where a highly demanding Core Curriculum can make it difficult for students to go abroad. Kathleen McDermott, director of Columbia's Office of Global Programs, defended the Core Curriculum in an e-mail interview as a way to prime students for study abroad, claiming that its linguistic requirement and Global Core classes offer insightful preparation, adding that students can earn credit toward senior projects while abroad. In comparison to other institutions, however, she acknowledged that "Columbia has decided an approach of leaving a small footprint" in other countries, recognition that Columbia's firm roots in Morningside Heights create a different kind of university that prefers to limit its financial and physical commitments to bettering its core institutions at home. How flexible Columbia's course of study should be is another debate, but it seems that regardless of the university's study-abroad policies, the depth of its coffers, and the size of its international student body, Columbia is bucking the trends Wildavsky discusses rather than embracing them. Students from around the world come to study within the 116th Street gates, but they don't have the same opportunities to leave campus and learn abroad. Could Columbia soon fall behind in the Great Brain Race, then? Following Wildavsky's logic, perhaps so: "All of these trends are hugely beneficial to the entire world," he writes. "Increasing knowledge is not a zero-sum game." But McDermott dismissed the idea that Columbia is ignoring the outside world. Along with new initiatives to increase international faculty and students, agreements are in the works to establish joint-degree programs, similar to the one that currently exists with France's Paris Institute of Political Science. These joint degrees differ from study-abroad, allowing students to spend significant amounts of time enrolled at multiple institutions instead of just visiting another school for a semester. McDermott also highlighted Columbia's Global Centers -- outposts in Beijing, Paris, Mumbai, and Amman -- as "the perfect example of how Columbia wishes to interact with our international partners." These Global Centers are not to be confused with NYU's satellite campuses, however. Vice President for Global Centers Dr. Ken Prewitt makes the distinction clear on the Global Centers Web site: "They are not satellite campuses, overseas profit centers, or operations under the umbrella of a partner institution," he writes. Instead, they act more as points of departure for locally based joint research and scholarship rather than an export of Morningside Heights. Columbia may not be resisting globalization, it seems, but it is resisting the transformation of education into the profit-driven, consumer commodity that Wildavsky describes. Elsewhere, schools farther abroad than downtown Manhattan are also hoping to soon be nipping at Columbia's heels in the Great Brain Race. Wildavsky addresses in his book the issues of creating new, world-class research universities from scratch, primarily the projects of governments in developing nations that want to compete internationally for the best research and attract the finest minds. China is a leader in this endeavor: between 1993 and 2004, the Chinese government identified 36 universities to develop into world-class institutions through immense funding and strategic development. These are massive developments in global academia on scales wholly unprecedented in the United States. Columbia no doubt has played a crucial role in the history of American secondary education, but as Wildavsky's book suggests, the future belongs to whoever can adapt and thrive in the increasingly globalized environment of academia. As students around the world act more and more like "intellectual shoppers" and as both governments and private companies make for-profit forays into education, Columbia will have to re-examine its own identity as an institution of higher learning to decide whether the Great Brain Race is a race worth winning. Illustration by Stephen Davan
On Tuesday, Barnard students received an email notifying them they'll be able to switch their Barnard to an email system designed by Google. The new system, called gBear Mail, will launch in early October along with an integrated calendar and will soon expand to include other Google apps, including Docs. For those of you still using CubMail, Barnard is accepting transfer applications. Dear Students: We have exciting news to share with you: Barnard is providing you with Google Apps for Education! This means that your Barnard email will move to Google and work much like Gmail, with MUCH more storage space than the previous email system! Plus, you'll have access to other Google Apps and features that you may know and love, such as Google Talk (Chat) and Calendar. Barnard's version of Google Apps is called "gBear" and will be accessible at http://gbear.barnard.edu/. Currently, the collection of Google Apps consists of gBear Mail (Gmail) and Calendar, but in the future we will offer other Google Apps, like Docs and Sites! In early October, you can sign up to have your Barnard email switched to gBear Mail. It's first come, first serve! However, if you haven't signed up by December 31st, your email will be switched automatically. We will send another announcement on how you can sign up for gBear within a few weeks! For more information on gBear, visit www.barnard.edu/google. You can also come to our "Tech Talks" (information sessions) about gBear: Thursday, September 30, 2010, 12:15-1:15 pm: gBear Mail Migration Thursday, October 14, 2010 12:15-1:15 pm:  gBear Mail Thursday, October 28, 2010 12:15-1:15 pm : gBear Calendar The location for the gBear "Tech Talks" will be announced in another email since it depends on how many people inform us that they are coming to the event. In the meantime, we would love for you to fill out a brief survey on Google's services:https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?hl=en&amp;formkey=dERtOHp6TjQ0MmtYUmhQMFNmMEpmRmc6MQ#gid=0. On the survey, you can RSVP to the gBear "Tech Talks." Also, if you provide your Barnard Username (UNI) at the bottom of the survey, you will be entered into a raffle for prizes, including an external hard drive, USB flash drive, or highly coveted gBear t-shirt! Best, Student Computing (Resnet) BCIT
Sam Schube had the chance to revel in the mayhem of 1968 at a screening of a new J-School documentary. Mere hours after real-life protest flared up along Broadway, filmmaker (and J-School student) Paul Cronin brought students back to an era of a different sort of Columbia protest. He was on campus to screen sections from A Time to Stir, his still-in-progress documentary on the protests, riots, occupations, and general mayhem of 1968. The screening was a bit scattershot (when completed, the film is expected to clock in at around 10 hours), but the fragments shown managed to capture so singular a moment in Columbia history that Bwog couldn’t help but grow simultaneously nostalgic (the best kind of nostalgia: for something we never knew!) and more than a little frustrated. The two-ish hours screened focused on the first real explosion of protests on April 23, 1968. Students were growing ever more distraught with three particularly odious administrative actions: the University’s construction of a private gymnasium in public Morningside Park (something smells funny…), the school’s participation in the Pentagon’s Institute for Defense Analyses (doing research then applied to Vietnam War policy), and a new ban, issued by the President's office, on indoor protest. Working hand in hand for the first time, two leftist student groups, Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and the Students’ Afro-American Society (SAS), had planned a march on Low Library. Finding access to Low barred, the massive crowd made a mad dash to the proposed gymnasium site, engaged and fought with police, and returned to campus to occupy Hamilton Hall (and hold Dean Harry S. Coleman hostage in his office). While the standard retelling focuses on the later occupation of Low Library (and this picture), the film focuses instead on the power struggle between the SDS and SAS that emerged as the Hamilton occupation grew listless, the air filling with pot smoke and folk music. We’ll spare the blow-by-blow (in part available here), but here’s the quick rundown: the SAS students, having determined that an all-black protest was necessary for both political and logistical reasons, asked the SDS to clear their students out. The SDS complied, if grudgingly, and moved over to Low and a handful of other buildings, where they became famous for putting their feet on desks. Cronin’s SAS interviewees (and a few of the SDSers) are careful to point out that, though initially frustrating, the SAS’ insistence on an all-black occupation bought SDS precious time, allowing them to foment the masses and turn the thing into a campus-wide shebang. Had SDS remained in Hamilton, the administration would have, by all accounts, moved in much faster—this way, however, they were reluctant to do anything that would light a spark under a Harlem-wide firecracker. Termed “70 militant Negroes” by one enlightened newscaster, the SAS occupiers attracted community-wide Harlem support (H. Rap Brown and Stokely Carmichael make appearances) and freed the SDS to go their Lenin-spouting, Vietcong flag-waving way. Racial politics aside, Cronin’s film is loaded with small bits of wonder. He lovingly details the buildings occupied in the days that followed: rumors flew of “brothers coming in from Newark with guns.” Avery was deemed an occupied building, but only because the architecture and urban planning students couldn’t bear the thought of leaving the studio. (Naturally, upon being made aware of the exact nature of the protests, they began drafting material solutions to the Morningside gym problem.) Mathematics was home to “the crazies,” like SDS founder Tom Hayden and an LES group called the Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers, who, anticipating police, coated the stairs with soap. Graduate students, frustrated with Mao-spouting undergrad punks, engaged in high-minded debate in Fayerweather—a lot of people wore berets. And so we were back to Square One. In the face of so similar a “community project”, why does the political atmosphere at Columbia remain so damn neutered? A Time to Stir, however, also made us see the, well, silliness of 1968: students smoked pot in Fayerweather, had sex in Math, and talked about a lot of stuff they didn't really understand during Columbia's occupation. They were generally disorganized, confused, and you know, 20 years old. So how much sillier were those hunger strikes, anyway? Cronin suggested our apathy on war comes from the lack of a military draft, but that only serves to explain the lack of military-focused protest. The inimitable Eric Foner makes a brief, if not unexpected, appearance, noting that the protests created “a sense of community where none had existed.” (That line hit awfully close to home for Bwog.) Though it’s acutely focused on 1968, A Time to Stir is very much of the moment.
 
The Hip-Hop Society is having its first cypher of the year tonight from 8 to 10pm in the IRC backyard (552 w 114th). There will be lots of people freestyling, live instruments, and free food!!
Nissan stainless steel thermos left in 535 Mudd on Monday, 9/20.
Freshmen are ambitious! ESC President Chris Elizondo has reported that the the freshman Engineering Student Council election has ended in a tie between the second and third place class reps. In ESC elections, the two candidates for class representative with the most votes are elected to serve on the class council. Therefore, though the freshman President, VP, and first representative have been chosen, the final member of the class council has yet to be determined. ESC has announced that a 24-hour runoff election will be held on Tuesday, and has decided not to reveal the results for the other positions until the final member of the class council has been chosen. VP Internal Carla Williams' email to the candidates after the jump. Dear SEAS 2014 Election Candidates, Now I know you are all wondering why the results are taking so long to be announced. Fortunately, it is not because the website crashed and all the results were lost, but unfortunately, it is not simply because I wanted to leave you in suspense. This year, not only did we have one of the cleanest elections,  and relatively high voter turnout, but we also had a tie for the position of Class Representative. We have one clear candidate, but the other post is tied at 14 votes each. Normally we would be able to decide the winner based on election infractions, but neither of the parties involved were guilty of any sort of misconduct during the elections process. So our only recourse is a run-off. I will open up another election between the two candidates for 24 hours, and invite the Freshman class to vote once again to decide who will complete the SEAS 2014 Class Council. Until such time, I will not be releasing the results for the Elections. The two candidates that will be participating in this run-off is Tanya Shah (DemocraSEAS) and Patricia Hsu (FU Yeah!). I will be in contact with you shortly to elaborate on the run-off process and on its date, once decided. It has certainly been an exciting election! Cheers, -- Carla Williams Internal Vice-President of Columbia University ESC External Vice-President of Columbia University NSBE Chapter Pre-med | BME - Biomechanics | History Minor Fu Foundation School of Engineering | Class of 2011
 We wish they served these at Campo. (NYT) Barnard's tutoring program shuts down due to financial instability. (Spec) All Things Considered's David Greene has a chat with the President of Estonia, our favorite Columbia alum. (NPR) Beware of what you comment, friends. It may get you subpoenaed. (Gothamist) Potter fans, the HP7 trailer is out!!! (NYMag)
Before you read this, click play on the video below. Remember that day when we all maybe thought that Barnard would be written into the Gossip Girl plotline and they'd film at Barnard all the time and everything would be pretty much the same, except some people would be excited but most people would be annoyed? The sun has set on that day, friends. After consulting with the Admissions Office/some Barnard students, the Barnard administration has decided not to allow the Gossip Girl team to film on campus. The students who helped decide whether GG should film at BC received an email explaining the no-go: "During negotiations," the email read, "it became clear that the interests of the producers and the interests of the College were likely to conflict at some future point." Take solace in the fact that Gossip Girl films on Claremont every five minutes, and that the cast pretends they go to Columbia. 
There's a food truck called Joyride selling froyo/iced coffee outside the Lerner gates.
 As was the case last weekend, 1 train service changes are still in effect. Friends, plan accordingly! Check here for the scheduled changes, but note that the MTA's website doesn't work in Google Chrome. Photo via kubina's flickr. 
Cooking with Bwog is back again. This week, Matt Powell is serving you a double helping of dessert--stuffed French toast and goat cheese cheesecake. Bwog's mouth is already watering! Stuffed French Toast Let’s face it. In college, the most neglected meal is breakfast. We scramble out of the door with a piece of toast or a granola bar and quickly scarf it down before class (or during). If we’re lucky, we sit down for a bowl of cereal and maybe a cup of coffee. This dish is breakfast at its best, but it takes a good half hour to do it right. Maybe a lazy Saturday morning or Sunday would be the best time to have a relaxing breakfast… at least for once. Personally, I like to put all of the optional stuff on top of the French Toast. It almost turns breakfast into a dessert, and I love all things sweet. Serves 4-5 Ingredients 1 loaf of challah bread, sliced into thick pieces 2 eggs ½ C of whole milk 2 tsp. cinnamon 6 tbsp. sugar 4 tbsp. softened (almost melting) butter 4 tbsp. brown sugar Strawberry Cream Cheese Assorted berries (optional) 8 oz. Mascarpone Cheese (optional) Real Maple Syrup (optional) Directions Heat frying pan or griddle on the stove. Mix the butter and brown sugar together to make a paste. Mix eggs, milk, cinnamon, and sugar together in a shallow bowl. Spread brown sugar butter on the pan. Dip slices of challah bread in the egg mixture. (Do not dunk—you just want to get the bread a little wet, not soaking.) Cook bread in the pan, about 3-5 minutes per side (or until browned). Repeat with the rest of the slices. Assemble: Take one slice of French toast and smear Strawberry Cream Cheese on the top. Stack another slice of French toast on top of the first slice. Top with a dollop of mascarpone, berries, and syrup. Repeat for the rest of the French Toast. Goat Cheese Cheesecake with Lavender Honey Cheesecake can be a labor-intensive dessert to make, but with this variation, it’s easy as pie! Plus, lavender is available at the Farmer’s Market again! Serves 12 Ingredients 9 graham crackers, crushed ¼ C brown sugar ½ tsp. cinnamon 6 tsp. melted butter 10 oz. goat cheese, softened 2 tsp. lemon juice 1 ½ C heavy cream 1/3 C sugar ½ C honey 2 tbsp. dried lavender Directions Combine crushed graham crackers with brown sugar, cinnamon, and butter. Mix until combined. In a tart pan with a removable bottom (or a pie pan), press graham cracker mixture in the bottom to form to crust. Chill for 30 minutes. In a bowl, beat cheese with lemon juice until creamy. Add cream and beat until firm. Add sugar and beat until slightly softened. Pour into crust and chill 5 hours. While cheesecake chills, bring the honey and the dried lavender to a boil in a saucepan. Take off the heat and cover. Let the honey-lavender steep for 3 hours. Then, bring honey to a boil again. While the honey is still hot, pour through a strainer to remove the lavender seeds. Drizzle the lavender honey on top of the cheesecake. The Culinary Society Blog Although the Culinary Society has had their own blog for a year, a recent spike in hits has spurred a revamping of our site. The site has a new layout and new features. Looking for new recipes? Reviews on local restaurants? New foods to try? Culinary Society events? Our blog has the food news for Columbia! Culinary Events At Columbia Indian Desserts Study Break—The Culinary Society is partnering with Club Dimensions to promote the upcoming Guria Benefit. We will be making Chai Hot Chocolate, Kheer, and Shahi Tukra. The event will be held at 9 PM on Tuesday in the Lerner Ramp Lounge East. In the City Kings of Pastry—Until the 28th, this documentary film will be playing at the Film Forum. It follows Chef Jacquy Pfeiffer as he travels to France to participate in the famous Meilleur Ouvrier de France, a 3-day competition to determine the best pastry chef in the world.
Hawkma has returned! Big ups to Steve Welsh for the sweet close-ups. Doesn't Hawkma look regal? Photos by Steve Welsh 
 A friendly tipster has just let us know that quite a few (free) tickets to The Daily Show with Jon Stewart are still available on the show's website. Tickets for The Colbert Report are also free for reservation. Both of these shows have hosted Columbia professors in the past, so perhaps you should show them some love in return. Get your tickets while you can still afford to procrastinate on your reading! Photo via figgenhoffer's flickr.
The September issue of The Blue and White can be found all around campus. You might not know the following figure—but you should. In Campus Characters, The Blue and White introduces you to a handful of Columbians who are up to interesting and extraordinary things and whose stories beg to be shared. If you’d like to suggest a Campus Character, send us an email at editors@theblueandwhite.org. If you are a friend of Hannah Perls, you may have been caught off guard once or twice by the shrill sound of your own name echoing up the street from several blocks away. Acquaintances, former class-mates, and anyone who has ever attended a meeting of a student environmental group should also beware: to avoid being knocked over by Perls' galloping excitement, adopt a wide stance and spread your arms to receive her high-speed hug. Perls seeks interaction of all sorts wherever she goes. She routinely flouts the social code of the New York sidewalk—instead of headphones and a focused, declining stare, Perls demands exuberant interaction. "She cat-called me from across Broadway when I was wearing spandex!" says Todd Nelson, CC '12, of a post jog run-in with Perls last winter. "Girl's got no shame. But then we ended up having a nice conversation about life and checked in—she has the ability to juxtapose inappropriateness with a ‘bring her home to your mother' quality," he says. Despite her overwhelming gusto and sass, other friends remark that Perls is remarkably down to earth. Quickly switching gears from a riveting tale of her semester abroad, Perls describes herself thoughtfully : "I guess I'm not the person who gets stressed out very often or goes crazy. You know, if someone has an issue they can just knock on my door. They know that it's open." Compared to the average Columbia student, Perls seems surprisingly unburdened. The difficulties she encountered during semester abroad in Nepal—where she was studying the effects of El Niño on Himalayan glaciers as part of her Environmental Studies major—consistently excited rather than perturbed her. "You go off," Perls explains, brimming with enthusiasm, "and it's just you and this Nepali student who acts as a translator. We knew Nepali, but certainly not well enough to go off on our own—especially if you're a white woman." An unexpected turn of events cut her research short: "We had about ten days left, and this was when the Maoists declared an indefinite national strike," explains Perls. "Eventually the Maoists ended up using tear gas and it got slightly violent—but foreigners were never in any danger," she assures. Nor did frustrations with campus organizations discourage Perls, who came to Columbia with passion for environmental activism. "I had sort of flirted with every single environmental organization my freshman year, and one of the things was there was absolutely no communication between any of them." Perls saw the problem as a personal challenge and, in 2008, she responded with a solution: Green Umbrella, an organization she founded to coordinate communication between student environmental groups. Todd Nelson, the current head of the Columbia/Barnard EcoReps, agrees: "Last year was unarguably a big step forward for the environmental groups on campus. was an enormous part of this success," he emphasizes. Her friends are quick to note that the impact of her work in environmentalism on campus hasn't gone to her head. Laura Resnick, a close friend, says, "She basically carried by herself—she's so modest about it, I didn't even know." Even after racking up experience in environmental research at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and in advocacy on Capitol Hill at the Select Committee for Energy Independence and Global Warming, she says she doesn't quite know what she wants to do after graduation. She mentions environmental health as an area she might explore, but she does have other priorities: "I have this very strange addiction to the ocean that I haven't completely satisfied, so at some point I'd like to work on a boat," she says. For the moment, however, Perls is content to focus on her work, including her ambitious plans for her thesis, potentially covering the history and environmental impact of fisheries in New York City. "It's senior year," she remarks. "Go big or go home—in a purely non-alcoholic, studious way." Illustration by Stephen Davan
Bwog's World Leaders Forum coverage continues with a lecture by the President of Timor-Leste, José Ramos-Horta. Kinno Norojono reports. “Imagine finding yourself being the leader of a country that had been destroyed by war…” Wearing a simple black suit, the President of Timor-Leste José Ramos-Horta addressed the packed Kellogg Center at the top of IAB with his relaxed and impromptu style of speaking. Ramos-Horta shared the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize with Bishop Ximenes Belo for his efforts to lead Timor-Leste towards freedom and returned to Columbia after over two decades to share his experiences trying to revive an emotionally distressed population and to find sustainable solutions to a budding nation’s growing economy. The President, who lost four of his own siblings to the brutality of the Indonesian occupation from 1975-2002, began by describing the fall of the Suharto regime on May 21, 1998. That grim period in Timor-Leste’s history was a “humanitarian catastrophe” where “millions people had been displaced, 90% of schools were destroyed, and no health clinics were available.” Another of the President’s goals is to try to lobby foreign powers to help him build a “completely democratic state.” The UN, he recounted, believed that it should take two years for this to occur. Stopping abruptly, he asked, “How long does it take to build a sustainable Chinese take-away business in New York?” Puzzled, the crowd laughed and offered him answers ranging from “twelve months” to “two years.” “Two years,” he said while surveying the room. “If it takes a business two years to run properly, how can a country turn into a completely democratic state in the same amount of time?” This was a rhetorical question of course, as Timor-Leste has been independent since May 19, 2002, and the President is optimistic despite his doubts. With the country’s vast natural resources in oil and minerals, Ramos-Horta hopes to “fast-track achievements of the Millenium Development Goals” such as the considerably lower homicide rates of Timor-Leste to that of Washington D.C. and New York. Ramos-Horta made it a point to end his address by believing that “everybody should feel included in this healing process,” and ensuring the audience that “we are making progress…but it would be unfair, ungrateful, to say the we did this alone.” One thing he asked from the audience was to “believe in East Timor, and the power of this small democratic state.”
 History professor Samuel Moyn's book gets reviewed by the Times. Barnard commencement may take place at Grant's Tomb. (Spec) The Mailman School of Public Health bashes bodegas. (UPI) The MTA tries to ruin your weekend. Again. (Gothamist) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
There's a street fair on Broadway from 116th to 110th-- go and expect to see all the things you usually see!
Ah, Saturday morning. A time to reflect upon the past two nights ("What'd I do again?") and a week of classes. Saturday Morning Cartoons are here to help. Cartoon by Abigail Santner
Kosher cuisine specialist Carly Silver reports from 115th Street. Amid Moroccan tents and colorful cushions lies a Middle Eastern eating experience on our very own campus. Bella Alayof brings international flavors to Café Nana, her kosher restaurant in Columbia/Barnard Hillel. Born in Uzbekistan, Alayof emigrated to Israel when she was 17 like many Jews making aliyah and moving to Israel. At the time, her family faced limited options. “Most Jewish people, they have two choices: United States or Israel,” she says. “My father and my mother, they chose to come to Israel, not to United States.” After marrying and having four children in Israel, Alayof came to America almost eleven years ago. As a former accountant in Israel and a real estate agent in the United States, Alayof did not foresee a career in restaurants. However, as the real estate market slowed in the last few years, Alayof’s son bought what would become Café Nana and his mother saw her chance to embark on a new career venture. “I said, ‘Let’s take the café and do the café and I can take everything and handle it, no problem,’” she remembers. The most popular dishes at Café Nana include personal pizzas and hot sandwiches. This semester, Alayof brought two innovations to the menu: a new falafel recipe and matzo ball soup. “A lot of students were sick last winter and nothing to eat,” she says, “but, this year, somebody going to be sick…we’re going to send them a delivery of chicken soup.” Café Nana has a regular routine to ensure its clients are satisfied. Sunday through Friday, Alayof and another employee, Alex, make the day’s dishes. After cooking from 9 to 12 p.m., the lunch rush arrives. “We bake everything,” Alayof says. “Even the dough for the pizza, we’re doing here. Everything is homemade.” Although Alayof hopes to return to her family in Israel in the near future, she has bonded with the Columbia students. “I talk with the student and like my children,” she enthuses. “I love them. very good kids, very smart, you know, very successful and good kids. I really love what I’m doing.”
Photo by Mahrah Taufique
Free books outside Book Culture! A woman who recently got laid off by Columbia is giving 'em away and advocating for used book storage at Columbia.
The University Senate has unanimously recommended that PrezBo and The Trustees (playing at Music Hall of Williamsburg next week) consider creating an interim Graduate Student Center. And that incredibly sillily-named committee has ideas! They argued that Columbia's peer institutions have space dedicated to its graduate students and that such a space would increase a sense of community among grad students. Other reasons cited include a common space for grad students on the Morningside and Medical Center campuses, as well as new funds to build the center, and space to build it in. The committee has suggested six possible locations for the Student Center: 538 W. 114th St, space within Earl Hall, former Psych library (Schermerhorn), former Chem library (Chandler), former Bio. Sciences library (Fairchild), former Physics library (Pupin). On the ashes of Columbia's natural sciences resources, a place for your TAs to talk about Kant and ask each other on dates to 1020 may blossom. Here's the full recommendation from the University Senate: University Senate Proposed: September 24, 2010 Adopted: September 24, 2010 Sense of the Columbia University Senate Recommendation on a Graduate Student Center Whereas, interdisciplinary interaction in an academic community is a key institutional priority for Columbia University, an idea broadly endorsed by faculty as crucial for comprehensive graduate education; and Whereas, graduate students and postdoctorals have expressed a strong desire to strengthen the academic community via increased interdisciplinary interaction in formal and informal contexts; and Whereas, existing facilities on both the Morningside and Medical campuses are unsuited to increasing interdisciplinary interaction or building an academic community among graduate students and postdoctorals; and Whereas, graduate students and postdoctorals are the only academic constituency at Columbia University which do not have a dedicated space; and Whereas, proposals for a Graduate Student Center have in the past been discouraged by the lack of space and funds, both of which are available at present; and Whereas, a Graduate Student Center would enhance the quality and competitiveness of Columbia University’s Master’s, Ph.D., and postdoctoral programs relative to our peers, almost all of which already have such centers; and Whereas, the Committee on Campus Planning and Physical Development has successfully executed its mandate to “advise the administration and the Trustees on faculty, student and staff concerns, priorities and particular projects” by producing the attached report on the rationale, needs, and feasibility of a Graduate Student Center. Now, therefore, be it recommended that the University Senate endorses the conclusions of the report and respectfully recommends the President and Trustees of Columbia University to consider the creation of an interim Graduate Student Center, subject to space and fundraising considerations. Proponents Campus Planning and Physical Development Committee Student Affairs Committee For more information, also check out the presentation to the senate plenary or the super official report.
Photo by ECS
 Thursday, at the Rotunda in the Low Memorial Library, Prime Minister of Portugal José Sócrates spoke on “Energy Policy and the Portuguese New Growth Agenda.” Born in 1957,  Sócrates joined the Portuguese Socialist Party in 1981. He worked his way up governmental posts, and has been a civil engineer, a member of parliament, and a spokesman on environmental affairs for the Socialist Party. He helped organize the EURO 2004 cup in Portugal and that same year was asked to form a new government, after leading the opposition. In 2009, he was reelected. Bwog’s Conor Skelding reports. Throughout his address, Sócrates displayed ample charisma and humor with quips like, “My friend advised me  not to speak in English, but in the international language. Bad English. So watch out, I will be speaking English.” This was all punctuated by heavy gesticulations and by the continuous click and flash of high-speed shutter cameras. Sócrates began by describing Portugal’s economic landscape six years ago. In 2004, Portugal was suffering high unemployment, high debt, and a devastatingly large trade deficit (accounting for fifty percent of said debt). Portugal, having no oil of its own, was extremely dependent on foreign petroleum. Today, Portugal is a different place entirely. A staggering forty-five percent of its energy is either wind, solar, or wave based, and it is the fifth most renewable European country, exporting more electricity than it imports. Each year, 100 billion Euros are saved on fossil fuels. More than twenty thousand Portuguese are employed in the renewable energy sector, with corporations forming frequently. Sócrates' goals for 2020 are no less impressive. He aims for sixty percent clean energy by 2020, with another 3.7 billion Euros to be invested in doubling the wind energy output. Sócrates explained that clean energy is about more than just carbon emissions reduction. This “huge transformation in our economy” is also about spreading technology, producing more jobs and making money. Evidently, the bet he made in 2004 on renewable energy is paying off. Sócrates referenced the Spanish concept movida, which he defined as movement, a collective action. He explained that it is “necessary to have a strategy” which is accessible to the private sector, government employees and the wider public, so that it is implemented smoothly. Sócrates ended the didactic portion of his talk with dreams of an electric car currently under development by Portuguese manufacturers. Sócrates elaborated on a city of the near future with ten percent of its cars emission-free and silent. It was a point that resonated with students in the capital of the universe. Sócrates ended with a question and answer session, in which he further demonstrated his charm and charisma.  Students eager for the limelight lined up for the microphones. Questions spanned all topics.  One student solicited Sócrates' opinion on Iran—Sócrates supports the United States, calling for a new politics centered on international law and respect. Another asked how the United States might also implement Portuguese reforms—Sócrates believes it will happen when the time is right and when we need it most. Another asked what his greatest achievement was.  Sócrates, witty as ever, replied, “I am a modest man, so I will not take half an hour ” and went on after the laughs to briefly describe the tough reform and cost cutting he brought to Portuguese social security.  One super cool freshman asked Sócrates how their drug policy, which he believed was totally permissive, can enlighten the American drug policy.  Sócrates, chuckling, took it in stride and explained that rather than take an ideological position, he supports pragmatism. Drugs are illegal in Portugal, but penal sentences are not handed out. Fines and risk reduction are the goal and policy. When time was nearing up, the host and asked for closing remarks.  Sócrates, man of the people, outstretched his arms, and called for one more question. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Tipster Helena Wu informed Bwog that a bat invaded Hartley suites 5A and 5B just minutes ago. All flying mammals have been removed, but Hartley residents remain spooked. 
 The owner of Tom's is being sued by a former employee. (NY Post) Big Business wants to know if we should all be eating like cavemen. (Gawker) Google wants the whole country to look like Epcot. (Wired) Columbia researchers have come out with the first independent estimate of the volume of the Gulf oil spill — 4.4 million barrels. (Columbia) And congratulations to the men's rugby team, who beat Harvard yesterday for the first time in decades. Huzzah! Photo from Wikimedia Commons
As Bwog's Econ TA recently said in an email, "Good morning/hangover." 
White MacBook charger in Ferris Booth, on the tables outside facing the quad. It's kind of dirty but works.
Hillel's Israeli Cultural Society and your senior class councils (GSSC, CCSC, ESC, and LCSC, respectively) invite you to a seniors only Israeli wine tasting today from 3-5 PM on the 3rd floor terrace of the Kraft Center. There will be cheese, crackers, and chips and dips along with water and soft drinks for anyone who wants to mingle sans that red and white drink. And don't forget, 2 IDs or you will be turned away.
Lots of adults wearing Columbia blue, a few Public Safety officers, a bouncy castle and dead grass are all assembled on South Lawn, ostensibly to welcome kids to the Kiddie Carnival advertised outside Lerner. But there are no kids. Stay tuned! Update, 2:20: The carnival has begun! Peter Sterne reports that Elmo and Blue, of Blue's Clues fame, are mingling with toddlers on the lawns. Bwog asked what was so private about the event, and we were told that it's "just a celebration of families being held on campus." Dana Danna Banana is performing live now, just as loud up on our Butler 6 perch as he is on South Lawn. Mr. Banana told Bwog that he "won first prize in the prestigious John Lennon songwriting contest." He is singing a song about fathers and jungle gyms. There is ice cream out there. If you're coming to Butler today, bring your headphones. We just found out that the fair is for a very real thing! It's for former patients of the Center for Women's Reproductive Care, a fertility clinic run by Columbia doctors. All of the staffers helping out are doctors, nurses, and embryologists at the center. Photos by Eliza Shapiro and Peter Sterne, video by Hans Hyttinen 
 Dane Cook was on hand to hear Abdullah Gül, the President of the Republic of Turkey, address the World Leaders Forum as the last speaker in the week-long series. Though Gül expressed sentiments of optimism and cooperation for the future, students pressed him on steps Turkey has recently made in the international scene. While introducing President Gül, University President Bollinger expressed what he believes to be the American perception—or misperception—of Turkey as a “metaphorical bridge, linking the West and the Muslim world.” He pointed out, however, that Turkish citizens do not consider their nation to be a link, but rather a center in and of itself. Bollinger also stressed the need for an open dialogue on the sensitive issues that the world currently faces, proposing the University as a fitting place for such a dialogue to develop. In his opening remarks, Gül praised University President Bollinger’s new book, Uninhibited, Robust, and Wide-Open, which he claimed he saw in a NYC bookshop, and he assented to Bollinger’s emphasis on free press and free discussion. The first half of his address focused on Turkey's accomplishments over the past decade. Gül emphasized the liberalization of the media, cultural advances, dedication to human rights, and further democratization, as well as listed significant economic figures that suggest Turkey is stepping into an increasingly important role in the international community. He highlighted the fact that Turkey has the 16th-largest economy in the world, recently passed a liberalizing constitutional referendum that garnered majority support of 58%, and has the most Facebook users of any country in the world behind English-speaking nations. He openly acknowledged that Turkey has many issues yet to be resolved, but expressed his resolute optimism that Turkey is moving forward: "Today the Turkish influence is being felt in the most positive manner." The second half of Gül’s speech was dedicated to Turkey’s vision for the future. Here, Gül took a more adventurous tone, calling for the reform of the international system. Invoking Foucault, he called for a "new language of diplomacy"—a language not based on established power structures, national identities, and international “clubs” but on shared power, national qualities, and international cooperation. Refusing the old polemics of East vs. West, North, vs. South, and the First, Second, and Third Worlds, Gül sketched his conception of a better diplomatic architecture: "The new language should be multicultural, multidimensional, and heterogeneous." After the speech, he took a handful of questions from the audience. Students pressed him on recent events, such as the Flotilla incident and Israeli-Turkish relations, as well as the Turkey’s recent "No" vote for sanctions on Iranian nuclear projects. Though his answers were littered with repetitive offerings of goodwill, justice, and cooperation, he replied to each question at length. At times, applause burst out from the audience for both questioners and for Gül's responses, and much to Prezbo’s delight, the entire event maintained the uninhibited discourse the World Leaders Forum seeks to promote. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
You may have noticed those snazzy new lava-lamp-shaped bottles in Butler or 212 and wondered to yourself, "WTF?!" David Hu has your answer, and in a selfless quest to keep you informed he drank one of those miracles of chemical engineering. Undoubtedly, the first thing that strikes you about Neurogasm is the bottle. Its long, slender red shape is certainly connotative of other objects; for example, rockets, which are full of energy—and energy is indeed the prime reason for these sorts of energy drinks to exist. Though Neurogasm can be found in Butler Café and Café 212 alongside Red Bull and other similar products, this drink's list of purported effects certainly goes beyond just giving you wings: Greater energy Better performance Enhances satisfaction Promotes healthy blood flow I'd like to see your Starbucks double shot do that. When the first drops of Neurogasm touched my lips, I felt a sensation that touched me from my innermost core to my outermost extremities: revulsion. This drink just does not taste good. The flavor reminded me a little of Red Bull, but it doesn't have the edginess of its competitor, and Neurogasm's carbonation (although described as "light" on the bottle) is a little too pronounced. The flavor itself is hard to describe objectively, but it's vaguely fruity and there is an aftertaste that makes me think of bananas. But if you're used to the flavor of other energy drinks such as Full Throttle or Monster, the taste of Neurogasm won't be too unfamiliar. There's caffeine and taurine, and these will indeed make the drinker more energized. But in terms of nonstandard effects, well, let's just say that my current thoughts aren't on differentials or integrals as much as division and integrating. This may be the placebo effect kicking in after I read the company's claim of "passion in every bottle," but it's an effect nonetheless. And hey, look at that girl eyeing me from the other table in 209. That's right, I am studying for a 4-point class now. Oh wait. No. No! It's not that I need Neurogasm...I mean, not at all. I'm writing a piece for Bwog about it. Really. If you get to know me better maybe you'll get a chance to personally realize that. I mean, really. Oh, you're getting up and leaving... Man, what am I doing in Butler on a night when I should be out having fun? Maybe this drink is trying to tell me something. God dammit, okay, Neurogasm, you win this time; I'm going to Campo and meeting me some real women.
A tipster informs us that this burnt cup of noodles was the cause of the early morning fire alarm in John Jay. The moral of the story? Be careful, kids. Bwog loves you and just doesn't want anything bad to happen to you. Photo by Mahima Chablani
Undercover police have made an arrest on Broadway outside Lerner. More details to come! Update: Bwog asked a police officer on the scene for information about the incident, but was told that no details of the arrest could be released. Public Safety also tells us that it has not received any news on the situation. Update 2: Public Safety confirms that someone was arrested while trying to steal from the bookstore.
 Dear Sir or Madam: Your presence is requested at this evening's Bwog staff meeting. All are welcome, and whether a newcomer or an old-timer, you ought to make it your business to attend. We will convene in the SGO on the fifth floor of Lerner Hall at 7 PM. Refreshments will be served, free of charge. Yours Truly, Bwog
Black Chanel makeup bag. Inside, different eyeliners, blush, concealer, colorful makeup palette. Lost inside the Lerner Cinema.
This week, it rains. It also might be sunny, but Accuweather has been changing its mind a lot. We can say this, at the very least: don't expect snow. Bwog thanks Kim Lessing from the bottom of our hearts for her beautiful camera. Zak Dychtwald is a supreme editor and cameraman. Pat Blute is very funny. Enjoy! And if you'd like Pat to report the weather from your event/group meeting/dorm room, email us at tips@bwog.com. 
Unscramble the answers to the following crossword clues to find common Columbia phrases, people, and places. If you want to procrastinate more, read the rest of the September issue of The Blue and White on Bwog. A. Llooks llike a camel: _ _ _ _ _ Most popular salad dressing in the U.S.: _ _ _ _ _ Cranagram: _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ B. Australian Woolf woman: _ _ _ _ _ _ Mandible: _ _ _ You, lettuce, and beer all have one: _ _ _ _ Cranagram: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ C. Columbia architects McKim, ____, and White: _ _ _ _ Uses Twitter: _ _ _ _ _ _ Irritate: _ _ _ Cranagram: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ D. May be high or low in your hand: _ _ _ Like some bars, bikes, and blinds: _ _ _ _ Plays a kazoo: _ _ _ _ You need 1 for a complete one: _ _ _ _ Cranagram: _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Answers A. Llooks llike a camel: Llama Most popular salad dressing in the U.S.: Ranch Cranagram: Carman Hall B. Australian Woolf woman: Kidman Mandible: Jaw You, lettuce, and beer all have one: Head Cranagram: Hawkmadinejad C. Columbia architects McKim, ____, and White: Mead Uses Twitter: Tweets Irritate: Irk Cranagram: Westside Market D. May be high or low in your hand: Ace Like some bars, bikes, and blinds: Mini Plays a kazoo: Hums You need 1 for a complete one: Suit Cranagram: Music Humanities 
“Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi.” What’s allowed to Jupiter, isn’t allowed to cattle. With this little Latin line, the recently elected Croatian President Ivo Josipović began his first speech before a Columbia audience — an address given the ominous title of "Transitional Justice — Croatian and International Responses to War Crimes." Bwog's Roko Rumora, CC'14, reports. Fittingly for a man with a background in academia, Josipović opened with an anecdote, accurately describing the situation in Southeast Europe in the 20th century: President Josipović’s grandmother lived from 1903 to 2002 and had never left her small coastal home town in southern Croatia. However, during that time period, she switched 7 countries – from the Austro-Hungarian Empire all the way to modern-day independent Croatia (skipping some Nazi slip-ups in the middle). One must be well-informed and watchful to keep up with the situation and values of this region of the world, especially those relating to war, which it has produced in abundance and dealt with diversely. Josipović, therefore, gave a broad historical overview of war crime trials and responses, describing everything from the sack of Carthage to the Geneva Convention. At this point, the Latin phrase becomes more meaningful — it draws attention to the problem of criminal responsibility of the commander in warfare. Is the commander responsible for the atrocities committed by his subordinates? President Josipović, using both historical evidence and personal experience from Croatia’s Homeland War of Independence (1991-1995), held forth that the commander is not only responsible for being a “bad commander and not doing his job”, but also for each and every crime his subordinates might commit. The adage also puts into perspective the potential futility of the International Criminal Court, an institution which Josipović helped create and in which he believes in deeply. However, he explained, the court will not fulfill its true purpose until the Jupiters of this world (US, China, Russia, India) agree to stand before it, which is not the case now. “International justice”, he said, “is not just for young, small countries.” Josipović then refocused his lecture onto Croatia-proper and its method of coping with the war that left its economy shattered, its population divided, and shunned justice into a station of secondary importance. Using lengthy evidence and a PowerPoint, Josipović demonstrated that the situation changed circa 2000. Now things look and feel a bit different in this small Mediterranean country. A state that was once obsessed with the tragedies of Serbian aggression in the nineties now realizes that mistakes may have been made on both sides. Josipović, whose electoral platform was based on ex-Yugoslav reconciliation and inter-state cooperation, talked at length about the positive changes since 2000 in the way Serbia and Croatia communicate and deal with their shared past. Even the EU, the golden ticket for countries in the region, has now recognized Croatia’s efforts in “fulfilling every EU requirement regarding the prosecution of war criminals”. A question and answer session followed the speech, during which Columbians learned that not only is there no chance that Croatia might lose to Israel in next month’s Euro 2012 qualifiers, as one Israeli fan hopelessly asked, but also about Josipović’s work as a musician and how it relates to his presidency. “Arts makes people better,” Josipović concluded, “and this world would be a better place if more politicians had music in their hearts.”
Mr. Vagelos and his wife, Diana Vagelos, of Barnard Diana Center fame, gave a whopping $50 million to fund a New Medical and Graduate Education Building. This is the largest gift the Med Center has ever received in a fundraising campaign. This isn't the grad school center we wrote about last week, as it's specifically for Med school education. It's The Vag... uptown! Update: PrezBo has officially spoken, again reiterating the "truly inspirational" nature of the Vagelos' generosity. Check your inboxes for his take, but read the original press release below! NEW YORK (September 27, 2010) – Columbia University Medical Center announced a major gift of $50 million from a respected alumnus of its medical school, P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., and his wife, Diana Vagelos. The gift will support the construction of a new medical and graduate education building, which will be built on the medical center campus and named in their honor. The Vagelos gift marks the largest received for CUMC’s fundraising campaign. With its receipt, the campaign for the College of Physicians and Surgeons (P&amp;S) has raised more than $1 billion, making it one of the first medical schools in the nation to achieve this level of support. “It is clear that whatever the benefits Roy and Diana Vagelos may have gained from attending Columbia and Barnard, they have given even more back to our university through decades of service and support, and we are enormously grateful,” said Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger. “With this latest demonstration of generosity, they are helping establish a new sense of community and campus life at our medical center in Washington Heights that is so important to our attracting future generations of talented medical students and faculty. Roy Vagelos’ understanding of the resources required to train today’s top medical researchers and clinicians, and his deep and abiding engagement with Columbia, have made him an invaluable partner in our long-term plans to enhance all aspects of life and learning at our medical center.” A renowned leader in the pharmaceutical industry, Dr. Vagelos was former chairman and CEO of Merck &amp; Co. Inc., having graduated in 1954 from P&amp;S. Throughout his career, he has been a stalwart supporter of P&amp;S, campaigning to raise money for its programs and serving as a mentor for faculty, students and staff. Today he serves as chair of Columbia University Medical Center’s Board of Visitors, and he is also chair of the medical center’s Defining the Future campaign. “If we tried to create the perfect volunteer for our medical center, we would try to invent Roy Vagelos,” said Lee Goldman, M.D. dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine and executive vice president for health and biomedical sciences at Columbia University. “His and Diana’s generosity of spirit and support are truly inspirational. Generations of medical and graduate students will benefit from their generosity and vision.” “This new education building will ensure that Columbia continues to produce superior doctors and researchers, trained in the latest techniques, as medicine continues to evolve rapidly throughout the 21st century. The building also will allow us to centralize key activities in a state-of-the-art facility that reflects our commitment to world class education and the quality of student life,” said Dr. Goldman. Dr. Vagelos and his wife, Diana, a graduate of Barnard College, met at a party held by a mutual friend while Dr. Vagelos was attending P&amp;S and she was a first-year student at Barnard. “When I first came to P&amp;S 60 years ago, the facilities were first-rate, as many of them had just been recently built. Naturally, over time some of them have aged, and new technologies and teaching resources are now required to provide the best modern education opportunities,” said Dr. Vagelos. “We are training the doctors who will deliver medical care, the scientists who will perform groundbreaking scientific research, and the teachers who will help train the future generation of physicians and scientists. It is important that their educational facilities are as exciting as medical science is today.” “The new building will have the best possible design that is attractive, comfortable, and appropriate for the intense kind of education that our students receive. The formal learning space will have state-of-the-art electronics that facilitate the delivery of information to students. In addition, there will be space where the students can informally interact and work as teams – reflecting our new curriculum which emphasizes team-based learning. And there will also be space to relax and have coffee,” said Dr. Vagelos. “It will incorporate every aspect of medical and graduate education – updated in a modern, environmentally responsible way.” This project is part of an overall medical center campus revitalization plan that will add green space, create a new front door to the medical school, consolidate student services, and renovate several existing buildings. The projected total cost for the entire project is $185 million. “Sustainable design is an important initiative for Columbia,” said Amador Centeno, vice president of facilities management for Columbia University Medical Center. “The design of this new building reflects our commitment to reducing our footprint on the environment and our surrounding neighborhood in a smart, responsible way.” A 1955 graduate of Barnard College, Diana Vagelos serves on the Board of Trustees of Barnard as vice chair of the board and chair of the Trustee Committee on Campus Life. She and Dr. Vagelos have an extensive history of generous giving to Barnard College and Columbia University Medical Center. Dr. Vagelos received his bachelor’s degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1950. After receiving his medical degree from P&amp;S, he completed an internship and residency at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Dr. Vagelos then focused on research at the National Institutes of Health where he won scientific recognition as an authority on lipids and enzymes. He subsequently became chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis and founding director of Washington University's Division of Biology and Biochemical Sciences. In 1975 Dr. Vagelos joined Merck as head of research and in 1985 he was appointed CEO and chair of the Merck Board of Directors. Under his leadership some of the most important drugs and vaccines of that era were developed, including the statins for control of blood cholesterol and the vaccine that protects against infection by Hepatitis B virus which causes liver cancer. Dr. Vagelos authored more than 100 scientific papers published in peer-reviewed journals and has received much recognition throughout his career, including numerous awards and honorary degrees celebrating his influence on national science policy, his contributions to the advancement of scientific knowledge and biomedical research, and his commitment to the development of new, improved therapeutic options to better treat complex diseases. He is an elected member of the prestigious American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences. In addition to his current public policy and advisory activities, Dr. Vagelos is chairman of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., a biotech company.
If you need to print out that half-assed response paper, go to Butler or Kent. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
 Federal Officials want to wiretap teh interntz. Columbia computer science prof, Steven Bellovin calls this “a disaster waiting to happen.” As if Google isn’t invading our privacy enough already…. (NYtimes). Business Week (yep, Business Week is on Bwog) addressed the plight of the Hellevator with cartoons (Business Week). According to New York Magazine's Gangs of New York Map, Morningside Heights is home to the Bloods and the Trinitadios. No worries, though, members are "less likely to be battle-hardened parolees than 'puppies'" (NYMag). Prezbo talks to the USenate about the Manhattanville campus. Sounds like he's ready to get going. Back during NSOP, we told you what you need to know (Spec). NY Times Book Review doesn’t have the best things to say about The Last Utopia, a new book on human rights by History professor Samuel Moyn (NYtimes) Photo from Wikimedia Commons
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Mon, Sept 27 “The Difficulty of Being Good: On the Subtle Art of Dharma” 208 Knox Hall, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Gucharan Das and Sheldon Pollock “Screening of Slingshot Hip Hop” 603 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Students Tues, Sept 28 “Barnard Career Development’s Kick Off Event: Jammin’ Java” Lehman Lawn, 4:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Rozatones, Finotee, Various Other Artists “Inter-Faith Vigil for Pakistan” Sundial, Low Plaza, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Students Wed, Sept 29 “Ethnic Cleansing in the Partition of India” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Steven Wilkinson and Pavithra Suryanarayan “Global Aid in Africa” Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Joseph Stiglitz and Louis Kasekende Thurs, Sept 30 “The Impact of Immigration on the Distribution of American Well-Being” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Gary Burtless “The Weather of the Future” President’s Room, Faculty House, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Heidi Cullen Fri, Oct 1 “The Future of U.S. Nuclear Weapons: New START and Nuclear Posture Review” 1501 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Elbridge Colby and Austin Long “Martian Invasion: NASA’s Army of Exploratory Robots – And Free Stargazing” Pupin Hall (Follow Signs in Lobby), 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Jeff Andrews The Full List: Mon, Sept 27 “Disappearing Shanghai” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Qiu Xiaolong “The Difficulty of Being Good: On the Subtle Art of Dharma” 208 Knox Hall, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Gucharan Das and Sheldon Pollock “Lessons from Finland” Zankel Building, Milbank Chapel (TC), 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Pasi Sahlberg “Screening of Slingshot Hip Hop” 603 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Students Tues, Sept 28 “Turning Korea’s DMZ into a UNESCO World Heritage Site—An Option for Trust-Building?” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Seung-ho Lee “Asymptotic-preserving Schemes for Boltzmann Equation and Relative Problems with Stiff Sources” 210 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Shi Jin “Barnard Career Development’s Kick Off Event: Jammin’ Java” Lehman Lawn, 4:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Rozatones, Finotee, Various Other Artists “Environmental Management” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Steve Cohen “The Punishment of Gaza—Book Release” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Gideon Levy “Inter-Faith Vigil for Pakistan” Sundial, Low Plaza, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Students “Bollywood Weddings” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Kavita Ramdya Wed, Sept 29 “The Challenge of Mass Incarceration” 509 Knox, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Glenn C. Loury “Ethnic Cleansing in the Partition of India” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Steven Wilkinson and Pavithra Suryanarayan “The Promise of Peer Review” 555 Lerner Hall, 12:30 pm – 2:30 pm, Vivian Siegel “Global Aid in Africa” Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Joseph Stiglitz and Louis Kasekende Thurs, Sept 30 “A Lingering Crusade: Developments in Global Policy on Illicit Drugs and Implications for Central Asia” 1109 School of Social Work, 6:30 am – 7:30 am, Various “Family Ties: Migration, Remittances, and Welfare Policy in the Developing World” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, David Andrew Singer “The Impact of Immigration on the Distribution of American Well-Being” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Gary Burtless “The Weather of the Future” President’s Room, Faculty House, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Heidi Cullen “Spinning Progressive Reform: Theodore Roosevelt and the Muckrakers” 801 IAB, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, David Greenberg “Life Histories: Interrogating the Spaces of Activism and Social Change in South Africa” 270B IAB, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Roxsana Sussewell “Queer Awareness Month Opening Reception” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Barbara Hammer “How the Sacred Foxes Came to Columbia: Anthropological Fieldwork, Synchronicity, and the Collecting Impulse” 403 Kent Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Karen A. Smyers “Nancy Holt: Sighlines, Artist Talk” Miller Theatre, Dodge Hall, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Nancy Holt and Alena Williams “Conversations with Composers: Miya Masaoka and Vijay Iyer” 301 Philosophy Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm Fri, Oct 1 “Conference on Oral Health of the Medically Complex Patient” Faculty House, 9:00 am – 5:00 pm, Various “Sergei Eisenstein’s Unpublished ‘Notes for a General History of Cinema’ World Premiere” 501 Schermerhorn, 9:00 am – 8:30 pm, Nico Baumbauch, Luka Arsenjuk, and More “Religious Conflict and Accommodation in India” Heyman Center for the Humanities, 9:00 am – Oct 2, 6:00 pm, Various “Cities and Eco-Crisis” Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall, 10:00 am – 6:00 pm, Various “The Future of U.S. Nuclear Weapons: New START and Nuclear Posture Review” 1501 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Elbridge Colby and Austin Long “Searching for—and Finding—the Ideal Dataset” 270B IAB, 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Greg Eirich “Deep 3D Structure Within the Nankai Trough Convergent Margin and Implications for the Seismogenic Zone” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Nathan Bangs “Martian Invasion: NASA’s Army of Exploratory Robots – And Free Stargazing” Pupin Hall (Follow Signs in Lobby), 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Jeff Andrews 
 Something terrible happened yesterday. On the way to do laundry, Bwog stopped at a vending machine, and put in a dollar bill, then pressed the change button. We waited for the clang of our four quarters, but it never came. The machine had eaten Bwog's (parents') hard-earned money! After an angry march to Hartley, Bwog went to the Hospitality Desk, and upon inqury received the Canteen Vending Services Refund Form. Columbia bureaucracy, you are relentless! Without any verification whatsoever, Bwog wrote down name, date and location of said financial arrears. Voila, four quarters. The same form works if a vending machine fails to vend, something we'd wish we knew last week when we were late for class trying to kick our peanut M&amp;Ms out of the Schapiro vending machine. Bwog got something else for free, too: a stern lesson. Vending machines are not made to give change, so get your quarters at Hartley. Or if you're a freshperson, use free money (Flex). Photo from Wikimedia Commons
Adam Kuerbitz was there! Last night’s CCSC meeting was a whopper, clocking in at just over an hour and a half. President Learned Foote opened the meeting with a discussion of the recent drama surrounding the council elections, particularly among first-year students. He specifically mentioned Grace Bickers’ recent op-ed piece in Spec about the need for a freshmen orientation to CCSC before elections. Council members discussed the possibility of reinstituting an orientation begun by former CCSC President Sue Yang CC’10, but there was also a consensus that confusion over the political process at Columbia is inevitable among first-year students. The council plans to continue the discussion next week. Monique Rinere, Dean of Advising and Associate Dean of Student Affairs, then spoke about reform in the Center for Student Advising. While an informal poll of people at the meeting revealed that most students know their adviser’s name and have visited the new advising center, few report having a positive advising experience in college. Dean Rinere, who came to Columbia last year from Harvard where she began the undergraduate advising program and served as advising dean, seemed genuinely concerned about students’ lackluster experience and listened to suggestions including follow-up emails and more assessment of advisers. Following up on the Advising Partnership, a set of expectations of students and advisers released this year, Dean Rinere emphasized the need for greater collaboration between Directors of Undergraduate Studies and CSA advisers. She welcomes further student suggestions. Next came the weekly rigmarole about meal plans, but this time with good news. The most recent CCSC meal plan poll, sent out this week, reveals that more students approve of the current options and fewer disapprove, a new trend in the polling data. The poll also showed that many students want another dining hall open on weekends to relieve congestion around Ferris Booth. The council is waiting to collect more information before making an official recommendation. The meeting closed with the council voting by an overwhelming majority to support the new Eco-Takeout container system in John Jay Dining Hall. Under the new system students can purchase a reusable takeout receptacle for $5 (students with meal plans receive them free of charge) or pay a small fee to use the disposable, clunky plastic boxes. Despite concerns that more students eating at Ferris Booth, which uses disposable dishes and silverware, mitigates the benefits of the program, the entire council voted to pass the measure with one member abstaining and one voting nay. The new plan is part of the PlaNYC carbon reduction goal, Mayor Bloomberg’s program to reduce carbon emissions 30% by 2030. Bloomberg and Prezbo: the newest Planeteers.
Let it be decreed, our friendly Morningside Heights bat is named Batenawi, after Columbia's latest controversial WLF guest, Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. In the past year, we've had sightings of raccoons, coyotes, squirrels and one very special hawk. Columbia is a jungle. Grab your safari hats, kids.
At 1:33 AM yesterday morning, a tipster sent Bwog an urgent message: "THIS WILL NOT STBAD." Koronet's super-sized pizza, in all its greasy goodness, now costs $3.75. This 25 cent price hike follows a steady quarter-a-year trend. It's unnerving, because when you're schwasted, you'll throw down anything just for chow.  Only the next morning will you realize you've lost that prized Hawaii state quarter— the one that finally completed your collection! By the way, anyone notice there's a Guam state quarter now? Shenanigans. Bwog's very own Hannah Goldstein offered us her personal New York theory: pizza price increases foreshadow fare hikes. No, say it isn't so! But still, intriguing.
Head over to the 2nd floor of the Diana at 5:00 PM for a Potluck dinner, courtesy of Barnard Ecoreps. And this isn't just a grab and go. The EcoReps will discuss "how we got into such an oily mess in the Gulf, what the ecological impacts really are, and what the spill and clean-up process do to the economy." The Ecoreps write, "Bring a plate and spork. We'll do the heavy lifting." Sounds lovely! UPDATE: In addition Columbia Model United Nations Conference and Exposition (CMUNCE) will be giving out free pizza at 8pm in Hamilton 702. They are looking for students who want to take part in planning a high school MUN conference. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
Last year, Bwog jammed with the JJ's Place guys, shaked to Shakira with Dean Peña-Mora, and sang a Sesame song with Dean Denburg. We know how those crazy cats in Dodge Hall like to party, so we asked Music Department Chair and Ethnomusicology Professor, Aaron Fox, what's in heavy rotation on his Ipod. Below are the musical selections he kindly shared with us. Mark Chesnutt, "A Better Class of Losers (Misery's All the Same)" Justin Treviño and Wanda Jackson, "What Have We Done?" Lucinda Williams, "Sylvia" ("She Loves the Night") Willie Nelson, "Darkness on the Face of the Earth" Marvin Gaye, "Mercy, Mercy, Me" Lyle Lovett, "LA County" Al Green, "Funny How Time Slips Away" (a Willie Nelson song, btw) Marty Stuart, "Badlands" Hal Ketchum, "Mama Knows the Highway" Stoney Edwards, "Blackbird"  (the Chip Taylor song, not the Beatles' one) Professor Fox added the following in his email: That's my actual top 10 right now. The artists stay the same even if the songs change (plus throw in Tom Waits, Bruce Springsteen, Tom Petty, Chrissie Hynde, a few others). Pretty boring for an ethnomusicologist, huh? I mean, I spend more time perhaps listening to recordings of Native American music made in the 1930s and 40s, but that's my work. This is what gets me to and from work. I have worn the exact same brand of boots and jeans for 20 years, and my personal musical tastes firmed up right around the same time. Who knew the Chair of Columbia's Music Department was a country fan? A little bird named Google informed us that Fox is actually a professional country guitarist. Way cool. Looks like Columbia has its very own Mr. Hyunh. (Bwog basically learned about country music from that excellent episode of Hey Arnold). 
Bwog, with all its Jewish grandmotherly wisdom, guided you through Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. Now grab your etrogs, kids: it’s Sukkot! Sukkot, the Feast of Tabernacles, is kind of like the Jewish version of Thanksgiving, but longer… and in huts. An eight-day-long harvest festival, this holiday recalls the 40 years when Moses and the ancient Israelites wandered through the desert before reaching the Promised Land. Jews eat in the sukkah (“booth”) to commemorate the Israelites’ make-shift shelters. Check out these avant-garde holiday huts from New York’s annual Sukkah City design competition in Union Square. Yesterday, a Chabadnik (from our very own Columbia Chabad House on 625 W 113th St!) was chilling outside the bookstore. These members of the Hasidic movement, Chabad-Lubavitch, aren’t out to convert you—just to tell you about fun Jew things. Anywho, he was holding a lulav, a long palm branch, and an etrog, a lemon-like fruit. Waving the lulav and etrog—the Four Species—is a mitzvah specified by the Torah. Plus, etrogs smell nice. On Yom Kippur, Bwog challenged you to get invited to a break fast dinner. Before Sukkot ends, eat dinner in a sukkah. Bwog's friend counted eleven of them throughout Columbia University. Our friends at Chabad encourage you to join them for Simchat Torah, the end of the festival, on Thursday night. This will involve dancing all night long with ancient Torah scrolls in hand! Update, 6:15 p.m.: Cart chaser Conor Skelding spotted this Sukkot Cart trundling about campus this evening. Photo by Conor Skelding
Dear Friends, Please join the staff of The Blue &amp; White (pictured at right) for our meeting tonight, Monday night, at 9:00 p. m. in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. We 'll continue planning our next issue and getting updates from writers, for October layout is fast approaching. If you're interested in working with the magazine and/or the Bwog, please stop by—it's never too late to get involved! The Editors.
I lost a nikon d60 camera in Ferris Booth. It has priceless vacation photos on it and was last seen in its black carrying case. Offering reward with no questions asked.
 Our own econ professor, Jagdish Bhagwati, won the Nobel Prize for Economics–on the season premiere of The Simpsons, that is. It's in the first minute. (Fancast) Because we still care a tiny bit (even if we don't want to admit it), James Franco says he wasn't sleeping through class that one time he was sleeping through class. (Gawker) The MacArthur Foundation announced the 23 recipients of their "Genius" grants--among 'em: a beekeeper, a high school science teacher, and David Simon, creator of "The Wire." (Reuters) Mayor Mike: "TENURE BAD. MAYOR MIKE NO LIKE TENURE." (New York Post) We seem to be getting along just fine without LeBron. Cavs fans, not so much. (New York; New York Times) 
 What, you ask, could be more fun, more festive, more downright Mediterranean than a casual business lunch at Fancy Campo Fancy Westside Vareli? Well, how about the possibility of a free casual business lunch at Fancy Campo Fancy Westside Vareli?, along with the added adrenal thrill of a game of chance? That's what you're getting with Vareli's new coin flip lunch: when it comes time to pay, you flip a coin and call it in the air. If you're right, lunch is on the house; if you're wrong, you're paying. The promotion (which, sadly, doesn't include alcohol; we're sure there's a drinking game in there somewhere) starts today and runs through October 8th.
Well, first the 1 wasn't running. From an overcrowded replacement shuttle bus: PA system: Thank you for using the MTA. Old woman: Oh, shut up! (Everyone cheers) And then we had to come to terms with ill-advised decisions. At John Jay Sunday brunch: Distinctly Continental chap, to a lady-friend: "I have been reminded of what I did last night, and I apologize." It happens to the best of us, pal. Blame it on MTA-induced stress. Or the booze.
 So it's stopped raining and is sort of generally unpleasant outside, which in Accuweather and Barnard terms means it's time to be afraid of a tornado. Garrett Doherty of Barnard Public Safety wrote all of BC with the following message: The office of Emergency Mangement for the City of New York has issued a Tornado Watch for all five boroughs until 8pm tonight. Monitor televsion and radio for further updates and travel plans should be made accordingly. AccuWeather says, "be afraid." Pat Blute, Bwog's weatherman, says, "the three W's of tornado watches: Who, Where, and Why. Who brought this upon us? Where should we hide? Why?" Halp! Photo from the Wikimedia Commons
Sean Zimmermann reports from last night's ESC meeting. ESC reported that the tie in the freshman election was due to glitches in the voting system. After investigating the recent freshman election tie, the voting website only allowed student to select one class representative. This also explains the 14 vote tie between the two class rep candidates, even though the overall election turnout was 30% of the freshman class. As a result, the runoff election will not be limited to the tied candidates, but will be held for all candidates who ran for freshman class rep. Candidates will be allowed to campaign again for 24 hours on Tuesday, and the election will be reopened on Wednesday. Columbia may soon require students to register with Housing if they plan to stay over winter break. Unlike most schools (Barnard!), Columbia does not require students to register or pay a fee to stay in their dorm over winter break. However, the administration is concerned that if more people stay on campus over winter break, more support staff will be needed. The registration would be for the administration to gauge what percentage of the staff would have to stay on during the winter. 2 ESC representatives resigned this week – Ben Ye has resigned as Pre-Professional and Alumni Affairs Rep, and Scott Lee has resigned as Student Services rep. This means that three positions are now open on council: Alumni Affairs, Student Services, and Environmental Affairs Deans Moody-Adams and Peña-Mora are the only remaining hurdles for the Open-housing proposal. VP Policy Heidi Ahmed announced that the proposal already has a large amount of support from the administration, and, if it is approved by Moody-Adams and Peña-Mora, a pilot open-housing program could be enacted as early as next fall. President Christopher Elizondo reported that, after a meeting with Scott Wright, council is looking for an ESC “lawn representative” who will work with Wright on a “lawn committee” to work out a schedule for the oft-closed patches of green in front Butler. 
 Caitlin Lynch reports with highlights from this week's SGA meeting. The SGA has a new website-- look at it! Correction, 9/29: The SGA, not the Alumni Association, is starting the initiative to reach out to students and alums in the Tri-State Area. That initiative is focusing solely on Thanksgiving, not Spring Break, for the moment. The students and alum will not be offering places to stay, just places to have a Thanksgiving meal. The Alumni Association of Barnard College had its first meeting last week. The Alumni Board is considering starting an initiative to reach out to students and alums in the Tri-State area who would be willing give students who can’t afford to go home for holidays like Thanksgiving and Spring Break a place to stay (so they won’t have to be stuck on campus). First-year election speeches are this Wednesday at 8:00 pm in the Diana Cafe-- dinner will be served! A Dining Services event will be organized so students can meet the Dining Services Staff. The Greek Life Committee met again on Sunday, and they will be handing out a fact sheet and a questionnaire at the Town Hall to students. There is a now “digital training lab” in Lehman Library. This also doubles as a teaching room, and is intended to be used for everything from Excel training to language skills. The lab has a NINJa printer, and can also be used as a computer lab during certain hours of the day. A "Personal Librarian Program” was introduced: first-year students are now assigned a “personal librarian,” which is like a mini-librarian adviser. Librarians are also assigned to certain departments, so students who have declared a major can also consult with them about research databases, books available at Butler, questions regarding theses, and other important matters. Barnard's website is moving to a different content management system, so there will be a new website in January. 
 Every fall, Club Dimensions, a South Asian campus group, throws their annual Guria benefit–it's full of dancing and food, and it's fun. To plan for this year's iteration, they're joining forces with the CU Culinary Society for a study break featuring "gourmet Indian desserts." Stop by the Lerner East Ramp Lounge at 9:00pm to nosh, plan, and learn more about both groups. "this event is blowing my mind," reads the Facebook event listing. And there's also free pizza at the Dance Marathon info session today at 6:30, 568 Lerner. Photo via Wikimedia. 
Clear blue Greek "eye" bracelet, with eyes all around. Location lost: Lower level ellipticals in Dodge on 9/26
Sometimes, we put our empties on top of trash cans. Other times, we simply can't be bothered. The roof of Kent in the harsh light of day: 
 A former Columbia biology Ph.D. candidate's lawsuit against the city for wrongful prosecution has been thrown out. He had previously been charged with the kidnapping and rape of a Barnard student. (WSJ) Columbia's history program ranks first in a tricky-to-follow ranking of Ph.D. programs by the National Research Council. (Inside Higher Ed) Gothamist loves Batenawi (But then who doesn't?). Mayor Mike is proposing a $1.5 billion plan to reduce sewage flow into the city's sewer systems. The pro-sewage-in-the-streets lobby has yet to respond. (NYT) Monday was Family Day, as proclaimed by the consistent research-producing National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University, and by President Barack Obama. Did you know where your family was? (CASA, WhiteHouse.gov)
Bwog's very own Zoe Camp stopped by the presidential mansion Tuesday night to have a chat with PrezBo. PrezBo's fireside chat offered freshpeople a rather magical escape from the perils of dorm life. Lo, the mountains of hors d'oeuvres, the perfectly-arranged rows of chairs, the meticulously clean, downright palatial bathrooms - ladies and gentlemen, we’re not in John Jay anymore. And of course, there’s our leader, our hero, the man who makes our collective hearts gush like the grease from a slice of Koronet’s at 3 in the morning - Prezident Lee Bollinger. Tuesday night’s discussion was helpful to upperclassmen and freshpeople alike, providing key updates on Manhattanville, the recent rise in pre-professional programs, and the University as a whole. PrezBo didn't wait to be asked about Manhattanville. Rather, he launched right into a status report on the recently green-lit expansion, one that he hopes will cultivate “the same student spirit you get . . . when you go to Low.” Bollinger was particularly excited about the Mind, Brain, Behavior Institute, a new Neuroscience school that may see cross-exchange programs with the school of Economics, an initiative that Bollinger claims will “not only advance our study of the mind on a molecular basis, but also in a broader sense.” PrezBo talked about a few issues in a "broader sense" last night. When asked about the rise of pre-professional programs in connection with graduate institutions, such as the new Financial Econ major and the recently added Business Management concentration, 'Bo dismissed any fears that such tracks meant the end of the Core, insisting that such pre-professional programs are necessary to reconcile a traditional, liberal arts education with modern trends in pre-professional training and global thinking. In other words, he said, “Let’s ready Aristotle and think of contemporary problems.” No word on any new pre-professional besides Econ - and even though Bollinger tentatively expressed interest in exploring new relationships with the other graduate schools, he raised a question that no doubt many students can appreciate: “How do we make new things available without being too overwhelming?” From there, the chat switched focus from larger campus issues to smaller inquiries. There was an relieving explanation of the change in CUarts management, which according to the Prez had nothing to do with marginalizing the project and everything to do with Provost Claude Steele's involvement, saying "it wasn’t fair to have him manage it.” Another student brought up the longtime ban of ROTC on campus and whether or not a repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell would mean the program’s return. Prezbo’s answer: "if DADT is repealed, ROTC may be invited back.” Unfortunately, there wasn’t nearly enough time for a proper discussion of some controversial issues, like the decision to invite Ahmadinejad and Zenawi to speak on campus. Bollinger kept it short and concise- “I will always defend the right of this institution to invite anyone to come and speak - but not for political reasons,” he said - but one couldn’t help but feel as though the issue was pushed to the side. As the chat wrapped up, one student asked PrezBo a funny question: “So, Mr. President, I want to know about you.” And while we didn’t learn the identity of Prezbo’s favorite HamDeli sandwich or whether or not Hawkma is actually his lethal, feathered spy, we did get a brief list of his to-dos concerning the University: making SIPA a premier public affairs school, building (surprised!) a global free press, and making Manhattanville flourish as part of the Columbia community, to name a few. PrezBo ended the chat with two pieces of information - his plan to head to Paris tomorrow for Sciences Po business and his wish for the audience to polish off the remaining hors d'oeuvres. Photo from Wikimedia Commons.
 A lot of study abroad applications are due this Friday, October 1, and if you happen to be a member of the Class of 2012 eager to leave Morningside next semester, your days have been filled with a few extra doses of Existential Crisis and lots of paperwork. Here are a few tips to make your life a little easier, now that we're about 48 hours away from the deadline. Getting your transcript is E-Z! Instead of triple-emailing your advisor, go to 210 Kent, fill out the transcript request form (you'll find it to your left, outside the door), pass it to an employee at the desk. She'll print your transcript (as many copies as you need!) and put them in a fancy Columbia Office of the Registrar envelope. Passport pictures are expensive. Bwog spent 60 miserable dollars at Duane Reade today (since our abroad program inexplicably requires 12 photos) before realizing there was a better way that involved much less lite-music listening. A set of two passport photos are $8.99 at Ivy League Stationers, but $9.99 at Duane Reade at $10.99 at Village Copier. Plus, the Ivy League guys are some of the friendliest in town. Remember not to buy your stamps at the Package Center. Kill two birds with one administrative stone by picking up your stamps at the post office on 112th between Broadway and Amsterdam, right next to Book Culture, where you can also overnight your application so that it gets to London or Kathmandu or Moscow on time. Need clearance to study abroad, like, now? Study Abroad King, Dean Carpenter's office  hours are from 1:30 to 4 in 105 Carman, by the Carman computer lab. And if you need to rush it to the Office of Global Programs, don't be fooled! It's not in Lewisohn anymore, it's on 606 Kent. If you can't get your shit together on time, find your program and plead with them between 12:30-3:30 in Roone this Friday at the Study Abroad fair. Et voila! No Morningside February for you, friend!
Seniors just got an email with a lot of capital letters and Z's instead of S's (student council...it's just like Bwog!) Included in that email was a list of potential Class Day speakers. And here they are: Richard Axel, Nobel Prize-winning neuroscientist. Marcus Brauchli, executive editor of the Washington Post; not as dashing as Bill Keller. Lanny Breuer, Assistant Attorney General, Department of Justice. Ric Burns, your and Eric Foner's favorite PBS documentary producer, his daughter niece Lily graduated a few years ago. Alexandra Wallace Creed, executive producer of NBC Nightly News, CC'88 Julius Genachowski, Chairman of Federal Communications Commission Sen. Judd Gregg, Senator from New Hampshire Pres. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of Estonia Jodi Kantor,  New York Times journalist Anne Kornblut, Washington Post journalist Li Lu, Columbia alum and Chairman of Himalaya Capital Management Terrence McNally, former Varsity Show writer, current playwright Michael Mukasey, CC'63, 81st Attorney General of the United States Anna Paquin, still on a leave of absence from Columbia after a year of college, that girl from True Blood Elizabeth Rubin, New York Times journalist Julia Stiles, former John Jay resident Ray Suarez, Senior Correspondent for PBS Newshour Discuss!
 Fox News is buzzing about the edge of campus asking students if they're voting, why they're voting, and whether the youth are going to take a stand like they did in 2008. You know, since Columbia is representative of all youth. No word yet as to which clichés will be used to skewer us on tonight's segment.
Silver diamond pattern tie found in parapet to the left of the Low steps last week, after a rainstorm. Brand name is on it: I will keep it private in order to identify the real owner. Say it correctly to confirm ownership. 
 If you thought backronyms were only something that happened in Washington, think again. The office known as Lerner Hall is now offering called "S.A.V.E."--the Student Audio and Visual Equipment program. S.A.V.E. will offer training in multimedia support and, according to a flier entitled "S.A.V.E. YOURSELF $$$", will allow recognized student groups the opportunity to "S.A.V.E. on the cost of tech staffing for next event." Still want to know more? According to the S.A.V.E. website, S.A.V.E. sounds like a marginally-accredited technical school advertising on the subway: Set up basic audio visual equipment properly, efficiently, and safely. Understand the fundamentals of audio which will enable them to perform audio engineering on a basic level. Prevent noise, feedback, and learn how to troubleshoot in the middle of an event efficiently. If you or your group are interested in S.A.V.E., see their flier. Photo from Wikimedia Commons.
Cuz downtown service isn't working at 116th! Take the bus! Womp womp.
So we told you what it is, but here's what it looks like. DUN DUN DUN! 
Janette Turner Hospital, an author and Adjunct Associate Professor at the MFA Writing Program here, really likes Columbia. Her school spirit is perhaps second only to that of Roar-ee the Lion. Today, she wrote an email to her old students at University of South Carolina. She is, it seems, happier here than she was there. In many hundreds of words, she details everything that she loves about Columbia, and encourages USC students to stay in a nearby hostel (with linens provided!) so that they can just smell the Morningside ("Upstate Manhattan") air. Gawker got hold of the email, and it is unreal. We bolded some true gems. The MIT and Matisse bits are our very favorites. To those I'm supervising and to all other MFA students: Forwarded below are a couple of emails sent to all of our Columbia MFA students. It's the kind of invitation students here receive-and take up-at least once or twice a week in a cornucopia of literary riches. It seems to me that USC writing students should also know about these opportunities, since you could car-pool up to NYC very cheaply and stay at youth hostels on Manhattan (within walking distance of Columbia U and Central Park) for just $30/night (shared room) with linen, towels, and breakfast provided. MFA students from other states take advantage of this and visit in groups. Why not USC? As for news from this very different MFA planet, I'm in seventh heaven teaching here, and not only because I have Orhan Pamuk (whom I hope to bring to USC for Caught in the Creative Act), Oliver Sacks, Simon Schama, Richard Howard, Margo Jefferson, etc., etc., as colleagues, though that is obviously part of it. My students also live and move and write in seventh heaven and in a fever of creative excitement.Columbia's MFA is rigorous and competitive but students don't just have publication as a goal – they take that for granted, since about half the graduating class has a book published or a publishing contract in hand by graduation – so they have their sights set on Pulitzers. This program is huge, the largest in the country. It's a 3-year degree, with 300 students enrolled at a given time. Each year, 100 are admitted (in fiction, poetry, nonfiction) with fiction by far the largest segment. But 600+ apply, so the 100 who get in are the cream of the cream... This kind of rigor about the thesis (absolutely no easy rides here) has a lot to do with the high publication rate. But there are certainly other factors which contribute: students do internships at the New Yorker, Publishers' Weekly, Paris Review, and at major publishing houses. They attend multiple readings by famous writers every week (not by any means all at Columbia, but at the NY Public Library, the 92nd St Y, at NYU, etc. Also, the program hosts a reception for all graduating students with about 30 major editors and agents invited. At his reception, each agent or editor is presented with an anthology of the work of the graduating students, along with contact emails. No wonder the students are off to a flying start. Agents and editors hover like major-league recruiters at college championships. But I think what thrills me most of all is the sheer intellectual intensity of the students. Although I have taught at a number of the most highly regarded MFA programs in this country and in England, there's only one other place I've ever taught where there was a comparable atmosphere, and that was MIT, where I taught for 3 years. At both places the crackle of intellectual energy in the air is almost visible, like blue fire. And then there are all the peripheral pleasures of living on Manhattan: we've seen the Matisse exhibition at MOMA, have tickets for the opening of Don Pasquale at the Met Opera, have tickets to see Al Pacino on stage as Shylock in the Merchant of Venice, etc etc. Plus I'm just 15 minutes walking distance from Columbia and from all the sidewalk bistros on Broadway, and 3 minutes from Central Park where we join the joggers every morning. This is Cloud Nine living on the Upper West Side (which is known to my agent and my Norton editor, who live in Greenwich Village, as "Upstate Manhattan." ) We love it.
 At 8 PM in the Dodge Room of Earl Hall, you'll find red velvet cupcakes and people doing good things. The Student Global AIDS Campaign is letting cupcake-eaters know how they can get involved with the campaign against HIV/AIDS. Bring your friends! UPDATE (9:30) FeelGoodCU is grilling cheeses in the satow room in Lerner! Photo from Wikimedia Commons.
 Holy smokes! Barnard students just received an email from Dean Denburg, saying that the World Leaders Forum will host an event with Al Gore this Tuesday. The full email is below. Columbia students still haven't gotten the email, but this email says registration is open to Columbia, Barnard and Teacher's College. Register tomorrow at 9 AM, we suppose! Dear Barnard students, Please see the following announcement regarding the upcoming World Leaders Forum. Note that registration opens tomorrow, Thursday, September 30th, at 9:00 AM. Seating is limited. Dorothy Denburg Dean of the College ************************************************************************ World Leaders Forum is pleased to announce the following events taking place on Tuesday, October 5, 2010: 9:00 a.m. Enacting Sustainable Capitalism Rotunda, Low Memorial Library Al Gore, chairman of Generation Investment Management, will deliver an address to be followed by a question and answer session with the audience. 11:45 a.m. The Sovereign Debt Problem Rotunda, Low Memorial Library George Soros, chair of Soros Fund Management LLC and founder of the Open Society Institute, will deliver an address to be followed by a question and answer session with the audience. Both events are co-sponsored by Committee on Global Thought and Sovereign Wealth Fund Research Initiative Registration Online registration is required and seating is limited. Registration is open to students from Columbia University, Barnard College, and Teachers College. Registration for both events will open on Thursday, September 30, at 9:00 a.m. To register, please visit www.worldleaders.columbia.edu &lt;http://www.worldleaders.columbia.edu/&gt;
Sometimes we leave our empties on trash cans. Sometimes we can't be bothered. Other times we throw them at the wall in euphoric rage.
ESC has just officially reported the results of the freshman election. Congrats to the winners! President: ﻿Akshay Shah Vice President: Sheila Misheni Class Representative 1: Siddhant Bhatt Class Representative 2: Elizabeth Day or Tanya Shah (tied with 23 votes each) But wait! That's right, you're reading that last line correctly. It's another tie for class representative, and this time, it's not because of a voting glitch. Due to the tie, ESC will hold yet another runoff election between Day and Shah. When will the madness end? Best of luck to the two candidates remaining in round 3, and see below for the full breakdown of votes. President Akshay Shah - 35 Annabelle Anandappa - 28 Hubert Chang - 23 Vice President Sheila Misheni - 32 Amrita Mazumdar - 29 Robyn Ridley - 25 Class Representative Siddhant Bhatt - 32 Elizabeth Day - 23 Tanya Shah - 23 Jason Chin - 20 Patricia Hsu - 13 
 Grab your umbrellas and put on your rain boots! It's going to be a wet and windy day. Before you watch The Social Network, take note of a little Columbia history. Remember CU Community? Started by SEAS alum Adam Goldberg, it was what Facebook was to Harvard -- except ours was better and came first. On the list of most expensive NY neighborhoods, UWS does not disappoint. Tormented Rutgers student who committed suicide was found at the Columbia boathouse. Comedian and Columbia alum Greg Giraldo passed away yesterday. Update: PrezBo has just announced that Gregory Mosher, the founding director of the Arts Initiative, is stepping down to work in professional theater, but will maintain his role as a Professor of Professional Practice at the School of Arts.
Yes, the weather sucks, but at least the rain is good for the plants! Most of the Greenmarket will still be out there bringing you your weekly supply of fresh local food. You can count on Samascott and Stannards Farm for their fruit and produce, and Meredith's Bread for their baked goods. We're hoping that the regulars will be there, but unfortunately we'll have to do without Lani's Farm or Buon Pan. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Rejoice! The lawns don't look like this anymore. 
Director extraordinaire Victor Suarez CC'11 (remember The Kitchen Cabinet's "Dogwood"?) has directed yet another Columbia-themed production. This project features the music of Night Eyes, a group formerly known as sssen, consisting of Alex Klein (CC'12) and Anthony Natoli of NYU. The video was shot by Suarez and Laura LaPerche (CC'10) in Montauk last weekend, with Yoni Golijv (CC'12) as gaffer. Charlotte Kaufman (CC'11) stars as the "sea creature" and plays opposite Hico Oshiro from Japan. We're told that the whole thing is only lit with flashlights (yeah, we can tell) and shot with a DSLR camera. Happy viewing! Inspired by Night Eyes from Victor Suarez on Vimeo.
You guys know the thing about the weather, right? It never sleeps. 
The Theta Delta Chapter of Sigma Lambda Gamma National Sorority Incorporated will be giving away Gamma hugs from 4:30pm-6:00pm throughout campus -- and they're free! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
The Hapa Club's serving green tea cupcakes from 8PM-9PM in the Furnald lounge. YUM!!! Photo via Flickr
Public Safety has just informed us that a student was robbed of her cell phone by two males last night at the Wien Gate. One of the suspects grabbed the student's cell phone from behind, and as she struggled with him, she fell to the ground. The suspects then fled the scene to Morningside Park. On September 29, 2010, at about 9:12 p.m. a student was the victim of a cell phone snatch on W. 116 St. at the Wien Gate.  The student was followed by two males shown below, who accosted her from behind, and grabbed her cell phone as she was entering the Wien Gate.  The victim struggled with one of the suspects and fell to the ground.  The suspects fled towards Morningside Drive, and then into Morningside Park. If the above subjects are observed around Columbia University please contact Public Safety immediately at 212-854-5555 and or 911. Anyone with additional information is asked to contact Detective Signoretti, 26th Precinct Detective Squad at 212-678-1352 or the undersigned. Please remember to be aware of your surroundings as you walk through the neighborhood and be especially careful when using electronic devices in public. Ken Finnegan, Director of Investigations &amp; Technology Projects Columbia University, Department of Public Safety 212-854-4790 September 30, 2010
 Today marks the dawn of a new Bwog feature: GonzoBwog, in which we embark on a quest to answer your questions through empirical means (rather than doing what we usually do and looking them up on Wikipedia performing extensive research on the subject). This time, Daily Editors Liz Jacob and Megan McGregor chronicle their journey to test the limits of carb consumption. If you have any suggestions, you know the drill: send 'em in to tips@bwog.com. We tried to do the impossible: eat solely free food for one entire week. We failed, but that’s okay. We learned about Columbia, ourselves, and how to acquire free food. What follows is an account of our adventures. Friday, September 17 (Day 1): Potluck Pleasures We were scared. Beginning such a Herculean task was daunting, to say the least. However, we decided to begin our journey at Potluck House on 114th and Broadway. We didn’t have it in ourselves to show up without a dish for the potluck, so we brought desserts from Westside. Upon arriving at Potluck House, we realized that bringing pre-prepared food to a potluck is quite unacceptable. However, we were still greeted with kindness. We decided to give the desserts as a gift. So, even though we had to purchase said desserts, we didn’t technically break our vow. Things we learned: 1. Our peers are much more skilled at the culinary arts than we are. 2. More people come to Potluck House than you’d think (including half of the Bwog staff and even an extremely friendly student from UChicago). 3. Brownstones are so much nicer than any other campus housing. Saturday, September 18 (Day 2): Sometimes Platters of Bagels Fall From the Heavens Megan: Saturday morning, Bwog received a tip that free bagels and pastries were being distributed at the Sundial courtesy of the Millennium Campus Conference. I dressed immediately and ran there within 10 minutes of receiving said email. Tip: If you want first pick of free food, you must arrive early! After grabbing for only one bagel, a kind stranger offered me (Liz was late—mistake!) an entire platter of bagels. Floored by this unbelievable generosity, I joyously shared the news with Liz. We received about about 30 pumpernickel bagel halves apiece (we assume no collegiate leaders enjoy pumpernickel)! In case you’re in CC, that’s enough bagels for every meal for more than a week. And so began our bagel diet. For lunch, we crashed a Columbia Political Review pitch meeting at the invitation of CPR Editor-in-Chief/fellow Bwogger/god Mark Hay. Basically, Mark held a meeting while cooking omelets for us (he had already made them for everyone else). Tip: Have nice friends that let you crash their meetings and cook for you! Mark Hay is a man among men. Liz: Sans Megan, I headed over to Passport to Columbia in Roone Arledge Auditorium to sample the snacks provided by the multicultural groups on campus. Well-connected Columbian that I am, I managed to skip the long line at Roone’s entrance (see, it pays to come early!), and headed straight over to the food. There were samosas, dumplings, and sushi galore! I was in heaven. After eating to my stomach’s content, I will admit that I left before seeing a few (read: almost all) of the acts—which I hear were great! Note: Campus freeganism turns normal college students into vultures. Attempt it at your own risk. Sunday, September 19 (Day 3): The Real Day of Bagels Sunday can be a slow day in free food, which is why it pays to stock up on bagels, or really any free food distributed en masse. You may feel really obnoxious walking away from a free food event with a stack of cookies, but just remember that while you may look like a glutton, you will still be eating for FREE. Monday, September 20 (Day 4): Lazy Freeganism Being a freegan can involve some sacrifice. Being a lazy freegan involves only eating bagels, which is exactly what we did on Monday. But, we were creative! Pumpernickel bagels, apparently, go well with everything--cheese, peanut butter, hummus, you name it! What's even better is that it’s still free if you steal your toppings from your roommate. Tip: Live with people who don’t mind your mooching. Tuesday, September 21 (Day 5): Bhakti!! For breakfast and lunch, we continued on our lazy path. However, for dinner, our lives were changed forever—we discovered the wonders of Bhakti Club. Bhakti Club hosts a cooking class followed by a free, delicious dinner every Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the Broadway Room in Lerner. We dined luxuriously on scrumptious vegetable sabji and other yummy things! Tip: Bring tupperware. Wednesday, September 22 (Day 6): Pie for Dinner? Don’t tell Mom. Liz: While Megan was stuck eating bagels, I went to the CC 2013 Study Break: Pie and Cider Edition. I ate two slices of pie (one pumpkin and one apple) and a black and white cookie. I did not have any cider. This was a mistake, as I was very thirsty later. Note: Always try everything at a free food event. What you don’t want now, you will most certainly want later. After this study break, I had the option to eat free pizza at the Rotaract meeting that night, but I was lazy. Bagels are enablers. Megan: After getting out of class at 10:20 p.m., I was starving. I complained to my roommate until she bought me Famous Famiglia. Score! Thursday, September 23 (Day 7): Starvation Megan: On this sad day, we ate, again, bagels for breakfast and lunch. To our relief, we got through the day knowing that we would be eating gourmet Pakistani cuisine at the Organization of Pakistani Students’ Eid Mela. We arrived precisely on time, as all good freegans do, eagerly awaiting our feast. To our chagrin, President Obama got in the way! Obama’s presence in our city slowed all traffic through midtown, and thus we had to wait another hour and a half for our meal. Finally, it arrived after I started hallucinating from malnourishment. After our “feast,” I was still unsatisfied. Taking pity on me, my roommate had vegetable dumplings waiting for me upon my homecoming. Again, it pays to have a magnanimous roommate. Friday, September 24 (The End): Free at Last, Free at Last Liz: Our bagels now moldy, we cheated. We would not have cheated had there have been free food events, but to our disappointment, Friday was a slow day. So, we gave up. Perhaps it was because we had grown so sick of bagels and all other carbohydrates, that we lost all clarity and drive. In any case, we broke our free food “fast” two meals early, and I lost a bet. Conclusions: While sometimes unfeasible, certain freegan principles can be applied to real life. We were unaware of how many free, fun events went on at Columbia on a daily basis. Maybe one can’t live solely off of free food (unless you want to dumpster dive), but one surely can spend a lot less money on food. Save it for alcohol, kids. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
LOST: one red umbrella in 702 hamilton during adv progamming course.
3:30 AM fire alarm in EC, and it just started to rain. Keep on keeping on, EC! Refugees find solace in SIPA: 
A former St Johns' dean takes the term "scholarship" to a whole new level. Dean Shollenberger would never enslave us...right? (Gothamist) This rain is some serious business. Good luck leaving your rooms, let alone the bubble, this weekend. (City Room) The Spec editorial board thinks you're a bit of a pig. (Spec) Seniors, take note. The good people of the employer branding firm Universum voted, and here are the companies they think you should want to hire you. (HuffPo) First, it was Hawkmadinejad. Then, it was Batenawi. Now, Justin Beaver?  (NY Daily News) Photo from flickr/Ed Yourdon
 Hang on to your hats, folks. The Study Abroad Fair is today! If you're at all interested in leaving "Upstate Manhattan" for a semester or two, head over to the fair in Roone Auditorium at 12:30 p.m.. Are French home-stays as awkward as everyone says they are? Where's the best place to meet cute Italian guys? You'll find the answers to these questions (in addition to many other more relevant ones, we hope) at the Study Abroad Fair. Go check it out. Photo from flickr/JohnLeGear
 It's raining and gloomy right now and Bwog's feet are wet, so the aptly-named Fun Club wants you to have at least little fun in it by handing out free food in the form of Magnolia Bakery banana pudding. So head over to the Lerner Ramps right now and grab some before it's all gone! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Check out our dear friend Hawkma as he perches on that odd fence that has recently appeared on South Lawn. Evidently, while you may not be able to sit on the lawns for more than five minutes before a Public Safety officer shoos you away, Hawkma most certainly can. You go, Hawkma. Photo by Mason Fitch
I think I left it in a classroom in Pupin.
Welcome back to Cooking with Bwog, you favorite way to ease those pesky Friday afternoon munchies. This week, Matt Powell brings us hangar steak with almond-herb salsa and strawberry basil milkshakes. We bet they'll bring all the boys to the yard! This week, I was in desperate need of meat. Sorry, vegetarians and vegans, but sometimes I have cravings, and these cravings need to be satisfied. Now, I often hear college students complaining that they miss eating a good, home-cooked steak once in a while. Well, why can’t you make it yourself? This week, I decided to make a hangar steak with an almond-herb salsa. But this isn’t your typical salsa. It’s more of a hybrid between pesto and chimichurri. Essentially, it’s delicious. And of course, after such a heavy meal you need a light dessert: Strawberry Basil Milkshakes. I know, strawberries and basil in a dessert? Before you bash it, try it. Strawberry and basil is a classic savory combo, and it is just as amazing in a dessert. Hangar Steak with Almond-Herb Salsa Serves 4 Ingredients ½ C whole almonds, toasted and cooled ½ C fresh flat leaf Italian parsley ¼ C fresh tarragon ¼ C fresh chives 1 medium shallot, peeled 1 garlic clove ½ C olive oil A splash of red wine vinegar Salt and Pepper Olive oil for brushing 2 lbs. trimmed hangar steak Directions 1. Place toasted almonds in a small food processor, and pulse until ground into a coarse, sandy consistency. Add in fresh herbs, shallot, and garlic. Pulse until combined. Pour in oil and vinegar and pulse again until combined (It should have the same consistency as a pesto). Add salt and pepper to taste. 2. Brush steak with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Heat a skillet over medium-high heat. Place each steak one at a time on the skillet, and cook for 10 minutes, until just pink on the inside. 3. Serve finished steaks with almond-herb salsa, and maybe an arugula salad. Strawberry Basil Milkshakes Serves 2 Ingredients 2/3 C white wine 1/3 C sugar 1 small bunch of basil 1/2 C whole milk 4 scoops vanilla ice cream 4 scoops strawberry ice cream Directions 1. In a saucepan, bring white wine and sugar to a boil, and boil until sugar has dissolved. Reduce heat to a simmer, and stir in basil. Remove from heat, and cover the saucepan. Steep for 1-2 hours. 2. Strain out basil leaves, and cool the basil syrup you’ve just made. 3. In a blender, blend the basil syrup, milk, and ice creams together. Pour into glasses and serve with whipped cream on top. Culinary Events In the city The Wine and Food Festival 2010­­––The celebration of food and drink begins this Thursday, October 7th. Food events, cooking demos, book signings, and tours will be happening all over the city. Make sure to check out the site for any remaining tickets and for the list of events that will be taking place in the city. (I’ve personally had my tickets since June.) At Columbia Queer Fruits Tasting––In collaboration with QUAM, the Culinary Society is putting together a tasting of exotic fruits. The event will be part educational and all delicious! We will be featuring all sorts of strange fruits that cannot be found at West Side. The event will be Tuesday, October 5th, at 9 pm in the Lerner Ramp Lounge East.
We’ve been keeping an eye out for good eats and curious characters around the neighborhood, this time haranguing the locals who know business. Sarah Camiscoli sat down with Steven Kay, co-manager of Mel’s Burger Bar, in one of those fancy red booths to talk life, college, and what it means to be in business in Morningside Heights. “My mom tells the story that we were in Colorado skiing when I was ten and I said I wanted to open a hotel,” is Steven’s reply when asked about the early beginnings of his entrepreneurial oomph. Years later, with hospitality in his heart and SATs on his mind, Steven plunged into Cornell’s School of Hotel Administration where he found his nook in the food and beverage side of things. As a man who has lived his childhood fantasy of service and innovation, Steven explains, “I like being the host. I like having people at my place having a good time. It’s tough work and endless hours and it's not the easiest way to make a buck so you better like it.” Years after enduring the pains of Ithaca, Steven landed in Morningside Heights, using his refined passions for food and drink to take advantage of the (rarely) bustling college life, expanding community, and heavy foot traffic next to the Uptown 1 stop. In this hot spot, Steven sensed that he could offer “an infusion of new blood. “ While Mel’s is the first of its kind, Steven is big on the fact that he and his fellow founders did not bring the meta-theories behind the business as an experiment. For that, he’s proud to admit that the novelty of the bright lights and spiked shakes have, “appealed to people on a level where they see we’re serious operators and we take our product seriously.” To give Bwog a sense of what it means to “take a product seriously,” Steven talked about the need for “mass appeal” and the kind of trouble he’s run into in trying to rally the fragmented masses of Morningside. “I never intended to focus on just neighborhood people or just the Columbia community. The needs of the neighborhood and the Columbia community are completely different.” Beyond the different tastes of locals and Columbia insurgents, the fact that “college kids tend to be creatures of habit” and Columbia is diverse “on every level, “ has left Steven spending a good amount of his down time doing what he calls “market research.” Hoping to see how he can get students to see Mel’s as a bumping spot, he spends “three to four days a week” visiting local establishments and starting small talk with clientele. Using the conclusions drawn from his fieldwork as a social scientist, Steve’s semester goals consist of looking to create a transferable model for a burger super power, learning how to read an “Ecuadorian license,” and nailing down “the connectors”—the psychological subculture (he recalls from Malcolm Gladwell’s The Tipping Point) of the kind of people that bring others together and act as decision makers. According to the boss, “it’s a matter of appealing to those people” and finding innovative ways of getting students to “finish their night under the lights at Mel’s" instead of starting it with a turkey burger and disappearing into the wilderness of a Friday night on campus.
 Photographs by Lucy Sun &amp; Mahrah Taufique
 Drama on 123rd Street. (NYT) Three terrible words we've all grown far too accustomed to: planned service changes. (Gothamist) Happiness comes to those who rarely carry cash. (Spec) This is what happens when you tag subway cars. (Daily News) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 The Residential Programs staff is having a picnic in Riverside Park at 115th Street today from 1 to 4 p.m. Stop by for free food, fun, and frisbee! Also,there are free food and drinks at the Don't Ask, Don't Tell ROTC debate until 5 p.m. in Roone. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Another Saturday, another chance to reflect upon last night. Oh, Hulu. Cartoon by Abigail Santner
 Princeton's marching band wended through campus this morning, terrorizing students with upbeat marching band tunes. Quelle horreur! The orange-clad individuals have committed such crazed acts in the past. The visit may or may not have been related to the Columbia-Princeton football game today at 12:30 p.m. on Robert. K. Kraft Field. Update: COLUMBIA WON! REJOICE!
Overheard: "I've been going through a Björk phase lately. I think it's something about being back at Barnard." Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Everything has increased in price, but luckily, life has improved ever so slightly here in Morningside. Pastries in Nussbaum have labels. What's life without a little bit of mystery? Mel's fry deal: Fries are now $1.75 with a burger and soda/draft beer. (Fries are usually $4.) There's a new mushroom salad topping at the salad bar at Maoz. Huzzah! Brand new photocopiers in Butler. There's new rose-flavored tea and coffee at Tea Magic. John Jay is charging for take-out boxes. To McBain residents' delight, McBain has a different brand of soap. Oren's is now 10 cents more expensive, but on a happier note--cider is back!! Hewitt now has "RedHot" hotsauce. New cup holders at Blue Java read "Early bird gets the job." 
As seen outside Schapiro: Photo by Sara Nosaka
 Do you really enjoy celebrating New Year's Eve in Times Square and wish you could do it more often? Well, you're in luck because the "Times Square Midnight Moment" will be happening 365 nights a year! (Gothamist) Park51 recently gave the public a first look at its intended design. (NYT) When journalism isn't working out, there's always growing weed to fall back on. (WaPo) Charlie Kubal CC '08, also known as mashup maestro wait what, has a new album out! this is real life is being sold here, and you can name your own price. All profits got to Dave Eggers's 826 Valencia. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 A few tidbits to help you navigate today's Greenmarket: This is the last week for zucchini blossoms. For the next few weeks there will be different wine vendors under the food and wine tent. If you are looking for Monkshood cherry tomatoes, get them early because they go fast. Be sure to try the quiches at Meredith's. They're in the cooler at the front of the tent and you are encouraged to take a peek inside. Ardith Mae Farm goat cheese is worth getting to early, especially if you're a fan of chevre, which seems to be particularly popular. If you happen to have a returnable milk bottle rolling around the back of your fridge, it most likely came from Milk Thistle. Milk Thistle is here each Sunday. Expect bok choi to arrive in the coming weeks. Image via Wikimedia Commons
That's right, the fine people of International Wines &amp; Spirits want you to like their Facebook page. More importantly, if you do like their page, you get 10% off your next purchase! So head on over there and save yourself some booze money. 
CQA and other campus LGBT groups will be meeting at the 116th Street gates at 8 PM tonight to travel together to the "You are Loved Vigil" taking place in Washington Square Park. The vigil is being held in response to recent violence against LGBT students. CQA will also dedicate its weekly meeting to a discussion of LGBT bullying and harassment. The meeting begins at 2 PM in the IRC Second Floor Conference Room, 552 W. 114th Street. A message from CQA President Sean Udell: Within the past two weeks, six young men between the ages of 13 and 19 have died from suicide as a result of homophobic bullying: Asher Brown (age 13) Seth Walsh (age 13) Justin Aaberg (age 15) Billy Lucas (age 15) Tyler Clementi (age 18) Raymond Chase (age 19) Students at NYU are asking that we all come together as a collective community to remember those young men as well as all of those we have lost due to hatred and bigotry. CQA and the other campus LGBT groups will be joining our NYC community members for the "You are Loved Vigil," and we'll travel down to Washington Square Park together.
Drawn from the street by the welcoming sound of accordion music, Bwog stumbled upon the celebration of the Feast of Saint Francis and Blessing of Animals at St. John the Divine. Pigs, goats, dogs, and more than a few types of birds were on hand for the festivities, along with Amsterdam Ave's native squirrels and pigeons and a handful of adults doing the hokey pokey in animal costumes. (Bwog's favorite was the beagle in the bowler hat and plaid pants.) Said one girl, "They're scary animals." Photos by Jon Hill, Grant D'Avino
 Hey there, Bwog is having a staff meeting tonight at 7 PM in the SGO on Lerner 5, and you're invited! Even if you've never come to a meeting before, Bwog wants to be your friend and wants you to come to the meeting. If you have been to one (or more!) of Bwog's meetings, Bwog wants you to come back and continue to be friends. As if the chance to hang out in Lerner isn't enough to entice you, there will be free food. ttyl, Bwog Image via Wikimedia Commons
Lost in EC area, number 138726.
Remember when? It's back again! The weather...it's everywhere! 
Friday night at the Diana Event Oval, Bwog joined pleasantly not-that-sparse ranks of WBAR fans to see its showcase of campus bands. It was fun! The line-up featured a mix of styles, and included both undergrads and grad students: Puppy Cops Mike Ferraro &amp; The Young Republicans Cloudlicker Dr. Blount Tetractys If your band is interested in playing on campus, or would like to get involved with WBAR, e-mail wbar@barnard.edu. Photography by Jonno Rattman
 Oprah makes dreams happen: Columbia crew kids turned chocolatiers snagged an Oprah endorsement and hit it big. Grab your Salsabol and Chocomize bar, and you'll have a veritable feast courtesy of Columbia's culinary innovators. Plans for community garden at Frederick Douglass Houses thwarted by management. Bureaucracy: it's not just at Columbia! Gerald Lesser, chief Sesame Street advisor and the man who basically taught you the alphabet, died recently. He gave Oscar the Grouch a "pedagogical purpose." On October 4th way back when, Sputnik launched. Image via Chocomize.com. 
All Hallows' Eve approaches! Morton Williams displays their Halloween cheer with fall foliage, cotton cobwebs and toy tricker-treaters. Those guys are seriously styled, by the way. Love the bow-ties. But don't worry, Morningside decorations aren't all this wholesome. In the coming weeks, get ready for trampy vampires, naughty nurses and totally unnecessary thigh highs. If Mean Girls taught us anything, it's that Halloween is just an excuse for showing cleavage. Pop quiz: name the tag quote!
 It’s October 4th, the day of reckoning for Barnard girls in Greek Life. We'll have coverage of the Town Hall tonight, but first we’ve got some inside info on sorority strategery how sororities are gearing up for the big event. An email circulating among the sisters includes “Facebook status templates” and scripted answers for FAQs.  Say someone asks: “Is it true that joining a chapter eliminates the ability to develop friendships with other students on campus?” Answer the following (a lot to memorize, perhaps), channeling your inner Dwight Schrute: False! Sororities encourage members to become involved in activities both within and outside of the Greek community. Sorority members also form friendships with those in their classrooms, majors and outside activities. Today’s sororities include diverse, well-rounded individuals who are committed to their academics and the community. Personal development is also encouraged in areas such as athletics, student government, theater, academic societies, community service groups and leadership. All sorority sisters across Barnard and Columbia were encouraged to wear their letters today to show support for Greek Life funding. The Town Hall runs from 6-8 PM tonight in the Diana Event Oval. There will be free dinner. Let's get ready to ruuuuuumble! Update, 2 PM: Here's some more information included in the original email about the general goals of the Barnard Greek Life  community. The two main goals are "congruency for all Barnard students involved in IGC organizations" and "acknowledgement and support for an active interest on Barnard's campus." Some facts about Greek Life at Barnard: there are currently 249 Barnard women involved in IGC; the Panhellenic Council has experienced massive growth since 2005; chapters have increased in size by 70%; and F@CU recently cut the IGC's funding by 51%. Image via Wikimedia Commons
There's a new beta version of the Columbia home page, and it looks spiffy! So much less Columbia blue than its predecessor, so much more Bwog blue! The website was designed entirely in-house with CUIT, took many drafts and about a year and a half to finalize, and was designed to make your life easier. And it seems that it will! Navigation and search functions are much more streamlined and you'll generally have to click around less to find what you're looking for. To wit: if you are a caveperson and still use your Cubmail, good news! You can log in to your email directly on the front page instead of clicking four links to get you there. And in keeping with the times, there are social media buttons for lectures on iTunes, relevant podcasts, and links to Columbia's YouTube channel. There's a new search tool for student organizations and an A-Z directory of University-wide departments. The events calendar is on the homepage, too. The main photo on the site is now a slideshow, with each photo linking to relevant content. And Columbia wants your feedback. Look for a "give us your feedback" link, and if you've got something constructive to say (the Columbia central administration isn't Bwog!), say it there. Happy clicking!
 Columbians Jordan Schau and Justin Turetsky want you to ride their bus. For $49.99, this magic bus will take you from the Broadway gates to the Lincoln Memorial for Jon Stewart's Rally to Restore Sanity and Stephen Colbert's March to Keep Fear Alive. It's all happening on October 30th. How'd J&amp;J come up with such an ingenious plan? According to Jordan, "the idea came to us in a dream (simultaneous dreams)." It's like Glee and Inception, combined! Honestly, a Ulysses S. Grant is a lot to shell out, especially since Arianna Huffington already pledged free bus rides. And there's no Ms. Frizzle on this bus. Womp Womp. But Jordan and Justin can promise something priceless: love. "Not only do I think people will find love on this bus," says Jordan. "I am operating under the assumption that I will find my wife." Cheers to that. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
Congratulations, freshpeople-friends! President: Aliza Hassine VP: Nazli Danis Treasurer: Aurora Lende Secretary: Colleen Mulvihill
Spotted outside Cardomat Maybe Destiny's Child will sing about your new T-Shirt—but only if it's really cool. 
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Mon, Oct 4 “Do We Really Know Harlem?” 568 Lerner, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “Inter-Faith Vigil for Pakistan” Sundial, Low Plaza, 9:00 pm – 10:00 pm, students “Sexellence … You Don’t Have to be Having Sex to Come” 17th Floor Sulz Tower, 9:00 pm – 10:30 pm, students Tues, Oct 5 “Enacting Sustainable Capitalism” Rotunda, Low Library, 9:00 am – 10:00 pm, Al Gore “The Sovereign Debt Problem” Rotunda, Low Library, 11:45 pm – 12:45 pm, George Soros “Discussion with Steve Grove, Head of News and Politics at YouTube” 1302 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm Wed, Oct 6 “A, R + D: Architecture, Research and Design process” 101 Barnard Hall, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Karen Fairbanks “War with Iran?” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Richard Bulliet, Mansour Farhang, John Limbert, and Gary Sick “Raiders of the Lost Ark Screening” 963 Schermerhorn Extension, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Gotham League of Archeology Majors at Columbia/Students Thurs, Oct 7 “Mexican Immigrants and Public Resources: Costs and Contributions” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Katherine Donato “Screening of ‘Zindeeq’” 309 Havermeyer Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Michel Khleifi “African Americans and the Media: From Birth of a Nation to Antoine Dodson” Malcolm X Lounge, Hartley Hall, 9:00 pm – 12:00 am, students Fri, Oct 8 “Information Session: Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development” Schapiro Room, 8th Floor, Alumni Center, 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm, Ruth DeFries Sat, Oct 9 7th Annual Guria Benefit” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Akshara Percussion Ensemble, Trinayan Collective, Odissi Dance Troupe, Amie Macizewski, Taalim School of India Tabla Music Sun, Oct 10 “Afropolitan” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Onyx, Notes and Keys, etc. FULL LIST Mon, Oct 4 “European Energy Policy” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Andris Piebalgs “Conference, Doubtful Utopia: A Gathering of Scheebart Scholars” Wood Auditorium, Avery Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “Town Hall on Greek Life at Barnard” Events Oval, The Diana, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, students “Do We Really Know Harlem?” 568 Lerner, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “Queer Book Club: Orlando” 201-205 Ruggles Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Students “Pushing the Elephant: Screening and Discussion with Co-directors Beth Davenport and SIPA Alum Elizabeth Mandel” 407 IAB, 7:15 pm – 9:30 pm “A Conversation on Religion, Religiosity, and What It Means to be Observant” IRC 552 W. 114th, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, students “Inter-Faith Vigil for Pakistan” Sundial, Low Plaza, 9:00 pm – 10:00 pm, students “ROOTEd Sundaes on Mondays: The Immigration ‘Crisis’” IRC 552 W. 114th, 9:00 pm – 10:30 pm, students “Sexellence … You Don’t Have to be Having Sex to Come” 17th Floor Sulz Tower, 9:00 pm – 10:30 pm, students Tues, Oct 5 “Enacting Sustainable Capitalism” Rotunda, Low Library, 9:00 am – 10:00 pm, Al Gore “The Sovereign Debt Problem” Rotunda, Low Library, 11:45 pm – 12:45 pm, George Soros “Measuring the Size of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Leak—Science in the Media Spotlight” 417 Schermerhorn Hall, 12:15 pm – 1:00 pm, Tim Crone “Discussion with Steve Grove, Head of News and Politics at YouTube” 1302 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm “Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide” Event Oval, The Diana, 12:30 pm – 5:00 pm, Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn “Topological Effects in Quantum Mechanics and High-Velocity Estimates” 214 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Ricardo Weder “Promoting Open Access to Environmental Data” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Robert Chen “Sabor Latino at John Jay” John Jay Dining Hall, 5:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Sabor Dance Troupe “Israel’s Finance Minister, Dr. Yuval on the Israeli Economy” 142 Uris Hall, 5:45 pm – 7:00 pm “A Tale of Two Socioeconomic Systems” Davis Auditorium, CEPSR Building, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Walter Ehrlich and Sonia Ehrlich “The Border Wall: Intersections of Invisible Immigrant Identities” All Day Low Plaza and IRC Conference Room, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Sel J. Hwahng, Veronica Bayetti Flores “MSA’s Night at the Apollo Eid Dinner; A Showcase of Muslim Voices” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:30 pm, Aman Ali and others Wed, Oct 6 “Campus Vibes Lunch Series on Diversity” 302 The Diana, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, students “A, R + D: Architecture, Research and Design process” 101 Barnard Hall, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Karen Fairbanks “Volunteers Colombia” 802 IAB, 12:15 pm – 1:30 pm, student presentations “Research on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage at ETH Zurich” 924 Mudd, 1:30 pm – 2:30 pm, Marco Mazzotti “War with Iran?” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Richard Bulliet, Mansour Farhang, John Limbert, and Gary Sick “Documentary Filmmaking as a Territory of Freedom” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Simone Bitton “Very Young Girls Movie Screening” TBD, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm “Panel on the Intersections of Activism and Intellectual Perspectives on Immigration” LL103 The Diana, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Sonia Guinansaca, Jen Waller, Teresa Gutierrez, Mae Ngai “Raiders of the Lost Ark Screening” 963 Schermerhorn Extension, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Gotham League of Archeology Majors at Columbia/Students Thurs, Oct 7 “The Green Movement in Iran: Losing Politically But Reasserting Itself Socially—An Anthropological Approach of the Authoritarianism and Its Limits in Iran” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Fariba Adelkhah “Dyadic Research in International Relations: A Cautionary Tale” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Robert Erikson, Pablo Pinto and Kelly Rader “Mexican Immigrants and Public Resources: Costs and Contributions” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Katherine Donato “Stratospheric Water Vapour—Enigma or Rosetta Stone?” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Stephan Fueglistaler “Theory-Driven Dissemination and Implementation Research: From Case Study to Mixed-Methods Evaluation of a National Roll-Out” Room 6602 Psychiatric Institute, Medical Center, 3:15 pm – 4:45 pm, Joan Cook “Our Pledge to America” 555 Lerner, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Various “The Intergenerational Transmission of Smoking and Schooling” 503 Hamilton Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Vida Maralani “Immigration Vigil” Low Plaza, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm, students “Pakistan Flood Relief Mixer and Film Screening” Teachers College Whittier Café 1230 Amsterdam Avenue, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Afia Nathaniel “Screening of ‘Zindeeq’” 309 Havermeyer Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Michel Khleifi “ADP Lit Night Presents: Stop Making Sense Screening” 526 W. 114th, 9:00 pm – 10:30 pm “African Americans and the Media: From Birth of a Nation to Antoine Dodson” Malcolm X Lounge, Hartley Hall, 9:00 pm – 12:00 am, students Fri, Oct 8 “Practical Infection Control for the Dental Office” 8th Floor Harkness Pavilion, Medical Center, 9:00 am – 12:00 pm, Various “Information Session: Undergraduate Program in Sustainable Development” Schapiro Room, 8th Floor, Alumni Center, 2:30 pm – 3:30 pm, Ruth DeFries “Applying Viral Metagenomics to Understanding Infective Risks Associated with Exposure to Wastewater Residuals” 825 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Jordan Peccia “The Role of Glaciers in the Hydrology of Nepal” Monell Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Richard Armstrong “9500 Liberty Screening” Dodge Hall inside Earl hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm Sat, Oct 9 “History and Literature: The State of Play—A Roundtable Discussion” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 2:00 pm – 6:30 pm, Various “7th Annual Guria Benefit” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Akshara Percussion Ensemble, Trinayan Collective, Odissi Dance Troupe, Amie Macizewski, Taalim School of India Tabla Music “Postcrypt” Basement of St. Paul’s Chapel, 7:00 pm – 12:00 am, The Yaya’s, Tanner Walle, Marika Hughes, and visual arts show Sun, Oct 10 “Afropolitan” Roone Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Onyx, Notes and Keys, etc. 
 It's a rather glum day outside, but nothing will cure a case of the Mondays like tales of sex. In this case, we mean tales of loud, sweaty (and possibly angry) sex! The following is the year's first installment in what we simply call BwogSex; a collection of questions, answers, anecdotes, advice and erotic miscellany. Share your loud-sex stories (and any other sex tales, queries, etc. you wish to pen!) here in our anonymous submission box. “But what about my neighbors?!” I hissed, suddenly tense. “Fuck your neighbors,” he growled. Euphemism or not, right now he was busy with me. He tossed me into my bed, and I said one final prayer that my studious neighbors were fast asleep before getting out of my bra as quickly as possible. It didn’t take long after moving into my Wien single to realize the place was far from sound proof. Wien is the sad version of John Jay. Instead of the occasional weekend party from a corner double, on Thursday nights you'll overhear Journey, arguments about problem sets, and late night crying. But I quickly learned that not everyone was having such a bad time—a resident by a main lounge several floors down was getting laid, frequently and vigorously. It was as much to her pleasure as others' discomfort, and while quickly passing by her door one evening I made a mental note never to be that girl. I’m nowhere near virginal, but my idealistic romantic streak, coupled with a propensity to chicken out, guarantees my bed stays pretty much empty. So imagine my surprise when half a box of wine turned into the side of my bed hitting the wall. The next morning, I was left with plenty of questions, and foremost among them was "Was that a good idea?" I’m not saying it was bad (it wasn’t), or it wasn’t safe (it was), or if I’m not sure I needed it (I go to Columbia. Who doesn’t?). I was concerned about my Weenie neighbors, and if I had inadvertently made my sex life their business. This story notwithstanding, I do try to always bow to good taste. What if I had awakened someone? What if I had offended someone? The next few times I’ve seen my neighbors, everyone has looked at the floor. I don’t know how to breach the subject of my casual encounter even to try to apologize. Frankly, I would find it unnecessary, though I do feel bad. So I leave this issue up to you, dear readers. I know this question isn’t new to Bwog. Are these situations just an embarrassing product of dorm life, or a legitimate topic of conversation for the hearer and the heard? Whatever my rights to dorm room nookie, I know next time I’ll ask to move to his place. Who wants to worry about having to turn sex into the quiet game?
Dear Friends, Please join the staff of The Blue &amp; White (pictured at right) for our meeting tonight, Monday night, at 9:00 p. m. in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. We're coming down the home stretch when it comes to planning our next issue—layout is soon! That means we'll be hearing updates from writers and assigning a few last-minute items. If you're interested in working with the magazine and/or the Bwog, please stop by—tonight's the night! Hope to see you soon, The Editors.
Don't go to Butler, not like you were planning on it anyway! Four firefighters wielding firefighter-axes just walked into Butler. Everyone else is outside, huddled under umbrellas, complaining about their Art Hum papers. Don't go to Lerner either, because it's packed now. If you're here already: there are free dinner rolls and some casserole-looking thing by the security desk.
A full report from the SGA Town Hall on recognition for Barnard Greek Life will be up tomorrow morning, but we wanted to let you know not to expect a solution to the dilemma just yet; Bwog's been informed that a decision will be reached "by the end of the semester."
Despite the rain, this sign was displayed prominently outside of Campo this evening, in order to coincide with the SGA Townhall meeting. 
Columbia is doing pretty well for itself uptown recently. Business School Dean Glenn Hubbard just sent BSchool students an email notifying them of the donation, which was made by Henry R. Kravis, BSchool class of 1969 and current cochair of the School's Board of Overseers. The Uptown BSchool will be comprised of two buildings, one of which will be called (surprise!) the Henry R. Kravis Building. Read on for Hubbard's full email. Dear Students, I am pleased to announce that Henry R. Kravis '69, cochair of the School's Board of Overseers, has pledged to donate $100 million toward the construction of the School's new home in Manhattanville. As an expression of gratitude, the School will name one of its two new buildings The Henry R. Kravis Building. Henry Kravis's generosity represents a truly transformative investment not only in Columbia Business School, but in business education itself. The design of the School's new buildings will emphasize community and encourage collaboration, enabling faculty members to solve problems holistically, more easily work together across disciplines, and create ideas that transcend traditional academic divisions. This emphasis on collaboration will simultaneously give our students the tools required to create new opportunities and thrive in fast-paced and constantly evolving global business environments. This investment will also strengthen the impact the School has on the West Harlem community, one of the many reasons Mr. Kravis chose to make this gift. Unlike Columbia's Morningside Campus, the new Manhattanville Campus will be seamlessly integrated into the surrounding neighborhood, featuring an open campus and numerous public spaces. The School's move will be an investment in the community, creating thousands of jobs and providing wide-ranging opportunities for local entrepreneurs. All of the School's existing programs that interact with the local community--including the Columbia Community Business Program, the Nonprofit Board Leadership Program, the Hughie Mills Business Academy, and others--will be able to increase the positive effect they have on our neighbors by virtue of this new location. On behalf of the Columbia Business School community, I thank Henry Kravis for his generosity and dedication to the School. For more information about Henry Kravis's gift, the School's move to Manhattanville, and the ongoing Capital Campaign, please visit http://www7.gsb.columbia.edu/alumni/support-school With regards, Glenn Hubbard
It's over! A fair fight, all! Election results below. 309 voters participated. Name Votes Tim Qin 102 Patrick Han 101 Julio Herrera Estrada 76 Dmitriy Timerman 30 
 Another college ranking! CU ranks #2 on Forbes' list (of America's Most Expensive Colleges)! Cause for celebration? You decide! (Forbes) Wireless carriers have formed a deal with the city to bring cell phone service to the subway, maybe. (NYT) The enterprising performer known as the Naked Cowboy, a.k.a. Robert John Burck, is expected to announce his 2012 presidential bid at noon today. We're not joking. (NYP) Former Governor Eliot Spitzer's debut on CNN's "Parker Spitzer" last night was only slightly less awkward than his sex scandal, the Times writes. (NYT) 
 Barnard's administration held a "town hall" meeting of the strong and the beautiful last night to discuss recognition of sororities. Bwog was there. Barnard’s Town Hall meeting on Greek Life recognition and funding drew ten full tables worth of of letter-sporting sorority girls from Barnard and Columbia, SGA members, and a sprinkling of administrators and girls unaffiliated with Greek Life. There were two men in the audience. After some initial warnings about what everyone thought would be the heated debate ahead and pleas to stay civil, Dean Denberg was introduced to give a short and objective history of Greek Life at Barnard. Attendants were then invited to discuss how they felt, with the help of fact sheets and suggested questions, while they enjoyed lasagna and “Assorted Barnard Cookies”. The meeting concluded with a polite summary of what small groups had discussed. The first Greek organization at Barnard was established in 1891, and by 1912 the school began the long and controversial debate of whether to affiliate with national organizations. Deciding it was super tricky and generally frustrating, the school formulated a committee of students, alumnae, and faculty to consider the issues extensively. This committee compiled 11 charges against Greek societies, which were: snobbish tendencies, ability to break up friendships, artificial barriers to “natural intercourse”, exclusion and hurt feelings, bad influence on campus politics, distraction of money from other social life activities, secrecy, secrecy creating false importance, bad manners as a result of rushing, division among Alumnae, and distraction of loyalty and support away from Barnard. The class of 1916 voted down Greek Life recognition 244 to 30. But in 1984, when the newly-coed Columbia opened its first sorority, Barnard women quickly became involved. The ever-politic Denberg compared the JShap years, when this debate was “Does the administration recognize Greek Life?”, to the assembly tonight, which focused on students’ opinions. Dean Denberg said she believes the real question is whether a decision should be made based on a student representatives vote or a student body vote. Girlfriend knew better than to get caught up in this. The SGA VP of Communications asked participants to answer the big questions instead of focusing on minutia and promised that the SGA, which, “feels very stressed about making this decision for the student body... will come to decision about this at the end of the semester at the latest.” The open discussion between the ten small groups showed how lopsided the turnout was. Most of the people who took the mic were sorority sisters, who argued roughly along the same lines: “There are problems with Greek life just like there are problems with other things in the world”, “It really would be a dangerous thing to start making divisions instead of making connections”,“It’s like you’re dating a guy for 2 years and he won’t call you his girlfriend!” The arguments often repeated the feeling that sororities at Columbia are inclusive, focused on community, and affordable for whomever wishes to join. A handful of non-affiliated speakers said that talking to the sorority sisters at the event helped them understand their cause. Two girls expressed opposition to recognition and funding of sororities because, a) they felt the criteria for acceptance and exclusivity is unfair, and b) that Barnard is traditionally not involved with sports and Greek Life, and they see no reason for Barnard to start now. But these opinions were an anomaly and were rebutted repeatedly with the fact that theater and accappella groups are selective as well, although perhaps in different ways. We learned that less than 5 girls didn’t get matched in sororities last year (impressive), and 10% of the Barnard population is involved in Greek life (a rather significant chunk). Sisters also pointed out that recruitment is growing, the sororities need Barnard’s support, and not all their events are exclusive; fundraisers are open to everyone. Attendees seemed happy with the way the event was conducted, but there was general agreement that there was a lack of non-Greek Life representation. SGA encouraged attendees to “continue the conversation” after the event ended, and many sisters stayed to chat with each other. One group of sisters left the Diana Event Oval by bleating their chapter’s whistle.
This morning, lots of BSchool students and administration wearing exclusively charcoal gray and black suits gathered on 126th and Adam Clayton Powell to thank Henry Kravis for donating a whopping $100 million to the BSchool's new Manhattanville campus. The gift is the largest in the BSchool's history. BSchool-folk ate danishes and, today in silly cookies, Columbia Business School cookies. One MBA candidate made a confession to another over coffee: "so, I saw the Social Network." BSchool Dean Glenn Hubbard thanked PrezBo for his work on Manhattanville, noting that "Manhattanville is the brainchild of President Bollinger." PrezBo wore a Columbia blue tie. "Only once in a century do we have  the chance to create a new campus," he told the crowd. "We will not build another Morningside campus." When the dapper Sir Kravis took the stage, he spoke about the importance of giving back to the community. Kravis said he believed the Manhattanville campus will give Harlem a "second renaissance." Hubbard described Kravis as the "Roger Clemens of industry" since "he was a winner when he was 20 and he's a winner now." Hubbard finished off by telling the crowd that the BSchool complex in Manhattanville "is not about bricks and it's not about mortar, it's about people and ideas." Then he told an anecdote about a taxi ride he took in Washington D.C with a Japanese businessman. The moral of the story was that "we wain't seen nothing yet in Manhattanville." Onward!
 Strawberry, egg white, mozzarella, olive, and sunflower seed salad after class? Half a pound of brie at 3 am? Crispy flatbreads for all occasions? It could only be Westside, friend of the munchies late night snackers and fruit fiends alike. Akin to our Getting to Know series, each week, Bwog will give you a chance to view Westside market from the other side of the counter, as seen by its dedicated, forgiving and really just friendly 24/7 staff. For our first installment--The Hot Bar, as investigated by Ricky Raudales. If there’s anything Westside’s deli is good at, besides obstructing your dash to the prepackaged bagel section, it’s serving up a steamy plate of, well, meat! And, for all the other 24-hour delis that Morningside Heights doesn’t have, it makes a great alternative to the late-night meal a la vending machine. For this episode of Weekly Westside, Bwog traveled behind the hot food bar to find Westside personality Saoul, serving up your customized combo of the popular lunch and dinner special: "1 meat, 2 sides." Still, the tasty food special can't be the only factor in our love affair with Westside since each getaway results in a Flex reduction of $8.99. That's why Saoul is there. While this loyal employee won't give out the secret ingredient in that delicious gravy, he is well known for doling out heaping sample sizes for hungry students and his enjoyment in sharing movie reviews with fellow film connoisseurs. Although Saoul does share samples and opinions of popular culture, he does not share the popular tastes of Columbia students. While students go wild over the glazed salmon and roasted turkey, he was somewhat reluctant to admit that his favorite dish was far from a lean meat.  He goes for the Kobe pastrami. Despite our differences, Saoul says he can't imagine students having poor tastes or strange preferences at the hot bar since "everything is very good." For vegetarians, Saoul suggests the avocado salad. Yet, when pushed to weigh in on how the avocado option fares in comparison to the mango arugula blend, this devoted employee will tell you again that "both are good choices," but not before asking if you'd like to another taste just to make sure. So while Saoul didn’t provide the answers to all of life's questions (like, “How many people actually fit in an aisle at Westside?”) he did give us hope for finding a worthy meal at an ungodly hour. Take note ‘ye brave souls willing to pass on a slice of pizza next door— Saoul is waiting with far better fare.
Headphones have remote sound and playback control. Lost tonight (10/3/10). Butler 210 or around there somewhere.
In the latest in our Getting to Know series of interviews with Columbia staff members, Bwog newcomer Sylvie Krekow caught up with Malcolm Doldron, Assistant Coach for the women's rowing team. Know someone you'd like us to interview?  Send your suggestions to tips@bwog.com. When did you first start coaching at Columbia? I started in August 2007. I had just finished my second year as the intern varsity assistant coach at Princeton. We had a couple of awesome years, but I decided I wanted to go to a place like Columbia where they maybe hadn't done a lot yet and try to see what I could do to help. Why do you coach women instead of men? I used to coach men. I was on a men's team in college, obviously. I think initially because that's what was needed. My first real competitive coaching job was at Thompson Boat Center in Washington, D.C, and at the time it was just a hotbed for women's rowing. And then through that experience, I found that it was just easy to work with women. They're a little more attentive. I also really like the aspect of having an NCAA championship – it adds a sense of closure to a season, because there's a definitive national champion and there's recognition. Speaking of aspects of your job that you like, what's your favorite part about being the assistant Columbia Women's Rowing coach? Honestly, I think it's working with the athletes. I really enjoy spending time with the team, helping them meet the goals of the program and whatever individual goals they set. They're all very hardworking, competitive, thoughtful people – it's funny how much we see that competitive side, but on the flip side they're also people. Getting to know them on a personal level can be really enlightening. What's the hardest part of your job? Hmm... I think it's that it's a constant thing; it's a 24-hour job. I work on the weekends, I work late at night, and there's not really any time off. Which isn't a bad thing, it's just not a traditional work schedule, for better or for worse. There's nothing I hate about my job though, I love it. In your very spare free time that you mentioned, do you have any other hobbies? What's your life outside Columbia rowing? The pursuit of leisure is something I find very appealing . I guess I'm a sailor as far as hobbies go... I'm a huge music guy, so I have this alternate line of work where I play music for people. What's your stage name? I don't have a stage name or a DJ name. I just get hired and play music for people. What are you listening to right now? I'm a big hip-hop fan. I walked in here listening to Drake, but I like a lot of the old school stuff like A Tribe Called Quest, and older Outkast stuff. It runs the gamut, I also like alternative music. Broken Social Scene – that's what I listen to on a Sunday when I just want to chill out. I have varying tastes. Is there any music the women's rowing team plays in the erg room that drives you crazy or you don't understand? It's not that there's music they listen to that I don't get, it's the frequency. I'll hear the same song over. And over. And over. And Lady Gaga. And over. And Lady Gaga. I get it, but throw something else on. Put a song on between Lady Gaga. Do you have a favorite neighborhood in New York? I'm from Brooklyn, it's very laid back, it's kind of a cross section of people – you can find lots of different cultures and people. And the food is good. I mean, the food is good everywhere, but it's minus the pretense. I think in order to really truly call yourself a New Yorker though you have to go everywhere and explore everything. Every single neighborhood in every borough has something to offer. What are your favorite eats around Morningside Heights? By far, A Café on 108th and Columbus. My friend owns the place, it's organic French and Caribbean. So all natural ingredients but with French preparation and Caribbean spices – it's fantastic. Other spots: I enjoy Thai Market, Dinosaur BBQ... I live right around the corner from Dinosaur which is good and bad – sometimes I smell it from my window, and it calls to me. Is there something particularly unique to coaching at Columbia that you wouldn't find at another school? I think there are quite a few things. The diversity of the team – there are women from all over the country, and in some cases, all over the world. People come from Japan, Botswana, London – it's just really interesting. We have this mix that allows people to learn from each other. And we have this giant city around us, which can be our biggest attraction but also sometimes our biggest distraction.
That fair that happens every year on Low Plaza is happening again, right now! Buy things you don't need: orchids, frog magnets, Taxi Driver posters. Do buy food from the Red Balloon stand—they've got good cheap stuff.
Bwog's SGA correspondent Raphaelle Debenedetti was there, and she writes with tales of alumni and free food. The meeting began with some bragging: according to US News reports, Barnard’s rank has risen from the 30th to 26th liberal arts college in the country, and is the 17th most desirable urban campus (that means there are 16 urban campuses better than Morningside?) according to Newsweek. SGA is exploring different ways to advertise office hours—it's postertime! Enrin Fredrick and M.A. Moutoussis from Alumanae Affairs spoke at the meeting, reminding attendees that there are 13,000 Barnard alumnae in New York, and SGA wants you to take advantage of it. Barnard Seniors can log on http://alum.barnard.edu to interact more with Alumnae. Some upcoming alumnae events include: On October 20th there will be a "Mind Your Own Business" meeting from 6:30 to 8:00. Three Barnard Young Alumnae will speak about how they started their own businesses. Homecoming is October 23rd and the first 200 students to go to Alumnae Association's tent outside of the stadium will receive “awesome gifts” (!) starting 11:30 AM. Homecoming Prep will take place on the South Lawn from 4:00 to 6:00 with free food. The Basketball Mania will start at 21:00, November 4th and give the opportunity to support Columbia’s women’s and men’s basketball teams for the beginning of their season. 
 On the 17th floor of Sulzberger Tower last night, a group of Barnard women gathered to discuss sex in a "fun, safe space." The event, hosted by the Well Woman group, was titled "Sexcellence: You Don't Have to Be Having Sex to Come." Bwog came. Sexcellence began with an article about the benefits of female masturbation written by former Well Woman Anne Viksman. "At Barnard/Columbia," she wrote, "it sometimes feels like everyone is either a) having sex b) trying to get sex from somewhere/someone, or c) talking about someone else's sex life," Viksman writes. "It never hurts to explore a non-partner option of your sexuality, and to get to know and respect your body." She adds that some of the many benefits of masturbation include stress relief, stronger pelvic muscles, better sleep, and more intense orgasms. Bwog approves. Attendees were then passed a "Yes-No-Maybe" list, with different columns listing sex acts, experience with said sex act, willingness to try it, and any "notes and nuances" that may come with it. Students were encouraged to fill these out with a partner and compare notes in order to better communicate comfort zones or particular fantasies. Well Woman representatives went through the list of sexual acts and explained any terms that could be new or unfamiliar, such as "Japanese-style bondage" and "manicures." Finally, Sexcellence was concluded with a game of "Sex Taboo" where participants were handed cards that had sexual acts or objects written on them that they had to describe to the group without using certain "taboo" words written underneath (for example, Bwog's card was "hymen," and Bwog had to try and describe it without using words like "break" or "virginity"). When the last card was guessed, Well Woman handed out condoms, lube, and extra boob cupcakes. Needless to say, everyone went home well fed and a little more informed about what makes sex, well, excellent.
 The Committee on Global Thought, a Columbia organization, hosted a conference called "Sovereign Wealth Funds and Other Long-Term Investors: A New Form of Capitalism?" yesterday and today. If you didn't hear about it, you just must not be cool or something. Today the University hosted talks from former Vice President Al Gore and billionaire George Soros which were both oddly double-billed as being part of both the conference and the World Leaders Forum. Both stayed fairly close to the somewhat esoteric topic of SWFs, which made for some interesting, technical lectures. Bwog Lock Box Expert David Hu reports from the Inconvenient Man's talk. Stay tuned for Soros coverage tomorrow. At 8 this morning, a line of undergraduates snaked around Low, each one of them eager to catch a first-hand glimpse of the man that was going to be our next president. Even so, there were many people dressed up in suits, and before the talk started, Bwog noticed a man who even brought his own crumpets and tea platter to the event. However, soon after 9, PrezBo and Al Gore walked out together, a hush fell over the crowd, and Mr. Bo took to the podium to introduce the speaker. He talked about the context of the address and personally thanked Joseph Stiglitz as well as other sponsors of the event. He wasn't short on his lauds for the former Vice President either, mentioning his Nobel Prize and previous stints lecturing at Columbia. However, Bollinger's introduction was brief compared to others he's given at World Leaders Forum events, and he quickly bolted off stage after handing over the podium to Gore, leaving behind the iconic blue chair and a sad, lonely pitcher of water all by themselves for most of the lecture. Perhaps something else needed his attention. The title of Mr. Gore's speech was "Enacting Sustainable Capitalism," and these words alone sum up the talk pretty well; his talk could be seen as an economic lecture with an inconvenient truth as the impetus. He began his talk by discussing the recent rise of sovereign wealth funds (SWFs). He expressed his disappointment in how these increasingly powerful organizations do not pay enough attention to environmental concerns. Gore lamented how SWFs often ask themselves if they can make money while still being actively socially responsible but often say "no" because their sole focus is on maximizing returns on investments; they could not sacrifice profit for things he called "long-term values," which include sustainability initiatives, combating poverty, and promoting education. This often leads to an internal conflict within the institution: they want to do these things, yet they can't because they are so intensely focused the numerical statistics of profits and quarterly returns that generally dissuade this sort of virtuous behavior. Gore proposed two paths for a solution to this problem. First, after giving a defense of capitalism and democracy in the modern world, he discussed how incentive drives firms to do what they do. He recommended that SWFs "adopt internal incentives" that encourage the pursuit of long-term goals, essentially eliminating any internal conflict. Interspersed with this was the idea that economic transactions nowadays happen at too fast a pace, which is partially why firms are so focused on numbers. For his second potential solution, Gore said that SWFs need to stop focusing on such a narrow view and consider the "real valuation" of other factors, such as the potential for climate change. The question and answer session that followed was mainly composed of specific questions on economic topics, but two did stick out. When asked about the Obama administration's environmental policies, Mr. Gore responded, "I think we're out of time..." However, he give general praise for the administration and reminded everyone that Obama still has two years left in his term. Secondly, an undergraduate asked about how the world could move towards sustainable capitalism if there are already deep elements in the market set against this, to which Gore responded with a passioned response criticizing the oil industry for playing a major role in this problem, showing off once again the environmentalist core of the speech. Throughout the talk, the one thing impossible to ignore was the sheer intelligence of the speaker. Al Gore is one smart dude. A few minutes into his speech, Gore left the podium and hardly returned, giving the impression that he was speaking from his mind rather than from a script, and this gave the talk a distinctively lecture-like feeling. To his credit too, actually watching Gore speak isn't as boring and monotonous as the SNL skits of yesteryear would have one believe. He was humorous at times and gave personal anecdotes about his life (he once bought his kids a puppy!). However, what ultimately really shined through and what Mr. Gore excelled at, even amidst the political and technical language of a speech about the economy and capitalism, was expressing his passion for environmentalism and the need for the world to just come together and combat climate change.
Someone left their shoes by the newspaper thing in Lerner on Monday. The authorities describe the person as "having his/her feet on the wrong feet."
Are everywhere on campus tonight: Butler (including 209), 114th St., and Low Plaza. A bunch of guys clad in suits drawing attention to themselves? Must be that time of year again... Frat recruitment! Bwog hopes you have invested in a good pair of sound-isolating headphones.
It's under the name "gentry tran" on iTunes.
They have the name of the style, "Martine," engraved inside them.   The frame is tortoise shell and the bit over the nose is silver.
 Trojan ranked us number one in safe sex among universities. (Gothamist) Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture and Planning and Preservation students win contest, redesign Long island. (Inhabitat) New York Public Schools get Google Apps, before we do. (WSJ) Next year, you can text your friends from some subway stations. (Telegraph) Financial aid forms are now simpler to file. (Spec) New York Public Libraries mistakenly put in charge the president of Amherst rather than Prezbo. (NYT) Even Nobel Prize winners procrastinate! Now get back to that CC paper. (New Yorker) Logo via Wikimedia Commons.
 George Soros is currently the chairman of the hedge fund group Soros Fund Management, and is well known for his philanthropic support of liberal causes. Soros spoke at length about financial recovery, about what governments did right--and what they did wrong. He was introduced by Professor Joseph Stiglitz, who also quietly interpreted each question asked of him. This Tuesday shortly before noon, a line stretched from the front door of Low Library nearly to the doors of Dodge Hall as those students lucky enough to be selected waited to see billionaire investor George Soros speak. The two-day conference the speech was a part of was called “Sovereign Wealth Funds and Other Long-Term Investors: A New Form of Capitalism” and brought former Vice President Al Gore to speak earlier in the day. Instead of a speech full of platitudes, Soros' delivery was more like a lecture about his personal, well-considered views on the current outlook for the global economy. In taking steps to alleviate the length and severity of the recession brought on by the financial crisis, Soros said, states generally made the correct move in the short run and were largely successful in mitigating the economic effects. In the long run, however, Soros argued that governments should take steps in the opposite direction: to decrease, rather than increase, the level of borrowing in the market, as the initial actions to prop up the financial system had only put global markets on “artificial life support." However, they must be careful not to choke off economic recovery in doing so. Soros highlighted the debt burden of nations as a metric for gauging both the involvement of the government in the economy and the risk of a nation defaulting on its financial obligations. The interest carried by national debt, U.S. Treasury Bills for example, shows the “risk premium” given by the market. That is, the higher the rate of interest on a government’s debt, the more likely the market thinks the government will not be able to pay back what it has borrowed. Governments, in turn, can use this interest rate to determine whether or not they have borrowed too much. Overall, then, Soros said he believes that interest rates are too low: governments should do more to stimulate the economy in terms of fiscal policy, preferably in the form of investments instead of immediate spending. The greatest risk Soros identified to stop this is rising political pressure to lower deficits in both the United States and the European Union. “Budget deficits have been exploited for political and partisan purposes,” he said in his careful, almost aristocratic tone. Photo via Wikimedia Commons.
 Urban New York, that lovely SDA program which gives you a chance at free tickets, has been canceled for the fall semester. It will restart Friday, February 18th. Bwog is waiting on comment from the director of the program. Full email sent to all Barnard students as part of Barnard CAO below. Urban New York is cancelled for fall 2010. The tentative date for the spring semester is Friday, February 18th -- 8am Lottery Distribution &amp; 12pm Sign Ups in the James Room. Continue to check your e-mail for more updates! 
 Today is an alternating Wednesday. So welcome back to QuickTix! Remember the TIC? Remember that you said you wanted to see New York? Tickets sold for on campus events this week: 990 On campus events on sale now: 7th Annual Guria Benefit: October 9th @ 6:30pm, Roone, $10, Tickets. The Physicists: October 21st @ 3pm and 8pm and October 23rd @ 8pm, Minor Latham Playhous, $5 with CUID, Tickets. Afropolitan: October 9th @ 10pm and October 10th @8 pm, Lerner Party Space/Roone, $10 with CUID,  Tickets. Tickets sold for off campus events this week: 880 Off campus events on sale now: Fall for Dance Prgr 4: October 6th @8pm, $13, Tickets. Fall for Dance Prgr 5: October 8th @ 8pm, $13, Tickets. Sankai Juku: October 9th @ 8pm, $36, Tickets. Contes d'Hoffman, Les: October 12th @ 8pm, $29, Tickets. Fela!: October 14th @ 8pm, $33, Tickets! Scottsboro Boys: October 21st @ 6pm, $32.5, Tickets. Wicked: October 27th @ 8pm, $58, Tickets. 
 Hygienic tipster Katheryn Thayer noticed this unhappy note at the laundry machines. Perhaps it is not as biting as past informal laundry notices, but Bwog applauds all means of pants retrieval.
Public Safety released an alert today concerning a tutoring scam, by which tutors offering their services on Craigslist might be fleeced.  Full email below.  Attached is the Crime Prevention News Letter mentioned. Dear Public Safety Friends, Public Safety has received information from one of the local banks of a "Tutoring Scam" targeting several students who answered or placed an ad on Craig's List. It is similar to the room / apartment rental scam involving an overpayment of money for services or rent. Please see attached Crime Prevention News Letter (sent out in January 2010) Page 2, on how this scam works. Thank you for your continued help. Ricardo Morales Columbia University Department of Public Safety Manager Crime Prevention Programs Crime Prevention Specialist
 Lots of free eats tonight, folks.  Get some while it lasts. Skip dinner, eat liquid nitrogen ice cream!  It's like science, or something. Meet up at the Lerner ramps at 6-8pm. Finally, more food at the Columbia Harlem Business Connection Information Session, in Hamilton 507, at 8pm. Photo via Wikimedia Commons.
 A few weeks ago we realized that you could kinda-sorta get free quarters from Hartley. Mahima Chablani found some other party favors at the Hospitality Desk: The Hospitality Desk is currently giving away stylin’ plastic ponchos to save us from this ugly weather. Students can also sign out space heaters fo' free, which must be returned by May. Get them while they last! In the near future, Hartley is expected to receive shipments of energy-efficient light bulbs There should also be a shipment of shopping bags/carts to accompany us to Westside Not free but don't forget: if a special someone is sharing the night Hartley has a token air mattress available for rental ($10 per night, $25 per weekend). And as always, students have access to Hartley’s stamp machine and faxing services, and can sign out ping-pong rackets, pool sticks, handtrucks, and moving bins. Photo via Wikimedia Commons.
Sometimes Bwog hops lectures. Sometimes we hop rooms. This is an example of the latter, courtesy of Ariel Levin. If you think your swanky pad is worthy, email us at tips@bwog.com. There are three kinds of posters that attack your eyes and validate every cliché about college males as you enter their dorm rooms. They are the Three B’s: Bob Marley, Beirut rules, and Boobz. None of these are found in this particular McBain double. The inhabitants proudly display an original “B” known to all Columbia students: Broadway. We’ll call the boys who live here A. and N. not because they are regulars on Gossip Girl, but because of the large street sign in their room that very well may be a no-no. So how did it end up there? “That story involves lots of alcohol,” says A. N. breaks it down: N. and his lady friend were walking down 100th St. in the wee hours, a little intoxicated, and came across this sign lying on the sidewalk. “It looked like it had been knocked down in the windstorm. So I was like, ‘Should we take it?’ And at that moment an MTA van pulls up. They stop there and sort of look at us for a while, so I go over to the guy and ask, ‘If this sign happened to not be here tomorrow morning, would anybody get in trouble?’ and he replies, ‘Look man, if you’re not here, I’m not here.’” So the two of them scooped up their find and continued on their merry way. Eventually, it was deemed necessary to take a cab. “Because the sign is so long, a foot of it was sticking out either side of the cab driving up Broadway. And it still had the metal pole it was attached to.” This is only one of the prized stories N. and A. have about the contents of their room, which is a truly collaborative effort by themselves, Craigslist, and the treasure trove that is the streets: “We got that from some crazy guy in Times Square.... We went down to this woman’s apartment, she was selling drugs while we were there but she also sold us a couch.” As A. says of his room,  “If we did six degrees of separation it would get right to Bloomberg or the Department of Transportation.” The room is large with a uniquely curved wall. The pair embraced the strange beast by covering it with record sleeves, another great NYC find. “We invited some friends over and we were sitting around and we held them up and voted.” Since there is no record player, the records themselves are arranged in the opposite corner, on the ceiling. Their view is horrible, but provides entertainment, as it looks directly into the opposite apartment. And yes, they have certainly seen some stuff go down across the way. As far as living together, the two don’t only just have the personalized Heineken bottles (purchased by N. in Amsterdam) in common. They both enjoy taking naps on their couch, and believe a robe is an essential college item. One striking difference is their political beliefs: “N. is conservative in a very dry, and truly conservative way. He constructs his world-view from a utilitarian place. So do I," explains A, "but my evaluations of certain things allow me to end up in a more liberal position.” Each of them brings their own background into their room. A.’s University of Kansas flag hangs proudly above his bed, and he takes all the credit for the lighting. N.’s hats are stacked in the corner along with a collection of shot glasses. Each has their own favorite tween pop star displayed on their walls. In A’s corner, J.Biebs: “This is the pinnacle of new musical tastes, to me, the Beethoven of the 21st century.” And in N.’s corner, TSwift: “It was like one my favorite concerts ever.” Despite these differences, the McBain roommates get on famously, and have found the room is a great gathering place for their friends. A. observes, “The room is a good middle ground for the both of us. We found the things that we both like and brought them in. I think through the Dialectical Method of Plato, we have found the most harmonious route.”
Not everyone appreciates Kravis’ $100 million donation to the B-School…like bitter journalists and starving babies in Africa. (Gawker) The New Haven police are crazy! Their riot-appropriate raiding methods are a tad harsh for a Yale off-campus party. (NYT) James Franco. In drag. Need we say more? (TVGuide) Though the 1 train has failed us many a time, as far as train lines go, it isn’t too shabby. You’ll be please to learn that the numero uno has been ranked the 3rd best of 21 lines, and performs better than average in terms of frequency, regularity, and cleanliness. Here’s how they know. (Straphangers) Mark Zuckerberg offers new ways to let us all share family-inappropriate pictures. (Gawker) Columbia's causing quite a stir up on 218th street, where a less-than-happy crowd gathered to learn about and oppose the proposed Baker Athletics Complex. (Spec) Image via Wikimedia Commons
At 7:30PM today in 309 Havemeyer, the Center for Palestine Studies (CPS) will be publicly launched. In keeping with our Edward Said-worshipping “bastion of academic freedom” reputation, this development will make Columbia the first university in the country to house a center for Palestinian studies. The creation of CPS honors Columbia professor of forty years and all-around legend Edward Said and his scholarly achievements. It will aim to promote “the production and circulation of knowledge of Palestinian history, culture, society, and politics in diverse scholarly fields, including history, literary studies, the social sciences, religion, philosophy, law, archaeology, the arts, and architecture,” and will encourage exchanges with “scholars, students and academic institutions in the West Bank and Gaza, and others in the Palestinian diaspora.” The CPS is located in Knox as part of the Middle East Institute. Read more about it here.
As the seasons are a-changin' so is the Greenmarket, and this week's sunny skies promise a full house! The chilly weather favors different fruits and veggies, so here's the lowdown on the last-chance crops you want to snag this week. Lavender by the Bay will be back by popular demand. American Seafood will be in with fish and shellfish freshly caught in the waters off Long Island. As part of Edible Magazine's "Eat, Drink Local Week" they will be hosting Bellwether Winery. A few summer favorites are still available. They'll have corn, tomatoes, peppers, and melons—but not for long! Don't forget you can use your EBT, debit or credit card to shop in the market. See you there! Image via Wikimedia Commons.
 Renate Reid is a professional real-time stenographer, a discipline formally known as Communication Access Real-time Translation, or CART. Her transcription of lectures word for word in real time is a service provided by Columbia for students with hearing impairments. For this installment of Getting to Know, Bwog sat down with her to hear about a unique view of the classroom. Renate, a graduate of nearby Fordham, came late to stenography, or "steno," after becoming interested in court reporting. She attended night school for three years in order to graduate with a certification, which is more difficult than you might imagine. "Only about 10% of the class will graduate," she explains. "In order to graduate you have to get up to a speed of 220 words per minute, and most people can't get past 180." In comparison, a highly qualified computer typist will only reach around 90 words per minute. These rapid rates are achieved through a phonetic method of transcription. "A lot of people think the shorthand that secretaries do is the same as what we do, but our speeds are much faster. Each key has a letter, and combinations of keys represent other letters and sounds. You type using phonetic sounds, and the computer dictionary transforms from steno to English." Not only do you have to reach typing speeds you could only dream of in order to graduate, you also have to learn a tremendous amount of technical vocabulary, in order to be prepared for work as a court reporter, the principal application of CART technology. Renate left the courtroom for Columbia fairly recently: "I've been a court reporter for 25 years, but I decided to come and do this and have a bit more fun. I love sitting in on all these college classes again,  and these attorneys can get pretty hateful." However, working in a classroom can be equally as demanding as a trial. "Not only do you have to transcribe what's being said, but you have to make sense of what's going on." Imagine copying down every word of Physics, CC, and Greek Mythology, (just some of the classes she has attended), while simultaneously trying to take it all in. "I don't mind the hard work - it is hard work, I have to go over all the notes, and edit them so the student has a clean copy. I cannot absorb as much as I'd like to while sitting in on these classes, because I have to pay attention to what I'm writing. But once I really have to vocabulary down, I can concentrate really enjoy what's going on." She loves the educational exposure, particularly to the Core, and enthusiastically declares CC her favorite class. Not only did she speak highly of the class content, but also of the administrative side of the process. Employed by an agency used by the University, her services are paid for on behalf of the students who require them. She praised Columbia as very concerned and accommodating, and noted that they have a lot of people working with disability services.
 A poached egg is one of those very simple foods that makes other food taste a lot better. Those kinds of foods are useful for college cooking. Jason Bell spends a lot of time trying to figure out how to poach a brunch-worthy egg without a real kitchen, and comes up with a rather clever idea: use a thermos. Read on his for his Egg Saga and send us ideas for your own dorm kitchen sagas at tips@bwog.com. Poaching eggs proves difficult without a reliable heat source. A deceptively easy procedure, poaching an egg involves complex thermodynamics and keen intuition; simmering water is also helpful. With a little instruction, however, even the most inept cook can coax an egg from raw to perfectly set. Bring water to a boil, decrease the temperature so the water stops bubbling, gently add an egg, and cook to the preferred level of doneness. Delicious on toasted bread, bagels, croissants, in salads, with ham, with mayo, or simply seasoned, poached eggs are a super cheap meal. Need poached eggs pronto? I investigated the best techniques for the kitchen-impaired Wien/John Jay/Carman/Furnald resident. Two issues emerge when poaching eggs in a a kitchen-less dorm: hot water and a cooking vessel. You've got a sink; sinks hold water. Therefore, the sink seems like an appropriate spot—and the only spot—for egg cookery. My porcelain beauty lacks a garbage disposal, so I needed a way to contain the egg during cooking. I tried three methods of containment: egg left in the shell, egg in a Ziploc bag, and egg in plastic wrap. In order to prevent the bag and the cling wrap from melting, I bought products specifically designed for microwaving. Overall, the egg in plastic wrap technique worked best. While some cooked egg whites stuck to the wrap, the egg rolled out easily. Spraying nonstick oil onto the wrap solves this issue. A tactic employed at high-end restaurants like Arzak in Spain, sealing an egg in plastic wrap allows a skilled chef to form egg spheres with exactly positioned yolks. Preventing leaks is more important than geometric accuracy. Lay out a rectangle of plastic wrap. Crack an egg, and lay it in the center of the film. Pull up each corner of the plastic wrap, allowing the egg to rest in the resulting sack. Form an airtight pocket with the egg inside, and then twist the plastic wrap to form a tail. Tie that tail into a knot. After a few attempts, I made non-Michelin-star-worthy egg-ball-things in just a few seconds. What comes next is trickier; hot water straight from the tap doesn’t nearly get hot enough. The primary protein in eggs, ovalbumin, fully sets at around 80 degrees Celsius. Yet, the yolk thickens at much lower temperatures. When I filled my sink to the brim with hot tap water and dropped in the eggs, nothing happened. Even with some borrowed boiling water, my first 11 attempts failed to cook the egg. Too runny, too soft, too translucent: all inedible failures. Finally, on try number 12 I succeeded in taking the egg to a safe level of doneness. This required two doses of boiling water poured directly over the egg, along with a subsequent cooking time of 20 minutes. Upon cutting the egg open though, the yolk barely oozed. Sadly, I soft-boiled the only egg I managed to cook correctly. Alas, alack! Poaching eggs in a dorm room sink is functionally impossible, but there is a simple way to poach eggs in an ordinary thermos. Simply prepare the egg in plastic wrap as described above and place inside of a standard size thermos. Just pour boiling water into the thermos and screw on the lid. Allow the egg to cook until the desired level of doneness is reached—depending on the starting temperature of the water and the actual size of the thermos, cooking time may vary from eight to 12 minutes. Some experimentation may be necessary in order to ensure that the egg ball cooks all the way through. Alternatively, you can try our quicker microwave method. Simply half-fill a microwavable cup with water. Add salt (if you don't, trust us -- it WILL explode). Crack an egg in it. Microwave for 1 minute and 20 seconds. Here are a few easy recipes that transform ordinary dorm foods into delicious poached egg dishes: Poached Egg Wrap Use 1/4th of the mayonnaise in a jar, then fill in the rest of the jar with sriracha sauce. Mix to thoroughly combine. Poach 2 eggs. Take one soft flour tortilla and dab two spoonfuls of sriracha mayo on the inside of the tortilla. Add lettuce, sliced tomato, and two slices of spiral ham. Roll the tortilla into a cone. Gently drop the 2 poached eggs into the tortilla cone. Fold down the open mouth of the wrap and enjoy. Poached Egg Pita Pocket Poach one egg. Take one piece of pita bread and open the pocket wide. Smear hummus all over the inside of the pocket. Add one or more of the following: bacon bits, chopped onions, chopped tomato. Gently insert the egg into the pita pocket and enjoy. Poached Egg and Salami Salad Chop hard salami into bite size chunks. Tear some good (or not so good) French bread into small pieces. Mix salami and bread with salad greens. Poach one egg and add to the salad. Drizzle with dressing—honey Dijon or French dressing would work well. Ramen with Poached Egg Make ramen noodle soup in a microwave. Poach one egg and add to the soup just before eating. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
With a black top, in 833 Mudd.  Tell us which day you lost it to retrieve it.
Though we all now know that Ivies are the world's worst charities, they still offer plenty of ways to be good people! Community Impact is currently recruiting for its volunteer team, so for the price of 3-10 hours per week you can help New Yorkers get their GEDs or improve their English. Check out these programs and if you're interested, email Juanita Erb at jteinnyc@hotmail.com to set up an interview. Adult Education Programs College Road volunteers assist adult education students in conducting college searches and applying to college. Volunteer commitment of 2 hours/week, M-F, day/evening hours. ESL Program volunteers teach basic to advanced level English classes for non-English speaking adults. Volunteer commitment of 3-4 hours/week. M-Th, day/evening. GED Program helps adults achieve high school equivalency diplomas and move on to college and employment. Volunteers teach high school level Literature &amp;Writing, Mathematics, Science or Social Studies. Volunteer commitment of 3-4 hours/week, M-Th. Computer Training Program helps adults gain the basic computer skills they need to bridge the digital divide and compete for jobs that require computer literacy.  Volunteers teach classes or assist regular teachers by providing one-on-one assistance in the computer lab. Volunteer commitment of 2 – 6 hours a week M-F, day &amp; evening at computer labs on and off campus. Specific Volunteer Opportunities Image via Wikimedia Commons Volunteer Coordinator: Assist in the coordination of the GED, ESL , College Road or Computer Training programs. Recruit, train and mentor volunteers. Attend Town Hall meetings and Open House Events. Be the “face” of our programs on campus (approximately 5-10 hours per week). Volunteer GED Teacher: Teach Math, Reading/Writing, Science or Social Studies from 10:30am-1:00pm or 6:00pm-8:00pm (approximately 2-3 hours per week). Volunteer GED Tutor: Tutor GED students in Math, Reading/Writing, Science or Social Studies from 1:00pm-3:00pm or 5:00pm-6:00pm (approximately 1-2 hours per week). Volunteer ESL Teacher: Teach Grammar, Listening, Reading or Writing from 4:00pm-6:00pm or 6:00-8:00pm (approximately 2-3 hours per week). Volunteer ESL Conversation Facilitators: Lead and facilitate discussions in order help students improve their English speaking skills from 5:00pm-6:00pm or 6:00pm-7:00pm (approximately 1-2 hours per week). Volunteer College Road Mentors: Mentor exceptional GED and ESL students for 15 hours a semester. Mentors serve as role models and provide guidance, encouraging students to overcome barriers to college admissions. Computer Teacher: Teach basic computer skills in either Introduction to Computers, WORD or Excel (5 hours minimum commitment daytime &amp; evening hours M-F.) Computer Lab Assistant:  Provide one-on-one computer assistance in WORD or Excel classes (2 per week)
Friends of Rachel Swett, the CC student who tragically passed away this summer, are holding a reception in her honor this Monday night. Their note: We would like to invite you to a reception in honor of Rachel Swett. While many people were able to attend her memorial this summer, we wanted the Columbia community to have an opportunity to celebrate Rachel together. Some of Rachel's friends and Dean Moody Adams will speak. There will also be an opportunity for anyone who wants to share memories of Rachel. A Reception in Honor of Rachel Monday October 11th, 2010 8 pm - 10 pm Faculty House Skyline Level (4th floor)
It sucks, but we all knew it was coming. The MTA continues to ruin your life and has officially raised subway fares to $2.50/single ride. (City Room) Columbians know how to use the interwebz. Who knew? (The Eye) If see more law enforcement agents on your subway commute today, don't be alarmed. An Operation Railsafe surge will be held today. (Gothamist) A cell phone saved a man from a speeding bullet in Harlem. Never underestimate the power of your cellular device. (Switched) A Duke student's "sex thesis" goes viral. Friends, let this be a lesson in internet safety! (Jezebel) Photo via flickr/eurleif Update: Columbia University has new Nobel Laureates! Liu Xiaobo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize today for his struggle for human rights in China, was a visiting fellow at Columbia in 1989 until he left to join the Tiananmen Square protests. Peruvian Mario Vargas Llosa, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature, was also a visiting professor at Columbia.
 As Bwog supports all events of portmanteau-origins, we feel obligated to alert you of free food on the Schapiro patio in celebration of its new greenification, courtesy of EcoReps. In addition to gratuitous delectables, the Facebook event promises live jazz music, sidewalk chalk mural drawing, and "other fun stuff." Sounds like a blast! The excitement starts at 1 p.m.—get there before it's all gone! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
We at Bwog are glad to see that midterms have not gotten in the way of dear soldiers against the War on Fun. First, we found these, now this. Ladies and gentleman, we present to you the lost nipple cover. Friends, keep fighting the good fight! Photo by Joy Jorgensen 
Here's the latest installment of Cooking with Bwog. This week, culinary wiz Matt Powell shares his recipe for spicy chicken tacos. Delicioso! Thursdays are the worst days for me. In the afternoon, I have classes and discussion sections from 1-8 p.m.. By the time I hit that 7 p.m. discussion section, I’m no longer focusing on academics—I’m only fantasizing about what I’m going to have for dinner. This past Thursday, by the time the clock had struck 8, I was thinking, “Gosh, I’d settle for microwave popcorn!” I soon got a grip on myself. I wasn’t going to allow my hunger get the best of me. One should never settle for mediocre food (microwave popcorn, take-out Chinese food, free pizza, the list goes on) just to satiate the appetite. Food should be more than fuel—it should be a meal. So after raiding my kitchen for ingredients, I decided to go with Mexican food, namely spicy chicken tacos. Spicy Chicken Tacos Makes 10 tacos Ingredients: 3 chicken breasts, rubbed with a little olive oil and seasoned with salt and pepper Salsa, store-bought or from the recipe below Sour Cream Chopped Cabbage Shredded yellow cheese 1 onion Cilantro 10 tortillas, corn or flour (I prefer corn) Salsa Ingredients: 14.5 oz. canned tomatoes with green chiles 14.5 oz. whole, skinned tomatoes in water or juice 1 jalapeno, seeded 2 garlic cloves, peeled ½ onion, chopped ½ tsp. cumin Juice of half a lime Salt and pepper to taste 1 whole fresh tomato, seeded and diced Directions: 1. Sauté prepared chicken breasts in a skillet over medium-high heat until browned on the outside and no longer pink on the inside. Allow chicken to cool and shred with your hands. Toss shredded chicken with salsa (homemade or store-bought). 2. Dice onion and mince a small bunch of cilantro. Combine together in a small bowl. 3. Lightly fry the tortillas in a skillet, using corn oil or olive oil. The tortillas should be lightly browned. 4. Assemble tacos: On each tortilla, place a good helping of chicken, cilantro-onion mixture, sour cream, cheese, and cabbage. Serve with more salsa and lime wedges. Directions for Salsa: 1. In a blender, combine the canned tomatoes (without juice), jalapeno, garlic, onion, lime juice, salt, and pepper. 2. Blend until slightly chunky. Add in fresh diced tomato and garnish with fresh cilantro. I also made my great-grandma’s famous pinto beans to go with this meal, but that recipe is a family secret…sorry! Culinary Excitement for the Week: Jehangir Mehta (runner-up on Bravo’s Top Chef) has opened his much-anticipated second restaurant called Mehtaphor! The restaurant boasts not only more seating (as compared to the tiny Graffiti) but also a more extravagant menu. The restaurant is located at 130 Duane Street (and Church) which is a trek, but it will undoubtedly be worth it!
The fifth edition of Columbia Model United Nations in New York or CMUNNY V, for those in the know, is taking place this weekend. For those not in the know, CMUNNY is a series of crisis-driven simulations of past, present, and future political interactions between nations. Check out photos of our nation's budding diplomats in action! All uncredited photos by Prof. Pamela S. Falk, CU LAW ’92
Left in 604 Schermerhorn on Tuesday.
Two teenagers and one 30-year old man are attacked for being gay in the Bronx. (NYT) The next "Harry Potter" film won't be in 3D. Everyone is sad. (Hollywood Reporter) Oil exploration in the Gulf can be seen as an echo of the current financial crisis. Who would've thought? (WSJ) A drill finally reaches Chilean miners who were trapped underground for 66 days. (NYPost) The MTA continues to make life suck--the 2nd Ave subway accidentally cuts off gas to UES apartments. (Gothamist) Update: Alex Gross, CC'11, talks to the WSJ about being a student athlete at Columbia. Photo via flickr/wsilver
It has been a riveting week here in Morningside Heights. Bwog brings you our weekly roundup of new and exciting things to ponder and post Facebook statuses about. Morton Williams is no longer carrying peaches, because it is a beacon of the local food movement. Morton Williams has decorated for Halloween, because Halloween is a month away, and pumkins are now in season (see above). Butler Cafe has decorated for Halloween, because Morton Williams has got the zeitgeist, and it aspires to be both fashionable and a haven for locavores, like Morton Williams. Butler's old computer terminals, as well as many others on campus, are dressing up as new computer terminals, in the spirit of Halloween, which is in a month. Also in season, new office chairs. Columbia ranked number one in safe sex. Clearly all the time we have been spending in Butler Cafe has prompted us to follow their example of self-improvement. Community has a new fall menu, as we would by now expect given the above neighborhood developments. 
 It's a beautiful day, Columbia! "Its just about waking up next to someome, you know. By the end of this year, I'm either gonna have a girlfriend or a mental problem."
 Columbia already has too many damn acronyms, nicknames, and portmanteaus, but people just love coming up with more. This time, we've compiled a little list of classes out there that have been commonly referred to not by their actual course names, but by some other metonym. We like these, and it would do humanity a great favor to keep this list going, so let us know some unusual names you've called your classes in the comments! Apocalypse! (Millennium: Apocalypse and Utopia) CoFi (Corporate Finance) Foner (The United States In the Era of Civil War and Reconstruction) FroSci (Frontiers of Science) Glurb (Global Urbanism) Hot Madam (History of the Modern Middle East) 'Metrics (Econometrics) Xavier (Intermediate Macroeconomics) Photo via Flickr/quinnanya
 In our latest installment of professor interviews, Adam Kuerbitz talked camels--just camels!--with history professor Richard Bulliet, who you've definitely heard of and may have taken History of the Modern Middle East with. Read on to find out everything you've ever wanted to know about camel historiography (you know, good for cocktail parties). Also, Richard Bulliet likes to paint. If you've got a suggestion for a good professor interview, email us at tips@bwog.com. How did you first become interested in camels and animals in the Middle East in general? In the spring of 1967 I was at home in Illinois and I tried to think of the Arabic word for wheel and I couldn’t think of it. So I decided either my seven years of Arabic study had been misspent or I’d never run across the word and so I decided that rather than give up my Arabic, I’d ponder whether or not there’d ever been any mention of wheels. I realized there hadn’t been and that struck me as odd because the Bible has stories about chariots and ox carts and so forth, but here you had a Middle East in the medieval period, which is what I was then studying, that appeared to have no wheeled vehicles. I decided that was a good historical problem. So I worked on the disappearance of wheeled vehicles and that brought me to the issue of the relative cost of hauling a load on an ox cart as opposed to hauling it on the back of camel. It turned out that the camel was substantially cheaper and that the camels drove the ox carts out of the transport market at some point. Since camels proved to be the key to the disappearance of wheels, it raised the question as to why camels hadn’t caused wheels to disappear a thousand years earlier or five hundred years later. Why was it then? And when was then? And that required me to reconstruct the history of camel domestication, which in as much as camels don’t actually do any writing, meant reconstructing the history of camel saddle design because the saddle proved to be the primary indicator of changes in the economy and use of camels over the centuries. So I wrote a book called The Camel and the Wheel that spelled out why camels became important at a certain time. It had to do with the design of a certain saddle and the book ended up getting into saddle designs in North Africa, central Asia, India and generally was a work on technological history. After that, I was asked by some people why I hadn’t talked about donkeys. So then I did some work on donkeys and ended up doing as much work on donkeys as I had ever done on camels. Putting the donkey, camels, horses, and cows together, I became interested in the history of human animal relations as a general topic and for many years taught a course Domestic Animals in Human History. When was the first time you ever rode a camel? I’ve only ridden a camel once. I was in Tunisia in the south where I actually discovered some very important evidence for the history of camel use and somebody offered me a ride on a camel. So I got on and rode around for a while. Pretty boring. It’s just riding on a camel. It’s the getting up and getting down that is the exciting part. With the research for your most recent book, Cotton, Climate and Camels in Early Islamic Iran: A Moment in World History, were there camel experts you could talk to? You know, the key aspect in that book dealing with camels is the crossbreeding between one-hump camels and two-hump camels. I have some photographs that show small herds still exist. People who cross breed one and two hump camels, but essentially what was once a big industry has entirely disappeared and basically other than myself no one has ever written about it in the present day so there is nobody to consult. I knew that there were crossbred camels because there are medieval sources that give the terminology and some of the details for what happens when you cross one and two hump camels, but the only person who has done substantial research on the subject lived between World War I and World War II. He was a Soviet veterinary professor who taught at a university in the Volga River area, University of Saratov. I first ran across an article by him on the camel crossing by a German veterinarian journal that had done a couple more substantial studies in Russian, but he is a completely unknown figure. I know nothing about his life. It’s apparent that at the time he was working, there were farms in Russia that still used hybrid camels and he was not studying something that was from the medieval period, but he was studying the actual breeding circumstances for practical purposes in Soviet agriculture. At one point I wrote to a number of famous zoos in the world asking what experience they’d had with hybrid camels and I got back a series of letters that bordered on being abusive that said “Dear Sir, We are a scientific institution. We do not dabble in trying to get our animals species in trying to mate with each other.” Because they were totally unaware that this at one time had been a significant industry. So there was no current scientific research and Mr. Banikoff, who had written these things in German and Russian was the only scientific source. So for the book that I published a year ago, it was piecing together fragments from medieval sources and fleshing them out from the knowledge of the hybrid camel industry that I gained from his work. What are your plans for next year? I have required leave time for a year. So that means I don’t have to break up my office this year, but next year I have to find something to do with 4,500 books and innumerable chatchkas of various sorts. But I also don’t know what I’m going to do in the broader sense. I know that I could to continue to teach in the Core Curriculum if I wanted to, but I taught in the Core Curriculum for fifteen years and I’ve had my fill of Immanuel Kant and other worthies. I have three or four books I want to write. I’m thinking of going back to painting, which I was very interested in when I was in my twenties.  I’ve always drawn through all these years sort of weird pictures. I draw when I’m attending conferences and listening to lectures. I cannot bear to take notes. I quit taking notes in graduate school and what I find is that if I’m listening to a lecture, it frees up the other side of my brain to draw interesting pictures. I listen better and I draw better. But if I actually sit and try and draw, then my logical brain provides something of a limit on what I can do. So I have hundreds and hundreds of pictures that I’ve saved up from conferences. I’ve now got about 450 of them digitized. I think I’ll probably make some of them available online and then pick some and maybe turn them into paintings. At their best they’re arresting images. I’m not a great draftsman. I don’t have a gift for reproducing reality, but I produce absurdity with some facility. The world’s basically absurd. Might as well recognize that in all areas of work. That’s the reason I write novels and draw pictures and write history.
We've gotten word that the guards at East Campus aren't letting people in, at least as of 12:03am tonight. Stumble across Revson at your own risk! Let us know in the comments of your experiences or of any updates.
 First Google wanted you to ride a futuristic monorail; now they want your car to drive itself. (BBC) Amtrak has been sending stones hurtling down from the Hell Gate Bridge and onto the road below. (Gawker) A Columbia research team found that America has its health care system to blame for low life expectancy relative to other developed countries. (Reuters) It was only a matter of time before the Williamsburg DIY scene ventured into the realm of moonshine. (City Room) Congratulations to the football team on three straight wins! The Lions beat Lafayette 42-28 yesterday in front of a home crowd. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 What to expect when you venture out to the Greenmarket today: Heron Hill Winery has been practicing sustainable viniculture for over thirty years and is making a guest appearance at today's market. Orange and purple cauliflowers from Samascott Orchards are here. Wager's Cider Mill has new grape varieties. Hudson Valley Duck has fresh duck sausage. Cayuga Organics has bags of mixed beans and grains - perfect for soups! Corn and tomatoes are still available, so get them while you can. Don't forget that EBT, credit cards, and debit cards are all accepted at the market! Happy eating! Image via Wikimedia Commons
 Girl walking down Broadway: "Yeah, I don't know, I think I left my bag somewhere in the crisis room." Image via Wikimedia Commons
Columbia is for people who are in love! Bride and groom just kissed outside the Chapel as a bunch of 14-year-olds on skateboards whizzed passed. This is the center of the world! 
A semester goes, and a semester comes, but the odd behavior of Butlerites during exams remains forever. Name the tag quote! Photos by David Hu, Eliza Shapiro and Alexandra Angelo
 Start spreading the news There's a meeting today You should want to be a part of it New York, New York The Bwogger in you It is longing to stray Right through the heart of it New York, New York You want to walk up to the SGO On Lerner 5 And find you're the king of the hill Top of the heap Your mid-semester blues They will melt away You can make a brand new start of it In old New York If you can make it there You can have free food It's up to you New York, New York Image via Wikimedia Commons
Peter Sterne sat down with the anonymous foundress of Cookies on Campus. Cookies on Campus delivers chocolate chip cookies to your door not-for-free! Why did you decide to start a cookie-delivery business? I’m a senior in the College majoring in PoliSci who really likes to bake. I even considered dropping out of Columbia two years ago and joining the French Culinary Institute. I wasn’t really serious, but I got to meet with the head chef at the Institute and he let me try all the desserts because he knew I loved baking pastries. Recently, I’ve been working my way through the recipes in “Cooking” by James Peterson. Why did you decide to make simple chocolate-chip cookies if you're capable of more complex desserts? Well, cookies are really easy and cheap to make. I don’t really have time to make all those complex recipes, so I’ve been messing around in the kitchen trying to make something simple. Last weekend, I realized that I wanted to make cookies, but I didn’t know who would eat them. So I decided that I should sell them. It was easy to make an online order form with Google and a blog for my business. But the other reason that I chose to do chocolate-chip cookies is because the first thing I learned to bake when I was younger was Tollhouse chocolate-chip cookies. Can you tell Bwog what’s in the recipe or is it a secret? It’s a trade secret. Or you can just google “chewy chocolate chip cookies.” It's a pretty basic recipe but I added some cinnamon, since a little cinnamon never hurt anyone! How has the demand been? Both higher and lower than I expected. The first day, the Band Suite ordered 2/3 of my supply for the night. Then a Barnard suite ordered two dozen, and then the Band Suite ordered a dozen more, with a note asking me to please bring more if I had it. But there are hardly any orders during the week, so I might just cut back to weekend deliveries. What’s it been like to deliver cookies to people all over campus? I’ve gotten to see lots of cool dorms. I had forgotten what John Jay looked like - and I finally found out after four years where one of the Barnard dorms is located. It’s also been a great way to meet new people. Living in a River single, it’s not really easy to meet people. It’s nice to have a reason to leave my room and go across campus, and to make people happy while they work instead of doing my own work. Any final thoughts? If you order cookies, you become my friend. So I’m really just making cookies for 6,000 of my closest friends.
This week, the weather goes underwater and then plays squash racquetball. Special thanks to our football team for winning three games in a row, Shira Laucharoen for lending us the camera, John Nordin for the underwater camera, Jackie Smith for filming, and Tiffany Lee aka Vis à Vis. Check out her non-BwogWeather music here. Onward, Weather-Friends! 
 Way back in 1492, Columbus landed in the New World. Fun fact: Columbus never actually set foot in North America. He only got as close as the Bahamas (History.com).  And remember the Downie Diatribe? Politicians hurl Italian-American slurs and "bring the buffoonery of Jersey Shore" to the Governors race. Perhaps the fist pump is the new fist bump (NYTimes). Barnard revised its core! To strengthen and beautify Barnard's moral fibers, the "Reason and Value" requirement was changed to "Ethics and Value." The Committee on Instruction also decided the "Social Analysis" way of knowing will now "ask deeper questions" (Spec). Solomon Burke, best known for his show-stopping soul number, "Don't Give Up on Me," died yesterday (NYTimes). Image via Wikimedia Commons
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Mon, Oct. 11 “The Climate Challenge: Revitalizing the Debate” Third Floor, Faculty House, 8:30 am – 4:00 pm, Katherine Richardson, Jeffrey Sachs, and More “Tsugaru Shamisen Performance and lecture” 403 Kent Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Yutaka Oyama and Masahiro Nitta “Prospects for 21st Century African Agriculture” Low Library Rotunda, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Kofi Annan and Jeffrey Sachs Tues, Oct. 12 “Barnard Founder’s Day” Lehman Lawn, 11:30 am – 1:00 pm, Various “Risks from Climate Change for New York City and Adaptation Options” 417 Schermerhorn Hall, 12:15 pm – 1:00 pm, Klaus Jacob “Covering Politics in 2010” Third Floor Lecture Hall, Journalism Building, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Tom Edsall, Ben Smith, Maggie Haberman, Charles Blow, Melinda Henneberger, Sam Stein, Todd Gitlin, Andrew Gelman, Robert Shapiro, and Bob Erikson Wed, Oct. 13 “The Justice Cascade” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 5:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Kathryn Sikkink, Richard Dicker, and Robert O. Keohane “China Online: Politics, Activism, and the Internet” James Room, Fourth Floor Barnard Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Xiaobo Lu and Guobin Yang “Human Rights?: A Panel Discussion Hosted by The Current” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 8:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Sameul Moyn, Elazar Barkan, and Nick Serpe Thurs, Oct. 14 “The Organizational Response to 9/11—A Quantitative Approach” 270B IAB, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Peter Mearman and Bart McAllister “Solar-Powered Eco-City of Tomorrow” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Lawrence D. Burns and Sydney W. Kitson “Shayari (Urdu Poetry) Night” 507 Knox Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Janaab Manac Maasoom, Aftab Ahmad, and Dalpat Rajpurohit Fri, Oct. 15 “White and Blue Shabbat Dinner” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Students “Galactic Cannibalism, Followed by Stargazing” Pupin Hall (Follow Signs in Lobby), 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Kathryn Johnston “Dreams” Schapiro Studio, 605 W. 115th, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, New Play, Runs through Oct 17 at 5:00 pm Sat, Oct. 16 “Navaratri Celebration” Earl Hall Auditorium, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, CU Raas “Potterpalooza” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Harry and the Potters “GenderFuck 2010” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 9:00 pm – 2:00 am, Queer Awareness Month Party Sun, Oct. 17 “CU Wind Ensemble’s Transformations Concert” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm “Pastors Under Fire” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Discussion with Filmmakers Lee Lawrence and Terry Nickelson after Film Screening FULL LIST Mon, Oct. 11 “The Climate Challenge: Revitalizing the Debate” Third Floor, Faculty House, 8:30 am – 4:00 pm, Katherine Richardson, Jeffrey Sachs, and More “Indigenous People’s Day” Low Plaza, 9:00 am – 8:30 pm, students and vigil at 8:00 pm at Sundial “Echoes of Chongqing – Women in Wartime China” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Danke Li “In Pursuit of Equity During an Economic Growth Miracle” 332 Uris Hall, 12:30 pm – 1:30 pm, Mai Lu “European Security Policy: The Blurring of Internal and External Boundaries” 801 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Didier Bigo and Richard Betts “Turning Personal Experience into Political Attitudes: The Effect of Local Weather on Americans’ Perceptions about Global Warming” 707 IAB, 4:10 pm – 5:30 pm, Megan Mullin “Social Network Analysis and the Analysis of Policy Debates” 509 Knox Hall, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Philip Leifeld “Weatherhead East Asia Institute’s Undergraduate Photo Exhibition: Opening Address” Broadway Room, Lerner Hall, 5:30 pm – 7:00 pm, Rosalind Morris “Tsugaru Shamisen Performance and lecture” 403 Kent Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Yutaka Oyama and Masahiro Nitta “The Dragon in the Room: China and the Future of Latin American Industrialization” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Kevin P. Gallagher “Prospects for 21st Century African Agriculture” Low Library Rotunda, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Kofi Annan and Jeffrey Sachs “US Climate Policy in the Context of Congressional Paralysis” 104 Greene Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Nick Akins, Laurie Burt, Michael Levi, Gina McCarthy, Albert Bressand, and Michael Gerrard “Book Club: Un Balcon en foret by Julien Gracq” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Henri Mitterand “From Palestine to Oakland: The Fight to Free Political Prisoners” 405 Milbank Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Francisco Torres, Lamis Deek, and Michael Kennedy “Merton, Matteo Ricci, and Confucianism” St. Paul’s Chapel, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, William Theodore de Bary Tues, Oct. 12 “Barnard Founder’s Day” Lehman Lawn, 11:30 am – 1:00 pm, Various “Biases, Borders, and Biohazards: Misconstructing Migrants as a Public Health Threat in the Russian Federation” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Cynthia Buckley “Daniel Ellsberg and the Lost Idea of Photocopy” 607B Journalism Building, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Lisa Gitelman “Risks from Climate Change for New York City and Adaptation Options” 417 Schermerhorn Hall, 12:15 pm – 1:00 pm, Klaus Jacob “The Politics of the (un)Civil Marriage in Israel” 801 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Hanna Lerner “On Neural Encoding Circuits Built with Hodking-Huxley Neurons” 210 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Aurel Lazar “Restoring Ecosystem Services in Haiti” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Marc Levy and Alex Fischer “Covering Politics in 2010” Third Floor Lecture Hall, Journalism Building, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Tom Edsall, Ben Smith, Maggie Haberman, Charles Blow, Melinda Henneberger, Sam Stein, Todd Gitlin, Andrew Gelman, Robert Shapiro, and Bob Erikson “Halcyon Days: Emerging Centers of Regional Power in Shu (Sichuan) and Jiao (Vietnam) after the Fall of the Tang” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center for Humanities, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Carl Franciscus Verellen, Peter Bol, and Robert Hymes “Assume Nothing Film Screening” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Kirsty MacDonald film “The U.S. Counter-Insurgency Strategy in Afghanistan: A Civil-Military Perspective” 1501 IAB, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Major Jason Brezler USMC Wed, Oct. 13 “Advanced Analysis of Complex Seismic Waveform to Characterize Subsurface Structure” First Floor Seminar Room, Gary C. Comer Geochemistry Building, Lamont-Doherty, 10:00 am – 11:30 am, Tianxia Jia “Ancestors and Relatives: Cognitive Sociology Meets Genealogy” 509 Knox Hall, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Eviatar Zerubavel “Mothers of the Church: The Tactile Politics of Reproducing Images” 963 Schermerhorn Extension, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Angie Heo “Palliative Care for a Dying Physician: Teaching It and Living It” 301 Hammer Health Sciences Center, Medical Center, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm, Betty Lim, Robert Pardi, and Craig Blinderman “The Justice Cascade” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 5:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Kathryn Sikkink, Richard Dicker, and Robert O. Keohane “The Climate Talks: Why We Failed and How We Can Succeed” 413 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Laurence Tubiana “Infrastructure Investment in Brazil—A Major Development Bottleneck?” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Renato Mazzola “Joseph Urban: The Urbane Architect” 523 Butler Library, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, John Loring “Book Talk—Saving Iraq: Rebuilding a Broken Nation” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Nemir Kirdar “China Online: Politics, Activism, and the Internet” James Room, Fourth Floor Barnard Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Xiaobo Lu and Guobin Yang “Philosophy Forum: Competence and Virtue Epistemology” 720 Philosophy Hall, Students “Human Rights?: A Panel Discussion Hosted by The Current” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 8:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Sameul Moyn, Elazar Barkan, and Nick Serpe Thurs, Oct. 14 “Update on Advanced Heart Failure and Transplant—2010” New Vivian and Seymour Milstein Heart Center, Medical Center, All Day Oct 14 and 15, Various “Mao’s Great Famine—The History of China’s Most Devastating Catastrophe, 1958-1962” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Frank Dikoetter “Comparing Civil and Interstate Wars” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, David Cunningham “The Structural Assimilation of the Second Generation in Germany” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Frank Kalter “Facts of Yesterday, Challenges of Today, Opportunities of Tomorrow” 1501 IAB, 4:00 pm – Oct 15, 1:00 pm, John Coatsworth, Jose Antonio Ocampo, Thomas Trebat, Guillermo Calvo, Monte Alejandro Rubido Garcia, Joy Olson, Joseph Frank Pearl, Jamie Ravinet de la Fuente, Paulo Sotero, David Lopez-Carr, Richard Samaniego, Carlos Bethancourt, Claire Fallender, Fernando Fabre, Julio Mariscal, Mary-Elena Carr, and Sara Minard “The Organizational Response to 9/11—A Quantitative Approach” 270B IAB, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Peter Mearman and Bart McAllister “Solar-Powered Eco-City of Tomorrow” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Lawrence D. Burns and Sydney W. Kitson “Learning Kanji: Perceptions and Strategies” 403 Kent Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Yoshiko Mori “Three Monkeys Film Screening” 411 IAB, 6:15 pm – 8:30 pm, Nuri Bilge Ceylan “Makeshift Reclamation” James Room, Fourth Floor Barnard Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Alexis Pauline Gumbs, Jessica Hoffmann, Hilary Goldberg, Mattilda Bernstein Sycamore, Timmy Straw, Anastacia Tolbert, irina Contreras, and Others “Little Wars and a Great Game: Caucasus Conflicts and the Desperate Search for Peace” 707 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Vicken Cheterian “Brazil’s Upcoming Elections” 802 IAB, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, David Fleischer “Shayari (Urdu Poetry) Night” 507 Knox Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Janaab Manac Maasoom, Aftab Ahmad, and Dalpat Rajpurohit Fri, Oct. 15 “Using Google Street View to Measure Neighborhood Physical Disorder” 270B IAB, 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Julien Teitler “Use of Dynamic Resevoir Operations for Climate Change Adaptation” 833 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Daniel Sheer “Climate Feedback Processes in Observations and Models” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Dennis L. Hartmann “Neiman Gallery Exhibition Opening: Fool’s House” Neiman Gallery, Dodge Hall Third Floor, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Works by Becky Brown, Peter Gallo, Nora Griffin, Josephine Halvorson, and Jim Lee “White and Blue Shabbat Dinner” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Students “Galactic Cannibalism, Followed by Stargazing” Pupin Hall (Follow Signs in Lobby), 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Kathryn Johnston “Dreams” Schapiro Studio, 605 W. 115th, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, New Play, Runs through Oct 17 at 5:00 pm Sat, Oct. 16 “Navaratri Celebration” Earl Hall Auditorium, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, CU Raas “Potterpalooza” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Harry and the Potters “GenderFuck 2010” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 9:00 pm – 2:00 am, Queer Awareness Month Party Sun, Oct. 17 “CU Wind Ensemble’s Transformations Concert” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm “Pastors Under Fire” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Discussion with Filmmakers Lee Lawrence and Terry Nickelson after Film Screening 
It's four square! No, not the sketchy social networking site, but the playground game. Relive recess, kids! Spotted by Sarah Ngu
 Grant D'Avino reports! Last night's CCSC meeting opened with introductions, as it was the first meeting that included representatives and officers from the class of 2014. Along with his or her name and position in CCSC, each person was asked to share an adjective that described him or herself at the present. Bwog's favorites, in no particular order: dehydrated, amused, whelmed, not sad, fantabulous. The main business of the meeting was discussion of a resolution to recommend changes to the dining plan. The proposed resolution, even once passed, will not be a mandate, and its suggestions will not necessarily be put in place. The body debated whether John Jay or Ferris Booth should remain open on weekends, with opinion strongly in favor of opening John Jay. It was suggested that John Jay provides the quintessential freshman dining hall experience, and should remain open because it is designed to hold more people than Ferris Booth and looks like Hogwarts. Other proposals in the draft of the resolution discussed at the meeting included an option for meals to be cooked "healthy style," a new take-out window to be implemented at JJ's Place, and a reduction in the price of meals for people without meal plans. The fundamental problem that JJ's cannot exist simultaneously as a hangout, a meal swipe only dining hall, and an a la carte grill was the cause of much concern among members, especially because JJ's Place as a meal swipe only dining hall has proved more profitable than previous years' a la carte incarnation. As debate over each issue seemed to be intense enough to warrant a number of changes in the proposed resolution, there was no vote, and a revised resolution will be introduced at next week's meeting. Other resolutions were tabled for the evening. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Lucha, a Columbia service group, has constructed a "Border Wall" to commemorate Immigration Week. Located on Low Plaza, the wall represents the US-Mexico border.  Passersby are invited to share their thoughts by writing on the wall. Photos by Conor Skelding 
 ﻿Photos by David Hu and Greg Schwartz
 Bwog had the distinct pleasure of interviewing the visionaries behind one of Columbia's newest (and largest) organizations: the Fun Club. Founded at the start of this semester, the Fun Club is dedicated to simple, free, non-résumé-stuffin' fun. The brainchild of two seniors, Neil Shahrestani GS'11 and Lior Hemi GS'11, and a sophomore, Nicole Rumore CC'13, the Fun Club seeks to build the community that so often is lacking at Columbia. With a listserv of over 500 people (50% freshman), the Fun Club is open to any suggestions that jibe with it's love for spontaneous, goodhearted fun. What inspired you to found the Fun Club? Shahrestani: Last semester, I walked through Butler at midterms. I usually study in my room, but I was in Butler. So many people just looked miserable. You see people cracked out on Adderall, studying for hours. People need to learn that if you stop and play, give time to yourself—devote to whatever you love, then you will be happier and more productive. It's good to do something you can't put on your resume, something just for you. Rumore: I thought that as a school, we're good at fun, but we could be better. How long did it take you to gain this perspective? Shahrestani: Well, first semester freshman year went by in a rush—and I realized, wait, I've done nothing except read books. So I got involved. It was second year that I realized that fun isn't just fun but crucial to success, and to happiness. What fun things do you suggest doing to fight midterm blues? Shahrestani: Do whatever. Balance is key. We're capable here, but we need to find balance. Study for eight hours. After all, we're students first. But give yourself time just for yourself. Rumore: Work hard, play hard. And why the Fun Club? Shahrestani: We want school spirit. I'm a Big Ten kid at heart, and I want to go to sporting events, I want to root for a team. That's why our events have passwords, because it's cool to hear a crowd shouting "Beat Dartmouth!" in Lerner. It turns heads. What was the most fun night you've ever had? Shahrestani: When I finished my Goldman internship, all the other interns and I went down to the Frying Pan in NYC, and it was so organic, it just came together. We talked, enjoyed each other's company and relaxed after a tough internship. Rumore: My Theta formal. Do you two consider yourselves experts on fun? Shahrestani: I think we're novices on fun, experts on people. We organize events for the Fun Club as spur of the moment—whatever we or our members want. Rumore: We like what we do, but we are open to all ideas. Shahrestani: That's right, we don't have a corner on the fun market. And you guys started as anonymous? Shahrestani: That's right, because the Club is bigger than the leaders who run the email. We want the club to grow and live on. We take any suggestion from any member into consideration. It's everyone's. What is the best way to have fun on campus? Shahrestani: Join the Fun Club. The best way to have fun for free? Rumore: (laughs) Join the Fun Club. Shahrestani: That's right—we subsidize all our events, everything is free to members. Finally: is the Core fun? Shahrestani: Not while you're in the midst of it, but in retrospect, yes. Columbia alums just love to talk about it, it's such a bond between years. Rumore: Yeah, my dad and I love to talk about it. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 There's free food in the Lerner Broadway Room, courtesy of the Columbia University Photography Society and the Weatherhead East Asian Institute. According to Bwog's very own Hans Hyttinen, there will be fruit, hummus and other Westside goodies. Rejoice! Photo from Wikimedia Commons
Dear Friends, Please join the staff of The Blue &amp; White (pictured at right) for our meeting tonight, Monday night, at 9:00 p. m. in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. Our layout weekend is just around the corner! So tonight we'll be hearing updates from writers and assigning a few last-minute items. We'll also be going over how you can get involved with editing, copy-editing, and layout even if you aren't writing a piece for the issue. If you're interested in working with the magazine and/or the Bwog, please stop by—tonight's the night! Plus, classy snacks will be served. Hope to see you soon, The Editors.
Holy shit, Kofi and Lee just walked up Low Steps like it was no big deal. Bwog is kvelling! 
 Dear Bwog, The following is my stream of consciousness while trying to write a paper in 209: Curse you cursor, mocking my mindlessness and blinking before my blank screen! That grad student sitting across from me is revealing a little too much chest hair. When did unbuttoning the top three buttons become acceptable? Now he’s twirling his pen. He’s got skills. Damn, I wish I could twirl a pen like that… The powers that be should create stilts to prop open eyelids… I have to fart… Whatever happened to Ja Rule …and Legends of the Hidden Temple? So I’m no Virginia Woolf, but here’s the deal: I have a ton of shit to do. Out of nowhere, I was hit with a boatload of work. Wanna do it for me? Sincerely, Seriously screwed. Dear Seriously Screwed, First things first, people don’t go to Butler 209 to study; they go to be seen studying. And you have things to do, so leave now. While you’re ascending the Butler steps, stare up into the knowing eyes of Butler himself. He made it, and so can you, my friend. Now don’t go sitting next to someone hot. You may think that sitting across from someone attractive will make you want to look studious and therefore you will be studious. But you are wrong. Find a space? Good. Now, we could tell you to load up on caffeine and crank it out, but that wouldn’t be too inspirational. Instead, take 5 minutes to go outside and walk briskly around that narrow grassy knoll between the two lawns. Just do it. You deserve it, pal. So now you’re back in your seat. Devote the next 15 minutes to writing whatever random ideas you’ve got bobbing around that insightful brain of yours. Ellipses are your friend; you’re not engraving this anywhere. Just type like you’re taking one of those Words Per Minute tests—the ones you sometimes use to procrastinate, except now you’re actually working. Wow, look at that! You have some words on a page. Kudos! Now print out your jumbled jargon and grab a writing utensil. Sometimes it’s really fun to write with a colorful pen. Why assault your precious retinas with grading-pen red when you can opt for sea-foam blue? Draw lines and squiggles to start connecting and organizing your ideas. Now you have a rough outline. You’re such a champ! Don’t forget that you go to Columbia. And that’s pretty fucking cool. Remember back in the day when you first saw Butler and thought, “I’m going to think big things in there.” Or maybe you didn’t think that. Anywho, momentous contemplation went down right here. According to Aristotle, that should be pretty pleasurable. So, throw yourself into your thoughts the way all those happy philosophers did. Love, Bwog P.S. Adderall is for pussies. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Harry and the Potters are coming to Columbia. Yes, they're a real band—kind of like a wizardy version of They Might Be Giants. Anywho, the sophomores of CCSC decided to make a video about the upcoming Potterpalooza. Ryan Mandelbaum stars as a super badass Harry, and Deaton Jones plays a menacing Malfoy. Bwog was a little surprised to learn that the hooded hipster smoking outside John Jay is Harry himself! (There's one every year; don't think you're so original.) But the adorable vid did confirm one thing we always knew: Carman is Slytherin. Harry and the Potters coming to Columbia October 16! from CCSC 2013 on Vimeo.
Coat featured in previous edition of As Seen on College Walk
Left in a seat in Hamilton. It's broken, so to prove it's yours say how it's messed up.
Lost on Monday 10/11. Might have left them in Nussbaum &amp; Wu or 417 IAB. They were still in the case, which is dark orange and textured.
It was a dark and stormy night when Engineering Student Council held its internal elections. President Elizondo opened the meeting by explaining that he hoped the council would complete the meeting and night’s three internal elections “far, far before 1AM deadline.” These results will be updated throughout the night. Sustainability Liaison: William Cybriwsky – Elected Earth and Environmental Engineer Has worked with multiple environmental groups on campus Proposed expanding Eco-container program to more campus food locations, or enabling students to use their own food containers to carry out food. Explained that environmental issues on campus can often be reduced to a choice between environmental concerns and convenience, and said that he would work to make it easier for students to be green by implementing new programs. Student Services: Lisa Mack (ran after Sustainability Liaison election) - Elected Feels that she would be able to work with the residential life committees because of her position as a CA. Said people often complain about housing and dining, and said that ResLife could collaborate with ESC to help  address student concerns. Explained that the people who work in housing and dining are "personable," and their willingness to work with you is often determined by if they recognize your face. As a result, she would have an advantage in dealing with student concerns. Said holding the Student Services Representative position would not be a conflict of interest, as she already sees herself as a representative of the students. The council opted to push back Alumni Affairs elections, as there were not enough candidates. -SVZ
Hundreds of freshmen are stranded outside of John Jay tonight due to a fire-related incident. Multiple people Bwog talked to indicate that they saw smoke coming out of trash chutes and saw smoke in the hallways, even on the highest floors. A popular theory amongst the stranded is that someone threw something flammable or ignited down into the trash chutes. There are firemen on the scene now, and there's no word of when students will be allowed back in. Update, 1:11am: They've been letting students back in for a while and the crowd has all but cleared. The security guard at the John Jay desk informed us that someone threw an object (he conjectured a cigarette or something of the like, as most students have) down the 7th floor chute, which fell to the 4th floor and caught on fire, causing sprinklers to go off. There is also no elevator service currently. We'll keep you updated with any further major developments! Update, 2:36am: A tipster that actually lives on JJ7 has informed us that students on the floor with a view of the trash chute before the fire did not see anyone dropping anything down there. While some of the 7th floor residents were studying, someone spotted smoke coming from the chute and opened its door. This caused more smoke to billow out, and this is possibly what eventually set off the fire alarm. The plot thickens! 
 Havana Central owner Jeremy Merrin is profiled by the Post for his outrage at a City Council proposal that would require him to offer all his employees paid sick days. Whether the proposal would affect Senior Night is unclear. (NYP) Two British men face sentencing today for running an illegal, DIY sperm bank out of their basement. So be careful when ordering syringes of semen online. (Gawker) In other pregnancy news, City Council is proposing legislation to require so-called "crisis pregnancy centers," which oppose abortion, to be more forthcoming about what services they provide. (NYT) In (theoretically) good news for some seniors, Wall Street pay is expected to set a record high for the second consecutive year. How does that Financial Econ major look now? (WSJ) Image via Wikimedia Commons
Rachel Swett, CC '11, passed away this summer. She actively experienced life, unwilling to let it simply wash over her. Rachel radiated warmth, and constantly captured her colorful world on film. Last night, friends and family of Rachel gathered in Faculty House to share stories of her life. A friend from her high school, the Brearley School, told us that Rachel was an expert gift-giver. On the friend's 21st birthday, Rachel bought The Idiot's Guide to Personal Finance in Your 20's and 30's, The Big Book of Cocktail recipes (with a note that read "cake is for wussies, happy birthday") and a giant stuffed zebra toy, which now resides in the friend's EC suite. We learned that at her first COOP meeting freshman year, Rachel convinced a friend that they should wear long underwear with shorts on top, bandanas, and wool socks pulled up to their calves. Everyone else wore t-shirts and jeans. Science of Psychology veterans will remember one extra credit assignment that asked students to create a socially unacceptable experience and record the results. Rachel organized an "Annex New Mexico" rally along 5th Avenue, complete with posters and flyers. One of the passers-by she tried to convert was a Columbia psychology professor. Friends spoke about trips to Rachel's family home close to Columbia. One friend had booked a flight home on Christmas Eve, and Rachel insisted that she come to the Swett home for a Christmas dinner. Rachel loved holidays, and helped organize a Thanksgiving dinner in May, New Zealand's fall, while she was abroad there. One friend said, "Rachel, it is always Christmas when I am with you." When Rachel and her roommate had mice in their room sophomore year, Rachel suggested that she bring her cat from home to patrol the hallways. A sister from Rachel's sorority, Alpha Chi Omega, recalled a memorable sorority formal. Rachel allowed the friend to do her hair for the night. During the formal, Rachel went up to her friend and admitted, "I look like a Christmas poodle." The friend asked Rachel if she wanted her to fix it. Rachel said no, since it gave her something to talk about. Rachel's aunt told us that Rachel was the flower girl at her wedding. Rachel refused to wear her dress shoes, and insisted on wearing her red Keds throughout the ceremony. So she did. Dean Moody-Adams quoted theologian Forrest Church's sermon "Love and Death." All our stories end in the middle, she paraphrased, with unfinished stories piled high. Rachel's story, Moody-Adams reminded us, is interwoven with so many other stories. That unfinished business, she said, might be carried out by us. Rachel will be missed. Columbia's resources are available for support in coping with Rachel's death or other difficult situations. Contact the Center for Student Advising at 212-854-6378, Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878, the Office of the University Chaplain at 212-854-1493, Nightline at 212-854-7777, or Residential Programs at at 212-854-6805.
Rejoice, all! Today is Founder's Day at Barnard. That means all sorts of exciting things. Exhibit A: there are t-shirts for sale that read "a lot has happened in 121 years...what will happen next?" Exhibit B: The BBQ has been moved indoors, so Hewitt is loud and smokey and more fun than usual. Photos by Bwog's Outdoor-Moved-Indoor-Event Correspondent, Katheryn Thayer. 
 The Office of Student and Administrative Services notified Bwog in the wee hours last night that a new partnership with NJ Transit will allow full-time undergraduate and grad students the opportunity to buy monthly passes for all of NJ Transit's services at a 25% discount. This service will be available through NJ Transit's QuickTik auto-payment program, which will bill students' credit cards monthly for their discounted passes. Students will have the option of suspending the service during winter and summer breaks. All of this raises the question, why would anyone want to go to New Jersey? (Besides that baller little area they have in Penn Station, of course.) For additional information regarding the NJ TRANSIT Monthly Pass Discount Program or to enroll, you can go here. Image via Wikimedia Commons
The SGA met Monday night. Bwog's Raph Debenedetti got the scoop on water fountains. Be warned! Some water fountains in the Diana do not provide water. Do your duty and report any deficient water fountains! Delta Gamma will be hosting a fashion show for charity this Saturday, 8 p.m., in LeFrak. Tickets are $5. Dean Denburg paid a visit to the meeting to talk about a new grant Barnard has received so that more Barnard students can study abroad in Israel and connect with alumni there. At last! The Pre-Vet Society has been officially recognized. The Student Affairs Committee approved a motion to develop the new Graduate Student Center. 
The ESC also met Monday night. Bwog's Sean Zimmermann was there. The council spent most of the time before the election discussing the current dining survey, and the results so far. Common student complaints on the survey included the extensive crowding of Ferris, especially on the weekends, the lack of takeout in JJs, and confusion with the new Eco-Token system. As of now, students are split 50-50 over whether John Jay or Ferris should be open on the weekends. ESC is working with CCSC to prepare a dinning report to inform students of the results of the dinning survey, and what the councils are doing to address student concerns. VP Internal Carla Williams spoke about implementing either an Instant-Runoff Voting (IRV) or Single Transferable Vote (STV) system for council elections. Both systems are preferential voting systems that would prevent ties in council elections. Academic Affairs Representatives Patrick Han resigned tonight for personal reasons. This brings the number of unoccupied spots on council to 2, as the council also decided to postpone the election of a new Alumni Affairs Representative. Council members voted to allow freshmen to enter the SEAS New York lottery. SEAS New York, which allows SEAS students to attend various cultural events, in the past only allowed upperclassman (or second semester freshmen) to participate because freshman were able to enter into a similar lottery, Urban New York, which was canceled this semester. 
Hark! Tonight at 7 PM in the Lerner East Ramp Lounge, the Neuroscience Society will be giving out chocolate, blueberries, nuts and green tea to help you study. They'll also be showing a TED Talk on neuroscience-y things. 
 There's been lots of talk about Barnard and Greek Life recently. We're kind of confused, so we figured you would be, too. Basically, SGA is trying to figure out whether SGA/the Barnard administration should formally recognize (and therefore fund) the umbrella organizations that oversee the sororities, as well as the sororities themselves. We checked in with the task force currently figuring out how to advise the SGA on this issue. They cleared up the basics of Columbia/Barnard Greek Life, the current state of Barnard Greek Life, and the many layers of the conflict. Update, 8:20 PM: Bwog has just checked in with the SGA task force to clarify a few points brought up in the comments. The IGC is the InterGreek Council. It oversees the Panhellenic Council, the Multicultural Greek Council (acronym alert: it's also known as MGC) and the Interfraternity Council (IFC). The IFC oversees all the sororities (wow, that was a terrible typo!) fraternities as well as ADP, which is why the Barnard students in ADP are under the umbrella of the IFC. As of 2009, 3% of the total Barnard involvement in Greek Life is involved with ADP since the only IFC organization Barnard students can join is ADP. As of 2009, Barnard students made up 42% of the MGC population, and 49% of the Panhellenic Council population, while Columbia College made up only 38%. There are currently four sorority chapters under the Panhellenic Council on campus: Alpha Chi Omega, Delta Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, and Sigma Delta Tau. Each chapter has no less than 55 members. The number of  potential recruits released or withdrawn from Formal Recruitment has increased, leading the focus group to state that "that system is unable to accomodate the number of women wanting to affiliate." The focus group has also found that the number of women wanting to be involved in Greek Life would "easily support a fifth chapter on campus." In 2009, the focus group suggested adding a fifth chapter to "equalize the disparity between membership sizes among the councils" but that idea has since been unapproved. The 2009 calendar year saw 249 Barnard students involved with Greek Life, which is 10.4% of Barnard's total population. As of 2009, Barnard students made up 22% of Greek Life. In recent years, the Barnard administration has made a gift of $1,000 to F@CU, which controls funding for the Greek Life councils. This past  year, Barnard paid slightly more than usual, justified in part by the fact that many Barnard women are now living off-campus in sorority houses. for reasons not disclosed by Barnard. There are two phases of sorority recognition, titled Phases 1 and 2 (!) At Phase 1, the organization is not written into the administrative budget, but can ask for gifts, reserve space, and recruit for their organization on campus. Phase 2 is full recognition. Organizations cannot be approved at Phase 2 at least six months after they are approved from Phase 1, but it is generally understood that Phase 1 approval will lead to Phase 2 approval. The Panhellenic Council is currently recognized by the Barnard administration under Phase 1. SGA has since decided to deal with all of the Greek Life-affiliated councils together, an 'all or nothing' situation, but PanHel remains approved at Phase 1. Some sorority members have expressed their concern that it is ineffective to group Greek Life under one umbrella organization since the councils are all distinct. Recently, the MGC has approached the SGA about the possible racial bias inherent in MGC not being recognized at Stage 1. Members of MGC are "extremely frustrated," according to the SGA focus group, by their comparison to other sororities on campus, since they feel that they come from a history of marginalization and therefore support a distinct set of goals. Since it is recognized under Phase 1, the Panhellenic Council employs a Graduate Assistant advisor and the MGC and ADP do not receive any formal support from Barnard, giving the Panhellenic Council a big advantage. Three separate motions were brought to the SGA to explore IGC  recognition in Spring 2010. The SGA focus group is working on three options on the future of Barnard Greek Life that they will bring to SGA as recommendations. SGA will then make the final decision about recognition of Barnard Greek Life. None of the other Seven Sisters colleges, of which Barnard is a member, have recognized sororities on campus. Photo via Wikimedia Commons.
Tonight, the student group Everyone Allied Against Homophobia will begin distributing pink fliers to all dorm rooms on the Columbia and Barnard campuses. The fliers are intended to be placed in dorm room windows to indicate that the dorm room is a "safe space" for gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual and queer students and their allies, as well as to display the room's occupant's support to onlookers outside of the room. EAAH has previously distributed the fliers to all first-year dorms, this is the first year the fliers will be delivered to all undergraduate dorms. For more information, you can read the EAAH press release here.
All right, Columbia. I know we like to have fun sometimes, but at some point it needs to stop. 
Gray flash drive, fading color (can see the printed boards inside the drive), no cap, bunch of important files on it that I need, reward if found.
 In sports, Columbia Rugby is ranked thirteenth in the nation! (American Rugby News) Columbia gets commended for recycling lots of furniture, keeping it out of landfills! (Technorati) Bloomberg aims to prevent people from spending food stamps on sugary drinks. (The Week) A Long Island Rail Road former engineer is accused of letting a passenger drive the train. (Fox NY) Levain Bakery is coming to Harlem (Spec) Photo from Wikimedia Commons.
Budget 19 extra seconds into the dash to print before class! Update: Security at the (temporary) front desk said the work should be done by tomorrow 
Hello there! Are you in a living situation that is in some way notable? Do you like diamonds and fame? Would you like to be featured on Bwog then email us in a year when you're looking for a job to ask us to remove your last name? Well, perfect. Bwog is looking for living situations we're dubbing "Powersuites." If you live with notable campus people, or you're all involved in one organization, or you all eat scrambled eggs for dinner only on Wednesdays, or you are in a living situation that you think is worth us writing about, tell us. Email us at tips@bwog.com with the details on your Powersuite and why you think your suite deserves a spot in Powersuite history. Image via Wikimedia.
Alexandra Svokos CC'14 noticed a dreamcatcher just hangin' outside Lerner. 
Honest Tea is out in front of the 116th Street gates. Take a bottle, and pay a dollar in the box, but you're on the honor system--nobody is watching! Update: In other food news, it is half-off day at Haagen Dazs! Photo by David Hu
 You're stressed out, maybe a little depressed, and definitely worrying about whatever horrifying amount of work is hanging over your head. You're striding down College Walk, passing people, in your own focused world. You might be about to crack. But mercifully something pulls you out of your personal death spiral of despair: an adorable six-year-old riding a scooter, free of worry. Lily Icangelo brings us this year's first In Defense Of, and tells us why kids on campus are a great good. You’ve seen them—prancing around college walk in their tiny little outfits, filled with a type of energy that you have not (naturally) known in years. Some people do not appreciate these adorable little creatures’ constant presence, so Bwog is proud to stand up for those Gap Kids-wearing, temper-tantrum-having, tiny joyous people. Kids may have been the intended audience for that annoying children’s concert performed outside of Butler the other week, but even they knew not to show up. This suggests that kids are smart and have good taste—really they are just smaller and cuter versions of ourselves. Since everything is better in a miniature version (think cupcakes, cats, and problem sets), we should welcome the presence of our own personal Mini-Me's. Children represent an innocent freedom you once knew and loved. And guess what? You now have the chance to live vicariously through those little kids and regain that freedom you once knew. Maybe one day after class you'll have the sudden urge to run through campus while screaming “I WANT MY SPONGEBOB UNDERWEAR!!!” (true story) but are too afraid of the social consequences. Or you just learned that the dining hall ran out of Diet Coke and you have a paper due tomorrow so all you want to do is fall to the floor and throw a tantrum. No problem. Take a walk around campus; you WILL pass a child acting out all of those crazy emotions that you are currently feeling. Take a moment to pretend you are that child. You will feel better. Plus, kids are not judging you. They do not judge when they see you walking out of a random dorm one morning in clothes that you wore last night. They do not care that you didn’t know about that “secret” show/after party in Brooklyn last night. They are not going to attack you for drinking water out of a plastic water bottle instead of a reusable one. They are just there: non-judgmental, a stress-free zone for all of us neurotic college students to step into. The most obvious and perhaps strongest argument for kids is that they are ridiculously cute and cuddly—like puppies. Who doesn’t love puppies? Walking past an adorable child on your way to class is like walking past a million rainbow-producing unicorns. Take one look at their tiny Dora the Explorer backpacks and light-up sneakers and you’ll find yourself in a momentary cuteness-coma where exams don’t exist and tuition is paid by smiles. These kids brighten up even the gloomiest of days; they are our saving grace for the overwhelmingly stressful environment of this school. What kind of loveless, cuteness-hating, opponent of happiness wouldn’t want them around? Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog hops all sorts of things: lectures, dorm rooms, holidays, clubs. Now we're hopping your professors' offices. Send suggestions to tips@bwog.com. This week, meet Richard Pious, beloved political science professor at Barnard, and make yourself comfortable in his cozy office on the fourth floor of Lehman Library. His ceiling might not be perfect, but at least it doesn’t look like a junior high school. Katheryn Thayer reports. How much time do you spend in your office? I prepare for class, write articles, and hold office hours. I live out of the city, so on days I teach I’m here the whole day, and on the other days I work at home. What do you wish you did/didn’t have in your office? I have everything I need in here, the only thing I would want to change is the ceiling. What’s your dream office? Wood paneling, cherry bookcases, and a big ol’ desk. If you were a student at Columbia, where would you study? Well I was, I went to grad school at Columbia, and I liked to study in the fourth floor reading rooms at Butler. And now it’s gotten so beautiful! It used to look like a bad junior high school. How many books do you think you have in your office? I never counted, too many. Why do you have vodka/wine in your office? I don’t drink, but occasionally, for some reason, my students bring me booze! These are from Russia. The wine is from when I finished as department chair. I prefer to keep them unopened to remember how nice it was to not be chair anymore. 
At about 3:10 a.m. this morning, a female student was approached, followed and grabbed on 115th and Broadway. The suspect then walked away. The victim described the suspect as Hispanic/5’3”-5’4”/ 20’ s. Pictures are included in the security alert. If you have any information, call Ken Finnegan, at 212-854-4790. Text of the alert after the jump, full security alert here. On October 13, 2010 at about 3:10 a.m., a student was accosted and grabbed as she was walking on Broadway. The suspect shown in the photos, attempted to engage the victim in conversation at W.115 St. and Broadway. He followed her as she walked home and then grabbed her near W. 111 St. He turned around and walked north and remained in the area for several minutes. If you have any information about this incident or the suspect, contact the undersigned immediately. If you see this suspect, call the police immediately at 911.
 Yesterday, Bwog visited the Manhattan Chogyesa Temple at 42 W. 96th Street, planning on interviewing the Abbess Myo Ji Sunim, whom students sometimes see in Riverside Park, noticing the world. However, by chance or design, the Abbess was busy, and at the meeting time a class was starting, so Bwog was invited to join. Ushered by Vice Abbot Myong Haeng Sunim into a welcoming group of six other students, Bwog took part in the 6:00 p.m. Chanting and Sitting Meditation, a beginner's class. Bwog entered in the middle of the first part—the chanting. Korean mantras and then English translations were repeated and sang. The process was very relaxing and focusing. The Vice Abbot said that suffering comes from thinking too much, from a disconnect between the five senses and the brain. He believes that our thoughts pass through our heads and are perceived by our mind. However, our mind is so natural and second hand to us that it is hard to perceive what is doing the perceiving, just as the eye cannot see the eye. After the chanting, there was a five-minute break, followed by breathing exercises. The Vice Abbot explained that since the goal is to have a clear mind, but that one can never truly be thinking about nothing, focusing on breathing is very centering and head-clearing. Next, he explained the meditation. For twenty minutes the group sat, eyes half-closed, cross-legged, with the door to the city open. The goal was to listen to the sounds of the city, but without applying labels and without saying to oneself, "That is car." The goal was to feel all feelings through every sense, to unite mind and body. For a rather swamped Bwog, the time seemed to pass in an instant. Afterwards, there was a short discussion on letting go. The Vice Abbot holds that attachment breeds suffering—that attachment is insanity. Thus we are all a little bit insane, or very much insane. He asked the question, "What are you doing?" repeatedly. He expounded on New York being a place where people do not suffer physical starvation, but do have spiritual pains. He called the temple a hospital of the mind, where everyone is a patient and a doctor. Walking back through the concrete jungle to the 1 train, Bwog could not help but pay more attention to the sounds, smells, sights and feel of the city. Bwog asked whether there was much interaction between Chogyesa and Columbia. The Vice Abbot said that there is a Thursday meditation group which meets at Columbia and that he also has informal relationships with teachers in the Buddhist Studies department. In fact, one of the other students was a Columbia College freshman, one of several who attend meetings. The Vice Abbot invites anyone and everyone to try the 6 p.m. beginner class. For more information, visit nychogyesa.org. Photo by Conor Skelding
More playlists from Columbia's most beloved figures. This week, Raph Debenedetti got fist-bumping, jammin' Carman security guard Michael Layne, aka Sir Mike's, Top 10. Kind of Blue – Miles Davis Blowin' In The Wind – Bob Dylan My Girl – Jackson 5 Buffalo Soldier – Bob Marley For What It’s Worth – Buffalo Springfield Here Comes The Sun – The Beatles People Get Ready – Rod Stewart Unchained Melody – Righteous Brothers I Heard It Through The Grapevine – Marvin Gaye Norwegian Wood – The Beatles 
 Columbia College 2011 President Sean Udell and Vice President Alexandra Coromilas have founded the CUPOTUS Project. As you might guess, its goal is to secure President Barack Obama CC '83 as speaker for university-wide Commencement. But wait!  Before you shake your heads and dismiss it as a pipe dream, listen up--their strategy is different. In the words of Udell himself: Here's the deal: President Obama has been sent the official invitation by President Bollinger and the Class of 2011. But he's been sent invitations before. What we think will do the trick, however, is to demonstrate a grassroots movement made up of a united student body. That's a tall order, but I have a feeling that we can pull this off. Here's what you can do to help: Check our their first press release. Read all about it on their website. Sign up to help. Like them on Facebook. Follow them on Twitter. Email them with suggestions or a letter for the President which they'll pass on. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 UPDATE: The rest of the haul (cookies! cheese!) is up for grabs outside the main entrance of Butler. Bwog got the full menu for tonight's panel discussion with Samuel Moyn: cheese, crackers, grapes, cookies (wafers and Westside), hummus, lemonade, ice tea and limeade. It's a veritable feast! Head to the Kraft Center at 8:30 for what we're sure will be a rewarding night of nourishment--literal and intellectual. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Facebook is a tool for government spies! EEK. Maybe now’s a good time to change your privacy settings. (Gawker) NYU is breeding Tea Party supporters? Who knew. (NYU News) Watch out for longer lines at Starbucks! The baristas have received orders from on high to slow down their speedy coffee-making by preparing a maximum of two drinks at a time and steaming a new batch of milk for every cup. (WSJ) The bed bugs strike again! This time, they take Lincoln Center. (Gawker) Ever heard of Squeeze Radio? Neither have we. But apparently it’s a thing, and at least 721 people want to stop WKCR from shutting it down. (HipHopDX) The Eye turns 100 and investigates the state of undergrad journalism. Happy Birthday, old friend. (The Eye) (Photo via Flickr)
Autumn has arrived in the Greenmarket! Here's what to expect. Both Thursday &amp; Sunday: Hot apple cider season is here. Samascotts has chestnuts to roast over an open fire (or in your oven). There are no grapes (Wager Cider Mill) on Thursday and Sunday. Try Beth's farm kitchen mint jelly. They always have delicious samples! If you're looking for a good deal head over to Stannard's and buy 2 tomatoes to make your own homemade tomato sauce. Thursday only: Suhru wines will be back this Thursday as well as fish (American seafood). Check out the ostrich. Sunday only: Fresh chickens are available at Milk thistle. Knoll Krest has Challah bread and danishes made from their farm fresh eggs. Shop early for the beautiful organic multicolored carrots at monkshood nursery. 
So much free food in Lerner Piano Lounge and College Walk right now. Lerner's even got a salsa band with people dancing! Go people, go! 
 Bwog's Katheryn Thayer stopped by Sulzberger Parlor on Tuesday night to chat with DSpar about the world's water problems. DSpar, perhaps realizing that "water" is a broad topic of discussion for her first Fireside Chat of the year, passed around pictures of the overused, depleted Aral Sea and the arsenic-laced pumps in Bangladesh. She explained that these were some of the most extreme water-use case studies she encountered when she was doing research for a book about water use and management. The fact that she was doing this research while in business school was reflected by her opening question: How do we efficiently use something people have rarely been forced to associate with cost? Though SGA representatives set up more than twice as many chairs as were used and complained that eight people reneged on their RSVPs the day of the event, the small talk gave the dozen or so girls who did come a special chance to have a real conversation with the president and with each other. California students compared the huge water use in agriculture to strict laws on watering lawns; a representative of Oregon shared that an abundance of water makes her community more concerned with purity standards; and a participant with family in Eastern Europe described the differences between water use there and in America. The conversation quickly turned towards individual water use (which DSpar tried to steer away from) as well as the struggles of third world countries to secure reliable sources of potable water. A handful of interlocutors lived on the ecofloor, many expressed activist-inclinations, and some just showed up to hear the chat. Though Spar commented and sometimes directed the conversation, it felt student-driven, and attendees continued talking well after the president made her exit. A little after 7:00, DSpar announced she was already late to a black tie party, and, referring on her casual-chic turtleneck and A-line skirt outfit, said: "This won't quite cut it for black tie! I need to go home and change, but I won't shower—I promise!"
Somewhere between 110th and 118th streets and/or within Columbia's/Barnard's gated campus sometime after October 3rd. Has 4-6 keys, two-three key rings connected by a silver link, with tags from Rite Aid, Duane Reade, Pathmark, NYPL, etc. Can give you the full 13-digit NYPL number to prove they are mine. 
Make your own fattening creation in John Jay or Hewitt, take a picture, and submit your masterpiece to tips@bwog.com! The Sunday Late Night: a bagel with 3 scoops of ice cream, 4 cookies, 2 brownies, Nutella, peanut butter, chocolate sauce, whipped cream, and Applejacks Created and photographed by Katheryn Thayer
The sixth floor of Schermerhorn is rarely the place to be seen on a Wednesday night, but on her way up the stairs, Diana Clarke, Bwog’s Book Art Bureau Chief, was almost trampled by eager fans, many clutching comics, hurrying to claim seats. They were rushing to see Chris Claremont and Paul Levitz, the men who had shaped their childhoods. First to proclaim his childhood obsession was Jeremy Dauber, head of Columbia’s Yiddish program and moderator for the evening. He introduced two men “who, to this crowd, probably need no introduction.” Claremont hails from Marvel Comics, and is responsible for creating the X-Men and about 500 other characters. Levitz was formerly President of DC Comics and the creator of Legion of Superheroes. The evening’s topic was Jewish Influences and Themes in American Comics. As Claremont pointed out, of all the major comic book heroes, only two were created by non-Jews. Jews got into the comics industry in the early 1900s, when, as new immigrants, the only place they could find in the publishing world was comics, regarded at the time as just a step above pornography. Because there were no expectations in such a poorly regarded field, the writers were free to have fun. Levitz and Claremont regaled the audience with stories of late nights and frantic schemes to deliver freshly inked panels by deadlines in the days before email. When the mail got lost, the publishers would scramble to put out a “special issue” of something else because that unique manuscript was gone forever. While Levitz and Claremont agreed that the Jewish influence on comics led to a trend towards flawed heroes rather than characters who were all good or all evil, Claremont maintained that Marvel was the more Jewish of the main comic publishers. “Clark Kent worked at a newspaper, but Peter Parker? He lived in Queens! He wore a sweater vest! He lived with his grandparents! He may as well have had a mogen dovid on his forehead!” X-Men, of course, spoke to the Jewish experience of the outsider, but Claremont said that people from every minority seemed to identify with Wolverine and Storm. He told the audience about finding himself on a plane full of Mormon missionaries, thinking he’d have an uncomfortable and isolated flight, only to learn that they all identified strongly with the X-Men story. The same, Claremont said, was true for many readers in the black community. A City College professor working on a book about comics and race asked why the common artistic alliance between blacks and Jews never emerged in the comic book world. Levitz suggested that it was because many of the comic book writers were immigrants themselves, struggling to climb out of poverty, while Claremont added that the whole comics community was so small and nepotistic that only about five new people were taken on the staff of Marvel between 1948 and 1968. It wasn’t until the underdogs got on top that they felt comfortable letting any outsiders into their own group. Recently, however, comics culture has become more explicit in its promotion of the maligned. Levitz told a story about fending off calls from angry parents after DC published a comic showing two men kissing. This was “around the time of the Matthew Shepard catastrophe,” Levitz added. “I told her we were going to depict the full range of human experience.” Overall, the discussion ended up being about the rise of comics themselves, and the combination of an influential panel and an appreciative and well-informed audience made for a lively evening—much more than a mini Columbia ComicCon. Photo via Flickr
 Photo by Carly Silver

The moment we've all been waiting for has finally come. 
Clear case with 2 dinosaur and bug stickers on the back, under the name Emily Lemonier.
Open (read: gender-neutral) housing at CU--it could happen! (Spec) Columbia Professor Marc Lamont Hill is suing a Philadelphia police officer in a civil rights lawsuit. Though the police have yet to comment, Bwog suspects that, like Bill O'Reilly, the police officer may have thought Professor Hill looked a bit like a cocaine dealer. (ABC News) The bed bugs' newest target? The Met Opera House. Is nothing sacred anymore?! (Gothamist) Some people never learn. A man botches a bank robbery one day after finishing a 22-year sentence in federal prison. (Gawker) Young voters giver President Obama a piece of their mind. (NYPost) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Our last Columbia Moment featured the Black Avengers, a group of sophomores who wore black hooded robes and went around beating up freshpeople in New Jersey. This time, we learn about the Burial of the Ancients, a massive drunken book-burning celebration. Erik Kogut, who keeps a blog about Columbia history here, writes. How much do you hate Principles of Economics? Enough to commit the seminal textbook of Messrs. Hubbard and O’Brien to the pyre? We cast off our used books for a few nickels at Book Culture, but in the late 19th Century the only way to shake off a class was to burn the textbook in a drunken midnight bonfire called, depending on who you believe, Burial of the Ancient, Burial of the Antiquities or Perideipnon. Columbia College men in the 1860's were required to take all of the same classes. Of their required courses, the most hated by far was Ancient Geography. Even in its time the class was mind-bogglingly useless, consisting of rote memorization of the geography of ancient Rome and Greece. The textbook, written by Bojesen, was particularly reviled. Sources don’t reveal which intrepid Columbian, or even class, decided to publicly burn his book. All we know is that by 1863, an invitation to the midnight processional of the Burial of the Ancient had come to be a normal ending to the Sophomore year. Planning for the marches would begin early in the Fall semester, when officers (including one Nicholas Murray Butler) were elected to the Burial Committee. Officers were in charge of procuring speakers and an honorary poet, printing invitations, and, most importantly, purchasing large quantities of ‘bier’, wine, champagne and cheeses. The parade would begin on upper Fifth Avenue. In the front was a group of policemen, followed by members of the Burial Committee, pallbearers, beer bearers and finally the rest of the Sophomore Class.  Everyone wore black robes with their class year emblazoned on the back or, failing that, turned their coats inside out. After arriving at the Columbia campus in midtown, the Class would gather around the bonfire. Songs would be sung, poems read and there would always be a speech or two about how much the Class hated Bojesen. But it wasn’t until the book was committed to the flames that the night really began. The Sophomores would drink a good deal of beer. A popular pastime was to go rouse President Barnard and listen while he implored the class of drunk sophomores to go back to sleep. If that proved a little wearisome, the boys would roam around town, serenading the schools for young ladies. Eventually the Class would meet back up at a pre-determined drinking hole and proceed to get further smashed. Finally, the class would separate and stumble home to their families’ townhouses in Brooklyn or Lower Manhattan. Columbia, after all, was still a commuter school. The midnight revelry wasn’t appealing to everyone. One well-intentioned reformer set off fireworks instead of supplying beer, causing destruction to the College Halls and delaying the actual drinking by at least an hour. Unfortunately for those in favor of midnight revelry, the tradition died by the late 1880s. By 1884, Bojeson had been switched out for Legendre, the Committee had been taken over by tee-totallers, and the whole event was a crashing bore. The Burial of the Ancients died quietly, never having had the chance to reach Morningside Heights. All photos courtesy Columbia University Archives
Bwog knew its networking sense was tingling. It's that time of year again... the Engineering Consortium Career Fair! Students of CC/BC/GS, take note. This is how engineers get jobs: they dress in business formal and wait in lines. 
We at Bwog know that our readers have been having a bit too much fun lately, so we thought we'd ask our resident culinary whiz Matt Powell to hook y'all up with some hangover remedies. You'll thank us later. Not being a heavy drinker, I don’t have a ton of experience in the hangover department, but upon being given this assignment, I was determined to learn. Over the span of two weeks, I imbibed a bit more than usual, danced in public, and came to owe my friends many favors. The recipes that follow are the hangover cures that I found most effective. I hope they work as well for you as they did for me. Drinking Chocolate: After a particularly crazy night, I went to bed at 4 a.m. and woke up the next morning at 9, as I had a cooking demo to attend in Chelsea. To cure the ills of the previous night, I decided to try Drinking Chocolate, a beverage typically thicker and more concentrated than your standard hot chocolate. I took mine on ice with two Advil on the side, and my headache and exhaustion were gone within thirty minutes. Ingredients: ¾ C milk ¼ C heavy cream 3 oz. unsweetened chocolate or 6 tbsp. chocolate powder Ice Directions: 1. In a saucepan, bring milk and heavy cream to a simmer. Add chocolate (or chocolate powder), and whisk until smooth. 2. Place ice in a heat-proof container. Pour chocolate over the ice, and stir. Drink in a tall glass (or out of the container, if you’re really desperate). Top with a small scoop of vanilla ice cream. Tortillas Españas: I’ve always heard that protein is the best antidote to a bad hangover. Potatoes, too, are a common cure. After a long night, I decided to combine the two in one of my favorite breakfast dishes. Ingredients: 2 tbsp. olive oil 1 brown potato, shredded ½ yellow onion, sliced thinly 3 eggs, lightly whisked Dried oregano Salt and Pepper Shredded cheese Directions: 1. Heat olive oil in an 8-inch skillet over medium-high heat. Add shredded potatoes and onions. Sauté until the potatoes become tender and the onions turn translucent. 2. Add in eggs and oregano (the eggs should fill the entire skillet). At this point, you can prepare the dish as a scramble or traditionally. To make the traditional tortilla españa, cover the skillet after adding in the eggs. Allow it to cook for 5 minutes. After 5 minutes, flip the egg-potato-onion mixture, similar to an omelet. Allow it to cook for 3 more minutes, covered. 3. Slide the tortilla españa out of the skillet and onto a plate. Add salt and pepper to taste as well as shredded cheese.
...we're talking about cigars, silly! Bwog found a flyer for the Columbia University Cigar Society in Dodge the other day. Though their website doesn't appear to have been updated for several years, Bwog is hopeful. If you know anything about this society of stogie enthusiasts, let us know in the comments! 
 Come to the Schermerhorn Center for Kids Who Don't Spell Good and Wanna Learn to Do Other Stuff Good Too! Photo by Sam Schube
 Columbia recently hosted the first Elites Research Network conference. (NYT) Sinkholes be crampin' Bwog's style. (Gothamist) A Columbia biomedical engineer designed a device that diagnoses illnesses at bedside. (PhysOrg) HuffPo claims that this is one of the busiest weekends they're ever reported. Go have fun! Image via Wikimedia Commons
Saturday morning midterm ritual: wake up, brush teeth, stretch, walk down the hall back to 209 to continue studying, procrastinate by checking Saturday Morning Cartoons, feel meta. Cartoons by Abigail Santner
 Riverside Church is collecting food on 110th Street. Give if you can! Image via Wikimedia Commons
Around noon today, about 300 skateboarders wildly dashed from Riverside and 116th Street down Broadway, screaming and merrymaking. 'Twas the beginning of the Broadway Bomb 2010, the world's most dangerous longboard skateboard race. Photo by MJM
The neighborhood seems to be getting a face-lift this week. Perhaps you did not notice? Bwog did! The Starbucks espresso machine that had broken down, causing considerable distress, has now been repaired. Hartley lounge is is getting new windows. Everything is covered in plastic and the doors have been locked for days... The main entrance to Butler took three days (they said it'd only take one!) to undergo improvements but is now open. Numerous other renovations are taking place, resulted in unexpectedly locked doors and caution tape in the stacks. Some new bike stands have cropped up on street corners around campus (like outside of Ollie's). International has decorated for Halloween in one window, and sold out to corporate sponsorship in the other. Cardomat t-shirts have arrived! Now everyone can be cool! Condoms are now being sold at Liz's place. You have to ask for assistance because they are kept in a locked box (but why would you when you can get them FOR FREE??) Mel's accepts flex, a significant step in its quest to become the most quickly established student destination of all time. Columbia turns into Hogwarts! Magic exists! 
Bwog likes to come in your room, look around, and talk to you (in a not creepy way!). If you would like your room to be hopped, email us at tips@bwog.com. Michelle Ong reports: Walking into Arinn Amer’s EC single fills me with despair: her room isn’t just an expression of her individuality—it’s practically a metonymic extension of her character. And all without a single recourse to expensive picture frames, Christmas lights, or a thirty dollar birdcage (what the fuck was I thinking?!). In fact, I would venture a guess that nothing in her room costs more than $25. How did she do it? Vintage collectibles don’t have to cost a fortune. “I look for slightly outmoded knick-knacks that aren’t considered ‘precious’ yet,” she advises. It helps to be a Visual Arts major; half of Arinn’s decorations are her previous art projects. Her freshman year, she lugged a huge, mysterious box into our Carman dorm room (full disclosure: this Bwog writer is her former roommate). It contained hundreds of back-ordered National Geographic magazines (“I got them for $7!” she gleefully exclaimed), which she used for the next three years as material for her collages. It also helps when collecting heirlooms if your family shares an off-beat aesthetic. “Everyone knows I like to collect old junk so they’ll call me up and ask, ‘Do you want this?’” she says. Recently acquired trash-turned-treasures include her mom’s typewriter, her grandma’s button collection and travelling trunk, her aunt’s plastic toy horse. Despite her anachronistic tastes, Arinn is also fascinated by technology and the future, in a kind of Bowie/Blade Runner way. She indulges her apocalyptic fantasies by taking apart machines: deconstructed speakers double as magnets on her radiator, and part of a clock is stuffed into the eye sockets of a Styrofoam mannequin she found on the street. Halfway through our interview, I’m alarmed by loud beeps coming from a corner. “That’s Robo, my pet robot,” she calmly explains, “He’s a transvestite and my personal assistant. He also has a drinking problem…he’s a big partier.” Further research on Facebook confirms that Robo is indeed all about the nightlife. Arinn stands up to placate her companion, adding, “If you’re not partying with Robo at Columbia then I don’t know what your scene is. You’re clearly not getting enough exposure.”
A friendly reminder of last weekend: Picture by DH 
Black leather Michael Kors jacket. A description of the jacket and the night it was lost would be the best way for the owner to ID it.
 Ramapo College in Mahwah, NJ has banned the alcoholic energy drink Four Loko. Let's hope this disturbing trend stays in Jersey. Or not. (CBS New York) Princeton's endowment posted a mere 14.7% gain last year, to Columbia's 17%. (NYT) The New Museum's latest exhibit contains a newspaper on the end of newspapers. (Capital NY) This guy can teach you how to ride a bike in the city, even where there's no bike lane. (NYT) The Feds busted a 45-member New York-based marijuana ring yesterday which included Roc-A-Fella Records co-founder Kareem ‘Biggs’ Burke. Bwog sincerely hopes this doesn't affect Memphis Bleek's habits. (WSJ) http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/culture/2010/10/612676/newspaper-about-death-newspapers-exhibit-about-death-newspapers
 Greenmarket rolls on today with its signature Fall freshness. Here's a smidgen of what's out there: Get out there early for the beautiful organic multicolored carrots at Monkshood Nursery. Challah bread and danishes made from the farm fresh eggs of Knoll Krest will be available. Milk Thistle has delicious fresh whole chickens. Image from Wikimedia Commons
 Students for Sensible Drug Policy is holding a phone banking event to end marijuana prohibition in California in 501 Lerner with free pizza from Angelina's (105th and Broadway). Apparently there's some sort of competition between other SSDP groups nationwide to see who can make the most calls, with the winner taking home a banner. Bwog would probably totally mess up and just end up calling its dealer over and over, so watch out for that. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
CCSC '13 brought world-famous band Harry and the Potters to campus yesterday evening. Events also included a costume competition. A wonderful time was had by all. Final photo courtesy of Peter Sterne. All others by DH
The International Pickle Festival Tenth Annual NYC International Pickle Day is going down RIGHT NOW in the parking lot on Broome Street (between Essex and Ludlow) on the LES. Bwog's Senior Pickle Festival Analyst Conor Skelding is on the scene. Get down there before 4:30 to catch some pickling action for yourself! Update, 3:07 PM: Sorry, we got the name wrong, guys. Photos by CS
 Bwog is meeting at 7 p.m. in the SGO on the 5th floor of Lerner Hall tonight. If the result would be a goodness-maximizing outcome for you and/or the whole of humanity, Mr. Mill would likely have you come. Also come if you like snacks. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
THE WEATHER! Special thanks to Franz Kogler, Chowdah, and CTV. 
 Approaching its $4 Billion capital campaign goal, Columbia is raking in the dough (Spec). Learn to bike like a champ. The cycling master who taught Joseph Gordon-Levitt to barrel down Broadway demonstrates how to "be a fish in the coral." (City Room). Obama hits the road. (NYTimes) Way back when on October 18th, the United States bought Alaska (History Channel). Photo from Wikimedia Commons
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find!  Plus, it's performance time!  So, we've compiled a separate list of upcoming artistic achievements and other fall festivities. Recommended Lectures: Mon, Oct 18 “A Genuine End to Conflict: A Palestinian Perspective” 1501 IAB, 6:00 – 8:00 pm, PLO Ambassador Maen Rashid Areikat “Internet, Censorship, and Political Participation in China” 103 Greene Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Xiaobo Lu, Guobin Yang, Xiao Qiang, Howard French, and Jon Huntsman "Theater in America" Casa Italiana, 6:00 pm, playwright Tony Kushner, Laurence Senelick,  Tovah Feldshuh, and Gregory Mosher Tues, Oct 19 “Europe: Final Crisis?” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Etienne Balibar “The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:15 pm – 8:00 pm, Ira Berlin, David Brion Davis, and Robin Blackburn Wed, Oct 20 “Health Policy in Brazil: How Brazil Outpaced the United States” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Eduardo Gomez “Howard Davies, Director, London School of Economics” Low Library Rotunda, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm Fri, Oct 22 “Religious Pluralism in Israel” Kraft Center, 1:30 pm – 3:00 pm, Rabbi Jeffrey Cyme Recommended Markets, Festivals and Plays (Oh My!): “The Physicists” Minor Latham Playhouse, Barnard College, Runs 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Oct 21-23, Play “Cram Chowdah: The Last Study” Wien Lounge, 9:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Oct 21-22, Play “The Little Prince” Diana Black Box Theatre, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Oct 22-23, Play “Night Market 2010: CU Expo” Low Plaza, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm, various "Third Annual Fall Festival” Barnard Quad, 12:00 pm – 3:00 pm, various FULL LIST Mon, Oct 18 “Meet and Greet with Generation Organic Farmers” College Walk then Lerner East Ramp Lounge, 11:00 am – 1:00 pm, 6:30 pm – 7:30 pm, various “Killer Kitsch – Kamishibai in the Fifteen Year War, 1931-1945” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Sharalyn Orbaugh “Radical Open Access in the Humanities” 555 Lerner Hall, 12:30 pm – 2:30 pm, Gary Hill “CEO of ENI, Paolo Scaroni on Energy, Marine Transportation and Public Policy” Presidential Room, Faculty House, 2:30 pm – 4:00 pm “The Crisis in Russia’s Media” 3rd Floor Lecture Hall, Journalism Building, 5:30 pm – 7:00 pm, Various “The Swastika: A Symbol of Hate and of the Reverence for Life” Broadway Room, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Rachel McDermott and Simon Klarfeld “The Credit Crisis: A Problem in the Construction of Knowledge” Feldberg Space, Warren Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Donald MacKenzie “A Genuine End to Conflict: A Palestinian Perspective” 1501 IAB, 6:00 – 8:00 pm, PLO Ambassador Maen Rashid Areikat “Internet, Censorship, and Political Participation in China” 103 Greene Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Xiaobo Lu, Guobin Yang, Xiao Qiang, Howard French, and Jon Huntsman "Theater in America" Casa Italiana, 6:00 pm, playwright Tony Kushner, Laurence Senelick,  Tovah Feldshuh, and Gregory Mosher Tues, Oct 19 “Reclaiming the Public Sphere: Right to Education and Right to City Protests in Croatia” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm -1:30 pm, Karin Doolan “Europe: Final Crisis?” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Etienne Balibar “The Computational Structure of Neuronal Spike Trains” 214 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Cosma Shalizi “Tropical Agriculture” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Pedro Sanchez “Libya Today” 1512 IAB, 5:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Lisa Anderson, Ali Ahmida, Mansour El-Kikhia, and Hisham Matar “Immigrant Bankers” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Rebecca Kobrin “The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:15 pm – 8:00 pm, Ira Berlin, David Brion Davis, and Robin Blackburn “Challenges of African Governance” 310 Fayerweather, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Ambassador John Campbell Wed, Oct 20 “The Origins of Dominate Parties: A Cross-National Investigation” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, John Ora Reuter “The UN Security Council and Civil War: First Insights from a New Dataset” 901 IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Cristoph Mikulaschek “Foucault et l’ecriture de l’histoire” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Judith Revel “Mobilizing for Human Rights” 1501 IAB, 5:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Beth Simmons “Health Policy in Brazil: How Brazil Outpaced the United States” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Eduardo Gomez “Howard Davies, Director, London School of Economics” Low Library Rotunda, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm “Poems from the Woman’s Movement” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Jorie Graham, Elizabeth Lorde-Rollins, Honor Moore, Eileen Myles, and Anne Waldman “Arts and Resistance in Occupied Palestine—Report Back” 304 Barnard Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, M1 of Dead Prez, Mazzi and S.O.U.L. Purpose, Marcel Cartier, and Rosa Clemente Thurs, Oct 21 “17th Annual Meeting of the Sociocultural Theory and Second Language Learning Research Working Group” Across 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 9:00 am Oct 21 through 5:00 pm Oct 23, various “Indigestible Images: On the Ethics and Limits of Representation” 107B Journalism, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Frank van Vree "Understanding the Legal Trendsetters: An Analysis of the Adoption of Immunity Waivers in BITs During the Pre-Diffusion Stage” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Suzanne Katzenstein “Teleconnections: Intraseasonal and Interannual Variability” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Steven Feldstein “Life Shocks and Homelessness” 6602 Psychiatric Institute, Medical Center, 3:15 pm – 4:45 pm, Mara Curtis “Single-molecule Biochemistry of DNA Repair Machines” 301 Hammer Health Science Center, Medical Center, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Maria Spies “Is the Black Church Dead? A Roundtable on the Future of Black Churches” James Chapel, UTS, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Anthea Butler, Eddie Glaude, Fredrick Harris, Obery Hendricks, Eboni Marshall, Otis Moss, III, Josef Sorett “How Data and Analysis Has Changed Trading in Financial Markets” 503 Hamilton, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, MeeAe Jervinsky “Christianity and the Global Politics of Sexuality” Event Oval, The Diana Center, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Elizabeth Castelli, Eng-Beng Lim, Ju Hui Judy Han, Mary_Jane Rubenstein, and Jordan Alexander Stein “Pojangmacha—Street Food Faire” Ancell Plaza, 7:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Korean Students Association “Project Better Place: Israel, Electric Cars, and Clean Energy” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Mike Granoff “The Physicists” Minor Latham Playhouse, Barnard College, Runs 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Oct 21-23, Play “Cram Chowdah: The Last Study” Wien Lounge, 9:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Oct 21-22, Play “Metrotones Study Break: Man, I Feel Like a Metrotone!” Furnald Residence Hall Lounge, 9:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Metrotones performance Fri, Oct 22 “New Media in Education Conference for Faculty and Instructors: The New Media Classroom” Faculty House, 10:00 am – 5:00 pm, various “Caste, Political Parties, and Distribution in Indian Village Councils” 711 IAB, 11:00 am – 1:00 pm, Thad Dunning “On the Prospects of Political Change in Russia” Presidential Room 1, Faculty House, 1:00 pm – 4:15 pm, Mikhail Kasyanov, Padma Desai, Timothy Frye, and Andrei Piontkovsky “Baker County Stage Fair: Homecoming Pep Rally” Sundial and College Walk, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Various “Hydrological Applications of NASA’s GRACE Satellite Mission” 833 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Matt Rodell “The Global Influence of the Southern Ocean” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Steve Rintoul “Night Market 2010: CU Expo” Low Plaza, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm, various “The Little Prince” Diana Black Box Theatre, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Oct 22-23, Play “Boo-Chantae’s Halloween Concert” Earl Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Baccantae “Latino Heritage Month Cultural Showcase: Our Journey is Far from Over” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 12:00 am, various “The Lord is Not Here on Trial Today” 569 Lerner, 8:30 pm – 10:30 pm, film screening Sat, Oct 23 “Third Annual Fall Festival” Barnard Quad, 12:00 pm – 3:00 pm, various “Freshwater” 569 Lerner, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, film screening Sun, Oct 24 “Religious Pluralism in Israel” Kraft Center, 1:30 pm – 3:00 pm, Rabbi Jeffrey Cymet “Hiding and Seeking” 569 Lerner, 4:30 pm – 6:30 pm, film screening **Name that tag quote!
Generation Organic, a touring group of organic farmers, has parked their "veggie oil-sipping" bus on College Walk. EcoReps, NOM^3, and Greenborough join them to promote sustainable development. Swing by for $2.50 grilled cheese sandwiches, plant seeds, and organic teas. Plus, you can pose with a wooden cow. 
Eliza Shapiro took a break from being Bwog Editor to listen to the Columbia College Student Council talk about what "a la carte" means for, like, a while. At the beginning of last night's CCSC meeting, CCSC-people went around told each other who their favorite person at the moment was. CCSC Prez Learned Foote's current fave is Bonnie Tyler because of  her hit ballad "Total Eclipse of the Heart" (see below). CCSC-people love their moms. CCSC going to sing karaoke this week. Perhaps Learned will sing "Total Eclipse of the Heart." CC '11 Prez Sean Udell spoke about the POTUS project and let everyone know that Obama has read the note! Sean got a call from the White House courier. Zomg! If Obama were to speak, PrezBo would cede his rights to speak at Commencement. This would be the first time in University history that the President ceded these rights. Dun dun dun! There's talk of setting up an Obama-jumbotron at Baker Field if he were to speak at Commencement for lowly underclassmen and regular people to watch his speech. Halloween doth approacheth! There will be a CCSC-sponsored movie screening next week. It may be Beetlejuice, since Donnie Darko and Rocky Horror were unavailable. VP for Campus Life Andrea Folds wants to organize a new CCSC event! Suggestions from the council: iPod dance party on the Steps, 90's cartoon sleepover in Roone with Gushers and Fruit Roll-ups, a giant water balloon fight, smoking hookah and then watching 90's cartoons, a warehouse rave (people didn't like that idea so much—why don't you head down to Washington Square, punk). There was much discussion about what His Majesty Robert Taylor would and would not like. Folds has asked Professor Gulati to speak at the sorta-upcoming Treelighting Ceremony. The Council talked a great deal about changes to JJ's/Ferris/John Jay eating arrangements. The Council is planning to submit a proposal that Ferris be closed on Friday and Saturday and John Jay be open instead. The proposal also includes requests that students receive two eco-takeout tokens instead of one, and that the cost of a meal swipe in JJ's be reduced by a few dollars. If you, gentle reader, ever find yourself asking yourself "Who has a meal plan anyway?" or "Do any upperclassmen frequent JJ's even if they haven't just taken a few vape hits and just want something kind of sweet then really salty?" Bwog has your answer. It's CCSC! A show of hands revealed that about 3/4 of the Council have meal plans, and they still go to JJ's. Bwog salutes them; they practice what they preach! One CCSC-er noted that "he didn't know what a la carte meant until this meeting." 
 BSchool first-years got an email over the weekend instructing them to brush their  teeth. Apparently, BSchoolers have "not followed personal hygiene basics" during recruiting events. The email follows. It's very silly and infantilizing... just like grad school! Dear 1st Year Members, It has come to our attention (through complaints from IBC board representing firms they are going to full time) that some of you may not have followed personal hygiene basics during recruiting events. We understand that it is an incredibly intense recruiting period, and is very hard to find time for yourself, but this is a friendly reminder on some dress code and personal hygiene basics: § Brush your teeth regularly, or have a mint/mouth refreshers before going to recruiting events (avoid chewing gums) § Carry anti-perspirant with you if you are worried about sweating. Don’t wear too much cologne/perfume § Carry a sewing mini-toolkit, in case your suit hems need an emergency sewing § Professional haircuts § No backpacks with you § Men – no tacky cufflinks or watches (with no crazy patterns, silver is preferable to gold) § Women – wear (preferably skin colored) hosiery and always carry an extra pair in your bag § Women – if it rains, do not show up in rain boots, no matter how cute you think they are And again, if you have ANY concerns, please do not hesitate to share with the IBC Board! Photo via Wikimedia Commons 
Aw shucks, there's new scaffolding between Broadway and Riverside. But Bwog's feeling good today. Sure, scaffolding is unattractive, but if it were painted orange and had cascading sheets, we could have a world famous art installation right here in Morningside. So as you descend 115th St., just imagine you're walking under glorious silver arches.
 And remember when? Marty the Naked Guy! 
In honor of today's sustainability gathering on College Walk, Bwog is inaugurating its newest feature, Eco Conch. With the sounding of the Conch, we summon Columbia's greeners to respond to grievous Ecotragedies. If you witness anything environmentally unfriendly tell us: tips@bwog.com Today, the Earth Institute's Environmental and Sustainable Development Program wanted to get the word out about their upcoming Open House. So, they arranged for every undergraduate student to get a paper flyer. Brilliant. Photos by Julia Barrington 
Time is precious, money is scarce, and between pondering the The Other and following Kanye on Twitter, running mundane errands can end up feeling like the most stressful thing in the universe. Bwog wants to help ease your anxiety and make deciding things a tiny bit easier. Question: Is using Mail Services cheaper than the Post Office (located on 112th next to Book Culture)? Answer: NO!!!! As it turns out, a light padded envelope to a collegiate pal costs $6.90 at Columbia's Mail Services and only $2.07 at Columbia University Post Office (unaffiliated, just nearby). Mail in Lerner is sent with FedEx which is why it is so much more expensive. FYI: both FedEx and USPS offer tracking. Still,  Package Center stories are priceless! Nostalgia! More budgeting woes and worries? E-mail tips@bwog.com for the answer to your frugal questions!
Lost Monday night (10/11) in Hamilton 602 (I had a 6:10-7:25 class and left it there and when I went back it was gone).  It was filled with water and had a white dandelion outline on one side and some leaves outlined in white on the other side.
 Have you ever wondered what a dinosaur would taste like? Now you know. (Slate) Get your tinfoil helmets! The government doesn't want pesky technical problems getting in the way of its wiretapping. (NYT) Elton John declares today's pop music uninspiring and dislikes TV talent shows, calling them "arse-paralysingly brain crippling." (New York) Community activists in Harlem, displeased with "Columbia University's 'Land Grab,'" have called for reform of eminent domain. (Spec) Stick Together - the new Group Resources page is up and running on the Student Affairs website and you can check it out here. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Today in Emails You Probably Didn't Read: Columbia's Board of Trustees Chair William V. Campbell (like, of course that's his name) has announced that PrezBo will continue as President for "at least the next five years." PrezBo has been PrezBo since 2002. Campbell and PrezBo said nice things. Campbell on Bo: Across this large and diverse university, we see a place where talented students want to study, accomplished faculty want to teach and do research, world leaders want to speak, and skilled professionals want to work.  Lee has recruited and empowered a remarkable array of academic deans and executive talent who are driving both intellectual excellence and solid institutional management.  Under his stewardship, we have not only maintained our fiscal stability during a period of great economic turbulence, we have achieved a level of scholarship and creativity across the institution that—despite far less space and far fewer dollars than our best endowed peers—has again made Columbia one of the most exciting places in all of higher education. Bo on Bo: For anyone who cares about creating new knowledge and conveying the knowledge we have to the next generation, as well as being engaged in the seemingly endless challenges facing our world, there is no better place to be than Columbia University.  I am, accordingly, immensely proud to serve as its president.  Every day I am privileged to witness the extraordinary accomplishments of our faculty, students, alumni and staff.  It is a unique community, situated in an extraordinary city, and committed simultaneously to open-minded reflection, spirited debate and constructive action.  Columbia has come a long way.  But its potential for the future is even greater, and I am extremely happy to be able to contribute to the realization of that potential. 
With Harry and the Potters on campus last weekend, and Halloween just around the corner, all manner of witchcraft and wizardry has cropped up around campus. This time it takes the form of multimedia pun. 
 Last week, engineers took one small step toward the rest of their lives at the Engineering Consortium Career Fair. This week, the SEAS class of 2013 takes another bold step into the future and declares majors. Bwog spoke with one SEAS student who said that his emotional state as the time to declare his major approached could be "summed up by Highway to the Danger Zone." Image via Wikimedia Commons
Sean Zimmermann reports from last night's ESC Meeting. The last ESC meeting opened with a question and answer session with advising Deans Rinere and Plaa. The deans began by explaining how the SEAS department liaisons operate: incoming SEAS freshmen are assigned an advisor based on their expected major. If a student’s major changes, then their advisor also changes. This is different from the Columbia College students, who are assigned an advisor independent of their major. The advisors also warned that engineering students should check with their CSA advisors about non-tech electives. In the past, students have been “led astray” about non-tech electives by departmental advisors (advisors assigned to an engineering students by their department after they declare their major). CSA is in the process of implementing an advisor assessment project. Assuming the plan is approved by the Deans, students will be able to fill out surveys about their advisors that can be used to determine weaknesses in the CSA advising system. Senator Tim Qin said that the Senate may be reviving the ROTC issue. He explained the issue to the council: “Why are we denying our students the opportunity to get an education for free?” Columbia students are currently able to enroll in ROTC programs through a “consortium agreement” with other NYC schools. Dining survey results are in: only 25% percent of students who filled out the dining survey are satisfied with the dining, and engineering students are completely split regarding whether Ferris or John Jay should be open on weekends. Help ESC improve the CCE! Take a quick survey here. When developing new minors, the council determined that the important question was: "What would Jack McGourty do?" 
For those freshpeople too busy with their hedonistic pursuits to finish AlcoholEdu, today is the deadline! A friendly reminder to the Class of 2014 from your friends at Bwog: be sure to complete part 2 of AlcoholEdu or something may or may not happen to you. 
Raph Debenedetti reports! Project Sunshine, a community service program that helps out children in St. Luke's with activities and visits, has been recognized at Stage 1 by the SGA. Catch up on your Stage 1/Stage 2 lingo here. SGA discussed the three different options to find the best way to get the student body’s vote on whether or not Greek Life should be recognized by Barnard. The verdict: students will log in on EBear to vote for or against Greek Life recognition. But before anyone can vote, a Blast Committee (eegad!) will serve to educate the student body on the issue for a more informed and less apathetic vote before a decision is made on November 29th. The Food Advisory Board is holding an open meeting for Barnard women to discuss the required meal plan this Sunday at 11:30 a.m. in 302 Diana. Your concerns will go directly to SGA and the Administration! 
Members of the Class of 2012 can head over to the West Ramp Lounge between 10 and 11 tonight to pick up free swag from their class council: class mugs sporting the CC '12 logo in Columbia blue. There will be Hershey's Hugs, too! Don't forget your CUID. Hillel will be hosting an "I Scream (during midterms)" ice cream study break between 8 and 9 p.m. on the 3rd floor of the Kraft Center. Delicious toppings and stress relief are promised for all attending! There will be a giant sub at Barnard! You can snag a piece for yourself starting at 7 p.m., but get there early because Bwog is told it might all be gone by 7:05.
An event being held to mark the recent release of "The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery" by history professor and avid collector of newspaper clippings Eric Foner is happening right now. Attendees are packed into Davis Auditorium to hear some of America's most prominent historians (Ira Berlin, David Brion Davis, and Robin Blackburn, along with Foner) and many have had to resort to sitting on the floor. In exciting A/V equipment news, the speaker pictured below swayed slightly before careening down between the two individuals seated in front of it. Bwog spotted the impending disaster and shouted, "OMG!" Luckily, nobody is injured, and a relieved crowd continues to bask in the glow of history. 
From time to time, when Bwog doesn't have a lot of homework, we'll run a review of free things. Tonight is that night again. Here's our report from CCSC 2012's Mugs + Hugs. Waiting anxiously for friends in the Schapiro lobby, Bwog heard a frantic student getting off the elevator bark into his phone, "you're already in Lerner? And the line is long?" And so we ran. As we swiped into Lerner, we saw one boy in a sweatshirt sprint up the ramps to stand in line. By 9:50, ten minutes before the event was set to start, the line snaked from the West Ramp Lounge  and approached the turnstile. The atmosphere was a mix of Christmas morning and East Berlin. People tried to skip the line. But why did we care so much? Why did we wait in line only to avoid contact with, like, everyone from our Lit Hum class? Because, as one junior pointed out, your class mug is something you keep when you're 35 and put it on your desk at work. So we waited. Our CCSC 2012 council opened the doors at 10 and juniors were let in in small groups. We showed our CUIDs—as if showing our papers at Checkpoint Charlie—and were handed our white mugs with a baby blue "12" with a tilted crown on top. CCSC 2012 heaped white chocolate Hershey's kisses into our mugs. We went outside to gloat. One girl passed a friend wondering if he should stay in line. "Yeah, they're good enough," she replied. It was all over by 10:19. Apparently they ran out of mugs. 
 Jeffrey Milarsky, conductor of our own CU Orchestra, debuted yesterday as conductor of the LA Philharmonic, for the concert "Green Umbrella: Bang on a Can." A federal judge in California overturned DADT, and has ordered military recruiters to start accepting gay recruits. (NYT) The J-School is making a news outlet website for NYC. (NY Convergence) The CSA says that the CSA is now better, so more people use it. (Spec) Image via Wikimedia
Several weeks ago Dylan Lonergan CC '13, Legislative Assistant of the Senate Student Affairs Committee, compliled this ROTC Briefing as well as these ROTC Supplemental Materials.  They explain what ROTC is, its history with the school, and several ROTC systems at other institutions.  Produced on behalf of the SSAC, they are being distributed to student governments and any member of the university community who needs them. Helpful to peruse, we think, because of the recent DADT decision and renewed ROTC whispers on campus.
Alternating Wednesdays is when Bwog shares all the good things to be had at the TIC. Here goes. Tickets sold for on-campus events this past week: 1050 Around Morningside: Walkabout Yeolha: October 20th-23rd, Wednesday-Friday 8p, Sat 2pm &amp; 8pm, Riverside Theater, FREE w/CUID. Tickets. The Physicists!: October 21st &amp; 23rd, Thursday 8pm, Saturday 3pm &amp; 8pm, Minor Latham Playhouse, from $5 w/CUID. Tickets. The Little Prince: October 22nd &amp; 23rd, Friday 7pm &amp; 10pm, Saturday 7pm, Diana Black Box, $5. Tickets. Tickets sold for off-campus events this past week: 289 Out and About: Bloody, Bloody Andrew Jackson: October 21st 8pm, $51 w/CUID. Tickets. Little Foxes: October 21st, 8pm, $55 w/CUID. Tickets. Scottsboro Boys: October 21st, 8pm, $32.50 w/CUID. Tickets. Met Opera Boris Godunov: October 25th, 7pm, $28.50 w/CUID. Tickets. Cedar Lake Ballet: November 5th, 7pm, $29 w/CUID. Tickets. Gala Career Transition for Dancers Hosted by Angela Lansbury: November 8th, 7pm, $39 w/CUID. Tickets. 
 Today, Finn Vigeland, CC'14, has his crossword puzzle published in the New York Times. He uses a pen, never a pencil, to do puzzles. "If you can't do it in pen," he told Bwog, "don't do the puzzle." Bwog chatted with Finn about the art of the crossword and how he finally got published. Every Monday through Friday, Finn picks up a copy of the Times in Lerner during lunch, goes back to his room, and puts a stopwatch on to see how long it takes him to do the puzzle. Columbia is difficult; Finn does not always have time for the Saturday and Sunday puzzles. When Finn times himself, he does not eat or drink. "You lose precious seconds if you take a sip of a drink," he says. Finn Vigeland is very good at doing crossword puzzles. Today, he joins the world of published puzzling. Finn started out doing the Sunday crossword with his parents. "One time I tried to create a puzzle with my mom," he said, "but we stopped after five minutes because we thought it was, like, brutally difficult." Finn's interest in creating puzzles was revived with the documentary Wordplay, and he started trying his hand at writing again in 2008. He sent a puzzle to Master Will Shortz, but it was rejected. "I got probably the nicest rejection letter I've ever received," Finn says, "it was really encouraging, and he outlined everything he liked and didn't like about the puzzle." Master Shortz invited Finn to the Westchester Crossword Puzzle Tournament and the rest is crossword lore. The puzzle published in today's Times, Finn said, is not his absolute best, though he's still very proud of it. He follows four crossword puzzle bloggers who analyze the Times crossword each day. Finn checks these blogs immediately after he finishes his puzzle. He knows that one or two of these bloggers will not find Finn's puzzle their "cup of tea." Finn wrote the puzzle a few months ago and sent it to the Times. When he hadn't heard back, he checked in with Shortz at this year's Westchester Crossword Tournament. Afterwards, Finn dropped by Shortz's house and saw his puzzle lying on Shortz's desk. That was less than three weeks ago; it often takes puzzles a year or more to be published after they are accepted. The theme of today's puzzle is "H&amp;M"—an homage not only to the Swedish cheap-scarf emporium but also to his high school, Horace Mann in Riverdale, that part of the Bronx that is not the Bronx. Horace Mann is having a celebration in Finn's honor, complete with a puzzle contest. Each day, Finn calculates what he calls the "freshness factor" of that day's puzzle by calculating how often each word in the puzzle has appeared before in the Times, averaging them, and subtracting that sum from 100. Finn admits it is an arbitrary number. Finn's puzzle today used 5-6 phrases and words never before used in a Times crossword, including the phrase "Hakuna Matata". We asked what he thinks about Sudoku. "It just isn't the same," Finn said. He'll do a Sudoku on an airplane, but prefers KenKen if there's not a crossword nearby. Bwog can't get past Tuesday without asking for help, but Finn is made of tougher stuff. If you Google, you give up. "I only Google when I'm at the end of the road," he says. If Finn Googles an answer, "I'm essentially saying, 'okay, I'm done with this puzzle.'" Still: "it's a lot better to not finish and Google than to just leave a puzzle." Onward, Finn! We're proud of you.
Kristina Beedzakova, SEAS '12, spotted this lonely panda bear sitting abandoned on the Low Steps. This tugs at Bwog's heart strings. 
 The 2011 CC and SEAS Class Councils, together with Balfour Class Rings will be in the 2nd floor EC lounge tonight!  At 8pm they will be handing out free pizza and soda—as well as selling class rings.  Feel it, 2011?  Feel the nostalgia coming on? Image via Wikimedia
Overheard outside Butler: "Excuse me do you know what is it?" "It's so weird!" "Dude, what the fuck." 
Don't feel bad if everyone around you is frowning. Secretly, they're probably pretty happy! (City Room) The ever-tormented Floridita is unsatisfied with its mystery "attractive relocation space." (NY Mag) Celebrate your Columbia experience with this charming souvenir mug. (Zazzle) Surprise! A mosaic from 1901 was discovered behind the walls at the 1 train station at Columbus Circle. (City Room) This could silence the whispers of ROTC. (NYT) There are all kinds of answers to our education woes! Raging libertarian/Facebook billionaire Peter Theil set up a foundation that will pay students $100,000 in cash to drop out of college. (Slate) Photo via Flickr
 Delights at the Greenmarket this week! Lavender is back and 115th smells like heaven. There's fresh fish at American Seafood on 116th. Start planning your Thanksgiving shopping early if you're unlucky enough to be stuck in Morningside for the holiday: the Greenmarket will be open on Tuesday the 23rd instead of Thanksgiving Thursday. There are a few decent tomatoes left but this may well be the last week for them. Also, cider donuts. Go forth!
The Columbia/NYU electronic band Night Eyes, which also recently made a fun flashlight-lit video, released its first EP called "Exhale" yesterday. The first 150 to download it from bandcamp get it for FREE, or you could pay $3.96 for it on iTunes. While you're busy downloading, relive last year's College Walk of Shame (not the one from EC to Broadway). The 2010 Vshow's soundtrack is now available to download, also 100% free! Image courtesy of Night Eyes
Carolyn Ruvkun horsed around with the Equestrians and wielded swords with the Kendokas, but no club has quite kicked her ass like Parkour. Ninjas walk among us. For the members of the Columbia University Parkour Club, New York City is a jungle gym with endless opportunities for death-defying jumps, leaps and tumbles. Parkour combines philosophy with physicality; traceurs, those who practice the extreme sport, aim to travel from one point to another as efficiently as possible. After all, why take the elevator when you can scale a wall? A derivative of parcours, French for ‘course,’ the term originally referred to the obstacle course style of military training created by naval officer Georges Hebert. But, David Belle, another Frenchman, is credited with founding the urban sport. Thrill seekers all around the world soon embraced the extreme display of efficiency. Parkour YouTube videos amassed millions of views; even The Office parodied the international obsession. For Columbia’s traceurs, Parkour is no passing trend. One club member, Hussein, displayed Tarzan-like abilities even before arriving on campus. “I’ve been lost in the Tanzanian jungle three times,” he revealed in an opening getting-to-know- you circle game. Parkour club co-head Chris Jordan, CC '13, grew up climbing around New York’s concrete jungle. He enjoys leaping between the connected roofs of Brooklyn brownstones. Chris has even climbed a multiple story building along the outside. Applying physics to his daring stunts, Chris takes calculated risks. Amazingly, he’s never broken a bone— only once taken a bad tumble. “I was running off the side of one structure then jumping and trying to land on a bridge, but I missed and fell on my back.” No, Chris didn’t watch Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles as a kid. “I grew up surrounded by circus people,” he explains. Gypsies babysat young Chris. “They bent spoons with their minds.” Chris co-heads the team with his former RA, Phillip Dupree, SEAS '11. They both train with professional Parkour practitioners and teach Columbia’s traceurs. Unsurprisingly, the Parkour club attracts a motley crew of daredevils. Practice started with intensive conditioning: walking planks along Low steps, sashays around Alma Mater and “explosive” Parkour crunches.Warmed up, we jumped walls. A basic wall jump involves running to the wall, kicking up off it, and grabbing for the top ledge to push yourself over. It’s counter-intuitive to run at a 10 foot concrete wall, but a well-executed wall jump is fluid and elegant. Eventually, Public Safety asked us to move. (This just added to the Ninja factor). We headed to Uris, where tourists marveled at our monkey-like maneuvers. But what goes up must come down. Properly dismounting from a wall is as fundamental a skill as getting to the top. The proper Parkour roll absorbs the impact of the fall, while protecting the neck and head. Plus, practicing this crucial landing is a fun excuse to roll around in the grass. So what’s the ultimate Parkour goal? Getting on the roof of Low. 
 This scarecrow guards the cover crops of Columbia's food sustainability project, a communal garden that produces real vegetables in front of Pupin. People tend it year round, and actually eat the fruits of the  Columbia soil.
This year's Relay for Life is Candyland-themed, and tonight they're hosting their "Caramel Apples and Candy in Carman" event in the Carman basement lounge at 9pm. Let's stuff our faces with free caramel apple slices, candy, popcorn and soda! Woo! Photo via Flickr
 Columbia history Ph.D. student Megan Doherty strikes back at Glenn Beck. (HuffPo) Taiwanese CGI animates those creepy bed bugs that have been taking over our lives! (Gothamist) Riding the subway can often be a trial. Subway door-standers don't make things any better. (City Room) Maryland company rents drug-sniffing dogs to paranoid parents. (Gawker) This year's election ads target New York. (NYT) Photo from flickr/Eddie~S
 The entire lineup of CU Records has been slated for a showcase at the CMJ Music Marathon! This Saturday, Night Eyes, MJWaterFire, Jake Snider, Tara Priya, and Life Size Maps will be performing at 7 p.m. at the Charleston. Give your midterm-addled brain a break and head down to Brooklyn to check them out for just $8 and a ride on the L train. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 For those of you not in the know, this weekend is Columbia's Homecoming. This means there is free food! Head over to College Walk at 2 p.m. for the Baker County State Fair, a.k.a. Columbia's Homecoming pep rally. The event will feature FREE funnel cake, cotton candy, and popcorn, in addition to a whole host of fun things one would associate with a county fair. Once you've had your fill of funnel cake, check out the Columbia Economics Society's discussion on the OECD's recent Economic Survey of the United States at 5 p.m. in 502 Lerner. Afternoon tea will be served. Sounds fancy! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
One of Bwog's own discovered this message on the door of a McBain room notorious for blasting the musical stylings of Lil' Wayne. Evidently, a return to Tha Carter III would be much appreciated. 
Bwog noticed this addition to the menu board at HamDel, and we plan to make it our next drunken order at 2 a.m. (read: tonight). Have you tried the Unknown Grilled Combo? Let us know in the comments! 
Never fear, ye of too many midterms, Cooking with Bwog is back again. Read on to see how culinary god Matt Powell teaches you how to keep yourself alive during this most unfortunate of times. As the seasons change, it is panic that fills that reminds us that midterms are again upon us. During this period, there is little time for cooking, but the need for filling food is ever-present. The two recipes this week require little time commitment (about 30 minutes each), and they can use leftover ingredients—feel free to substitute as you see fit. Plus, each recipe makes enough for about 3-5 servings, which should last you several meals! Pasta with Arugula and Sun-dried Tomatoes Ingredients: 1 lb. spaghetti 1/3 lb. pancetta, thinly sliced 1/3 lb. prosciutto, thinly sliced 1 onion, sliced 3 cloves of garlic, minced ½ C sun-dried tomatoes, sliced into strips ¼ C heavy cream 1 large handful of arugula Parmesan cheese Salt and pepper Fresh basil Directions: 1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add pasta to the water and cook until al dente (about 10-12 minutes.) 2. Meanwhile, make your pasta sauce. Sauté pancetta and prosciutto together in a large skillet. Once the meats are lightly browned, remove with a slotted spoon to a plate, leaving behind the oils. Sauté onion and garlic in the skillet in the remaining oils until soft (about 5 minutes). Add meat and sun-dried tomatoes to the onion and garlic. Cook for an additional minute. Add in arugula and cook until wilted (about 2 minutes). Add in the cream and stir to combine. Season with salt and pepper. 3. Drain pasta and immediately toss with your sauce. Garnish with the parmesan and the basil. Hodge-Podge Pizza: Ingredients: 1 package of frozen pizza dough (Westside Market sells them in the frozen foods aisle) Pesto 1 Granny Smith apple, sliced very thinly ½ lb. Pyrenees with Black Peppercorn Cheese 1 small handful of pine nuts Pepper Arugula Directions: 1. Defrost pizza dough overnight in the fridge. (Or in a small bowl on the counter for 6 hours) 2. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Place a pizza stone (preferable) or a baking sheet in the oven for 25 minutes without anything on it. 3. Meanwhile, toss pizza dough or stretch until it is nice and thin. Once the 25 minutes are up, bring pizza stone or baking sheet out of the oven. Working quickly, place pizza dough on the hot surface. Cover with pesto, cheese, apple slices, and pine nuts respectively. Sprinkle with pepper and place in the oven again at 425 degrees. Bake pizza for 15 minutes, or until cheese is bubbling and the crust is a golden brown. 4. Remove from oven and allow to cool. Garnish with fresh arugula. Note: If you’re looking for a quick midterm break that’s sweet, a root beer float never hurt. We can’t be gourmet all of the time.
The former Gateway (now Botwinick) Lab on Mudd 12 will be transformed into a "hacker space" tonight at 7 for aspiring tech-entrepreneurs. Student developers and SEAS kids with a dream and some elbow grease will meet to plan and work on ideas.
 Take a break from your Facebook study break and go check out the Chinese Students Club's Night Market 2010: CU EXPO on Low Plaza. There will be much food (possibly even free, if you pull the right strings), performances, and fun to be had. In this time of seemingly unending midterms despair, this is a rare moment of Columbia community bonding. Seize this opportunity—it'll remind you why you came to this school in the first place! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Books have been deemed unnecessary. (Telegraph) Professor Joseph Stiglitz talks about money and stuff. (Daily Finance) Breaking: Letting children play with smart phones is bad for their development. (Today's THV) Floridita shall live on. (Spec) Midterms may be stressful, but don't start bashing cars. (Gothamist) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Yes, that is indeed what today is! Come out to Robert K. Craft Kraft Field for the 1:30 p.m. game against Dartmouth. Seniors get free food and drinks! School spirit!! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
In the spirit of Bwog's favorite (and upcoming!) holiday, Saturday Morning Cartoons presents you with three typical terrors. Cartoon by Abigail Santner
Spotted! PrezBo and the Deans huddled together at Homecoming. The band's recently released EP, "New Fundraising " received tepid reviews and the band hasn't been seen together in public since their disastrous "War (What Is It Good For?) tour last summer. Roar, Lion, Roar! Update: We lost.
Please return if found; the folder contains all of my assignments for the Japanese class I am taking and is worth 50% of my final grade. Might have left this in either in a classroom on the third floor of Hamilton or in Harmony on Friday, October 22nd. The folder is made of clear plastic and is blue. Inside are papers with Japanese writing on them.
A teenage boy to his mother, incredulously: "What is this place? Like, what do they even do here?" Two parents pulling matching suitcases out of Carman to two people in white Dining Services chef uniforms: "I just have to tell you, the food here is fantastic! I know you're pulling out all the stops for this weekend but still!" Their response : " ... really? Thank you!"
Bwog's weekly round-up of neighborhood news sees many odd occurrences. Please continue to help keep us as well-informed as possible by tipping your boringest to tips@bwog.com. Hewitt has new, larger, and more sophisticated-ly round mugs, (more mug drama here). At Panino Sportivo, the 38th person to order a sandwich  gets it for free. These correspond to order number cards they give you. What does 38 have to do with anything? Speaking of the unexpected, there were two alien sightings this week, one in Butler, and one in the sky. This may or may not be considered boring. Things that are most definitely not boring: The Butler Entrance Saga continues. Is it a patio? Does the wood come from a sustainable forest? Why is it gray? Campo celebrates its second anniversary La Floridita has revealed its new location to 700 West 125th street (at 12th ave, next to Dinosaur BBQ) Schapiro skylounge now has Wifi. This is indeed a revelation. 
 Proving that our generation has plenty of entrepreneurial spirit, a pair of Georgetown students was found with all the makings of DMT in a freshman dorm. (WaPo) International man of mystery and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has made another huge document release, this time pertaining to US involvement in Iraq. (NYT) The British government is investigating Google following the discovery that Street View cars have been collecting information from private Wi-Fi networks. (BBC) Botox has been approved by the FDA to treat migraine headaches. (CNN) Homecoming was yesterday, and Bwog hopes you had a great time! Unfortunately, the football team lost 24-21 to Dartmouth in a game that was exciting until its final moments. (Spec) Image via Wikimedia Commons
 Inspired in part by Meatless Mondays, the folks over at NOM^3 have started a lunch subscription program called NOMdays. Now you can pay in advance for a tasty meal to be picked up on the Lerner ramps at lunchtime Monday. While pretty snazzy, this program is not the end of bold new projects for NOM^3—they still have dreams of a food truck.
Four Loko has inspired more than a few artists in the past, but now one of Columbia's own has paid homage the ban-inducing alcoholic energy drink. A tipster spotted this hand-crafted door decoration in John Jay. In other freshperson debauchery news, Natty Light and someone's jeggings were left just outside Carman during a particularly exciting celebration of Homecoming. 
Little kid with parents on College Walk: "I don't like the Lions because they lost today... Have they ever won?"
 Hey you! Out there in the audience, Come on down, you're the next contestant on The Price is Right! But seriously, take a break from studying and come on down to tonight's Bwog meeting! There will be fabulous prizes like free food. All the fun happens at 7 PM in the SGO on Lerner 5. See you there! Image via Wikimedia Commons
It's time to take midterms. The weather knows that. Thanks to Pauline Baudon for filming. 
 Burger Battle! Five Guys Burgers and Fries is opening nearby Mel's. According to Zagat, Five Guys bested In-and-Out for favorite fast food. Decisions, Decisions... (CityBiz) Pop-country princess Taylor Swift drops her new confessional album today. Team Tay Tay! (MTV) Yesterday, the Times devoted its Metropolitan section to the Subway system: pictures,  poodles and profiling. Apparently you can spot a Columbia student by her American Apparel garb (NYTimes). Harvey Phillips, a "titan of tuba" responsible for Octubafests and Tuba Christmas extravaganzas, died (NYTimes). Way back when, on October 25th, Lord Cardigan led the fatal Charge of the Light Brigade in the Crimean War (History Channel). *name that tag quote Image from Wikimedia
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Mon, Oct 25 “Conversation with Russian Journalist Ilya Barbanov” World Room, Third Floor Journalism Building, 5:30 pm – 7:00 pm “10 Years of Women, Peace and Stability” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Atul Khare, Juergen Heissel, Barbara Crossette, and Betty Achan Ogwaro “Conversations with Composers: Steve Coleman in Conversation” 301 Philosophy Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm Tues, Oct 26 “MTV’s Campaigns on Genocide in Darfur, Digital Abuse, and Other Campaigns” 413 IAB, 12:45 pm – 2:00 pm, Noopur Agarwal “What We Stand for Is Even More Important Than What We Stand in: Social Entrepreneurship, Community Engagement and Awareness” 301 Uris Hall, 6:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Kenneth Cole “CU Democrats and GOP Immigration Debate” 312 Math, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Students Wed, Oct 27 “Driving the Poem” Faculty House, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Hettie Jones “The Wedding Banquet: Film Screening” 918 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm “Myanmar/Burma at Crossroads: Post-Election Scenarios and Options” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Dirk Salomons, Thaung Htun, Elaine Pearson, Mary Callahan, Thihan Myo Nyun, Alberto Turlon, and Priscilla Clapp Thurs, Oct 28 “The 2009 and 2010 Elections in Japan: What’s Going On(?!) in Japenese Politics and Why?” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Ellis Krauss “Letters to My Torturer: Love, Revolution and Imprisonment in Iran” 208 Knox, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Houshang Asadi “A Conversation with Post-Minimalist Artist Richard Tuttle: Refiguring the Spiritual” Miller Theater, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm Fri, Oct 29 “Leo Tolstoy and His English Translations” 717 Hamilton, 10:00 am – 5:00 pm, Irina Reyfman, Inessa Medzhibovskaya, Robert Belknap, Ronald Meyer, larissa Volokhonsky, Richard Pevear, Chatharine Nepomnyashchy, Liza Knapp, Carol Apollonio, and Michael Scammell “Outer Space! and Guided Stargazing” Pupin Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Joshua Goldston “Constantine’s Sword and Sister Rose’s Passion: A Film Screening and Conversation” 555 Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Oren Jacoby FULL LIST Mon, Oct 25 “Is 2010 Reshaping the Landscape for Women and U.S. Politics?” 901 IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Kira Sanbonmatsu “The Correction of Servants: Manslaughter, Law and Medical Evidence in Early Colonial India” 208 Knox Hall, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Sudipta Sen “Midterm Elections” 707 IAB, 4:10 pm – 5:30 pm, Bob Erikson “The Political Economy of Universities” Garden Room 1, Faculty House, 4:30 pm – 5:45 pm, Anton Muscatelli “Jazz Styles Emergence within Networks of Musicians” 509 Knox, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Charles Kirschbaum “Conversation with Russian Journalist Ilya Barbanov” World Room, Third Floor Journalism Building, 5:30 pm – 7:00 pm “10 Years of Women, Peace and Stability” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Atul Khare, Juergen Heissel, Barbara Crossette, and Betty Achan Ogwaro “Poeticas y politicas del Desarraigo: Contemporary Literature and Art in Latin America” 201 Casa Hispanica, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Graciela Speranza “Hollaback: Innovative Ways to Combat Street Harassment” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Various Activists “Nefesh B’Nefesh on Aliyah” 400 Kraft Center, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm, David Martin “Conversations with Composers: Steve Coleman in Conversation” 301 Philosophy Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm Tues, Oct 26 “From Objects of Charity to Rights Holders: A Case Study of Uganda” 207 Knox Hall, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, James Rwmpaigi Aniyamuzaala “MTV’s Campaigns on Genocide in Darfur, Digital Abuse, and Other Campaigns” 413 IAB, 12:45 pm – 2:00 pm, Noopur Agarwal “Last Night in Twisted River: A Reading and Conversation” Miller Theater, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, John Irving “Italy at Columbia: Naples and Natural History on the Grand Tour” Casa Italia, 4:10 pm – 5:30 pm, Vittoria Di Palma “Disasters and Development” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, John Mutter “Culture and Sexuality Open Discussion” Lerner East Lounge, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Students “Reflections on the State of Russian Media Today and Prospects for the Future” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Yassen Zassoursky, and Vsevolod Bogdanov “What We Stand for Is Even More Important Than What We Stand in: Social Entrepreneurship, Community Engagement and Awareness” 301 Uris Hall, 6:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Kenneth Cole “20,000 Billion Dollars: The New American Challenge” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Edouard Tetreau “Stockholm’s Royal Library Thief” Deutsches Haus, 7:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Jesper Huor “Lessons from Matthew: Film Screening and Conversation” Lerner Cinema, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Anne Carey “CU Democrats and GOP Immigration Debate” 312 Math, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Students Wed, Oct 27 “Campus Vibes: Is Arizona Just the Beginning? Emerging Issues in Immigration Policy” 302 Diana, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Student Discussion “The Liu Xiaobo Nobel Peace Prize: Opportunity or Obstacle to Change?” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Phelim Kine “Israel’s Asymmetrical Wars” 801 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Alfred Stepan and Samy Cohen “Fraudulent Democracy? An Analysis of Argentina’s Infamous Decade Using Supervised Machine Learning” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Neelanjan Sircar “Digital Technology and Democracy in the Muslim World” 207 Knox Hall, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Philip Howard “Governmental Internships in Latin America—Travel Grant Recipients Report Back” 802 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Students “Mapping Mechanisms of Cultural and Political power in the Debates over Workfare in New York City, 1993-1999” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, John Krinsky and John McWhorter “The Legacy of Stalin’s Terror in Russia Today: Out Life Among Its Victims” Faculty Room, Low Library, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Stephen F. Cohen and Katrina vanden Heuvel “Mosques and Maps: Ecumenical Planning and Sectarian Conflict in Islamabad” 963 Schermerhorn Extension, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Matthew Hull “Brazil: A Conversation with Cabot Award Winners” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Norman Gall, Tyler Bridges, and Thomas Trebat “Africa after the Cold War” Faculty House, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Adekeye Adebajo “Driving the Poem” Faculty House, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Hettie Jones “The Wedding Banquet: Film Screening” 918 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm “Myanmar/Burma at Crossroads: Post-Election Scenarios and Options” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Dirk Salomons, Thaung Htun, Elaine Pearson, Mary Callahan, Thihan Myo Nyun, Alberto Turlon, and Priscilla Clapp Thurs, Oct 28 “The 2009 and 2010 Elections in Japan: What’s Going On(?!) in Japenese Politics and Why?” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Ellis Krauss “Effects of Childlessness on Health Status of Elders” 1109 School of Social Work, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Robert D. Plotnick, RSVP cprc@columbia.edu “Cases of Sexual Violence During Civil War” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Dara Kay Cohen “Letters to My Torturer: Love, Revolution and Imprisonment in Iran” 208 Knox, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Houshang Asadi “Simulation and Assimilation of Denmark Strait Overflow” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Thomas Haine “RNA Dependent Chromatin Organization” 301 Hammer Health Science Center, Medical Center, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Elissa Lei “First Annual Sustainable Development PhD Program Research Symposium” Satown Room, Lerner Hall 5th Floor, 4:00 pm – 6:30 pm, Jeffrey Sachs, John Coatsworth, John Mutter, and Wolfram Schlender “The Politics of Inequality in America: A Political Economy Framework” 801 IAB, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Lawrence Jacobs “The Philosophy of Creativity Conference” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 4:30 pm – October 30, 5:20 pm, Various “Are We Rich or Poor? Economic Culture in the Early Tokugawa Period” 403 Kent, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Mary Elizabeth Berry “A Conversation with Post-Minimalist Artist Richard Tuttle: Refiguring the Spiritual” Miller Theater, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm “How We Live: Life on the Margins of Society in Armenia” 916 Lowestein Center, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Sara Anjargolian “Dreyfus: Politics, Emotion, and the Scandal of the Century” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Ruth Harris, Peter Brooks, John Palattella, and Samuel Moyn Fri, Oct 29 “Poetry, Music and Translation” Event Oval, Diana Center, All Day, Peter Dayan, John Sallis, and others “The Third Annual Russia/Eurasia Forum: How Central is Central Asia?” Kraft Center, 8:30 am – 6:00 pm, Various “Leo Tolstoy and His English Translations” 717 Hamilton, 10:00 am – 5:00 pm, Irina Reyfman, Inessa Medzhibovskaya, Robert Belknap, Ronald Meyer, larissa Volokhonsky, Richard Pevear, Chatharine Nepomnyashchy, Liza Knapp, Carol Apollonio, and Michael Scammell “A Project to Evaluate the Effects of Climate Change on the New York City Drinking Water Supply” 924 Mudd, 12:15 pm – 1:15 pm, Don Pierson “The Stalingrad Campaign: Myths and Realities by Author Colonol David Glantz, Retired, U.S. Army” 1512 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm “Lessons Learned from Amazonas: Sustainable Development in Practice” 501 Schermerhorn Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm, Virgilio Viana “A Bead-Based Microarray Platform for the Detection of Multiple Bacterial Pathogens Based on a Microfluidics Obstacle Course” 924 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Charles Maldarelli “Signatures of Early Earth Processes in Modern Earth’s Interior” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Rick Carlson “Outer Space! and Guided Stargazing” Pupin Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Joshua Goldston “Constantine’s Sword and Sister Rose’s Passion: A Film Screening and Conversation” 555 Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Oren Jacoby Sat, Oct 30 “The Essentials of Esthetic Dentistry: An Advanced Continuum” Medical Center, 9:00 am – Oct 31, 5:00 pm, Mark Pitel, Lee Culp, Curtis Jansen, Lida Swan, Robert Lowe, Ed McLaren, and Christian Stappert “Japan Circa 1959: The High-Growth Economy and the Social Effects of Television” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Yoshikuni Igarasi 
Hawkma is eating a pigeon outside Hamilton. And all is right with the world. 
Phone conversation in Lerner: "....and we should've known when we walked in and the people were there without pants..." Missed Connection?!
Bwog has jammed with the JJ’s Place guys, shaked to Shakira with Dean Peña-Mora, and sung a Sesame song with Dean Denburg. Last year, Gareth Williams, Chair of Literature Humanities, helped us cram creatively with a study guide playlist. Below, fellow Lit Hum legend Christia Mercer kindly shared what's in heavy rotation on her Ipod: Bob Dylan, Simple Twist of Fate Bob Dylan, Shelter From the Storm Santana, Black Magic Woman Miles Davis, It Ain't Necessarily So Ella Fitzgerald, The Man I Love Bright Eyes, First Day of My Life Leonard Cohen, Suzanne Tori Amos's verson of Famous Blue Raincoat Lou Reed, Take a Walk on the Wildside Beatles, I've Just Seen a Face *Name that tag quote. 
A few weeks ago, the Columbia Kingsmen, an all-male acapella group, posted provocative flyers around campus to publicize their concert. One flyer pictured a member of the group with the caption, "Rape Me." Last night, LUCHA, a Columbia social activist organization, sent Bwog their public statement in response to the advertisement. Soon after, Lauren Herold, the coordinator of the Anti-Violence Coalition, informed us that multiple groups in the Anti-Violence Coalition (The Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center, Take Back the Night, V-Day/The Vagina Monologues, Everyone Allied Against Homophobia, GendeRevolution, IRsexC, Lucha, Q, Nightline, the Student-Athlete Advisory Committee, and the Panhellenic Council) have also "been addressing the issue over the last few weeks." Lauren reports that the Coalition recently held a meeting with the Kingsmen, in which they "acknowledged the issues with their flyers and pledged to respond appropriately." Still, not everyone was offended. Before posting Lucha's statement last night, we asked the Kingsmen for a response. You can read both after the jump. LUCHA's statement: This is a statement to address the problematic advertisements the Kingsmen a cappella group recently displayed on campus. Our point of focus is the flyer depicting an effeminate man with the words, “Rape me,” in quotations. Although this particular advertisement is the focus of our statement, it is among many the Kingsmen has produced that are both offensive and problematic. Firstly, it is important to note the composition of the group and its focus. The Kingsmen, as an a cappella group, are recognized as an entertainment group and have remained in that sphere up to this point. As such, the Kingsmen have no apparent purpose for furthering healthy discussions about social issues, such as sexual violence, affecting our community. These posters capitalize on the provocative nature of the subject matter without consideration of the detrimental effects on those who could be, and certainly were, negatively affected by the intended message. The Kingsmen and their posters fail to acknowledge or address the gravity of rape and sexual violence as an epidemic, not only in our campus community, but throughout the world. To continue, the fact that Kingsmen is comprised entirely of men emphasizes the inconsideration of the message given the reality of the disproportionate amount of women to men who are affected by sexual violence. Additionally, besides making a caricature out of gay men, the subject’s “desire” to be raped trivializes the link between sexuality and homophobic hate crimes. Furthermore, by subscribing to the patriarchal gender roles in which femininity is synonymous with submission and passivity, the flyer offensively stereotypes both women and gay men on campus. It is toxic messages like these that propagate the isolation and polarization of minority groups. In light of the recent suicides due to the violent stigmatization of homosexuality throughout our communities, this flyer is especially insensitive, unacceptable, and heinous. As passionate defenders of social justice, we, LUCHA, feel obligated to formally address this dangerous lack of social awareness. These actions are not contained in a vacuum; their effect is felt beyond the Columbia campus community. Disregard, not only for sexual violence and homophobia, but also for other local and broader acts of violence, perpetuates oppression, war, and hate. The Kingsmen's response: To the Columbia community, Kingsmen would like to apologize for creating the flyer in question and posting it around our campus. The flyer is unduly offensive and inappropriate to be posted in the community. Leaving aside the various undertones one might read from it, at the very least the statement “Rape me” is incendiary and hurtful to many members of our community. Worse, it is incendiary for no good reason. Kingsmen may often use off-color statements in an attempt to lampoon social norms or comment on current events, both on campus and in the media – the flyer in question does neither. Instead, it wrongfully makes light of rape and makes us an offensive group, rather than an entertaining group. So, how did we come to create and post this on campus buildings and dorm bulletin boards? An utter lack of judgment and an embarrassingly complete sense of tunnel vision. To clarify, the young man pictured on the flyer is one of our own members. Many minutes were spent on Facebook in search of the goofiest picture we could find of one of our members; this was it. The combination of the image with the statement was never intended as anything more than a laugh at the expense of that Kingsman. Unfortunately for all, we did not put any more thought into it than that. Soon after the appearance of the flyers, we were contacted by the Anti-Violence Coalition (AVC), which LUCHA is a part of. Their members were extremely concerned by the content of this flyer and challenged us by voicing various opinions from members of the community. This email, received nearly three weeks ago, started an ongoing discussion that we have carried out through multiple meetings with the SGA, the AVC, and amongst our own group. Through these discussions, we have come to realize that many students have indeed been affected negatively by some of our less tasteful posters, several of which have carried sexual abuse undertones that we had never before considered. We are trying to open our eyes and become more sensitive to all those perspectives we did not see before, with the intention of improving our contribution to the community as entertainers. At first, we were a little puzzled why LUCHA decided to publish this admonishment so long after the fact, especially given the positive and constructive discussions we have engaged in with both members of the administration and the overarching AVC over these past three weeks. However, we are aware that this comes within a context of heightened awareness of sexual issues due to events of the past month – an epidemic of suicides related to sexual identity and abuse, and the fairly monstrous public display of a “No means yes” mentality by a Yale fraternity. To be ignorant of context is a sad thing indeed, and given recent events it is understandable that LUCHA would desire to clear up this issue in a forum available to the whole community. Kingsmen constantly strive to increase our understanding of our community in order to entertain most effectively. As such, we must face the consequences of our actions that unintentionally hurt our peers. We stand accountable for what we have willingly posted in public. Know that we are ashamed to have made such a lapse in judgment to put such a callous message next to our name, and we are sorry to have caused any pain to members of our community.
 Diana Clarke reports! Bobbe Bwog kvells! The second floor of Columbia/Barnard Hillel is more used to the sounds of Hebrew, but on Sunday night a collection of Yiddish speakers gathered at Café Nana for the first ever Columbia/Barnard Yiddish Club’s Tish. (Tish literally means "table," but think "chat," or "schmooze" if you’ ve ever seen a Woody Allen movie.) Over Diet Coke, milk, bananas, Oreos, and zucchini bread straight from Israel, the Yiddishists talked school, the decline of modern education, farming, megachurches, Google, and the uselessness of homework. What does this have to do with Yiddish? Nothing, and that’ s exactly the point. Yiddishism is about taking Yiddish out of the classroom, out of dusty books, and making it something useful and alive. Maddie Provo, BC '12 and founder of the Yiddish Club, spent this summer interning at the National Yiddish Book Center in Amherst, MA, where she (and—full disclosure—this Bwogger) spent all day surrounded by people who loved and spoke Yiddish, and she realized how much she missed it when she got back to school. She got in touch with Naftali Ejdelman, a major Yiddish organizer in the city, and the two of them pulled connections to get about a dozen diverse people in the same room at the same time, all speaking Yiddish. Murmured “Sholem-aleikhem”'s greeted everyone who scooted up to the table, from Columbia/Barnard/JTS students to a couple Orthodox men from Williamsburg. Ejdelman talked about the Yiddish farm he and a few other people are looking to found upstate, a place where Yiddish can be put into practice. “We’ ll teach classes in Yiddish, but not Yiddish classes. Maybe classes about the earth!” said Ejdelman (in Yiddish). He brought along a few of his friends who together represent Yugntruf, a collective of young Yiddish-speakers looking to keep the language creative and alive and spoken. In fact, Yugntruf is in charge of Yidish Tog (Yiddish Day), a festival of Yiddish language and culture happening at the Stanton Street Shul on Sunday, November 7, and the Yiddish Tish is planning a group outing! If you RSVP to their Facebook event or email CUYiddish@gmail.com by October 27, you can get yourself a free ticket for the day. The Yiddish Tish meets every Sunday night at 9 in Café Nana on the second floor of Hillel, and Yiddish speakers of all levels are welcome. Provo is looking to expand the club and come up with new programs, so if you’ re interested get in touch! Image via Wikimedia Commons 
Attached to a barnard keychain that has neon pink masking tape around it. Last seen in Hartley.
 Todd Combs, a 39-year-old Connecticut hedge fund manager and an alum of the B-School, will manage a "significant portion" of Berkshire Hathaway's portfolio. (Bloomberg) Lisa Anderson, formerly the dean of SIPA, has been named the President of the American University in Cairo. (PR Newswire) The molester of a "Morningside Heights toddler" has been convicted on child pornography charges. (NYP) More porn news: a Brooklyn assemblyman is calling for public libraries to ban VHS after a grandmother in the borough found porn scenes inserted into a copy of Austin Powers. (NYP) October 26 is the 299th day of the year (300th in leap years) in the Gregorian calendar. There are 66 days remaining until the end of the year. (Wikipedia) Update: Paul, the octopus that correctly predicted each World Cup game it was asked, has died. He was 2 1/2. (WaPo)
 Katheryn Thayer reports from last night's SGA meeting. Special guests! Representatives from Columbia's women’s basketball team came in to chat about the upcoming season. Last year, a Barnard woman was Columbia’s first ever Player of the Year in the league. Upon hearing this, the Rep Council emitted a nice little “oooh” of surprise and pride. Hopefully this pumped everyone up enough to come to the Levien Gymnasium Thursday, November 4th at 10 p.m. for Basketball Mania. The first 600 students get free t-shirts! Women's basketball is in first place... to play this season! Our season starts 11/12, before everyone else in the league gets started. One basketball rep warned Barnard women that he always asks where the Barnard ladies are as soon as he gets the mic at games, and it will be embarrassing if no one is there to make some noise. Special guests part two! Dean Blank acknowledged that there is some concern about re-accreditation for the Nine Ways of Knowing. The program was instituted about ten years ago, so she sees that it’s time to check in and fine-tune the the curriculum. She reported that the committee on instruction looked at the courses and not much has been changed yet. This year a review is scheduled, so there might be some updates to come next year. This year the committee made minor name changes, such as switching “Reason and Value” to “Ethics and Value,” and has just barely started what will probably become a larger investigation of the science requirement. Blank reports, “It’s clear from the meeting that most members believed in the 2-semester requirement, there’s little interest in a combination of just any two courses,” and predicts the conversation will be ongoing. Hoot, Columbia's own fashion magazine, is a Stage 1 recognized group as of tonight! Happy 0th birthday! The Seven Sisters meeting, an annual gathering of the student governments of Seven Sisters all-women colleges, will be held at Bryn Mawr this year. Last year’s meeting was held at Barnard. One council member noted that attendees "got to go to Campo." The Thanksgiving Initiative is trying to reach out to all students—especially first years who don’t know how much the campus clears out over the break. The SGA wants all students to know they can connect with an alumna and have “a meal and a family and a place to go on Thanksgiving if they can’t go home.” If you expect to not be thankful for holiday loneliness, look into it! Some upcoming SGA events: learn about Greek Life recognition at Barnard—there will be round tables tomorrow night from 7:30-8:30 and 11/5 from noon-1 p.m. in Diana 302. Free food! More free food: talk about Barnard's re-accreditation on Wednesday 11/3 at 6 PM in the Diana Event Oval. And on 11/15 the Rep Council will be moved to the Diana Second Floor Dining Room to increase transparency—literally! Budum-ching. Image via Wikimedia Commons 
The Street Sweets food truck is at 115th and Broadway till 5 p.m. today. The truck is usually parked by the Astor Place 6 train stop—so you know it's good! Go for coffee, muffins, brioches, croissants, etc. Om nom! Update (12:55 PM): Now with real pictures! Update (1:01 PM): Chicken and Rice (prepackaged from 53rd St. and 6th Ave.) is on College Walk! 
 Sean Zimmermann reports on ESC over the roar of airplane engines and the screams of nearby skydivers. Go skydiving with Dean Peña-Mora! Newly elected Alumni Affairs and Professional Development representative Logan Donovan, a skydiving coach, spoke about getting a skydiving club started on campus. She said Peña-Mora had agreed to go skydiving with her. During her campaign speech, she proposed holding a “skydiving-with-the-Dean day.” VP Policy Heidi Ahmed explained that dining was “pretty responsive” to student concerns, and announced that dining is working on a take out window at JJs; students would be able to place orders online, and pick up items (though take out would be limited to orders placed online). Additionally, the top level of Ferris Booth will be open for studying after Ferris closes—as it has been in previous years. Council is working on setting a time for Casino Night. Due to pre-Calendaring difficulty, council members discussed the possibility of holding the event in the Diana. However, a member of the senior council commented that, due to sound difficulties in the Diana, it would be better to consider other locations. SEAS NY, now CEAA-NY (Columbia Engineering Alumni Association) is this week (Wednesday, 7-9pm in Carlton Lounge), and is open to all Engineering students. The council is working with Scott Wright on a “Green Spaces Working Group”—who will your lawn representative be?! Tim Yang was elected as Academic Affairs representative. He ran unopposed. Hey... it's ESC! Image via Wikimedia Commons
President Debora Spar of Barnard College just announced that the College's next dean will be Avis Hinkson, '84. She will be taking up her duties starting February 14, 2011. In an email sent to students today, Spar called Hinkson, who has served for the past six years as UC Berkeley's Director of the Office of Undergraduate Advising, someone who can " on Dean Denburg's legacy." DSpar's full email is after the jump. It is my great pleasure to announce that Avis Hinkson '84 has been named the next Dean of the College.  Chosen from a remarkable group of final candidates, Avis brings nearly thirty years of experience in higher education to this vital role. I will be honored and delighted to welcome her back to her alma mater on February 14, 2011, when she begins her tenure as Dean. From the start of the search in June, the steering committee was charged with finding a candidate who, building on Dean Denburg's legacy, would serve as an advocate for Barnard students and student life, would be a competent and experienced manager and an excellent communicator, and would both respect Barnard tradition and possess a willingness to innovate.  Through decades of service at a range of prestigious academic institutions, Avis Hinkson has proven in her strengths and values that she is the leader we were seeking. For the past six years at the University of California-Berkeley, Avis has orchestrated the academic advising of over 18,000 undergraduate liberal arts students as Director of the Office of Undergraduate Advising. In strategic and creative ways, she has advised individual students, small groups, and cohorts at critical points in their undergraduate education, from pre-orientation to graduation. She has worked, as well, in close collaboration with deans, faculty, department chairs and student service staff across the University to build the kind of bridges that benefit students most as they navigate their college careers. Prior to her arrival at UC-Berkeley, Avis spent more than twenty years in enrollment management, beginning as a work-study student in Barnard's Admissions Office and culminating with her position as Dean of Admission and Enrollment Planning at Mills College. Committed to addressing issues of access to higher education throughout her career, Avis developed and implemented the strategic plan for minority recruitment at a number of institutions including Pomona College and the liberal arts college at Cornell University. And, for our 33,000 alumnae and 2,400 students, it is a particular point of pride to note that Avis has been a devoted alumna since she graduated as a psychology major in 1984. Nearly every year of the past 26, she has served as fundraising chair for her class and has never ceased to maintain a strong and meaningful connection to the College. She is that unique combination—a Barnard alumna, a native New Yorker, and a proven leader with tremendous spirit and great ideas. I would like to take this opportunity to offer very special thanks to Dorothy Denburg, an extraordinary leader and colleague who, for many generations of Barnard women, has come to define the College. We owe her an immeasurable debt of gratitude for her seventeen-year service as Dean of the College and look forward to all that she will continue to do for Barnard in her new role as Vice President for College Relations. And, of course, I want to thank our diligent and thoughtful steering committee. Their task was enormous and the outcome of their search is nothing less than wonderful news for the College. I know that you will all join me in warmly welcoming Avis back to Barnard. It will be a joy and a privilege. Debora Spar
So Barnard has a new Dean, and her name is Avis Hinkson. I mean, that's a name. We've got PrezBo and MiMoo, we had Double D, we've got DSpar. Now it's Hinkson's turn. Whoever leaves the best suggestion wins some fancy beer from Milano and a Morningside pastry of your choosing (like a dozen Nussbaum black and white cookies). And... go!
On a recent gray, midterm-y Wednesday, intrepid Bwoggers Helen Bao and Allie Curry  visited "Sightlines," the first exhibition of the season at the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery (that’s the 8th floor of Schermerhorn.) Here, they tell us about it. First of all: Schermerhorn is confusing. To get there from the stairs: Enter on the fourth floor (yes, the ground floor) and make your way up to floor six. Then climb one more sets of stairs to reach floor eight. (We don’t know either.) From the elevator: Enter on the fourth floor (ground floor) and press the up button to the elevator. Exit on the 9th floor to reach the 8th floor. "Sightlines" features the work of Nancy Holt, a contemporary American artist famous for environmental and land art. A movement that emerged in the 1960s, land art draws attention to the negative impact humans can have on the environment. Her most famous works are her large-scale permanent works Sun Tunnels and Dark Star Park, which combine sculpture and architecture to form live, experiential landscapes. She also works in photography and film, which are the media on view in the Wallach exhibition. “Sightlines” displays photographs, 16mm and Super 8 films, and videotapes, all with a reoccurring theme of circles. Three screens run films of construction, cameras, and concrete interfacing with American forest and desert landscapes. Bwog was a fan of the video art, on display in a nifty mini-theater. Bwog recommends this exhibit if... - Your inner New Museum enthusiast is languishing somewhere deep in merciless cultural and imperialist hegemony that is the Art Hum syllabus - Your hiking expedition upstate doesn’t work out this weekend - The “infinite abyss” scene in Garden State was your last scenic glimpse of a New Jersey granite quarry - You really like circles “Sightlines” is showing Wednesdays through Saturdays from 1-5 pm until December 11, 2010. 
Just in case you needed another reason to hate hipsters.
 Nom^3's take on Meatless Mondays, NOMdays, launched yesterday in Lerner. Clients picked up pre-ordered meals, which they had chosen from an option of three vegetarian dishes. Bwog was sort of impressed, sort of not. MENU 1: Quinoa with avocado and pumpkin/marinated cucumber and chickpeas/apple The ratio of the portions was surprising. A generous helping of quinoa with lots of tasty avocado and pumpkin dwarfed the already-small heap of vegetables and an apple of petite dimensions. While all of the food was perfectly palatable, it was nothing special, and less revelatory than expected for the $8 price tag. The dressing for the quinoa could not be described much beyond "bland." But wait! There's good news. Sitting outside Lerner with a lunchbox, surrounded by the greasy messes everyone else is eating from Ferris, one realizes that there is considerably more at stake here. The food was local, healthy, hearty, and made by earnest kids with a genuine interest in food. The meal was found to be sustaining throughout the day without resulting in bloating or excessive thirst, not uncommon symptoms from Dining Services fare. MENU 2: Tofu with brown rice/steamed kale/muffin thing Bwog feels a little guilty calling the pumpkin spice cake/loaf/round thing the most flavorful part of the meal, but it definitely was.  The orange ginger tofu was only vaguely flavorful and had a texture much like the tofu found in Ferris: institutional.  The sliced almonds in the brown rice gave it some texture, but the kale had absolutely no flavor at all. On the plus side, everything was perfectly cooked (brown rice cooked in large quantities is often under or overcooked), and the kale was juicy and tender. If NOM^3 wants to expand this program to include people who would otherwise be okay with fried rice and slops, they're going to need to be a little less stingy with the spices. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Got it?
 Sheen was found drunk and naked in an NYC hotel room--and he was rushed to our very own Columbia Presbyterian Hospital! (People) Check out this Bhagavad Gita piece by PBS, with our own Professor of Sanskrit Sheldon Pollock and Gadadhara Pandit Dasa, Hindu chaplain the Bhakti Club. (Learner) Todd Combs, CBS grad, is slated to run a "significant" portion of Berkshire's portfolio--he must have followed personal hygiene basics. (Bloomberg) More warnings about the dangers of alcohol--wait no, just Four Loko. (NYT) Columbia researchers are going to see brains better with fancy IBM software. (eWeek) Oliver Sacks is on NPR, talking about his own brain for a change. (NPR) Image via Wikimedia
 What is Korilla, you ask? It is nothing less than a Korean grillmasta serving up a complex combination of classic Korean recipes in contemporary forms. We're talking burritos, tacos and chompers like you've never had before. And there was this poll to decide where Korilla was headed today. And we won! So head over to 116th and Broadway to get a break from John Jay. Update, 10:57 a.m.: According to their most recent tweet, they're under the East Campus bridge as of right now! Update, 11:20: And we hear there are free donuts in Barnard Hall! What a day! Image courtesy of korillabbq.com
On this last crisp autumn Monday, a CC class was proceeding lazily in a Carman classroom situated directly across from Frat Row. Somebody else was presumably having a less than studious morning, because unexpectedly and suddenly the room reeked of weed. As students snickered, rolled eyes and envied the bold toker, the instructor quick on his feet said: "I'm sorry, excuse me, but someone is smoking some major weed right now... We're going to try and not get stoned back here." Then to a student in AEPi, "If that's your frat house, maybe you want to have a word with them or something..." Rejoice that intrepid men and women fight the War on Fun every day of the week, including midterms! Image via Wikimedia
Fire alarm! Update, 1 p.m.: You can go to Lerner now! Fire alarm is over.
 Free jewelry making, pumpkin carving, and Halloween candy in Liz's Place (in the Vag). That's fun! Smash things on Low to relieve stress, courtesy of Peer Health Exchange the American Medical Students Association’s Public Health Committee. That's fun!
It seems everyone's lookin' for a little lovin' at Columbia these days. People also do a lot of whining at this school that they'll never find love. Bwog is here to prove those people kind-of-wrong! Believe it or not, people find their life long mates here! Even Hawkma rides the wings of love. Brimming with joy, Bwog presents our newest feature, College Sweathearts. Meet the Sams, two sophomore rowers adorably and confusingly named Sam. Fellow rower Sylvie Krekow reports... Know a Sweetheart-worthy Columbia couple? Tell us: tips@bwog.com. Boy: How many questions are there going to be? Girl: Sam! How did you two meet? Boy: We met at the world championships – Girl: I’ll tell it, Sam.  Okay, so – Boy: Wait, wait, wait. You’re not recording every word of this, are you? Girl: It’s an interview, Sam, of course it’s recording. Okay, so, when we were in high school, we were both on the Junior National Team – I was on the American team, he was on the Australian team. We both knew – Boy: Sam. It’s not a life story. We met at the Junior National World Championships in France! Girl: We were really nervous to see each other, it took us like four days to say hi to each other. Finally he walked over to the USA area and was like, “Hey I’m Sam” and I was like, “Hey, I’m Sam!” Boy: Can’t you just say we met at the Junior World Championships? Next question. Girl: And then we talked until school started, and then we started dating once we got to Columbia. How weird is it dating someone with the same name? Boy: Not that weird. It’s just funny because people make fun of it. Girl: Yeah, people make fun of it a lot. It’s not that big of a deal. People make fun of it so much though. It’s really embarrassing when we have to introduce ourselves to people, because sometimes they think we’re joking. Boy: Sam and Sam. Is it fun doing the same sport? Girl: Yeah, I mean the thing is – Boy: Hold on, we’re changing the rules. You’ve answered the last like five questions, I haven’t said anything! So. Same sport: yeah, because we’re on the same schedule and we share the same interests. Girl: And it’s what brought us together. Boy: Delete that. Girl: It’s romantic! How is it being so busy all the time with Columbia and athletics? Girl: We almost kill each other every week. Boy: Yeah. Girl: Because he’s like, “No, no, no, I gotta go play around on the computer with my MATLAB shit," and I’m like, "okay." It’s hard because he’s an engineer. Boy: The hardest thing for me is balancing a relationship with schoolwork and athletics. And then having enough time to spend with friends. Girl: All of my friends are his friends. What do you two like to do when you’re not rowing or doing schoolwork? Boy: We like taking walks, watching movies… I think we’re the lamest people at Columbia, actually. What are your favorite movies? Girl: He didn’t know anything about movies, I had to introduce him to so many last year.  I showed him “The Usual Suspects” and “Pulp Fiction,” I don’t think Australia has as much access to good movies. What’s it like being an international couple? Do you visit each other over breaks? Boy: Over the summer I visited Sam in California, and then we had the whole summer where we didn’t see each other. It sucked. But this winter she’s coming to Australia for Christmas… see my kangaroos and stuff. So you’re both tall blonde rowers named Sam – what are your biggest differences? Boy: Well I’m really smart and Sam’s really dumb. No, not really. Girl: He’s actually interested in way different things than I am. I’m an art history major and every time we go to a museum Sam says it’s stupid and that he doesn’t like art. Boy: Hold on, the editor of Bwog is in my art history class, don’t say I think art is stupid. Girl: She’s not going to care. And then he took me all the way to Brooklyn for the New York City Transit Museum, and I had to go look at models of bridges. Boy: It was the MTA museum. Girl:  So that was the most boring situation I’ve ever been in. Otherwise we like everything exactly the same. Boy Sam, what’s your favorite thing about Girl Sam? Boy: She gets along with everyone I know. She’s very outgoing and friendly – and she’s beautiful.  She’s hot, but she’s not one of those people I’m worried to bring out around my friends. No one’s ever like, “don’t bring your girlfriend along!” Girl Sam, what’s your favorite thing about Boy Sam? Girl: Sam is really understanding about everything, he never gets angry at me. He balances me out really well.  And he’s Australian and he’s fucking hot.  He has a six-pack. Final question: who has the more well-defined six-pack? Girl: Sam definitely does. Boy: Hopefully.
Grades are in early, because  The College Sustainability Report Card is out!  From their press release: Released today, the publication is the only independent evaluation of sustainability in campus operations and endowment practices. Assessing each institution in nine categories, ranging from Climate Change &amp; Energy to Green Building to Investment Priorities, the Report Card provides detailed school profiles and grades for 322 colleges and universities, representing all 50 U.S. states and eight Canadian provinces. Since the first edition four years ago, Report Card surveys show dramatic increases on 52 green indicators. For example, the percentages of schools that now have the following programs are: 64% - Commitment to carbon emissions reduction (23% in 2006) 70% - Campus farm or garden (9% in 2006) 75% - Trayless dining (0% in 2006) 79% - Green building policy (22% in 2006) 95% - Sustainability committee (40% in 2006) Cool stuff. Columbia earned a B+, and Barnard earned a C+.  Check out your school's grades and then yell at your council members!
 Midterms got you down? Are you hungry?  Or cheap? Do you want to eat something unhealthy and call it healthy because it involves an apple?  You're in luck! Today from 5-6pm on the Lehman Walk McAC Time-Out is hosting candy apple making!  Apparently there will be multiple toppings, so really let loose over there. Image via Wikimedia.
There was a full rainbow stretching from Hamilton to Low (and seen all around campus) just a few minutes ago. Lovely! We hope you are done with midterms. Thanks to Ryan Mandelbaum for the first photo. 
Lily Keane spotted this strange artifact outside of Sulz. An excerpt from the '61 single? Make me your slave Tie me down, make me behave Let me belong to you Brian leads off with those words, and later in this hit, creepily whispers them again. Bwog couldn't make this up, folks. 
Gerry Visco sent out an epic email to the Classics Department regarding their Halloween lunch!  Check out the excerpt below. We'll also celebrate Halloween and its precursor, Samhain, the Celtic festival of the dead.  Whoever is able to throw together the best costume will win a prize of a gift certificate from Book Culture. Please wear a COSTUME of some sort if possible. Or just dress weird. Full costumes encouraged but for those of the faint of heart, masks will be provided upon request. On site rituals and sacrifices will be strictly forbidden nor will we permit any divination practices involving the entrails of sheep nor poultry. However, we WILL provide delicious victuals and liquids to all attendees. Please plan your costumes now and we'll see you next THURSDAY!
 Stressed? Perhaps it's not the midterms but the lethal noise levels in 98% of Manhattan's public spaces that's making us all a little foufou. (NY Post) As bedbugs ravage the city, some go to extreme (and crazy) measures to deal with infestation. (NY Daily News) In case you missed it, watch Obama vs. Jon Stewart and get excited for Saturday in D.C. (Gawker) Uptown, the Manhattanville saga drags on. Senator Bill Perkins now wants the Supreme Court to take a look at the decision the New York State Court of Appeals made this summer. The community up near Baker Field couldn't make up its mind about Columbia's Athletic Complex renovation plans. (Spec) Finals dates were posted on SSOL a little while ago. Now you can plan your flight/train/bus/subway home--hopefully not on the 23rd! Update: Korilla is back on campus today under the EC bridge! Photo via Flickr
Stock up for Halloween and fall break festivities! Here's what the Greenmarket has to offer: For Thursday Today's the last day for grapes from Wager's Cider Mill. Unfortunately there's no more lavender. However, there is wine and fresh fish from Eastern Long Island. For the week of Thanksgiving, the Thursday market will be held on Tuesday November 23 for your holiday shopping pleasure. Don’t forget that EBT, credit cards, and debit cards are all accepted at the market. For Sunday: Come to the market managers' tent and arrange the produce into colorful faces to celebrate Halloween. Reserve your Thanksgiving turkey early with Dipaola. Several vendors have pumpkins in a variety of shapes and sizes to suit your carving needs. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
On 113th Street, outside the public library: 
Eric Grossman explores a hidden nook: the TV Graveyard on 116th. Spooky! Topical! Like any institution, Columbia has no shortage of gritty, dark recesses and maintenance staff (which are not necessarily related) on which to maintain its stately veneer. While some breathe in the light of day, others go unseen to the common eye. So, turning towards the latter, let's talk about trash. Like any sensible university, Columbia has its own special place for e-waste and past-prime devices. Walk uptown from the gates on 116th and Amsterdam, and you'll shortly come across a wide opening under the Engineering Terrace at 119th St. (during the week; it closes otherwise) with an obligatory security booth on your left. This may not be news to many of you. Proceeding through it, you'll have to overcome the overpowering aroma of your own waste—what amounts to a cloud of fried/wet dog odor—before you arrive at our chosen location, a long tunnel proceeding below Mudd, Schermerhorn, and Uris. This is, sadly, all that's left of the fabled Grove of years past. Here, lining the wall, a series of cubic-meter cardboard boxes awaits our prying eyes.  If Amsterdam isn't your territory, you can also reach this graveyard by taking the stairs down (yes, further down) from the entrance to Dodge Gym to the bus garage. On a given day, one can make this journey to find all manner of bulky, obsolete devices perching haphazardly upon one another in these boxes. The contents range from half-dissected and old PCs to outmoded, broadcast-grade VCRs. On the day I occasioned the boxes most frequently, a large CRT television sat glumly on the concrete between two printer-filled boxes. Perhaps these old electronics get a nice rebirth as recycled material, or perhaps they find oblivion in a landfill.
 
Last night at 11:40 p.m., a student was assaulted and robbed on 113th St. between Broadway and Riverside. Terry Martinez's e-mail (below) includes details about where to send information if you know anything about this incident. Pictures are included in the security alert, available here. Students: Please review the attached security alert regarding a robbery that occurred in the neighborhood last night. If you have any information about this crime, you are asked to contact Det. Shannon, 26 Pct. Detective Squad at 212-678-1318. Please be mindful of your surroundings at all times and exercise particular caution when walking alone or at night. Remember to utilize the Columbia University Public Safety escort and shuttle service. The telephone number is 212-854-SAFE (4-7233). Public Safety may also be reached at any time by calling 212-854-5555 (4-5555). Terry Martinez Dean of Community Development and Multicultural Affairs Division of Student Affairs
 Halloween! Halloween! Halloween! For those of you haven't decided how to spend your fall break yet, Raphaelle Debenedetti and Gabby Beans offer an array of zany and spooky things to do for Halloween in the city. Free Events (all info here) The Village Halloween Parade The Brewery The Furniture Factory The Knitting Factory The Horror Show The Omega Plastics Events for $10+ The Hudson Hotel Haunting Fascination Halloween Party - $30 Halloween Extravaganza and the Procession of the Ghouls at St. John the Divine - $20 The Day The Music Undied at Surreal Estate - $25, advance $15 The End Of The World Party - $10-15 Nightmare Haunted House - $15 (with a student ID) Within the Land of Ash $15 before 9:45pm; $25 after. Phantasmagorey: An Edward Gorey Halloween Brunch Spectacular - $25, advance $20, standing room $15 Photo via Wikimedia Commons
It's almost Halloween-long-weekend, and you know what that means. Dressing up as a Lit Hum character, throwing up on someone else's costume, and Bwog's annual costume contest! Send us pictures of your costume at tips@bwog.com and if you win, we'll buy you some beer and candy. Plus, you'll be famous forever. Happy Halloween, friends! See last year's winner at right for inspiration.
Lost purple Nano iPod. It had blue headphones attached. Lost somewhere on or near Barnard campus.  Contact: briana.fasone@gmail.com
You are young and alive. Vote! Peter Sterne tells you how. If you’re registered to vote in New York, you should receive information in your Lerner (or Altschul if you’re at Barnard) mailbox telling you that you’re registered to vote and where your assigned polling place is located. If you haven’t received any mail from the Board of Elections yet, you should probably call them to figure out what’s up. But if you just want to find out whether you’re registered, you can check online here and then figure out where your polling place is located by typing in your street address here. Like Housing, the Board of Elections likes to assign most Columbians (specifically, those living in Columbia undergraduate housing) to Wien. Of course, if you’ve decided not to take advantage of going to school in the greatest city in the world, you can apply for an absentee ballot to vote in your home state. The deadline to apply for an absentee ballot varies a bit by state (here’s a handy chart). Once you receive your absentee ballot, you usually have until election day to send it back to your home state. Finally, if you’re registered to vote in New York but still want the thrill of voting before next Tuesday, it’s possible to vote early. But you have to go to the County Board of Elections downtown (specifically here), and you have to give them a good, compelling reason as to why it’s impossible for you to vote on Election Day. It’s like switching LitHum sections, but even more pointless. Most importantly, however you decide to vote, make sure that you don’t forget to do it. And if you have any other questions related to voting not answered in this guide, send an email to columbiavotes@gmail.com.
Tipster Danielle Benson sent us a photo of this sign, found in the John Jay elevator. Apparently, certain elevator patrons have been removing light bulbs from the ceiling and smashing them on the ground. Clearly, the John Jay community is now speaking out against this gross violation of elevator etiquette. If smashing light bulbs was meant to relieve midterms stress, perhaps the culprits should've smashed things on Low on Wednesday with AMSA instead. In these trying times, constructive stress relief is key. 
Most people associate pumpkin with only two things: pumpkin pie and jack o’ lanterns. What we often forget is that this fantastic squash has many other uses. It can easily cross the border between sweet and savory. This Halloween, be more adventurous with your pumpkin! Here are four fantastic uses for pumpkin: 1. Pumpkin Soup Bowls (Makes 1 soup bowl) Ingredients: 1 small cooking pumpkin 1 tbsp. sugar 1 tbsp. salt Directions: 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Cut the top off of your pumpkin and carve out the inside, removing all of the pumpkin goop—just like carving pumpkins when you were little! 2. Sprinkle the inside of the pumpkin with the sugar and salt. 3. Bake on a baking sheet for 20-30 minutes, until the inside of the pumpkin becomes relatively dry. For squash soup recipes, visit the Culinary Society Blog at http://cuculinary.wordpress.com/?s=soup. This recipe can be made with any squash you like! 2. Pumpkin Risotto (Makes 4 servings) Ingredients: ½ C olive oil ½ onion, chopped 2 cloves garlic, minced 2 C Arborio rice 1 C white wine 4 C chicken stock 1 pumpkin, (Roast half of it at 350 degrees until soft. Carve out the flesh and puree. Peel and cut the other half into a small dice. Sauté with butter in a skillet until tender.) ½ C grated parmesan 2 tbsp. butter Sage leaves Directions: 1. In a medium saucepan, heat the oil. Add in onion and garlic and sauté for 3-4 minutes. Add rice and stir to coat. 2. Add in the wine and stir until the liquid is absorbed. Add in chicken stock half a cup at a time. Each time, stir until the liquid is almost completely absorbed before adding in more liquid. This process should take about 30 minutes. 3. Once rice is cooked to al dente, add in the diced and pureed pumpkin. Stir until evenly distributed. Add in parmesan and butter. Stir until melted. 4. Serve and garnish with sage leaves. 3. Pumpkin Cookies with Cream Cheese Frosting (Serves 36) Cookie Ingredients: 2 ½ C flour 1 tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. baking soda 2 tsp. cinnamon ½ tsp. nutmeg ½ tsp. cloves ½ tsp. salt ½ C softened butter 1 ½ C sugar 1 C pumpkin puree 1 egg 1 tsp. vanilla Frosting Ingredients: 2/3 C butter, softened 2—8 oz. packages of cream cheese, softened 1 1/3 C powdered sugar Zest of 1 lemon 2 tbsp. molasses 1 tbsp. milk (for glossy finish) Directions: 1. Mix dry ingredients (flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt) together in a large bowl. 2. In a separate bowl, cream the butter and sugar until smooth. Add pumpkin, egg, and vanilla and beat until creamy. Steadily mix in dry ingredients in three batches. 3. Drop dollops of the dough on a greased cookie sheet (about 1 tbsp. per cookie). Bake at 350 degrees for 15-20 minutes. Cool after baking. 4. While the cookies cool, make the frosting. Cream the butter together with the cream cheese. Add in the powdered sugar and beat until smooth. Add in zest, molasses, and milk. Beat until smooth. 5. Frost the cookies and serve! 4. Pumpkin Dessert Soup (Serves 4-6) This recipe is essentially a melted pumpkin ice cream. If you throw it into an ice cream machine, it will taste fantastic frozen. Ingredients: 2 C whole milk 2 C heavy cream ¾ C sugar 5 egg yolks 1 whole egg 1 inch piece of whole ginger root, sliced ½ tbsp. whole cloves 2 sticks of cinnamon About 10 oz. pumpkin puree ½ C crushed gingersnaps Directions: 1. In a saucepan, bring milk and cream to a simmer and add the ginger, cloves, and cinnamon. Let steep for 1 hour. Strain out the spices 2. Bring the milk and cream to a simmer again and dissolve half of the sugar into the milk and cream. In a separate bowl, whisk yolks and egg together with the sugar. Slowly add one and a half cups of the hot milk-cream mixture to the eggs, whisking the whole time. Slowly add the egg-milk-cream mixture back to the saucepan, whisking the whole time. Cook on very low heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Once the mixture thickens to a consistency that can coat the back of the spoon, remove from heat. Do NOT let it boil. 3. Strain the mixture and stir in the pumpkin puree. Add vanilla and ground spices to taste. Top with crushed gingersnaps.
You better get out of the library and down to Ricky's if you're supposed to be getting a costume for tonight. The store has reached capacity, and there's a long line out the door. If you're desperate, you might have more luck at the temporary Halloween location on 96th. The long lines all have made their mark. Bwog spotted this kind of silly array of beverages on the window sill: 
 The New York Times blogs from the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear in D.C.! The Medical Center and Harvard have discovered that women who drink large quantities of alcohol are at greater risk for mouth cancer. (Health News Digest) Crime in Central Park almost doubles this year. (NY Daily News) Honor-system? What's dat? (Gothamist) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
When you were in middle school, Halloween was a time for wholesome, all-American fun. You probably went trick-or-treating around your neighborhood or marched in the costume parade around your school gym. But you're in college now, and costumes aren't like they were in the days of your youth. Upholding a longstanding Bwog tradition, Hannah Goldstein offers some risqué Halloween ideas for Columbia-spirited boys and girls alike: Alma Mater Desecrate the image of our matron goddess in style! If you're feeling irreverent, purchase a drapey black minidress—try this one!—and pair with leaves you glued to your hair. Scepters are available here. Then pick up your heaviest book and carry it around with you throughout the evening. Don't forget to hide the owl somewhere secret! PrezBo Remember that time PrezBo bared it all with the swim team? Relive that glorious moment in Columbia history as Slutty Prezbo, complete with your own Columbia Under Armour hot pants! Bonus points if you wear a toupee and, of course, if you carry a copy of Uninhibited, Robust, and Wide-Open. Roar-ee With your #1 team jersey on, none of the athletes will have to know that you're really dressed as the Cowardly Lion! Hawkmadinejad SCREEE! Halloween is not just for bats anymore! Don your favorite hawk beak and start making trouble like the naughty Columbian that you are! This costume is also appropriate for Mischief Night. Alexander Hamilton Nothing says "good Halloween costume" like the Columbian Federalist! We have just the costume for you. But where's the "slutty," you ask? To which we respond: it's all in the eyebrows. The College Walk of Shame Keep last year's VShow alive! This is an easy costume to make at home! All you really need is an oversized Columbia t-shirt and a hickey. Not feeling costumes this year? If after everything you deign to sit at your computer instead of going out, don't worry. You can just tell people you were Alice.
A TI-84 Silver Plus was lost yesterday either in Ferris Booth, somewhere in Lerner, or Hewitt. There is a name in white-out on the back, Nicole Lopez , and it's engraved with the same.  On the inside of the cover is a bunch of ridiculous writing. If it's found, if someone could call at 3219455464, that would be great.
It's the most wonderful time of the year! Well, sort of. Hannah Goldstein, Bwog's New York-Enthusiast-in-Residence, tells you why you should make the un-lame choice and stick around. Fact: New York is the center of the universe. Fact: Halloween is the center of the New York social calendar. Halloween in New York means four days of pure, unadulterated insanity. And why choose sanity when you can have insanity? New York on Halloween will restore all your faith in humanity. It will happen when you first get on the 1 train, which will inevitably be making service changes (but this weekend it will feel endearing and not annoying) and when you look around and realize that every single person in your car is dressed as a Flintstone or a Rubik's Cube or Sonny Bono or a Chia Pet. When you get off, there will be cops everywhere (but smiley cops who will take pictures with you and your costume!) and everyone will be out on the streets heading off to their next Halloween adventure. You will see more ridiculous costumes, like a couple dressed up as a pair of eyeballs, or the full cast of Alice in Wonderland. And then you will experience a spiritual revelation, and all your trendy hipster jadedness will fade away, if just for the weekend. U will ♥ NY. Promise! You have no excuse not to partake in the collective citywide festivity. Midterms are over (unless they aren't, in which case we offer our deepest sympathies). You have free time now! And if New York on an off day has enough things to do to keep a weekly time-out magazine in business, New York on Halloween has enough things to do to inspire, well, a Halloween-themed issue of that magazine! Years of lame high-school basement parties where you played Spin-the-Bottle and drank spiked fruit punch did not build up to going back home instead of to a rave or haunted house or costume party on the Empire Hotel Rooftop. It's the 35th anniversary of The Rocky Horror Picture Show and everyone knows that New York is where it caught on and thus the only place to watch it. There is so much to do. Why go to your inferior hometown or to an inferior city? Your high-school incarnation would be so disappointed in you. So stay in the city this weekend. Go crazy, and use those two days off to recover. You won't regret it. (Clearly he was talking about Halloween.)
Behold...the PrezBo stencil! Print out the stencil, tape it to a (real) pumpkin, and trace the face onto the pumpkin surface by perforating the black shapes’ edges with a carving knife. Then, remove the paper and carve out the traced areas. 
At around 10:50 AM this morning, cars collided at 113th and Broadway. A white compact, two cabs and a truck unloading were involved. The white compact driver admitted to running the light and causing the accident. He is sad. One cab is absolutely totaled. Thankfully, the policewoman on site ascertained that nobody needed an ambulance and nobody was hurt. NYPD is on the scene, and sirens can be heard from all over town. Lots o' honking too. Broadway is already getting backed up as only one car can pass southbound at a time. If you're wearing open-toed shoes, watch out for glass! Update, 11:16 am: Several more emergency vehicles arrived. Broadway is mostly cleared of damaged vehicles, but glass and debris still litters the intersection. A policeman confirms that nobody was hurt. 
 Halloween is certainly not a day to give thanks. And it certainly isn’t a day to honor or remember historical figures or noble members of society. But it is a bit more than a night of debauchery and terror tacked onto the end of October. Bwog’s Pagan Affairs Bureau Chief Brian Wagner explains. The name “Halloween” comes from “All-Hallows-Eve,” which first cropped up in the 1600s and has its roots in Old English. Because double-hyphenated words weren’t even hip in the Renaissance, it was shortened soon after. The name references the massive Catholic holiday following on Nov. 1, “All Saints’ Day,” or “All Hallows,” a celebration of saints and martyrs (think hallowed ground and it clicks). One would think the night would be a bit more somber and less secular, but despite the origins of its name, Halloween and its attendant observation is almost completely rooted in the Celtic-pagan holiday of Samhain. Samhain, when roughly translated from Old Irish, means “Summer’s End,” a celebration of the fall harvest on October 31st. The Celtic people believed that it marked the boundary between the “lighter half” of the year and the “darker half.” As the temporal boundaries blur, so does the boundary between our world and the spirit world, allowing ghosties and ghouls to cross over for one night. In efforts to spook the spooks, the Celts would don frightening masks and costumes (because they apparently believed that these spirits were none too bright). They even enlisted the help of large turnips, hollowed out and carved with scary images, because few things are more frightening to an evil spirit than a small vegetable with its angry face on. Pumpkins being larger and more numerous in the new world, the transition seemed natural. The Celts also lit many bonfires and sacrificed animals (surprise, they’re pagan). They would walk between the pyrotechnics as a sort of purification ritual, and the bones of animals freshly slaughtered for winter meats were tossed into the flames. And then there was the divination: villagers would peel apples and study their shapes, roast nuts over a fire and watch their movement, and drop egg whites into water and pretend that it meant something. Again, they didn’t have the Internet. Trick-or-treating, though, can be traced back to Christianity. As far back as the Middle Ages, poor people would travel from house to house on All Saints’ Day begging for food in exchange for prayers for newly departed souls. Trick-or-treating as we know it developed in Scotland and Ireland sometime around the 1800s and was referred to as “guising,” which involved children dressing up in costumes and offering to perform tricks at their neighbors’ houses in return for candy and other goodies. Later children learned to extort with the threat of the trick rather than barter with the exchange of services. Take all these traditions, add a few dozen popes and simmer in the New World for a few hundred years and out pops one of the most fun days of the year. And yes, it is vaguely connected to a couple of spiritual Christian holidays, but at least over the course of the past 200 years or so, Halloween has really taken on an almost completely secular identity of its own. Still, if there is one day to reach back to our pagan, boozer, squash-mutilating, superstitious roots, it’s good ol' Samhain. So go for it. Midterms are (mostly) over. Stick your head in a tub of water and try to pull out an apple with your mouth.
It's Halloween! Celebrate by learning this week's weather forecast with Pat and Zak. Thanks to Pauline Baudon for filming. 
In the past week significant steps have been taken to follow the example of MoWi in festive Halloween decorations, to varying degrees of success... The River Lobby: sheer disingenuous-ness. There is NO CANDY! Brownies: basements are spooky! A tree on 115th: subtle. Bagels at Nussbaum: hmm... Duane Reade: just in case you forgot that the HQ was on 111 St. 
Send us a picture of your Halloween costume by midnight-ish tonight for free beer and candy. Send to tips@bwog.com!
 Jason Bell reviews Buca, a new Italian restaurant on 103rd and Broadway. In Sebastiano Cappitta’s growing empire of Italian restaurants, Buca (201 West 103rd St.) colonizes an Amsterdam Avenue corner just beyond easy reach of Columbia students. Cappitta opened the excellent Bettolona (3143 Broadway) barely a month ago, serving brick oven pizza and house made pasta. Offering a nearly identical menu and opening in such quick succession to Bettolona, Buca looks like the work of a man bent on Morningside Heights pizza domination. With prices that stay below $12, Buca—and Bettolona for that matter—remain reasonably affordable. Unfortunately, Buca is not nearly as enjoyable as Bettolona; the entire operation feels rushed, a frenzied expansion that will unlikely enhance Cappitta’s brand in the neighborhood. Anemically white, the space feels diminutive and cramped. Cappitta tries for a convivial, open dining room at Buca, but fails. Instead, the restaurant follows Cappitta’s formulaic playbook. The soundtrack is lots of “Mambo Italiano” and a steady parade of bland radio hits. Antipasti are almost universally disappointing. A caprese salad features three wan slices of tomato, three accompanying pieces of mozzarella, and a pathetic sprig of basil. Although the mozzarella tastes impressively creamy and fresh, the pulpy, unseasonable tomatoes mark this dish as amateurish. Buca’s rendition of melanzane alla parmigiana, eggplant and mozzarella in tomato sauce, is the caprese’s kindred spirit: small portion, underseasoned eggplant, and a shallow tomato sauce. Worst of all, vegetali arrosto, mixed vegetables grilled in the brick oven, looks fussy, not at all rustic. Here, a drizzle of balsamic bookends carefully arranged—and tiny—piles of roasted peppers, eggplant, and beets. Besides a rotating pasta al forno, oven-baked pasta of the day, Buca serves gnocchi both for lunch and dinner. Despite a soupy excess of that one-dimensional tomato sauce, tender pasta and rich Fontina make this Italian classic hearty and satisfying. Understandably, Buca prides itself on its pizza, individual-sized pies plastered in premium toppings and baked in a hellfire-spitting oven. Manning that oven, Attilio Reale trained in Turin and hails from Naples. But Reale crafts crispier pies than the typical Neapolitan variety, cracker-like affairs that tend towards crunchy rather than pillowy. While Bettolona’s pizza seems more polished, Buca offers a wider spectrum of options. For instance, the Napoli highlights anchovies and capers, a craveably fishy, briny snack not for low-sodium diets. Other traditional pizzas like the tartufata, a truffle-laced concoction, and the quattro formaggi e salamino, four cheeses and spicy soppressata (an Italian salami), steer the menu in a predictable direction. Buca’s pizza, however, appears similar enough to Bettolona’s that heading uptown makes more sense. At lunch, Buca also prepares panini and a baked egg dish, uova al tegamino. Avoid the eggs, as the oven blasts them into chewy, chalky submission. For dessert, Buca’s tiramisu tastes weak, barely of coffee and mostly of custardy nonsense. Save the calories and eat more pizza instead.
45 degrees out, no signs of heat in most dorms, and the Christmas lights are going up. 
It hasn't always been easy for Pinnacle. Today, Pinnacle's legacy begins a new chapter: not really being Pinnacle. Shane Ferro checked in with some Pinnacle employees who told him that construction is starting this week and will take place this week and continue over winter break. The Space Formerly Known As Pinnacle is now under new management, and something called Uni Cafe will open next week. 
Here are our final contestants! We'll be choosing a winner in the next day or two; help us out (without being a dick!) in the comments. 
The Street Sweets truck is on 115th and Broadway, outside the Lerner gates (for the second Tuesday in a row!). Om nom!
Alma Mater was spotted protesting Facilities' proclamation of winter's arrival last night.
 The Heyman Center for the Humanities, a.k.a. the academic building oddly juxtaposed with the hedonistic wasteland of East Campus, hosts a great series of lectures throughout the year on subjects from a broad array of humanities fields. So whether you're into Reconstruction or reification, you just might find something that suits your fancy. The Center's schedule of events for the rest of the semester follows below. All events are open to the public and no registration is necessary. image via the Heyman Center TERRY EAGLETON "The New Atheism and the War on Terror" Wednesday, 10 November, 6:15pm 1501 International Affairs Building Co-sponsored by the Institute of Religion, Culture, and Public Life The Lionel Trilling Seminar: TERRY CASTLE; Respondents: SHARON MARCUS &amp; EDWARD MENDELSON "Rococophilia: War, Beauty, and the Eighteenth Century in British Culture, 1919-1933" Thursday, 11 November, 6:15pm Davis Auditorium, the Schapiro Center CHARLES TAYLOR "Language and Expression" Tuesday, 16 November, 6:15pm Common Room, Heyman Center for the Humanities Co-sponsored by the Center for Democracy, Toleration, &amp; Religion and the Institute for Religion, Culture, &amp; Public Life JILL LEPORE "Tea Leaves: The Right, before and after the Election" Monday, 29 November, 6:15pm Davis Auditorium, the Schapiro Center SUKETU MEHTA, RICHARD SENNETT, &amp; MICHAEL TAUSSIG "Storytelling and the City" Tuesday, 30 November, 6:15pm Common Room, Heyman Center for the Humanities GREIL MARCUS &amp; CHRISTOPHER RICKS "The Never-Ending Bob Dylan" Friday, 3 December, 6:15pm Davis Auditorium, the Schapiro Center RICHARD HOWARD, RACHEL HADAS, &amp; JANE SHORE "Elizabeth Bishop's 'Geography III'" Monday, 6 December 6:15pm Common Room, Heyman Center for the Humanities
I found a ladies' Fossil watch on 114th and bway. Happy to return it if someone can properly describe/identify it.
... Jeff Stern, CC '12, for his costume as Anderson Cooper, Wrestling with his Sexuality! In addition, an honorable mention goes to Daniel Gutsche, CC'12, and Deaton Jones, CC'13, for their costumes as Achilles and Patroclus! The winners will be contacted regarding their prizes in short order. Bwog would like to thank everyone who submitted costumes and encourage everyone to participate next year!
 Give me Four Loko, or give me death!  Or at least don't ban it. (Spec) In case you haven't heard yet, we have a Five Guys coming!  Their burgers taste good. (DNAinfo) Peek into the lives of Jake and Marty La Salle CC '07 under the big-top, on a new PBS series. (NYT) Democracy happened yesterday, and Cuomo beat Paladino. (NYT) CB12 doesn't have a decision on Columbia's Inwood developments. (Manhattan Times) Image via Wikimedia
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education--right in NYC, no less--is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, just how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Take a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Wed, Nov 3 “A Free Press for a Global Society: The Great Debate” Low Library Rotunda, 9:00 am – 11:30 am, Lee Bollinger, Benjamin Liebman, Nazila Ghanea, Peter Herford, Qin Liwen, and Fred Teng “The Kazakh Quartet Tlep” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 5:30 pm – 6:30 pm “Native American Heritage Month Opening Ceremony and Banquet” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Sterlin Harjo Thurs, Nov 4 “Realism and American Grand Strategy: The Case for Offshore Balancing” 1501 IAB, 4:15 pm – 6:00 pm, Stephen Walt and Kenneth Waltz “God of Creation/God of Destruction: An Eco-Theological Perspective on the Meaning of Evil and Suffering” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Rabbi Lawrence Troster “Let Us Go Out into the Starry Night: Three Plays” Austin E. Quigley Black Box Theater, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Runs Through Nov. 6, CU Players Fri, Nov 5 “India: Economic Policies and Outcomes” Low Library and Faculty House, 8:30 am – Nov 6, 2:30 pm, Alfred Stepan, Pavithra Suryanarayan, Poonam Gupta, Arvind Panagariya, Ashutosh Varshney, Pradeep Chhibber, Ashok Gulati, Kaveri Ganguly, Ashok Kotwal, Rajeev Kohli, Jagdish Bhagwati, Rajeev Dehejia, Rakesh Mohan, Barry Bosworth, Pravin Krishna, Guru Sethupathy, Amartya Lahiri, Nandini Gupta, Jan Svejnar, Anusha Chari, Shankar Acharya, Jay Panda, N.K. Singh, and T.N. Srinivasan “A Jihad for Love: Screening and Conversation” 569 Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Parvez Sharma “Jamnesty” Earl Hall Auditorium, 2nd Floor Earl Hall, 8:30 pm – 11:00 pm, Blaxel, Dominique Star, Nonsequitur, Plastic People, Jared Frieder, Osekre Sat, Nov 6 “Diwali Celebration” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 12:00 am, Various “First (Friday): Ko$her” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 11:00 pm – 3:00 am, Various FULL LIST Wed, Nov 3 “A Free Press for a Global Society: The Great Debate” Low Library Rotunda, 9:00 am – 11:30 am, Lee Bollinger, Benjamin Liebman, Nazila Ghanea, Peter Herford, Qin Liwen, and Fred Teng “’Islamic Slavery’ or Slavery in Muslim Societies?” 207 Knox Hall, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Abdul Sheriff “A Free Press for a Global Society: Building Global Legal Norms” Low Library Rotunda, 1:30 pm – 3:30 pm, Miklos Haraszti, Agnes Callamard, Michael Camilleri, Frank La Rue, Dunja Mijatovic, and Geoffrey R. Stone “A Free Press for a Global Society: The WTO and a Free Press” Low Library Rotunda, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Merit Janow, Alan Beattie, Keith Rockwell, Stephen Salyer, Joseph Weiler, and Mark Wu “Multiplying and Dividing the Human: Political Theory without Politics in Diderot and Rousseau” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Susan Maslan “Brecht and Greek Tragedy: A Creative Encounter” 617 Hamilton Hall, 4:30 pm – 6:00 pm, Olga Taxidou “Climate Dynamics: A Primer for Surviving the Anthropocene” Seminar Room 3, Faculty House, 5:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Robert Newton “The Kazakh Quartet Tlep” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 5:30 pm – 6:30 pm “New York Business History Forum I: Of Money and Manhattan—Perspectives on the New York Real Estate Market” 523 Butler Library, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Lynne B. Sagalyn “It Takes Two: Perspectives from Men Working in Gender” 701 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Dan Seymour, Adam Quinton, Ravi Karkara, and Dale Buscher “Capital Markets for Social Good” 311 Warren Hall, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Durreen Shahnaz “Native American Heritage Month Opening Ceremony and Banquet” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Sterlin Harjo “Poverty in Brazil: Are Government Policies Succeeding” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Otaviano Canuto “Yavneh-Yachad Extravaganza” 5th Floor, Kraft Center, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Various “The Western Front—Film Screening” Altschul Auditorium, IAB, 7:30 pm – 10:30 pm, Panel Discussion/Various “CU Bhangra Open Practice” Kraft Center, 11:00 pm – 11:30 pm Thurs, Nov 4 “A Free Press for a Global Society: What do Journalists Need to Know?” Low Library Rotunda, 9:00 am – 11:00 am, Nick Lemann, Emily Bell, Bill Grueskin, Michael Schudson, and Jack M. Weiss “Limited Liability Miltilateralism: IOs and U.S. Military Intervention” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Stefano Recchia “Application of a Cloud-Resolving Model to Address a Climate Change Problem” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Marat Khairoutdinov “Opening Doors: The Federal Strategic Plan to prevent and End Homelessness” 6602 All-Purpose Room, Psychiatric Institute, Medical Center, 3:15 pm – 4:45 pm, Barbara Poppe “Realism and American Grand Strategy: The Case for Offshore Balancing” 1501 IAB, 4:15 pm – 6:00 pm, Stephen Walt and Kenneth Waltz “The Future of the WTO and the International Trade System” 310 Warren Hall, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm, Keith Rockwell “The Archaeology-Linguistics Interface: Etruscan Inscriptions from Poggio Civitae” 411 Fayerweather, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Rex Wallace “The (Dis)ability of Representation: Korean Literature and Film during the Pacific War” 403 Kent Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Moom Im Baek “God of Creation/God of Destruction: An Eco-Theological Perspective on the Meaning of Evil and Suffering” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Rabbi Lawrence Troster “Celebrating the Andrew Alpern Collection of Drawing Instruments” 523 Butler, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, James O’Gorman “Greenborough/EcoReps Delish-a-Thon: CU Top Chef” Greenborough House, 6:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Student Teams “Mobile Money and mHealth” 413 IAB, 6:10 pm – 7:10 pm, Menekse Gencer “Intimacies Deferred: Genealogies of Freedom” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Lisa Lowe “Sexual Abuse in Religious Communities” 5th Floor, Kraft Center, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Michelle Friedman and Omar Chaudhry “Which Doctor: Determinants of Utilization of Formal and Informal Health Care in Post-Conflict Liberia” 503 Hamilton, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Margaret Kruk “Let Us Go Out into the Starry Night: Three Plays” Austin E. Quigley Black Box Theater, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Runs Through Nov. 6, CU Players “Writers House Open Workshop”, 2nd Floor, Harmony Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:30 pm, Students “Screening of Inception” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 9:30 pm – 12:00 am “Lerner Pub: The Rock Show” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 11:00 pm – 1:00 am, Blaxer (Meghna Prasad, Ben Chuchinsky, Rich Quatrano, and Blake Pollard) Fri, Nov 5 “India: Economic Policies and Outcomes” Low Library and Faculty House, 8:30 am – Nov 6, 2:30 pm, Alfred Stepan, Pavithra Suryanarayan, Poonam Gupta, Arvind Panagariya, Ashutosh Varshney, Pradeep Chhibber, Ashok Gulati, Kaveri Ganguly, Ashok Kotwal, Rajeev Kohli, Jagdish Bhagwati, Rajeev Dehejia, Rakesh Mohan, Barry Bosworth, Pravin Krishna, Guru Sethupathy, Amartya Lahiri, Nandini Gupta, Jan Svejnar, Anusha Chari, Shankar Acharya, Jay Panda, N.K. Singh, and T.N. Srinivasan “Constructing the Balkans, De-Constructing Ourselves” 1501 IAB, 9:00 am – 2:00 pm, Volker Berghahn, Dusan Bjelic, Evangelos Calotychos, Vesna Goldsworthy, and Robert Hayden “Leaders in Global Energy: Nissan LEAF and Zero Emission Mobility” Teatro, Italian Academy, 10:30 am – 12:00 pm, Carlos Tavares “Measuring Political Support and Issue Ownership Using Endorsement Experiments, with Application to the Militant Groups in Pakistan” 711 IAB, 11:00 am – 1:00 pm, Kosuke Imai “The History of Medicine and Health in Modern Central Asia” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Paula Michaels “Provost Claude M. Steele on Diversity” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm “Flash in the Pan” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Benedict Beauge “Open Mic” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, CU Glee Club “A Jihad for Love: Screening and Conversation” 569 Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Parvez Sharma “Jamnesty” Earl Hall Auditorium, 2nd Floor Earl Hall, 8:30 pm – 11:00 pm, Blaxel, Dominique Star, Nonsequitur, Plastic People, Jared Frieder, Osekre Sat, Nov 6 “Treasures in Tractors: A Symposium on the Selling of Russia’s Cultural Heritage, 1918-1938” 1501 IAB, 10:00 am – 2:00 pm, Various “Diwali Celebration” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 12:00 am, Various “First (Friday): Ko$her” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 11:00 pm – 3:00 am, Various 
Nhon Ma CC '04 has a startup, Tenka! Basically, it's an app (that's not really an app) for your phone which lets you get free stuff and sweet deals. Tenka and Korilla—also alumna-owned—have teamed up to give us three free tacos! This deal (steal?) lasts ten days, and is limited. Just as on previous days, Korilla is here now! So shun Ferris Booth for a day, and eat for free! Image via Tenka
A beautiful butterfly is emerging from its cocoon before our eyes! The not-so-cleverly-conceived and evidently donor-deficient Northwest Corner Building's entryway can now be seen behind a white picket fence stretching across the plaza—look, it's suburbia! In the city! Photos by CCS
In case you haven't checked your Cubmail (or still need to forward it), Housing Services has a new system in place. You've got to register if you're planning on staying around for any part of the December 23, 2010 to January 12th, 2011 (!) window. It does not cost any (more) money, just time. Log in here and complete the Winter Break Registration. If you have any questions or want to read bullet points, more info is over here. Full email below. Dear Student, We hope your semester is going well and has been productive thus far. We are writing to let you know that there is a new Winter Break Registration procedure this year if you want to stay in your room over the winter break period (Thursday, December 23, 2010 at 5pm- Wednesday, January 12, 2011 at 9am). You will not be charged for staying over the break, however, in order to remain in your room and have access to the residence halls during any portion of the winter break period, you must complete the registration process outlined below.  Students are only eligible for Winter Break Housing if they are in housing for both fall and spring terms. It is easy to register and should only take you a few minutes. Simply log into the Housing Portal, http://housing.columbia.edu/StarRezPortal/, and complete the Winter Break Registration step. For more information about Winter Break please see the Housing website: http://www.columbia.edu/cu/housing/docs/guide-to-living/procedures/winter_registration.html If you still have not completed the Fire Safety step of your Housing application, you will not be able to register.  Please complete that step first and then proceed to register for Winter Break.  The online registration must be completed before 5:00pm on Wednesday, December 15.  You will be notified when your application has been reviewed and your eligibility has been confirmed. Thank you, Housing Services 
Two weeks ago, Ittai Orr finished a year and a half of work on a documentary about the lives of LGBTQ teenagers in his hometown of Tri-Cities, Washington. Bwog checked in with Ittai about making the film which is titled "Breaking the Silence." Tell us why you decided to make the documentary, and how you went about getting started. The prospect of going home for the summer in the middle of nowhere inspired in me a kind of frenzied panic. I just came out of the closet that year (I was a freshman) and the last thing I wanted was to be trapped in the stifling conservative desert of eastern Washington State while all my friends were stepping off planes in exotic jungles, building schools and writing for Arianna Huffington. So knowing that there were some very urgent stories to tell about gay people there, I made a few phone calls and started work on this documentary using my own camera. What are your aspirations for this documentary? Who do you want to watch it? I want people to see this online and become more aware of the obstacles gay people face as they confront this country’s stubborn past, but I also want them to see how much hope there is, how much it helps to come out of the closet, speak out and slowly chip away at gay shame rather than turn away imagining someone else will take care of it. I think everyone should see this, even if they don’t live in rural America, because issues of sexuality are still a problem for people everywhere, even on the supposedly evolved coasts and all over the world. Your finishing the documentary now aligns with a wave of homophobic violence much closer to Columbia than the Tri-Cities—after focusing so much on Tri-Cities homophobia, what was it like to learn of all the violence so close to us? What can Columbians do to make sure that homophobia and violence doesn't get any closer to our campus? Hearing about the awful tragedy of Tyler Clementi just makes clear something I’ve suspected and known for a long time: self-hatred, depression and fear are rampant among LGBT people everywhere and it’s no coincidence that we are disproportionately harassed. I know everyone thinks “it’s not me doing it!” but it doesn’t have to be overt. It can be as small as a joke you think is edgy, or the way you dismiss gay people who are acting too “femme,” it’s in the stereotypes and expectations and the subtle us/them paradigm that gay people are sometimes also guilty of perpetuating. And that’s still not taking into account the issue of gay minorities, which adds another dimension of prejudice to the picture. Release yourself from your own constraints and you’ve already taken a step toward releasing others. And that goes for closeted gay people too; let yourself come out already! But apart from change our attitudes, we can put up those pink safe-space posters and attend gay events. Call people out when they do something homophobic and don’t be afraid to encourage your friends to just say “fuck it,” come out and be proud of who they are. 
HBO's new movie Too Big To Fail is up on Broadway between 121st and 122nd.  It's based on Andrew Sorkin's book of the same name.  It's got quite a cast, so go get starstruck! Photo by EJ
It's a small, handcrafted pewter heart that my mom gave me recently. I kept it the pocket of my jeans and I think I lost it 11/1/10 when doing wash, as I forgot to take it. I live in Schapiro so it might have been found in the laundry room there. It has a lot of sentimental value to me.
This just in, folks—recent incidents of alien activity around campus were not isolated events. Tipsters Candi Herschel CC '14 and Maya Meredith CC '14 alerted Bwog of the following phenomena: 
 Ta-dahhhh! Your 117th Varsity Show Creative Team. See you in June, friends! A hearty congratulations to the newest members of V117 and to the V116 retirees. Director: Emily Nagel (CC '12)--V115 Stage Manager, V116 Publicity Manager, and Writer for Xmas! 5. Producer: Fiona Georgakis (CC '13)--Assistant Prodcer for V116 and Producer for CMTS's Urinetown Producer: Martin Willner (CC '12)--Previously produced Dirty Hands and Pillowman, CU Players President Composer/Lyricist: Eli Grober (CC '13)--Stage Manager V116, Composer Xmas! 5 Composer/Lyricist: Shira Laucharoen (CC '12)--Composer Xmas! 5 Art Director: Antoinette Allen (CC '12)--Artistic Department for V115 and V116 Writers: Nuriel Moghavem (CC '11) and Betsy Morais (CC '11) Choreographer: Sara Miller (BC '13)--assistant choreographer for V116, choreographer for CMTS's A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum, and a member of Raw Elementz. Update: Choreographer Sara Miller was accidentally left off the original list.
 Morningside property owner Luis Nunez just got busted for posing as a landlord and stealing $879,000 in rent money from CU students and other people. Naughty naughty! (DNAinfo) Word to the wise: don't do drugs! Or rather, don't do drugs and run around naked in a parking lot. (Gawker) The accreditation process was the hot topic at the SGA on Wednesday after the steering committee decided that this coming year, Barnard should focus on technology, the Columbia-Barnard relationship, diversity, and campus community. (Spec) Columbia University received $15M for stem cell research from The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. (NCTimes) There's a cheaper, faster, cleaner alternative to the subway...sort of. (Gothamist) An unemployed CU grad is training for a marathon. Apparently this is news! (CBS) Photo via WPClipart
 Comestibles and potables to look out for at the Greenmarket today: Spinach at Gonzales Farms Mushrooms at Madura Farm (They suggest using oyster mushrooms in a satay because of their "wonderful aroma when cooked.") Parsnips at Stannard's Farm Fresh chèvre cheese at Ardith Mae 2 for $20 Chardonnay sale at Food &amp; Wine Cathy Erway from Not Eating Out in New York will be doing a cooking demo and selling her book The Art of Eating In. The market will be open on Tuesday, November 23rd instead of Thanksgiving Day. Use EBT/debit/credit if you've got no cash. Photo via Flickr 
 Class of 2011: the time has come for you to be immortalized in the 2011 Columbian Yearbook. You have been requested to have your portraits taken between Monday November 8th and Friday, November 12th in the West Ramp Lounge in Lerner. Avail of this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and schedule your appointment NOW by: a) logging onto Herff Jones' 24-hour scheduling site: www.OURYEAR.COM, and entering the school code 87186. b) calling 1-800-OUR-YEAR (687-9327). Do not panic. You will receive "complete information on how to prepare for your portrait sitting and other pertinent information" upon scheduling your appointment. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
There’s never a dull moment in the Diana Event Oval! Part-time SGA Bureau Chief/full-time proud Barnard woman Hannah Goldstein gives us the latest on the noteworthy political happenings out on the west side of B-way. Also, free food! College is all about soul-searching. Strange but true: there’s actually an entire institution whose sole function it is to enforce regular (specifically, once-decennial) self-assessment cycles that are evaluated by external administrators on a scale from “pass” to “needs improvement.” Each process, which Bwog will henceforth refer to as a cycle—hollaback TyraB!—is called reaccreditation. It just so happens that Barnard is on the eve of our latest cycle (we know, like periods!), and last night’s meeting offered an occasion for input from students regarding what makes Barnard a cool place to go to college and what, you know, needs improvement. In front of a large, elementary school-style notepad, Dean Hilary Link, Associate Provost and Dean for International Programs, introduced the discussion alongside her colleague, Biology professor Paul Hertz, who illustrated the proper tree/forest format for airing grievances. (Example: “If you don’t like the lasagna that you are being served tonight, you should think big and criticize all the food that Aramark is serving!”) In a moment of mind-boggling meta-ness, Dean Link even noted that the idea for the impressive Diana Center project itself came up in the last re-accreditation meeting circa 2000. Discussions started out at the group level. In a gesture that sort of reminded Bwog of this game, each table had its own theme card. (Bwog’s was “Community and Identity.”) All students also received a draft of recommendations the administration had already put forward, the document that is ultimately to be revised with student input taken into consideration. One idea was for a Barnard-only pre-orientation program for new students to establish their Barnard identities independently of Columbia right off the bat. A number of NSOPpers voiced discord, citing that NSOP already accounts for Barnard-only programming with this end in mind. Also, to no one’s surprise, it turned out that to a school where a number of students seem to feel very alienated, the Vshow Build-a-Bear gag wasn’t really that funny. SGA and DSpar have, in fact, been floating this idea of having special Yale-type “houses” to create more intimate sub-communities—or, more straightforwardly, just enacting a big sister/little sister program à la Wellesley. Another hot topic was—everyone’s favorite—the Barnard-Columbia relationship! (Commenters, don’t be dicks.) The prevailing general sentiment was of strong pride at being a Barnard student and of exasperation at Columbians and even the occasional Barnard peers who undermine this sense of Barnard pride that is independent of the larger university. Options were weighed to correct this problem, with a number of students emphasizing increased women’s leadership training. After the group discussions, Dean Link opened up the floor to general comments, with two microphones to make things extra-official. Here the conversation centered mostly on community programming. Intriguing ideas included a special campus-long wall just for flyering, a first-year Women’s Studies requirement, and weekly open teas with an individual faculty member. These were subsequently written down on the oversized notepad, and Bwog was relieved to see that Dean Link has normal handwriting and not the handwriting of a second-grade teacher. The event was obviously inconclusive (though interesting nonetheless). Among fun networking events with the new dean and decisions on the sorority thing, students should expect to hear updates from the administration later this school year. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 Basketball Mania 10:00pm to 11:00pm in the Levien Gymnasium in Dodge (doors open at 9:30pm). The basketball season is beginning, which means that CU Athletics is bribing us all to venture down into the bowels of Dodge and watch whatever shenanigans go on during Bball Mania. Go early and bring your CUID. The first 600 students get a mini Columbia basketball, a Basketball Manila t-shirt and other unspecified free things. Delish-a-thon 7:30pm to 10:00pm in Greenborough House (604 W114th Street between Broadway and Riverside). Cooking starts at 6:00pm. The Greenborough/Eco-Reps are hosting a culinary competition a la Top Chef with fun food categories and some complicated-sounding eco-themed guidelines. You can still sign your team (of 2) up by emailing tan2105@columbia.edu. There will be free food, along with presentations and films about food awareness. Cost of entry: Non-perishable goods to be donated to Broadway Presbyterian Food Pantry. Bring your own tupperware and an appetite! IEEE will be hosting a talk by Glenn Zorpotte about Antarctica titled "Life on Ice" at 6 PM tonight in the Davis Auditorium. Free pizza!
With dishes named in honor of KCST's upcoming production of Coriolanus! Photo by Alison Goldberg
Freshpeople, you destroy us! Found in Carman. 
Before the first weekend of November kicks off and we put away our wigs, face paint and ridiculously slutty attire, Bwog reminisces over 2010's Village Halloween Parade. Photos by Hans Hyttinen
 In case you've been living under a rock, the love of Bwog's life rapper Lil Wayne, was FREED from jail yesterday! (MTV) Harlem is hip again! Check out where all the cool cats are eating these days. (Eater) There's lead in your drinking water, but it's not quite as bad as it sounds. (CBS) The state of Michigan has now banned Four Loko. Everyone is sad. (Gawker) The woman considered to be the world's oldest died yesterday at age 114. (AP) Reminder: NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg will be coming to the Low Rotunda on Thursday, November 18th to give a keynote address at the panel discussion "Urban Education Summit: Innovations in K-12." Online registration opens here at noon. For all you eager beaver future makers of public policy, sign up! Photo via Wikimedia Commons 
 For all those looking to keep your MacBooks from getting stolen when leaving them unattended (read: camping) in Butler, head over to Lerner ramps to get your electronics registered and engraved by CU Public Safety. The Columbia community is no stranger to laptop theft, so it's probably in your best interest to check it out. Safety first, friends. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Burger things are happening in your neighborhood! Mel's Burger Bar now officially takes Flex, and the Space Formerly Known As Song's Stationery (112th and BWay) is now affixed with a "Five Guys: Coming Soon" sign! It's all happening!
Though this workshop would probably have been more appropriate at Columbia circa 1982, things around Columbia have been pretty crazy lately. Constant vigilance! 
Overheard near the Barnard Gates: "I don't really see the point of buying a Halloween costume when I have so many slutty outfits already." Overheard in McBain Lobby. Four girls are standing wearing giant banana costumes. As they set out to leave, one of the girls says: "Let's split." Her comrades roll their eyes and gesture disapprovingly. Photo from Flickr/RBerteig
Cooking with Bwog's Matt Powell is back to feed you again--this time, with BAGELS. There are many foods that people associate with New York City: New York Cheesecake, Chocolate Lava Cake, Nathan’s Hot Dogs, Lobster Newburg, even Baked Alaska. But there is one food that stands out above the rest—the bagel. While New Yorkers love to argue about which shop’s bagels reign supreme, there is no doubt that bagels on the East Coast are far superior to those found on the West Coast (believe me—I’m from San Diego). Although it is perfectly acceptable to eat your bagel with a slathering of cream cheese, this does get boring! While not a bagel elitist of any kind, I do enjoy a bagel made right. Here are some tips on preparing a top-notch bagel. 1. The Classic Smoked Salmon: Ingredients: 1 Everything Bagel Cream Cheese A few slices of smoked salmon A few slices of red onion, sliced almost paper-thin Handful of Mache (in this case, a mixture of spinach, frisee, red lettuce, and radicchio) Black Pepper Directions: 1. Toast the bagel. 2. Spread the cream cheese on top of your bagel. Layer salmon on top and arrange the red onion slices and mache. Sprinkle with black pepper. 2. The Prosciutto Arugula Bagel: Ingredients: 1 poppy seed bagel Cream cheese A few thin slices of prosciutto ¼ lb. hen-of-the-woods mushrooms 2 tbsp. of olive oil Handful of arugula Directions: 1. Toast the bagel. 2. While bagel is in the toaster, sauté the mushrooms in the oil on medium-high heat for about 4-5 minutes. 3. Once bagel is finished toasting and mushrooms are sautéed, spread cream cheese on the bagel. Layer the prosciutto on top and arrange mushrooms and arugula on top. 3. Midnight Snack Bagel with Sage Tisane: Ingredients: 1 cinnamon bagel Pumpkin butter 5-6 sage leaves A drizzle of honey 1 cup of boiling water Directions: 1. Toast the bagel and spread pumpkin butter on top. 2. Meanwhile, bring the water to a boil. Place sage leaves in a cup and pour the boiling water over the leaves. Allow the sage to infuse the water with flavor for 4-5 minutes. Sweeten with honey.
 Bwogger Carolyn Ruvkun tagged along with the Columbia University Democrats on their annual campaign trip. Recapturing Columbia’s activist past, the dedicated Dems knocked on 50,000 doors, made the local news and almost got arrested. So open a cool can of Keystone, kids, we’re heading to the Keystone state! Early on the Friday morning of Fall break, the Dems assembled at the sundial, grabbed their bags and bagels, and squished into silver vans. They left for Pennsylvania’s 8th Congressional District to campaign for the incumbent, Patrick Murphy, against his Republican opponent and (spoiler alert!) eventual winner, Mike Fitzpatrick. PA-8 serves the contested Bucks County, which has historically swung between the two congressional candidates. Fitzpatrick represented the district for one term before Murphy unseated him in 2006. Their 2006 race was the nation’s second most competitive, drawing a whopping 57% turnout. Murphy prevailed by a slim margin of 1518 votes. But 2010 presented very different circumstances for a district battered by the recession. An Iraq veteran who championed the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” Murphy proved a worthy candidate for the Dems’ support. The fiscally conservative Blue Dog Democrat faced Fitzpatrick, an extremely conservative Republican. Plus, Murphy’s campaign agreed to finance our lovely (read: ciggie-stained) rooms at the Days Inn, conveniently located by a real Amish Market. Though briefly delayed by a fight in the Days Inn parking lot, the Dems got fired up on Saturday morning with the Cupid Shuffle, then headed to their “staging location,” the local campaign headquarters. Murphy organizers presented us “turf” —long lists of names, routes and addresses —for canvassing. We were instructed to knock on the doors of these registered Democrats and remind them to vote. Sounds simple, but what a spectacle. Blasting Pretty Boy Swag, we sped through the sleepy suburbs of Bucks County in our silver vans lovingly named the Sketch-mobiles. (The Dems know how to make an appearance; a Columbia Democrat speaks at a noticeably higher decibel level than an average person). My van spent most of the weekend canvassing in freakishly uniform upper-middle class neighborhoods that resembled the set of American Beauty. But those “little boxes” held true gems; we met some crazy characters. Some were excited about our endeavors. One eager middle-aged dad in a strapping sweater vest offered me and my canvassing partner soda, and urged us to “kick some ass!” Others accused us of being “fucking naïve” socialists. Overall, the friendly folks outnumbered the sassy and downright rude. I talked to Bucks County residents about their Halloween decorations, the origins of their last names and their colorful mezuzahs. Also, apparently people think it’s okay to answer their doors wearing only boxers. When one elderly man opened the door, his enormous Collie escaped to the front yard. “I’ll vote for Murphy,” he grinned, “but only if you bring my dog back.” He disappeared into his house, and I ran around his yard like a maniac trying to tame the wild beast.  The next night, my canvassing buddy and I visited a house hosting a pre-teen’s party. When we rang the doorbell, a bubbly blonde woman motioned for us to come in. We awkwardly loitered by her front door until she realized we weren’t invited. “Actually we’re volunteers for Patrick Murphy,” my canvassing partner explained apologetically. “Come on in anyway! We just made some mozzarella sticks!” responded the woman, who we quickly realized was totally wasted. Her daughter gave us some major ‘tude, but we still got fed. “I have to tell you girls, I’m not voting for Patrick Murphy,” revealed out host/hero. “See, Republicans can be nice too!” When no one answered the door, we posted sticky flyers urging the resident to vote Democratic. Oddly, many Democratic supporters thought we were campaigning for the other guys; a crimson stripe at the top of the sticky prominently featured the uneasy faces of Sarah Palin and George Bush. In between their two photos read: “If you don’t vote…they win.” Never mind that neither George Bush nor Sarah Palin was running in this election… Granted, a GOP-controlled Congress meant their policies would win, but it was frustrating to see nuanced political ideas reduced to bite-sized issues and rivalries. Our compulsive canvassing even bothered Democrats. “Yes I’ll vote for Patrick Murphy, just please get that sticky off my door,” snapped one woman as she slammed her door in my face. Another voter was so frustrated by the constant calling and canvassing she switched sides. “Is this a joke?” she asked. Two campaigners had already knocked on her door, and several others had called her house. “Murphy annoyed me so much, I voted for Fitzpatrick.” Still, the campaign organizers stressed that every time we knocked on someone’s door, the voter was 20% more likely to go to the polls. I wondered how much the voters really cared, how informed they were. But who am I to evaluate who qualifies as an educated voter? Among the apathetic, some were still passionately partial.  Campaign organizers asked the Dems in one van to post Murphy signs around Bucks County. Soon, a woman in a white Escalade started stealthily trailing them and snapping photos. Moments later a police squad surrounded the van. Officers asked the Dems to step outside with their hands above their head and proceeded to search the van for allegedly stolen Fitzpatrick signs. “Bristol, Pa., cops nab van crammed with Murphy-Fitzpatrick sign switchers,” read the local newspaper’s completely biased headline. For the record, the Dems weren’t actually violating criminal law: rather than stealing Fitzpatrick signs, they stuck the Patrick Murphy signs directly in front of and behind his opponent's. Crafty! Sure, the Dems may have almost gotten arrested, eaten cold pizza for four straight days, and walked several miles in the cold, but the campaign trip was a genuinely exciting opportunity to engage in the political process. As the bright sun filtered through a canopy of colorful Fall trees, the Dems sprinted from one house to another. Eager and energetic, they're truly invested in the success of their candidates and country. At the “Democrats Group Therapy Session” the day after the disappointing election results, the Dems danced to Party in the USA. 
 If you're craving free food with a humanitarian twist, head over CU Amnesty International's JAMNESTY: Jamming with Amnesty tonight at 8 p.m. in Earl Hall. In addition to free food, there shall be music and general good times to be had, so Bwog suggests you check it out. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Who needs personal interaction when you can just watch lectures from your dorm? (NYT) Google and Facebook clearly did not learn to share as children. (Gawker) Manhattanville building manager pleads guilty to stealing over $870,000 in rent payments! (Spec) Four Loko: "Bring it back, bring it back. Don't take it away from me." (NY Daily News) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 What are you doing today? Going to see Columbia Men's Rugby play in the Ivy League Rugby Wildcard Championship, that's what! Head to Baker Field at 1 p.m. to support our ruggers and to acquire free food (BBQ!) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Hewitt loves you like a fat kid loves cake and wants you to love cake too. Photo by Lily Keane
It's that time of year--the Dining Services Customer Satisfaction Survey 2010 is here! For every survey that is filled out, Dining Services will donate $0.50 to the soup kitchen at the Broadway Presbyterian Church. In addition, Dining Services will match, in food donations, the total donation amount from all of the surveys taken. Also, something Bwog didn't know until we checked the survey: Thanks to patronage at our Dining units, Dining Services is able to give our union employees a living wage salary. They also receive health insurance, vacation time, sick days, and job security-- benefits which are not offered traditionally at many restaurants and dining locations in the industry.
From the largest interdisciplinary fortress to the tiniest of urban meadows, no news is irrelevant. It's about the bigger picture. A broken chain has been spotted on Low Plaza, trespass while you can! There is construction going on outside Nussbaum &amp; Wu, so there is no outside seating (perhaps irrelevant in these current climes) Butler Cafe was awarded an A grade in a sanitary inspection. Bwog abounds in Blue Java Pride. There are men up in the trees, stringing lights for Christmas. If you're lucky you'll catch a test run. Best of the Rest: Entrance to the North-West Science building has been revealed. It is surprisingly roomy north-west-a-ways. Pinnacle is undergoing transformation into Uni Café... it will probably still be kind of gross. Is it boring? It is newsworthy! Boring Sides to tips@bwog.com
Size 5 silver ring with large white stone, lost on counter of women's bathroom in Uris outside the library, 11/4.  Please contact nas2126@columbia.edu if found.
Don't forget to turn your clocks back one hour! Daylight Saving Time ends tonight at 2 a.m. 
 Nicaragua accidentally invaded Costa Rica due to a problem with Google Maps. Oops! (Gawker) The Feds don't know if they want you to eat more cheese or less, so they're helping you do both. (NY Times) Mayor Bloomberg flew all the way to China to have a look around. While there, he said people elected to Congress "can't read." (WSJ) The city's Department of Environmental Protection is looking to turn today's waste into tomorrow's energy. (City Room) Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog reminds everyone to be on the lookout for this missing unicorn—she might be headed to Candy Mountain. Photo from an anonymous tipster
Construction at the soon-to-be Uni Cafe is well under way. Bwog peeked in last night and spotted ladders and sawdust aplenty; tipster Nick Pleasants even saw a fancy new flat screen TV being moved in. He also informs Bwog that the same owner who normally mans the counter at Pinnacle "appeared to be inside." This seems to contradict earlier reports that new management had taken over the space. The plot thickens! Photos by Nick Pleasants and David Fine 
Finding a good haircut in a new city is already difficult task but on a student’s budget and with a Columbian’s schedule, it has reduced the steeliest of wills to tears (or something). But now Bwog takes the mystery and misery out of the process by sampling and reviewing the quality of the options available to Columbians—and some you may not even have considered. If you have a favorite salon or have found a great deal somewhere in the city, share it with your peers in the comments. Scott J Aveda Salonspa 2929 Broadway, 257 Columbus Ave., 242 E. 86th … Generally all over For the first time since coming to Columbia, my hair had grown intolerably long. Not knowing where else to go, I buzzed into the Scott J Aveda Salonspa. “You know the haircuts are $30, don’t you?” asked the host. Yes, my sweatshirt was a bit shabby, but there was no need to be so hostile. The service turned for the better, though, as I was led to the sinks by a girl named Belle. A hot shampoo, scalp massage and conditioning was just the cure for leftover midterm stress! And there was even a hot drink offered. This is the lap of luxury. Belle listened to my personal grooming specifications and gave some of her own expertise. Rather than an unwelcome ordeal, the affair was relaxing and pleasant. Belle was very friendly, and the conversation oscillated between politics, studies, and the new Five Guys coming soon. She even added a bit of welcome product at the end of the cut, and my hair actually looked cool for a few hours. I was pleased enough that I didn’t even mind being corralled into the rewards program—discounts on shampoo and the like as well as (perhaps eventually) store credit. Overall not a bad experience—a good haircut, friendly service, and best of all, no chance of being called the “long-haired college kid” this Thanksgiving. --Conor Skelding Hoshi Coup, 2801 Broadway (Corner of 108th), 214 E. 9th, 259 W. 19th, and 193 Prince St. A fair warning if you want to try this place out—they are not cheap, and they price according to hair length. Men’s cuts run around $40, women’s $60, and I have recently had my bangs cut for $21. But considering the fun the stylists have with funky scissors and novel hair cutting tricks, and the 15 minute-long scalp massage, it’s more than worth the gouge to your wallet. Plus they make all their own hair products and use them sparingly—it’s the worst when salons gunk up your hair with tons of nasty crap. Hoshi is also worth a visit just for its incongruity—a Japanese salon with locations in Paris, Berlin, Kyoto, and Tokyo, it fits in its SoHo or Chelsea locations, but not quite so well in Morningside Heights. Not to say the place is pretentious—far from it, their stylists are friendly, knowledgeable, and not “trendy” in any way. And you’ll never have trouble getting an appointment; just walk in. Despite its proximity, the stylists say they remain untapped by Columbians. Most of their clientele are locals, and surprisingly (given their focus on Asian hair and styles) non-Asian. They, like me, probably come for the minimalist atmosphere, good tunes, calming experience, and just a good haircut. --Claire Sabel Jude and Me, 601 W. 112th "Collarbone length," said the hairstylist at Jude &amp; Me as she considered the photograph I had brought with me. "Collarbone length," I repeated. My apprehension began to lift; she understood. I placed my freshly washed longish hair in her hands and she began to cut. I emerged from the salon with chin-length hair. It wasn’t even long enough for a ponytail.  I contemplated a wig. A few pointers to all Columbians wishing to save their hair from a bad stylist: Monitor your hair chopping if you are at all apprehensive. Speak up when something is making you nervous. Remember, wet hair will be longer than dry hair, and obviously not all stylists understand this. And don’t leave a tip if your stylist doesn’t listen to you. And most importantly, don’t go to Jude &amp; Me if you want a collarbone-length haircut. --Hannah Goldstein The Wahl HomePro—Available at Rite-Aid My dad gave me some advice about haircuts once. “Find one you like, and stick with it,” he told me.  My hair, being curly, Jewish, and unruly, doesn’t take well to anything resembling a “stylish” or “trendy” cut (ninth-grade me learned this the hard way), so I stick with a simple number-three buzz, three or four times a year. The nice thing about the number-three is that it’s essentially impossible to fuck up. The barber’s talents are almost entirely removed from the equation; provided he has, well, hands, I know what I’m in for. When it came time for my first college haircut, I wandered into the first barbershop I found—which happened to be Melvin and Pat’s (998 Amsterdam Ave.).  Now, Melvin and Pat are lovely guys, but their house version of the number-three buzz was a bit geometric for my taste—I don’t really need to get lined up. So I went to Rite-Aid and bought a Wahl HomePro for twenty bucks. When it came time for my next cut, I unfolded a few sections of newspaper across the floor and went to town. It came out a bit choppy, sure, but the back of my head looks like a hedgehog because I screwed it up, not because a barber did. It’s not quite an idiot-proof haircut, but I wear my imperfections proudly. And there’s no hangover cure quite like a bleary-eyed, self-induced buzz cut. Fresh start, or something. --Sam Schube Hair Mates, 13 3rd Ave and 114 E. 40th Astor Place is a pretty weak pretense of “Japantown,” but tucked amongst the overpriced ramen restaurants is one hidden gem: Hair Mates, a Japanese hair salon fresh out of Harajuku. The place is stamped with authenticity down to its awkward Engrish-esque name. The receptionist’s doll voice will give me pangs of nostalgia for pachinko parlor girls. My hairdresser, Mika, embodies Tokyo laidback cool—she wore what looked like Comme des Garcons. Her English was less than perfect, so hone your gestural communication skills before diving into the stylist’s chair. I tell her to trim my split ends, give me bouncier layers, and shave the right side of my head. Mika gives me a devilish grin and gets to work. Hair Mates lacks pretension—no Stepford Wife blowouts, snobby hairdressers, or fussy styling—and that is its biggest draw. Yet the lime green walls border on garish, the (admittedly excellent) head massage is short, and they only have water in plastic cups, no tea. Despite the steep cost (about $50 per cut), don’t expect to be pampered. But the place has efficiency, quality, and (thanks to their young, Japan-trained staff) effortless style. They won’t flinch if you request an offbeat look, but they’ll make sure it’ll grow out looking swell. Obviously their expertise lies with Asian hair, but for their flair and skill they attract all sorts—the majority of the clientele during my visit were non-Asian. “Let’s do a zig-zag patter too,” said Mika, cackling as she turned on the electric razor. “It’ll look like worms!” --Michelle Ong Crops for Girls, 154 Orchard St. In hot fuchsia font, Crops for Girls self-identifies as "New York City's Salon For Women’s Short Haircuts”- a place that opens its doors to “only women” for “only short haircuts.” Michael, the sage behind the gender-bending cuts, has devoted himself to helping women to break free of beauty defined by Victorian locks since 1985 and offers up his services for $45 to $50 and $30 to $35 for students. What’s more, if a woman is willing to surrender her mane to crop-science, Michael will consider cutting it for free. Despite some concerns about surrendering my traditional woman’s cut, I decided to take the dive and try the “boy-cut.” All discomfort is washed away, though, by the talent and flair of Michael and the saucy ambiance of the hot pink interior, retro music selection, and aggressive scalp scrubbing. So for girls in the mood to shake it up a bit and wishing to remain financially stable enough to buy groceries, pop down to see Michael and trust in his genius. --Emma Goidel Do It Yourself, With a Straight Razor, In Your Dorm One night, roundabout 4 AM, I noticed my hair getting a little too bushy and curly for my taste. I considered carving out a bit of time to go to a salon the next day, but the notion of bumbling about a new city like a bumpkin searching for a deal, of haggling over hair when I don’t even know what I want my pate to look like, and of bleeding U.S. tender for thirty minutes of stressful scissor snipping, it was all too distasteful to me. Then I saw my straight razor. It was just a trinket from a junk sale sitting on my shelf next to two plastic Buddhas and a tin wind-up robot. The blade was half dull and damned if I knew how to use a strop. But at 4:30 AM one should never think—just do. In the mirror I ran my fingers through my hair, then clenched them together, letting the hair stand up, caught through the space between two fingers. I eyeballed the length and made a random guess at what was appropriate. Pinching the offending length between thumb and index, I pulled the fistful of hair taut, and with my free hand slowly dragged the blade through, a sound like ripping muslin or wrenching chicken bones free of tendons and sockets echoing down my hair and into my skull. Disturbing though it may sound, it is a rather satisfying experience—symphonic and full of release as the loosed and shortened hairs fall back to the skull and blood returns to the flesh. I repeated the process—grab, eyeball, pinch, hack, grab, eyeball, pinch, hack—several dozen times until my hair shortened and shaped. Smaller hairs and patches I trapped against a fingernail and whisked away with the blade. Using a finger (for lack of a second mirror), I approximated straight lines along the edges of my hair and dragged the razor against the back of my neck, around my ears, slowly and carefully. The results were jagged (and the first time a few unfortunate bald patches did crop up), but it felt more natural, more controlled, more satisfying than the average haircut. This process takes about two hours. It involves several nicks and mistakes and requires a complete willingness to fuck one’s self over. But it is intricate and unique to your own vision, it is satisfying to the point of catharsis, and it is even cheaper than the Wahl HomePro. (The only comparable cost would be subjecting one's self to the nervous shears of a student at Bumble and Bumble's salon school.) Over two years of practicing my personal ritual, I have saved well over a hundred dollars (and commensurate regrets) on haircuts. I highly recommend it to anyone with a great deal of mistrust, a strapped pocket book, and any decent cutting instrument. --Mark Hay First photo via Wikimedia Commons.
 Friends, There will be a Bwog meeting tonight at 7 PM in the SGO on Lerner 5. You should attend, both because we are friendly and because there will be free food. Love, Bwog Image via Wikimedia Commons
BwogWeather took a road trip this week. Thanks to Kenny Durrell for hanging out, Caesar's Palace letting us film, and to Pink Martini for the free concert. 
 Megan McGregor was on hand to catch the CU Players' final performance of Let Us Go Out Into The Starry Night: Three Plays. Last night, Lerner’s Black Box seemed cozier than usual—a side effect of an encroaching audience. A nearly full house watched the cast of Let Us Go Out Into The Starry Night: Three Plays frolic and move props about the stage as a few last stragglers strolled into the theater. After one actor put a trunk under the feet of an unsuspecting and amused couple, the lights went out and the first play, The Red Coat by John Patrick Shanley, began. In The Red Coat, Lorenzo Landini plays a drunk student who waits outside a party for the girl with whom he is in love, played by Hannah Kloepfer. Lorenzo’s portrayal of a drunkard was heartwarming, light, and surprisingly accurate for a college student. In all seriousness, Lorenzo plays a role that could have been easily overdone, yet he plays it with a charming easiness. Hannah Kloepfer, known for her role as a French hen in XMAS! 4, also gives a convincing performance. Hannah portrays her role of a kind girl grappling with the loss of her youth endearingly. Jonathan Gutterman and Tina Garrity star in the second play, also by John Patrick Shanley, entitled Let Us Go Out into the Starry Night. The play opens with Tina arguing about her skinniness with a wooden doll while monsters/spirits play with an apathetic Jonathan. Perhaps the most haunting of the three plays, Into the Starry Night leaves the audience questioning the theme of all three plays of aloneness and togetherness. The final play, Am I Blue, by Beth Henley, was a perfect ending to the evening. Starring Jake Coppola and Victoria Pollack, Am I Blue tells of the meeting a drunk college student on the eve of his birthday and a delinquent high school-aged girl. The two meet at a bar, hating each other initially. By the end of the evening, they grow to understand each other’s loneliness. Jake plays an angsty frat boy who feels as though he is a “sheep.” Jake does so heartbreakingly and with great skill. Victoria's up-and-down role of a cutesy delinquent is done flawlessly. Over all, Into the Starry Night, directed by Jenny Vallancourt, was a brilliant combination of plays, all filled with great performances by talented actors. Columbia University Player’s Let Us Go Out into the Starry Night ran Thursday through Saturday this weekend.
 Greek life recognition poll opens today. Let the games begin! (Spec) Yesterday, a bunch of super fit people ran around New York City in the annual Marathon. If you know any Columbians who crossed the finish line, leave their names in the comments. Kudos everybody! (NYtimes) PrezBill (Clinton) will hang in Harlem for another 10 years. (VOA) A lovely quiz popped up on Bwog's Facebook sidebar: "Which Lit Hum Bitch are You?" Helen is the new Samantha. (Facebook) Way back when, on November 8th, X-rays were discovered accidentally! (History Channel) Image via Wikimedia Commons
IT'S HAILING.
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Plus, it’s performance time!  So, we’ve compiled a separate list of upcoming artistic achievements and fall festivities. Recommended: Mon, Nov 8 “The Upside of Accents: Language, Skin Tone, and Attitudes Toward Immigration” 707 IAB, 4:10 pm – 5:30 pm, Daniel Hopkins “Food on the Go” Broadway Room, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Thomas Yang, Jerome Change, and Kenny Lao “Prayer: Daily Remembrance” 214 Milbank Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Sohaib Sultan Tues, Nov 9 “The Arts of Healing: The Work of Quilts in Grief” 101 Barnard Hall, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Lisa Collins “Crisis on Campus: Refiguring Teaching and Writing” 555 Lerner Hall, 12:30 pm – 2:30 pm, Mark Taylor “The Changing Media Landscape 2010” World Room, Third Floor Journalism Building, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Hilda Garcia, David Karp, Mark Luckie, Adam Ostrow, Betty Wong, and Sree Sreenivasan Wed, Nov 10 “Pakistan: The Most Dangerous Decade Begins” 1501 IAB, 9:00 am – 5:00 pm, Christophe Jaffrelot and Others “The New Atheism and the War on Terror” 1501 IAB, 6:15 pm – 8:00 pm, Terry Eagleton “Conversations with Composers: Roy Nathanson” 301 Philosophy Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm Thurs, Nov 11 “When a Billion Chinese Jump: Why the World’s Worst Environmental Crisis is Forcing Beijing onto a New Path of Development” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Jonathan Watts Fri, Nov 12 “African Diplomatic Forum” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Various African Diplomats “Arab Labor” 501 Schermerhorn Hall, 5:15 pm – 7:00 pm, Film Screening and Conversation with Sayed Kashua “What Happens When Black Holes Collide?: Followed by Stargazing” Pupin Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Taka Tanaka Sun, Nov 14 “Columbia Neuroscience Society Annual Research Symposium” Satow Room, Lerner  Hall, 1:00 pm – 3:30 pm, Various “U.N. Me—Film Screening” 5th Floor Kraft Center, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Ami Horowitz Arts Addendum: Thursday, Nov 11 “Coriolanus” Austin E. Quigley Black Box Theater, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Runs Nov 11-13, King’s Crown Shakespeare Troupe “Black Comedy” Glicker-Milstein Black Box Theater, Diana Center, 10:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Runs Nov 11-13, CU Players 'Night Mother, Diana Black Box, Nov 11-13, CU Players Sat, Nov 13 “Down by the ShORCHESIS” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Runs Nov 13-14, Orchesis “University Raqs!” Earl Hall Auditorium, Earl Hall, 5:00 pm – 7:30 pm, CU Bellydance FULL LIST Mon, Nov 8 “Computational Advertising” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 11:00 am – 12:30 pm, Andrei Broder “Department of Defense Director for Basic Research Town Hall” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm, Robin Staffin “Ut Pictor Poeta: Titan’s Early Mythologies” Casa Italiana, 3:10 pm – 4:30 pm, David Rosand “Kanoon se kyu darta hain dil: The Republic of Love in Cinematic Courtrooms” 208 Knox Hall, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Lawrence Liang “The Upside of Accents: Language, Skin Tone, and Attitudes Toward Immigration” 707 IAB, 4:10 pm – 5:30 pm, Daniel Hopkins “Discerning the Future of World Christianity: Vision and Blindness at the World Missionary Conference, Edinburgh 1910” Social Hall, Union Theological Seminary, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Brian Stanley “Careers in Conflict Resolution” 707 IAB, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Various “The Longing: The Forgotten Jews of South America—Film Screening” 5th Floor Kraft Center, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Gabriela Boehm “Food on the Go” Broadway Room, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Thomas Yang, Jerome Change, and Kenny Lao “Prayer: Daily Remembrance” 214 Milbank Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Sohaib Sultan “Seeing the Great Depression” 1501 IAB, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Margaret Bourke White “Call + Response—Film Screening” 702 Hamilton Hall, 8:30 pm – 10:30 pm “ROOTEd Sundaes on Mondays: Courtship” IRC 552 W. 114th, 9:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Students Tues, Nov 9 “Financial Sector Simulation: Principles, Policy and Politics” 1302 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Professor Goldberg and Al Puchala “Social Welfare in China—Policy and Practice” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Catherine Keyser, Arthur Kleinman, David Roye, and Myron Cohen “The Arts of Healing: The Work of Quilts in Grief” 101 Barnard Hall, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Lisa Collins “Implementing Social Policy in Colombia: Results and Challenges” 1512 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Diego Andres Molano Aponte “Crisis on Campus: Refiguring Teaching and Writing” 555 Lerner Hall, 12:30 pm – 2:30 pm, Mark Taylor “Environmental Stewardship” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Nilda Mesa “The Arabs and the Holocaust” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Gilbert Achcar and Amira Hass “Agricultural Policies and Their Impact on Water Resources and Environmental Degredation in India” 924 Mudd, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, S.S. Johl “Microfinance in China” 918 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Ning Tang “Hotel Rwanda—Film Screening” Lerner Cinema, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Tanya Fredman “The Changing Media Landscape 2010” World Room, Third Floor Journalism Building, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Hilda Garcia, David Karp, Mark Luckie, Adam Ostrow, Betty Wong, and Sree Sreenivasan “Managing It All: Balancing Observance, Career, Family, and Community” 5th Floor Kraft Center, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Michelle Greenberg-Korbin “Saturday Night and Sunday Morning—Film Screening” 413 Kent Hall, 8:30 pm – 11:00 pm Wed, Nov 10 “Pakistan: The Most Dangerous Decade Begins” 1501 IAB, 9:00 am – 5:00 pm, Christophe Jaffrelot and Others “Winds of Change: The Environmental Movement and Global Development” 509 Knox, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Bogdan Vasi “Unequal Fortunes: Snapshots from the South Bronx” 802 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Laura Scheiber “Domestic Political Institutions and the Sectoral Composition of FDI in Developing Countries” 707 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Boliang Zhu “Representationalism’s Animal Other: Signification and Delegation in Biopolitics and Anthropology” 963 Schermerhorn Extension, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, Hoon Song “Beyond the Game: Women, Sports, and Competition” Event Oval, Diana Center, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Donna Orender, Erinn Smart, and Judie Lomax “The New Brazil” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Riordan Roett “The New Atheism and the War on Terror” 1501 IAB, 6:15 pm – 8:00 pm, Terry Eagleton “Current Cravings, Strange Desires, and Frightening Things” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Elisabeth A. Murray “Procrastination and Time Management Worship for Undergraduate Residential Students” 112A Hartley Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Patty Farrell “10 Rules for Dealing with Police: NYCE and Marijuana Arrests” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Evan Goldstein and Samuel Roberts “Taste of Asia” 6th Floor IAB, 7:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Various “Conversations with Composers: Roy Nathanson” 301 Philosophy Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm “ID Blues: Jewish and Democratic—Film Screening” 5th Floor Kraft Center, 7:30 pm – 10:30 pm, Various “Immigration and Healthcare Panel” 214 Pupin Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Elizabeth Ty Wilde, Miriam Laugesen, and Mae Ngai Thurs, Nov 11 “Ending Wars, Consolidating Peace: Economic Perspectives” 1501 IAB, 9:00 am – 12:30 pm, Alex Nicoll, Jean-Marie Guehenno, James Cockayne, Achim Wennmann, Jennifer Hazen, and Richard Betts “Science Communication in the Internet Age” 417 Schermerhorn Hall, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Various “When a Billion Chinese Jump: Why the World’s Worst Environmental Crisis is Forcing Beijing onto a New Path of Development” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Jonathan Watts “Historical Institutionalism as Urban Policy Analysis: Scenes from Philadelphia” 801 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Richardson Dilworth “The International Legal Regulation of Religion” 801 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Elizabeth Shakman Hurd “The Politics of International Corruption Ratings” 1501 IAB, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Mlada Bukovansky, Nathaniel Heller, and Timothy Frye “Ed Koch and the Rebuilding of New York City” 523 Butler, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Jonathan Soffer “Joint Conflict Resolution” 138 Horace Mann Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “Rococophilia: War, Beauty, and the Eighteenth Century in British Culture 1919-1933” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Terry Castle “The Influence of Breastfeeding on Outcomes in Early Childhood” 503 Hamilton Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Clive Belfield “Politics and Art: An Awkward Optimism” Miller Theater, Dodge Hall, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Tania Bruguera “Procrastination and Time Management Workshop for Undergraduate Residential Students”  2nd Floor CPS Residential Hall Office, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Anne Goldfield “Social Movements in Brazil: The Struggle for Gender Equality” 802 IAB, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Lia Machado “Discussion on Feminism” 101 Barnard Hall, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Students “Coriolanus” Austin E. Quigley Black Box Theater, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Runs Nov 11-13, King’s Crown Shakespeare Troupe “Black Comedy” Glicker-Milstein Black Box Theater, Diana Center, 10:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Runs Nov 11-13, CU Players Fri, Nov 12 “African Diplomatic Forum” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Various African Diplomats “Toward Sustainable Water Use in India: Case Studies from Punjab” 924 Mudd, 12:15 pm – 1:15 pm, Kamal Vatta and Rajinder Dishu “Port Financing in the Post-Financial Crisis: Funding the Infrastructures that Support Globalization” 702 Hamilton Hall, 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm, David T. Matsuda, Albert Bressand, Athanasios Pallis, and Thomas H. Wakeman III “Seismic Modeling and Imaging Based on Adjoint Methods” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Jeroen Tromp “The Career Paths Less Travelled: Career Panel and Reception” 208 Knox, 3:30 pm – 5:30 pm, Various “Discontinuous Lexica and Multilingualism: A Missing Chapter in Standard Accounts of Linguistic Competence” 709 IAB, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Michael Shapiro “Acting Workshops” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 5:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Nazaara “Arab Labor” 501 Schermerhorn Hall, 5:15 pm – 7:00 pm, Film Screening and Conversation with Sayed Kashua “Pray the Devil Back to Hell: A Film Screening and Conversation” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 5:30 pm – 7:00 pm, Abigail Disney “What Happens When Black Holes Collide?: Followed by Stargazing” Pupin Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Taka Tanaka Sat, Nov 13 “Down by the ShORCHESIS” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Runs Nov 13-14, Orchesis “University Raqs!” Earl Hall Auditorium, Earl Hall, 5:00 pm – 7:30 pm, CU Bellydance 'Night Mother, Diana Black Box, Nov 11-13, CU Players Sun, Nov 14 “Columbia Neuroscience Society Annual Research Symposium” Satow Room, Lerner  Hall, 1:00 pm – 3:30 pm, Various “U.N. Me—Film Screening” 5th Floor Kraft Center, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Ami Horowitz *name that tag quote!
Corporations are taking over the world and giving you free things! They even have a fancy poster. This is just a preview of things to come. Every day for the rest of the semester, Kraft food officials are offering you free food. In the upcoming weeks, expect trail mix, 100-calorie packs, pita chips, Crystal Light, and smiling (secret) agents from Kraft. Artificially flavored bliss!
 Update, 11/9:  During Sunday night's CCSC meeting, representatives from CAVA argued that their current space in the basement of Carman did not allow for secure holding of patient medical records. This accusation has not been verified and Bwog has been informed that patient medical records continue to be protected via a swipe access system. We'll keep you posted on the issue as we get more information. Grantland D'Avino keeps you in the know! Representatives from CUEMS (which you may know as CAVA) gave a presentation regarding their request for a new space. CAVA argued that the group's current space, in the basement of Carman, was inadequate because it does not allow for gender-segregated sleep areas or for secure holding of patient medical records. With a minimum requirement of 12 hours volunteered per week, 91% of CUEMS members sleep at some point while volunteering. This is a problem for the group's Orthodox Jewish members, whose religion forbids them from sleeping with members of the opposite sex. While some have found rooms to sleep in with friends in nearby dorms, others have had to quit. The current space also does not allow for patient medical records to be locked securely, which complicates issues of patient confidentiality. Plus, there isn't any cell phone reception. The proposed plan is to swap the current CUEMS space in the basement of Carman for 102 and 103 Broadway, former CSA offices which are now used as space for student groups. However, CUEMS pointed out that those spaces have not been reserved often and that they could be replaced by space in the Carman basement. Also, CAVA argued that the Broadway rooms would allow for sex-segregated sleeping areas, more secure patient records, and adequate cell reception, since the space is above ground. Next, representatives of club sports presented their proposal for a pilot program to allow athletes on club sports teams to get credit toward the physical education requirement. While their original hope was to simply have team practices count as physical education, this was not feasible since this would place undergraduates in control of their classmates' credits. The proposed pilot plan is for an additional physical education class to be added, which would be tailored to the needs of a particular team or collection of teams. Early registration would be open to members of teams that the programs had been designed for, but would open to all students in regular registration. The representatives stressed that the new program would not replace physical education classes now offered to the wider undergraduate population. Instead, physical education teachers will be required to take on extra classes. Some council members raised concerns, noting that regardless of whether or not these classes replace current physical education classes, they will monopolize the gym and prevent students and faculty from using it at those times. Some doubted whether or not instructors would take on extra classes for the same pay. And so it goes... Image via Wikimedia Commons
There's a big yellow taxi on College Walk! No, it's not the Cash Cab... (Come back to us Ben Bailey!!) This "Peace Taxi" is part of an exhibition by Club Bangla, Club Dimensions, the Caribbean Students Association, Sikh Students Association and African Students Association to recognize, as one organizer told Bwog, "the plight of the taxi driver."  The event description reads: "Taxis occupy a crucial position in the various diasporas that make their home in the City: much more than transportation, they are vehicles of hope, belief and, very concretely, socio-economic mobility." Governor (soon to be ex-governor) Paterson, CC'77, recently vetoed the Drivers Protection Act that would have increased the legal penalties for assaults on cab-drivers.
 The Barnard Greek Life polls have opened! If you are a strong and beautiful Barnard woman, make sure to sign onto eBear sometime before November 22nd to vote "Yes, SGA should recognize Greek Life at Barnard" or "No, SGA should not recognize Greek Life at Barnard" (or abstain from exercising your right to vote altogether). "But Bwog," you say, "It's all Greek to me!" For more coverage on the sorority saga, read about the Town Hall meeting and check out our Greek Life Recognition 101 facts sheet. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Hear ye, hear ye! Bwog declares new Barnard Dean Avis Hinkson shall henceforth be called A-Hinks. But you, lovely readers, had some stellar suggestions. So we want you to vote on a "not safe for work" unofficial nickname in the comments. The finalists are: Jar Jar Hinks Hinkberry Da Vinki The Incredible Hink 
Spotted on 114th: Purple Panties. (Shudders) What an unfortunate word! What an unfortunate fate for an innocent pair of underwear! Claim your knickers! Meanwhile, they serve as a leaf catcher... 
Well, sort of. The Barnard Bulletin is having a meeting tonight in the Anna Quindlen Room (all shoes and hats must be removed prior to entrance, as it is a place of worship) next to Liz's Place in the Diana. Free food!
During our time at Columbia, most of us meet one or two group leaders, student government presidents, star athletes, and the like. But there are many Columbians with lower profiles, whose talents are just as (or even more) awesome. In the lastest installment of Hidden Talents, Bwog presents, Rebecca Ehrhardt, CC '13, Tae Kwon Do champ. Diana Clarke reports... Rebecca Ehrhardt’s EC double, plastered with Grateful Dead posters and lined with the masterpieces of Russian literature, looks like any college student’s. There’s nothing to hint at the fact that she makes sure to end class every day by four o’clock so she’s got time for the hour train ride to Park Slope and the three hours of intense physical exertion that await her. That’s because Rebecca Ehrhardt, CC ’13 and a double-major in English and Education, is also a second dan: kyo sah nim (read: black belt instructor) in Tae Kwon Do. A Brooklyn native, she chose Columbia to stay near the martial arts school where she’s trained for the last seven years. Martial arts, Ehrhardt explained, aren’t standardized like other sports. There are hundreds of slightly different styles of Tae Kwon Do, and no two schools have quite the same methods, so it’s impossible to switch schools seamlessly. The martial arts school to which she’s sworn allegiance, Way of Action Tae Kwon Do, is housed on the second floor of a shabby-looking building. At the top of a long rickety staircase, "There's a living martial arts school!" The school’s dingy exterior doesn’t bother Ehrhardt, who stated firmly, “The more commercial a martial arts school looks, the less likely it is to be legit.” Way of Action is pretty legit. Their signature move, performed by advanced students and teachers, involves lying barebacked on a bed of nails, legs in the air, three cinderblocks on their stomach until someone else smashes the cinderblocks with a sledgehammer. Beyond that, Ehrhardt says, “I don’t really have a favorite move,” although “in sparring, people seem to be worried about my high roundhouse kicks.” That’s because real Tae Kwon Do is about technique: “It’s not the moves you throw, it’s how you arrange them,” Ehrhardt explains (though she can break boards with her feet if she really, really must). “Good fighters will often win matches with very basic techniques because of their superior strategy.” I don’t know strategy, but Ehrhardt’s must be pretty good; so profuse is her trophy collection that “it took a whole bin last year to get the trophies out of my room.” (This is true; I was there; she’s my ex-roommate.) And just a few weeks ago she defended the Grand Championship title that she won last fall, her first major adult victory. She competes in both of Tae Kwon Do’s main disciplines: forms—solo routines of moves featuring kicks, punches, and blocks; and sparring—in which opponents engage in controlled point fighting, weapons, self-defense, and breaking boards and bricks. “The other things are all extra,” says Ehrhardt. Victories in both of these areas make Ehrhardt a conspicuous commuter; she navigates the subway toting six-foot trophies. Despite their obnoxious size, Ehrhardt says most reactions have been positive, and that her fellow commuters often offer congratulations. Is that why she does it? No, says Ehrhardt; doing Tae Kwon Do makes her feel “all sorts of things. It’s never one emotion. It’s when ideally the pursuit of martial arts is mental, physical, and intellectual, and requires immersing oneself in myriad ways.” How she manages any of that while the rest of us are overwhelmed just immersing ourselves in homework is a mystery, even when you live with her. 
Good news at this dreary witching hour: there's going to be a Bacchanal Fall Concert for the first time in, like, a while, and completely insane former male prostitute Mickey Avalon will be performing! The show is on Thursday, December 2nd in Lerner and will cost $3. Half-local (hey, AK!) band Night Eyes will be opening. Tickets on sale soon at the TIC. Party on, party people! 
 CTV goes to the Jon Stewart rally, speaks with Ariana Huffington, and asks a small child, "What's your greatest fear? Is it public speaking?" Be sure to watch the video. (CTV) Board of Trustees chair William V. Campbell is advising on a new web browser called RockMelt, which is designed to better incorporate social media into the browser interface. (NYT) NY1 picks up a Public Safety warning. Watch out for this guy. (NY1) Snow fell in four of the five boroughs yesterday. So Global Warming must be wrong. (Daily News) A jury in Connecticut voted to impose the death penalty yesterday for the brutal murder of three women in their home. (NYT) Image via Wikimedia Commons
 The campaign for Columbia Community Service, which supports the University's community outreach programs in the area, officially begins today with an open house and free lunch in Low Rotunda from 11:30 to 1:30. Stop by to find out about the programs Columbia supports, and probably eat something too. Image via Wikimedia Commons
... Dare we say Strokos-esque?
 Wikipedia tells us that "In weaving willow baskets, a trough of water is needed in which to soak the dried willow rods. They are then left to stand until pliable and ready to be used in weaving. The weaving is, however, not done under water." With that tidbit of information under our belts, registration for Spring Term 2011 begins next Monday, which means it's time to plan what you're going to take next semester for Bwog's semesterly roundup of ridiculously-named courses. Please note that not all of these match the implications of "underwater basket weaving," but instead simply have ridiculous names prone to misinterpretation. If you happen to come across any courses with humorous names that we missed, please leave them in the comments. Technology Management K4124 Knowledge Management Theatre Arts R6520 Collaboration Sociology 86810 Organization Failure Spanish W3542 The End of the World Statistics W4543 Survival Analysis Philosophy G4675 The Direction of Time Psychology W3615 Children at Risk Earth and Environmental Sciences W3018 Weapons of Mass Destruction Earth and Environmental Sciences W4230 Crustal Deformation Anthropology V3977 Trauma Dance BC3000 From Page to Dance Stage Electrical Engineering E4815 Random Signals and Noise Science W3920 Ignorance Anthropology G4143 Accusation English BC3143 Middle Fictions French W4995 French for Diplomats International Affairs U6445 Talking with the Enemy International Affairs U6216 Communique Anthropology W4042 Agent, Person, Subject, Self Psychology BC3390 Canine Cognition Anthropology V3952 Taboo and Transgression International Affairs U6620 Challenging Sovereignty Anthropology G6206 Profane Illumination I Engineering Mechanics E4114 Mechanics of Fracture and Fatigue Anthropology G6003 Nietzsche and the Shaman's Body Philosophy G9515 Dispositions Social Enterprise B8200 Strategic Philanthropy Sociology G4520 Social Theory and the City Economics X3063 Social Exclusion Anthropology V3924 Anthropology and Disaster image via Wikimedia Commons
For a while now, Bwog's resident culinary expert Matt Powell has been giving you delicious recipes every Friday. Now it's time to take a page out of the book of a certain celebrity chef and, um, incrementally increase the intensity. So we're asking you—that's right, you—to submit a list of three ingredients from which Matt must make a dish by posting in the comments. The three ingredients should go together reasonably well; the goal is simplicity, not complication. We'll select our favorite group from all submissions and Matt will come up with a recipe for them. Happy posting!
Columbia, you spoil us. Views of Butler and Uris by ECS and HEH. 
A tipster found this on the wall of Lerner 502 last night. Is it another wave? 
Barnard has announced the theme for its 22nd Annual Medieval and Renaissance Conference, which will take place December 4th. It is titled "Animals and Humans in the Culture of the Middle Ages and Renaissance" and claims to provide "an interdisciplinary conference exploring the many ways in which the human-animal connection and divide was imagined, employed, figured and explained in the Middle Ages and Renaissance." Lecture titles include "Fowl Intimacies and Fishy Issues," "Barbarian Dogs in Early Medieval Legal Sources," "Werewolf Love and Cyborg Law in William of Paleme," and "Cats Have Fie Words: Animal Language and al-Jahiz's Theory of the Human as a Microcosm." Tickets are $35 for the public and $10 for students. Lunch is an additional $15. You can register online here.
Hillel is hosting a study break from 8-9 p.m. tonight! Hit up the 3rd floor of Hillel for Trader Joe's snacks. 'Cause there's a new Joe's somewhere on the UWS. Hillel is at the Kraft Center, at 606 W. 115th Street. Image via Trader Joe's
I lost a small black cardboard cover notebook containing creative writing journals. Lost on 11/8 probably in 417 IAB or Butler stacks. If found please contact mtf237@gmail.com
Lost 11/9 in or near aerobics room 4 in Dodge: White karate belt, folded, with two black hair ties holding it together.  Can demonstrate white belt proficiency in karate to claim it.
 Butler was rated 4th most beautiful library in the country!  If only the judges knew what a wretched hive of scum and villainy it is during exams when there are people in it. (CampusGrotto) Nissan wants us to buy their fancy-pants eco-friendly car, the Leaf.  Unfortunately, it doesn't perform well in extreme temperatures.  And do we even have roads? (Forbes Blog) People are making fun of The Social Experiment.  (NY Mag) Somebody good at football, Kal Prince from Kentucky, committed to Columbia today. (Roar Lions Roar) Gov. Paterson released a ambitious plan for making NY green.  Conveniently it falls to Cuomo to carry it out. (NYT) Image via Wikimedia http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/10/science/earth/10climate.html?partner=rss&amp;emc=rss
Bwog has received word that Dean of Student Affairs Kevin Shollenberger and CC 2011 President Sean Udell just announced that Deans Moody-Adams and Peña-Mora have approved the long-debated issue of gender-neutral housing. This means that a pilot program can begin in the fall. It will be an option in Wien, EC, Nussbaum, Ruggles, Woodbridge, and Claremont. Update, 10:51am: When asked to comment, Udell said, "The Open Housing pilot program is a big step forward for Columbia, and I am absolutely thrilled that it's happening here." Update, 1pm: Bwog just checked in again with Udell, who gave us a look at what's next for Open Housing. The Queer Alliance/Everyone Allied Against Homophobia groups who got this whole show on the road last year will work with the new pilot program. The Open Housing student committee will work with Housing Services to draft up an official Open Housing policy so that the new system will be in place for Room Selection this March. Udell noted that Open Housing is still technically a pilot program but doesn't "expect anything less than this being a success as it moves forward." Freshpeople, oldpeople, take a look at Bwog's coverage of Gender Neutral/Open Housing (since November 2008) here for some context.
Bwog came upon a well-woven wonder on Carman 9, when we saw this rug stretching from wall to wall.  According to the blackboard, it was Liz's birthday.  And she got a rug!  Maybe. The icy white cinder blocks of Carman just got a little warmer.  You go, freshlings! 
There's a coat drive going on this week, run by the New York Presbyterian Hospital.  It's right now, 12n-4p at the Sundial today, as well as everyday this week.  Supplementary collection bins are in EC, Furnald and John Jay. Yesterday Bwog spotted one student donate the coat off of their back.  Congratulations anonymous do-gooder, for you are this week's Hero of Bwog! 
Dance Marathon is giving out cookies and hot chocolate on the Steps right now. Plus, free Kanye songs for your ears!
 The PE Requirement is sometimes maligned as unfitting of Ivy League scholars, unfair to the 'nonathletic' and even downright unexplainable, a la the swim test.  However, Bwog knows the true value of hitting the gym every now and then.  Rather than one more unfair burden on the backs of the bright-eyed leaders of tomorrow, the PE Requirement is really a fantastic opportunity for growth!  Conor Skelding tells us why. The gym requirement is composed of two semesters of classes offered by the Physical Education Department. Without demanding too much time commitment, the P.E. requirement can be helpful beyond the extra credit you need to graduate. Firstly, P.E. courses help to keep the non-athlete majority of us in some semblance of shape.  Gym classes are a great way to get in a minimum number of workouts per week. And the benefits of staying in shape are legion! When I work out I feel better and my problems are less immediate. If I take a gym break rather than an internet break from studying and then return to my work, I return refocused and with new perspective. Also, when in shape I feel better and want to work out more, and when I work out more I keep off college weight. John Jay, you cannot touch me! Moreover, like Napoleon Dynamite said, "girls like guys with skills." Heteronormativity aside, this is true. I think. But I know gym classes can teach you new skills! How awesome is it that the opportunity exists to try rowing, judo or even scuba diving?  Gym classes provide a venue for learning new things and truly broadening oneself.  Who knows—you could be a natural sailor. So why not try it? Also, one of the (ostensible) purposes of the Core is to produce well-rounded Columbians who can do all sorts of things. In that vein, the PE requirement is truly in line with the Core. As Juvenal wrote, we should aim for a mens sana in corpore sano. And anyone can attain that balance with work. You're here, so (chances are) you're capable scholastically. But are you comfortable with your physical abilities? Gym classes, in providing a break from graded class, provide a genuine "go ahead and try it" atmosphere. You can meet like-minded people and make new friends.  You can find a workout buddy! You can have fun! Also, taking gym classes gets you credits. Credits let you graduate. You can get up to four points of credit for gym classes, one point each term. That's all of the above benefits plus scholastic benefits. Let's face it, chances are that you can spare two hours a week from Facebook to get to Dodge, and it is a certainty that you'll be all the better for it. When I see people simply sign in to my gym class and leave everyday, I feel bad. They're seeing as burdensome something that is truly improving. Instead of slogging through PE, treat it as a gift. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Don't expect to take a class in the English Department next year without the prefix "post-" in the course title. Capital New York reports that Judith Butler, uber-big-deal academic currently at UC Berkeley, is coming to Columbia in the fall next year. She'll fit in just fine: she's a post-structuralist scholar with a post-Zionist perspective on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and the winner of the New Criterion's "Bad Writing Contest" for the following paragraph, possibly lifted from your most recent University Writing essay: The move from a structuralist account in which capital is understood to structure social relations in relatively homologous ways to a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition, convergence, and rearticulation brought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure, and marked a shift from a form of Althusserian theory that takes structural totalities as theoretical objects to one in which the insights into the contingent possibility of structure inaugurate a renewed conception of hegemony as bound up with the contingent sites and strategies of the rearticulation of power. Butler's move is great news if you're into Kafka; bad news if you're into the California public education system. See you in September, Judith! Update: Capital has added the email from English Department Chair Jean Howard to English grad students, explaining the technicalities of Butler's move. Academia! Dear Graduate Students, I am thrilled to announce that Judith Butler will be joining our department as a regular faculty member.  For each of the next two years she will be a full-time visitor in the spring terms.  After that she will be here on a permanent year-round basis. In spring of this academic year Professor Butler will give a colloquium just for our department to which all faculty and grad students will be invited. It will be our chance to welcome her to our community. Best, Jean Howard
There are some new programs about in different schools, so check out what's up below. GS has a joint program with Sciences Po, a French place. It's a double-BA thing with a lot of languages and internationalism. The J-School and SEAS are also currently actively recruiting for their first class for their new dual MS program in Computer Science and Journalism that was announced last year. It will "help redefine journalism in a fast-changing digital media environment." Fancy. 
Found a textbook under the table in 607 Hamilton on Oct 27. It seemed to be about Japanese architecture, but I know it definitely had something to do with Japan
Last seen in SCHERMERHORN 608
Lost during the Fruit Paunch Halloween show in Furnald Lounge.  Please contact kzr2101@columbia.edu
Today, the Dosa Wars begin again. This afternoon, two Dosa Carts-- VegeNation and the original Dosa cart (without a catchy name)-- stood about 25 feet apart on 115th and Broadway. VegeNation has been here since July, but before that, there was the other Dosa truck that mysteriously disappeared one day last March. The original Dosa truck reappeared today. The owner of the original Dosa truck was politic about his relations with The Other Truck: "he does his work, and I do mine," he said. The man behind the counter at VegeNation was not pleased about the arrival of the original truck. He told Bwog that the original truck owner "likes to fight." He also promised new items starting tomorrow without a price increase, and predicted that the other truck owner would "run away" within a few days due to the high cost of parking. The VegeNation owner has been able to avoid those fees because of a garage deal he has. We'll keep you posted on the Dosa Dilemma. May the best Dosa win! 
Freshling CCSC candidates are clearly not the only ones who confuse pi and rho as evinced by this cringe-worthy abomination below, for which we have SEAS to thank.  Thank you!  What would Gerry Visco say?! Photo by HEH
FeelGood CU will dole out some free fingerwiches ("Swiss fig" on crackers) tonight at 8:30 in 608 Schermerhorn for a lecture on hunger. The lecture will be given by a FeelGood alumni and current Senior Executive of the Hunger Project. Go do something good and eat figs!
A peach colored (metal) water bottle with black and white rabbits (yes, rabbits!) on the side, along with a light blue screw-top. Has a slight dent on the site. Left 11/9/10 most likely in either Kent 423 or John Jay dining hall, sometime between 5:16 - 6:00 pm. Sentimental value, if found please contact nl2294@columbia.edu.
It opens in the morning. 
In a letter to SEAS students tonight, ESC President Chris Elizondo announced tonight that John Jay Dining Hall will most likely open again on Fridays and Saturdays by next semester. In the email, Elizondo writes that ESC and CCSC passed a resolution collaboratively asking Dining Services to open John Jay on the weekends. If John Jay is open for business on the weekends this semester, it'll put a period on one of this semester's controversies. The email (reprinted below) also mentions an initiative to "improve and modernize the current sign-in process for students that live in all Columbia dorms." Today was a big day for changes! Dear Columbia Engineers, The year has been flying by and I want to take this time to let you know how the ESC has been hard at work to make your Columbia experience better a bit at a time. The ESC, in collaboration with CCSC, has passed a resolution asking Dining Services to open John Jay Dining Hall on Friday &amp; Saturday of each week. We expect the change to happen, at latest, next semester. We are in talks with Housing &amp; Public Safety to improve and modernize the current sign-in process for students that live in all Columbia dorms. Our goal is to make sign-in electronic through the CUID swipe system that all CU students and affiliates have on them at all times. You may have recently seen the ESC Career Survey that will play a major part in our efforts to improve the Center for Career Education on campus. The ESC will be working throughout the year to observe and recommend methods how CCE can better serve the SEAS population. It is our goal to deliver tangible improvements to Columbia Engineering that will go a long way in helping them find jobs after college as well as internships during our education here in New York City. If you have any questions about our initiatives or how to get involved, please email us at esc@columbia.edu . Regards, Chris Elizondo President Engineering Student Council
 Remember when?
The Google Street View car is the cops' new BFF. (Gawker) Hold on to your phone. A "group of hoods" is wanted for its cell phone-snatching crime spree around Columbia. (Daily News) The Four Loko banning saga continues. Washington's ban on caffeinated alcohol drinks begins next week. (Seattle Times) Get the flu vaccine from Health Services without the three hour-long wait. Just swipe and get your shot. (Spec) Alma-market, a Craigslist-type website for the Columbia community, was launched today. Free broken bong, anyone? Photo via Flickr
 It's 11/11! Bwog hopes you wished for cauliflower and Brussels sprouts. The Greenmarket welcomes the new goat cheese producer, Broadway Acres, from Pennsylvania. There are purple, green and orange cauliflowers at Samascotts. Starting Sunday, the Greenmarket will celebrate Grains Week to feature their superb selection of grains. Pepper season is almost over, but it is still available at Stannard's Farm. Monkshood has crazy-looking Brussels sprouts that have not been cut off the branch. They also have white Japanese turnips. Cayuga is now selling sunflower oil. American Seafood is expected to return this week. The book signing, which was postponed due to bad weather, is happening today. Happy shopping!

 Bacchanal Fall Concert tickets are going on sale through the TIC (and online) on Friday at 1pm. See Mickey Avalon! And Night Eyes!  The show's on Thursday, December 2nd and tickets cost $3.
 11/11 is Senior Day! Seniors of CC/SEAS, here's what you need to do: Step 1: Go to Roone before 2pm and apply for your degree (you need it to graduate... who knew?). In case graduation isn't incentive enough, there will be free Korilla tacos and 2011 t-shirts, and advisors and grad school admin officers for you to talk to. Your future awaits! Update: If you can't make the event, you can apply for your degree using this form from the Registrar's website.  Turn it in in Kent or send it to diplomas@columbia.edu. Step 2: Put on that lovely 2011 t-shirt you just acquired and get discounts at Havana, Campo and Mel's from 5pm to 10pm. Step 3: Go to Mel's from 11pm to 2am. CC/SEAS people over 21 get a free beverage ticket. (Barnard and GS, you can come too.)
Spotted on the Barnard Health Services door: Photo by Sylvie Krekow
 Seo Hee Im reports from 1501 SIPA, where Terry Eagleton spoke last night, at an event co-sponsored by the Institute of Religion, Culture and Public Life, and the Heyman Center for the Humanities. Terry Eagleton, world-famous literary theorist, was introduced as “so sparkling, so Irish.” This seemed apt, as Eagleton, deftly wielding self-congratulatory British charm and searing academic banter, began his lecture by thanking Columbia for rescuing him from Notre Dame, where he currently teaches, for a few days of "precious" secularism. He went on to discuss why atheism was suddenly brought back to centerstage in debates over fundamentalism following 9/11. “Atheists are obsessed with religion as puritans are with sex,” he proclaimed. Eagleton made great use of his knack for aphoristic wit, ("Jesus would not have been invited to write for The Wall Street Journal"), to both charm his audience and to shower wrath on “Ditchkins,” his nickname for the composite of Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens. The problem with new atheists like Ditchkins, Eagleton argued, is that instead of engaging in proper debate, they create feeble strawmen that they can easily demolish. Expecting religion to offer an explanation for the universe is ridiculous, he said, adding that such thinking is analogous to considering Hamlet an explanation for mental illness, or Moby Dick a report on the whaling industry. Similarly pithy comparisons peppered the talk, such as relating Lady Gaga and Brad Pitt to Karl Marx. Eagleton, who is a serial graduate of Cambridge, accused Ditchkins of elitism, or rather “breathtaking smugness and oozing moral complacence.” From their comfortable seats in North Oxford and Washington, Ditchkins cannot see that faith holds the power of transformation for those in pain. Some criticisms were painfully personal. At one point Eagleton compared Hitchens, who is suffering from esophagus cancer, to Michael Jackson, pointing out that Jackson was eventually unsuccessful in his mission to live forever. After considerable Ditchkins bashing, Eagleton moved on to explain that with 9/11, the West found itself eye to eye with radical Islamists with rock-solid beliefs. The West, unfortunately, was completely unprepared for this challenge. By allowing itself to lapse into a mélange of moral relativism and skepticism, it had ideologically disarmed itself. Having marinated in postmodern thought, Americans and Europeans now consider all certainties to be authoritarian and are therefore bewildered by fundamentalist thought. Eagleton also analyzed what he calls “performative contradiction,” the gap between what one says and what one does. While capitalist market societies inevitably evolve towards secular, materialistic, and relativistic instabilities, they also need solid moral values in equal measure in order to legitimize themselves. The United States, for Eagleton, is a perfect specimen of a society caught between its behavior and professed beliefs; while the US is the “most rabidly materialist nation on the planet,” many Americans also hold extremely metaphysical beliefs, such as ideas of “God’s special respect for a certain Southeast corner of Texas.” Without explicitly giving his thoughts on how to solve this problem, Eagleton quoted Nietzsche, who suggested that when reality and philosophical superstructure fall out of sync, people should throw away the superstructure (i.e., professed religious beliefs) because it is no longer really necessary and would only serve to undermine the underlying materialistic structure. He concluded the lecture by expressing disappointment at English literary elites such as Ian McEwan and Salman Rushdie, who hastily created simplistic, grand narratives in response to terrorism. After hearing Eagleton’s rather bleak vision of post-9/11 America, an eager audience member asked during the Q&amp;A session if Eagleton could propose a cure for our problems. Eagleton enigmatically replied that the belief that a cure exists is in itself a problem. Well then! Image via heymancenter.org
In this edition of Professor Playlists, Bwog brings you the musical selections of Professor Roosevelt Montas, a.k.a. Lit Hum and CC legend and Director of Columbia's Center for the Core Curriculum. Siboney, Bebo Valdez Marie-Louise, Wendo Kolosoy Bad Romance, Lady Gaga I know What I Know, Paul Simon Rocky Raccoon, Beatles Frío Frío, Juan Luis Guerra Easy Street (1968), Thelonious Monk Crisis, Silvio Rodríguez Fake Plastic Trees, Radiohead Sugarplum (1971), Bill Evans Photo via CU 
Vandalism in John Jay, now arson in Carman...the freshpeople have gone insane! Bwog was informed that someone set fire to the paper on the Carman bulletin board on Friday night. Two students blew the the fire out before calling security. The culprit is still unidentified and on the loose, but this evidence remains: Photo by Alexandra Svokos 
 Columbia ROTC members end ban on campus military activities and perform a flag-raising ceremony in honor of Veterans Day. (Spec) SoHo hipsters artists blamed for NYC real estate slowdown. (NYT) Japanese robot actress Geminoid-F takes to the stage. We couldn't make this up if we tried, folks. (Gawker) Middle school boys have feelings, too. (The Daily Beast) Our fellow Ivy Leaguers keep fighting the good fight for Four Loko. (IvyGate) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Soup and soft serve for all! More to come. 
Bwog found this loving little outlet outside Davis Auditorium. Unfortunately, it doesn't appear that its love is returned. Such is the Columbia condition. 
Bwog is back again with your Friday afternoon favorite—Cooking with Bwog. This week, we thought we'd give our culinaire extraodinaire Matt Powell a challenge à la Iron Chef, so we asked you, fair Bwog readers, to name three ingredients with which Matt would have to make a dish. Read on to find out how he made it work with short ribs, coffee, and cayenne pepper. It’s at once an exciting and scary feeling—people telling you what to cook. Although I pride myself in my abilities in the kitchen, I must admit that I can’t cook everything… not even close. I had visions of the Bwog editors picking fresh octopus or chicken foot as the main ingredient and having to take a trek down to Chinatown to find the ingredients. Luckily, the Bwog commenters were kind for the most part. This week’s winning recipe incorporates the short ribs, coffee, and cayenne pepper. Coffee-Braised Short Ribs Serves 4 Ingredients: 2.5 lbs of beef short ribs 1 tbsp of coarse sea salt ½ tbsp smoked salt 2 tbsp fresh ground coffee (I used Sumatra.) 1 tsp cayenne pepper 2 tbsp duck fat (You can substitute butter or oil, but I had this in the fridge and it looked tasty.) 1 red onion, cut into chunks ½ yellow onion, cut into chunks 2 cherry bomb peppers, de-stemmed and halved 1 long ancho chile, de-stemmed and halved 5 cloves of garlic, peeled 2 large cinnamon sticks 2 C fresh brewed coffee 1 C Kahlua (You can use another coffee liqueur or substitute chicken stock.) ½ C pure maple syrup Directions: Six hours before cooking, stir together the two salts, ground coffee, and cayenne. Set the rub aside. Pat the short ribs dry. Coat the short ribs in the coffee rub, making sure to work the rub into the meat. Set the short ribs (now coated with the rub) in a metal bowl, cover with plastic, and place in the fridge. When you’re set to cook, allow the short ribs to come to room temperature before cooking. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. In a Dutch oven (or other oven-safe pot) over the stove, heat the duck fat over medium-high heat. Lightly sauté the short ribs on all sides, working in batches. It should take about 7 minutes per batch. Remove the finished short ribs to a plate, covered with a paper towel. After sautéing the short ribs, toss the vegetables and garlic cloves with the remaining fat. Reduce heat to medium and sauté with the lid on until softened for 10 minutes. Give the vegetables a stir every once in a while. Once the vegetables are finished sautéing, turn off the heat and remove the ancho chile. Place the short ribs back into the Dutch oven atop the vegetables. Place the cinnamon sticks on top of the meat. Pour the coffee, Kahlua, and maple syrup into the Dutch oven. Place the lid on top of the Dutch oven and place the entire pot into the oven. Braise for 2-3 hours, until meat is very tender. Check every hour to make sure that the liquid level hasn’t gone down too far. Once the short ribs are finished, remove them from the Dutch oven onto a serving plate. Pour the remaining liquid into a saucepan and reduce to about 2 cups, adding brown sugar if needed. Serve the short ribs with the sauce. Dessert: Apple-Cranberry Cobbler You can’t have short ribs without dessert! Plus, I hope this will satiate those of you whose ingredients were not chosen. Keep trying! We still have many Fridays ahead of us… Ingredients: 3 Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, and sliced thinly 3 C fresh cranberries 1/3 C brown sugar ½ tsp cinnamon ¼ tsp nutmeg A pinch of cloves Juice of half a lemon 3 tbsp cornstarch 1 1/3 C flour 1/3 C sugar 1/3 C brown sugar 1 ½ tsp baking powder ½ tsp salt 1 stick of butter, cold ¼ C boiling water 6 tbsp sugar and 2 tsp. cinnamon, combined in a bowl Whipped cream and cinnamon for garnish Directions: Toss apples, cranberries, brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, lemon juice, and cornstarch together in a large mixing bowl. Portion out to 6-8 ramekins, or into 1 big glass baking dish. Bake at 425 degrees for 10 minutes. While the fruit cooks, combine the dry ingredients (flour, sugars, baking powder, and salt) in a mixing bowl. Blend in butter with your fingertips until it resembles coarse sand. Stir in the boiling water until just combined. Remove fruit from the oven and drop spoonfuls of topping on top of the fruit. Sprinkle cobbler with cinnamon-sugar mixture. Bake until golden (about 20 minutes for small cobblers, 30 for large). 
Head to the Lerner ramps NOW for free samples of NOM^3's NOMdays menu! Update, 2:43 pm: NOM^3 is moving to Alma on account of the wonderful weather.
Last night, Bwog's Theater-Goer Extraordinaire Gabby Beans sat in on the opening night of  CUP's "'night, Mother." The Glicker-Milstein Theater in the Diana Center could not have housed a more beautiful and devastating production this season. The CU Players’ production of Marsha Norman’s “‘night, Mother” is a challenging piece in every conceivable sense. The story unfolds slowly. The audience is privy to a private and almost uncomfortably intimate glimpse into one hour in the life of Thelma, a lively older woman with an insatiable sweet-tooth (played by Morgaine Gooding-Silverwood, CC ‘14), and her middle-aged, epileptic daughter Jessie (played by Kate Eberstadt CC ’13). Just as soon as you are lulled into a sense of comfort in the naturalness of the domestic scene, a startling revelation is uncovered, sending the piece into an inexorable spiral where both characters grapple with some of the most basic and frightening aspects of the human condition. The premise of the piece lends itself to an immediate and pointed emotional response, but the skill and honesty of the actors paired with the clarity of the direction is what makes the piece truly effective. Eberstadt's Jessie is simultaneously decisive and vulnerable, and her defeated carriage clearly transmits the futility of her plight. Gooding-Silverwood plays a miraculously convincing 60+-year-old woman, and her groundedness and remarkable comedic timing provide an essential respite from the play’s more oppressive themes. However, it is the mother-daughter relationship between these two actors that is the chief triumph of the production. Their emotional struggle is both compelling and tragic, steeped in a skillful adherence to reality while maintaining the sense of foreboding appropriate to the play’s morbid subject matter. In short, “’night, Mother”, directed by Louisa Levy CC '12, is a remarkably gripping piece performed by talented, honest actors and directed with the clearest of intentions. If you’re looking for a cathartic experience, this is the play to see. “’night, Mother” is running through Saturday.
Lost in basement of Nussbaum on 11/11.
Probably lost in Butler.  Large chunky silver ring with large black stone.
At Mel's 11/11/2010.. someone probably mistook it.. Please email mtye212@gmail.com
Lost on November 10th, possibly in Hamilton, Dodge, or Kent. It's a grey knit glove and it's really soft and I really miss it. If found please contact csd2114@barnard.edu.
The University Senate debates a resolution to ban smoking within 50 feet of all buildings on Columbia’s Morningside campus. (Spec) A new housing option is introduced. (NYT) Why, Camel, why? (NY Post) It's about that time... (Gawker) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Some people like to get their 4 a.m. drunk snack the classy way. Photo by Jenne O'Brien
 If you are funny or like to draw or are at all interested in becoming a Bwog Cartoonist, email editors@bwog.com this very moment! We're looking for cartoonists interested in helping out with brainstorming and illustrating our Saturday Morning Cartoons feature. No previous experience required; we won't make you do a lot of work. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Taqueria hasn't always been sure what to do with its awkward other half room. Last year, the Mexican flag was painted on the ceiling and it was used for Taqueria overflow. Then it was closed, open again briefly, and closed again. Now it's an Italian restaurant called La Piccola Cucina owned by the Taqueria folks. The menu includes very reasonably priced soups, salads, pasta and "seafood over pasta," hot and cold Italian sandwiches, and eight chicken entrees (Chicken picatta, francese, marsala, etc.) The entrees are all $9.50, the pastas are $8.95, small salads are $2.50, and the sandwiches are $6.50. None too shabby! We'll have a full report soon. If you get there before us, tell us how it is.
 Bwog's Hannah Goldstein reports... Every year one of the Columbia theater groups puts on a production that caters to the audience as sophisticates—the after-dinner theater crowd, as it were. If last year it was CMTS’s Company, Steven Sondheim’s wry study of marriage and liaisons sexuelles in the upper-middle class, this year’s would be the CU Players production of Black Comedy by Peter Shaffer. The play, which clocks in at about an hour and a half, is a similarly quick-witted exploration of relationships and façade, but it is performed in the context of a—surprise!—black comedy, rather than a musical: dry in its wit, dry in the scotch consumed onstage, but certainly not dry in its entertainment. Black Comedy is a farce set at varying degrees of lightedness, but mostly in the dark, with a fairly complex plot built around a male protagonist and his fiancée. It is one act long and is, as such, packed with brisk comic dialogues between characters who manipulate the dark to hide certain truths that would be otherwise visible to them. One of the amusements of the show, however, is that the state of lightedness in the fiction is always in opposition to what the audience perceives—except in the brief moments of dimness, in which the audience and the characters perceive the same lighting. Thus, the audience can generally see—literally and figuratively—what the characters can’t. Assistant Director Tessa Slovis does a noteworthy job juggling the lighting cues, which are especially comical during episodes of candle-lighting and candle-blowing in half-light. The production, directed by Becca Leifer, was perfectly cast, which hasn’t always been this Bwogger’s experience with Columbia productions. Special note goes to Samuel Sainthil, making his CU theatrical debut as the agitated high-class homosexual Harold Gorringe; Collete McIntyre as the nephalist from upstairs, who acts out her accidental descent into tipsiness with a combination of panache and side-splitting schtick; and Yoni Grossman-Boder as the flamboyant German electrician Franz Schuppanzigh. The one gripe this Bwogger had with the production was the inconsistency of the British accents across the cast (minus Schuppanzigh), a failing that broke the fiction at times. While some of the actors pulled the accent off very convincingly for themselves and for their characters, others were less convincing at either and/or both. This is not a predicament that is unique to college theater by any means; I most recently had the same complaint about Trevor Nunn’s revival of A Little Night Music on Broadway. But despite the spottiness of the accents, the cast still succeeded in conveying the quintessentially British humor of the show. All in all, Black Comedy is a silly but intriguing romp in an exaggerated setting whose extreme circumstances add an interesting and thought-provoking dimension to the characters’ witty repartée. Since it is fun to watch and complimented our intelligence, Bwog gives it our highest honors and recommends it for everyone else to see. Black Comedy has its last of three performances tonight at 8:00 in the Diana Center’s Glicker-Milstein Theatre.
Bwog spotted many new and slightly wondrous things this week... New and fruity sandwiches at JJ's. New and fruity Westside samples! Almond butter with mixed berries and creamy strawberry dip. Rickshaw Dumpling truck at 116th St and Broadway. This mysterious new 'Fast Food' truck. Uni café actually open. Vandalism. What IS up with 2014?? Dosa battles. Anna Wintour (apparently) on line to see Coriolanus. Ice hockey games at Lasker Rink, on the east side of Central Park. Take a date! Help us help you keep current: tips@bwog.com
Lost USB key probably at butler. Blue with silver cover. It has Simmons center for Interstitial Lung Disease written on it and a picture of lungs. If found, please contact nk2230@columbia.edu as soon as possible.
 Bwog's Peter Sterne reports from Lerner Black Box. Last night, Kings Crown Shakespeare Troupe presented a slightly modernized version of Coriolanus, one of Shakespeare's least-performed plays. The audience was immersed in the play's action from the very beginning, when a fight broke out in the ticket holders' line. Although this Bwogger initially assumed it involved frustrated students who hadn't been able to get tickets to the sold-out show, he soon realized  it was a staged fight between plainclothes plebeians and Roman soldiers. The costumes were also modernized, as the Roman senators ditched the traditional togas for dark suits, making them resemble nothing so much as our own politicians as they swindled the common people (dressed in modern casual clothes) and debated how to run the state amongst themselves. Zack Sheppard, as the brilliant but elitist general Caius Marcius Coriolanus, delivered a subtly emotional performance that emphasized how reluctant Coriolanus was to be honored by Rome's senators—particularly the regal consul and general Cominius, played by Joseph Rozenshtein. Sheppard had great chemistry with Alex Brinkman-Young, who played his devoted wife Virgilia, and their few scenes together served to humanize his character. Last night's performance was dominated by Elizabeth Power, as Coriolanus’s ambitious and sadistic mother Volumnia. Power delivered her lines slowly and eloquently, even during long speeches, and her tone provided a glimpse into Volumnia's madness and obsession with power and honor at any cost. Most of the play revolves around political intrigue in Rome, and here the actors did not disappoint. Adam May made a great Menenius Agrippa, easily persuading plebeians and audience alike with his silky-smooth delivery. Toward the end of the play, once Menenius’s rhetoric had failed and he had to resort to shouting, May delivered sharp, angry speeches that shook the audience. The targets of his wrath were the tribunes Velutus and Brutus, played by Andrew Edwards and Kaitlin Kaufman, respectively. Edwards’s booming voice and measured speaking style, combined with Kaufman’s acerbic tone, made these two the perfect team of demagogic and sleazy politicians capable of manipulating the common people. The play's themes of power was suggested by the song played at the conclusion of the final act—the only song in the play. While Shakespeare's script calls for a "funeral march," director Thomas Kapusta instead opted for Kanye West's "Power." Was the song only used because of the title? Not according to assistant director Brian LaPerche, who insists that "Kanye West is very similar to Coriolanus. They're both very talented at what they do, but sometimes they go too far and say the wrong thing." The final performance of KCST's Coriolanus will be tonight at 8 pm in the Austin E. Quigley black box theater on Lerner 5. The performance is sold-out, but standby seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis.
 The belongings of Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff went to auction yesterday, even his boxers. (Gothamist) Students from around the country "swooped" in to NYC for yesterday's Quidditch World Cup. (CBS) Brooklyn Law School isn't too pleased with the results of a Diesel photo shoot in their library. (NY Post) Mayor Bloomberg's pick for new schools chancellor - Cathie Black - has been met with a healthy dose of skepticism. (WNYC) Image via Wikimedia Commons
 The Columbia Neuroscience Society's Annual Symposium is today from 1 to 4 p.m. in the Satow Room in Lerner. In addition to chatting with professors, researchers, and grad students, you can snag some free pizza. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 Bwog has hopped, poked, and swiftly skimmed but now we're inviting other writers into the Bwog Bubble. We think there's lots of fantastic campus journalism out there that sometimes slips under the radar. In the spirit of Enlightenment salons from centuries past, we present our newest feature, BwogSalon. Bwog asked the editors of each publication on campus  to send us a teaser article from their most recent issue—something distinctly representative of their point of view, but still accessible. Below, check out Sam Kerbel's editorial from The Current, Columbia's Journal of Contemporary Politics, Culture and Jewish Affairs. You'll make your fave French intellectual and your bubbe proud. From the Editors: Can the Liberal Arts Make Us Better American Citizens? The notion that learning is a natural human impulse can be traced to our earliest thinkers. Aristotle, in the Metaphysics, proclaims, “All men by nature desire to know.” Nevertheless, there lurks a competing human impulse—guilt—that counteracts our pursuit of knowledge for its own sake. Douglas Adams astutely observes, “Human beings, who are almost unique in having the ability to learn from the experience of others, are also remarkable for their apparent disinclination to do so.” This disinclination derives from our reluctance to learn simply to learn; for most, there must be a higher objective to legitimize our personal reasons for attaining wisdom. Over the last two decades, myriad critics and writers, notably among them Louis Menand (The Marketplace of Ideas), have lamented a situation where humanities students have to defend their right to study Rousseau, Michelangelo, and Dostoevsky. According to some, this phenomenon has more ominous consequences. In her recent book, Not for Profit: Why Democracy Needs the Humanities, philosopher Martha Nussbaum argues that profit-driven and professional-tracked education not only undermines the life of the mind but also the tenets of democracy. The declining availability of quality humanities and arts education, which Nussbaum calls “a crisis of massive proportions and grave global significance,” will inevitably hinder the development of individuals “who can think for themselves, criticize tradition, and understand the significance of another person’s sufferings and achievements.” To Nussbaum, the values transmitted in an ideal liberal arts education, among them “the ability to imagine sympathetically the predicament of another person,” are crucial for “sustaining decent institutions across the many divisions” that can otherwise divide and enervate modern democracies. To be sure, the fundamental importance of a liberal arts education does not simply lie in its utility for a healthy democracy, a distinction which Nussbaum and others appear to embrace. In a recent address, Harvard University President Drew Faust best articulates the sentiment that liberal arts education should be encouraged in any circumstance: When we define higher education’s role principally as driving economic development and solving society’s most urgent problems, we risk losing sight of broader questions, of the kinds of inquiry that enable the critical stance, that build the humane perspective, that foster the restless skepticism and unbounded curiosity from which our profoundest understandings so often emerge… History teaches contingency; it demonstrates that the world has been different and could and will be different again. Anthropology can show that societies are and have been different elsewhere—across space as well as time. Literature can teach us many things, but not the least of these is empathy—how to picture ourselves inside another person’s head, life, experience—how to see the world through a different lens, which is what the study of the arts offers us as well. One should not simply pursue a liberal arts education for the sake of acquiring, as Nussbaum puts it, “skills that are needed to keep democracies alive.” Troy Jollimer, in a favorable review of Nussbaum’s book, asserts that even healthy economic growth—the leading imperative used against aspiring humanities majors—“depends on creativity, innovation, critical thinking and even the possession of background knowledge” in addition to rote technological proficiency. Similarly, Anthony Grafton exhorts that “we cannot make digital humanists at the cost of losing humanists who know languages, and the methods of interpretation.” While Grafton warns that humanities departments across the world must learn “to combine the rigor of tradition with experiment and innovation”—and also to treat their graduate students like people, not banks—the study of humanities is necessary for maintaining what Faust coins the “human perspective.” The relationship Nussbaum establishes between the humanities and basic human values, like empathy and critical thinking, deserves special consideration given certain recent developments in the American political landscape. For many politicians and pundits, American progressivism and the values of contemporary liberal arts education are inherently elitist and oppose the egalitarian American spirit. Ex-Alaskan governor Sarah Palin, for example, vehemently disparages the typical condescension of liberal elites, particularly the Obama administration, as such: They talk down to us. Especially here in the heartland. Oh, man. They think that, if we were just smart enough, we’d be able to understand their policies. And I so want to tell ’em, and I do tell ’em, Oh, we’re plenty smart, oh yeah—we know what’s goin’ on. And we don’t like what’s goin’ on. And we’re not gonna let them tell us to sit down and shut up. Palin makes a fair point that deserves attention. Assuming Obama will not succeed in this task, can there be, in the footsteps of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy, a liberal arts-educated individual in America’s current political climate who will speak to the masses on a level they can understand? Do these so-called “elites” purposefully use erudite knowledge and vocabulary to belie their hidden prejudiced sentiments towards the common American populace? Paradoxically, this growing Populist movement—most pervasively seen in the guise of the Tea Party—has evinced the very discriminatory beliefs and practices they disapprovingly associate with liberal elitism. Over the past summer in particular, Palin and others have legitimized an utter lack of tolerance towards various social, ethnic, and religious groups. The most widespread instrument for this purpose has been the reverse discrimination card, which conservative commentator Glenn Beck most famously threw down in his condemnation of President Barack Obama’s alleged hatred of “white culture.” But this strategy has taken other, more threatening forms. According to a New York Times article published after the repealing of Proposition 8 in California, attorney Andrew Pugno insisted that the ban “had nothing to do with discrimination, but rather with the will of California voters who ‘simply wished to preserve the historic definition of marriage.’ ” The implications of this argument are that it is not discriminatory to deny the right of two people, whether heterosexual or homosexual, to get married, but it is unjust to overrule those who wish to impart their personal morals and values on others. It is “lamentable and preposterous,” says Pugno, to defy the “good will and motives” of voters, but only if it upholds their traditional prejudices. Another similar and well-known example of recent intolerance revolves around the proposed construction of an Islamic community center several blocks from Ground Zero, now referred to as “Park51.” The details of this controversy need not be restated here, but the shocking arguments of one opponent of the center, Jonah Goldberg of the National Review, merit attention: The 70 percent of Americans who oppose what amounts to an Islamic Niketown two blocks from Ground Zero are the real victims of a climate of hate, and the much-ballyhooed anti-Muslim backlash is mostly a myth…No doubt some American Muslims—particularly young Muslim men with ties to the Middle East and South Asia—have been scrutinized at airports more widely than elderly women of Norwegian extraction, but does that really amount to Islamophobia, given the dangers and complexities of the War on Terror? At the very least, one can argue that Mr. Goldberg’s sarcastic and unsupported thesis is extremely insensitive. But yes, picking individuals for extra screening due to their religious background—because of fears now engrained in America’s ineluctable post-9/11 psyche and our portrayal of all Muslims as a collective “other”—is, by pure linguistic analysis, Islamophobia. So is, for that matter, stabbing a Muslim cab driver after inquiring about his religion, vandalizing machinery on the proposed site of a mosque, sideswiping a Muslim worshiper, and firing a shotgun outside of a mosque during a Ramadan prayer service. And if the debacle surrounding Arizona state law SB1070 has taught us anything, it is that “attrition through enforcement”—the driving out of illegal immigrants through legislation that gradually weeds them out—not only marginalizes certain citizens due to their appearance but also limits free speech, a right that constitutional populists claim has been taken away by the Obama administration. Shortly following U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton’s decision overturning parts of the bill, the Wall Street Journal reported that opponents of the bill standing outside the federal courthouse were told to “go home” by some passersby. Around the same time, Phoenix law enforcement officials, under the aegis of Sheriff Joe Arpaio—who himself “vows to keep raiding Hispanic neighborhoods, law or no law,” says New York Times writer Lawrence Downes—arrested immigrant-rights supporter and protest leader Salvador Reza during a rally, although video recordings show he was “standing quietly in a parking lot, a good distance from the protest across the street.” I will concede to Sheriff Arpaio that he was much closer to the protest than Park51 is to Ground Zero—at least he could see it. I would like to believe the central message of Beck’s address at his Christian-themed rally to “Restore Honor” this past August. He states that we have spent “far too long worried about scars and concentrating on the scars” of America’s past and present—a confusing point to be sure, since the whole ethos of Beck’s philosophy is that we should be reclaiming America’s bright past. But the events of the last year, of which I have only highlighted several, point to the dangers that Nussbaum describes in her book. These instances have all shown politicians and the American public alike viewing those unlike them, to use Nussbaum’s words, “as a mere useful instrument or an obstacle to one’s own plans.” Expediency and distrust have inhibited the American people from acting empathetically, from engaging in dialogue. It has pushed us to insensitivity and bigoted, self-righteous conflict. The prejudices of contemporary American populism present a looming risk not only to America’s basic freedoms but also to the core tenets of decent and humane public debate. While scholars like Menand and Columbia professor Mark Taylor argue that the university system is in a state of disrepair, this does not mean that the liberal arts ideal should be abandoned. Now more than ever, it seems, we must focus our attention on making liberal arts education accessible to people from all socioeconomic levels, whether this means donating more money to music and arts programs in public schools or refurbishing core curriculums at elite universities. Glenn Beck wanted to restore honor, and now Jon Stewart wants to restore sanity. The fight for liberal arts, if nothing else, is a cry to restore empathy. Sam Kerbel Editor in Chief Check out the rest of The Current's Summer 2010 issue on their website. 
Heads up today: apparently a new email scam is going around. No, there is no such thing as a Columbia Webmail Account, but we've seen worse scams. Don't send personal information to strange email addresses! Full email below. From: Mail Administrator Sender: rking113@cogeco.ca To: (Recipient List Suppressed) ReplyTo: mail.am043@gmail.com Subject: Columbia University in the City of New York Sent: Nov 14, 2010 12:05 PM The Columbia University in the City of New York wish to inform you that our Account Review Team identified some unusual activity in your Columbia Webmail Account. Do send us your current login credentials to keep your account active. Uni: Password: Columbia University Online Webmaster Department
 Tomorrow marks the beginning of pre-registration for SEAS, GS, and CC! If you haven't done so already, it's time to consult the directory of classes, send an email to your advisor (maybe even get one back!) and take the first steps toward next semester's homework. Bwog hopes you get into that Music Hum section, even though you got a terrible registration time. Don't Worry, Be Happy! Image via Wikimedia Commons
Last night, the Columbia community gathered in Earl Hall to witness University Raqs, an undulating conclusion to the 3rd Annual Intercollegiate Middle Eastern Dance Conference, hosted by Columbia’s own CU Bellydance. Bwog’s resident Abdominal Expert Liz Jacob now reports. Guests at last night’s University Raqs were treated to an evening of bellydance performed by troupes from across the Ivy League, in addition to two professional performances by New York-based dancers. Filled with seductive hip and abdominal movements, the showcase left audience members impressed by the overall fluidity and grace of the performers clad in colorful sequined costumes and coin belts. CU Bellydance’s opening performance set the tone for the show, introducing the audience to the smooth, yet controlled movements that would characterize the evening. As a clear highlight of the night, Jennifer Shearer and Joanie Atkinson, both BC’12, performed a riveting tribal fusion duet set to horn music, stealing the hearts of many of the audience members with their effortless sensuality. Perfectly in sync, the two dancers complimented each other with their seductively fluid movements. Suffice it to say, their performance left the crowd more than a little hot and bothered. Elisheva, one of the night’s professional performers, displayed enormous technical skill as she danced and whirled with a sword balanced on her head. Despite many sophisticated hip hits and rolls, the sword never fell from her head. As she was dressed in a dominatrix-esque style, she certainly gave the audience members the impression that she was not to be messed with. Of the non-Columbia performances, UPenn’s Ya’lla was the clear favorite. Featuring dancers and musicians, the group dazzled the guests. The live drum and guitar performance made a palpable increase in the audience’s energy, particularly during the exciting solo performance of one of the troupe’s members. Groups from other schools, however, were not quite as successful. Cornell’s Tesvia Bellydance Troupe suffered from an excess of props. The troupe won the audience’s favor by opening with an excerpt from Aladdin’s “Arabian Nights,” but by incorporating swords, finger cymbals, and large fans, the performance lost itself in unnecessary gimmicks. Harvard’s dancers, though talented, performed very stiffly. Several of the dancers, perhaps in an attempt to appear seductive, took their pouty faces too far and merely looked unhappy. In the final performance of the night, CU Bellydance stole the show with a simple, yet elegant piece, creating striking images as they manipulated their flowing veils. The effect was natural, not forced—a testament to the dedication of the performers, most of whom had never learned bellydance technique until arriving at college. As a perfect ending to an evening marked by hip isolations and shimmies, members of all the performing groups engaged in freestyle bellydancing, inviting audience members to join in. All in all, University Raqs made for a lovely evening, an ideal introduction to the art of bellydance.
 Today marks the beginning of the Social Experiment! Enthusiastic experimenters (and strangers) will be trading prompts and passwords on elevators, on college walk, and on the ramps...or will they? Res Life certainly thinks they will, and there's a $500 prize for the most avid password collector. Go get to know each other, Columbia. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog’s Staff Dance Enthusiast Megan McGregor reports... Yesterday, the line for the TIC to see Orchesis' fall 2010 showcase was so long that it went outside of Lerner and even caused many to miss the first half of the show. If you decide to go to the second and final showing of “down by the shORCHESIS” this evening, as I highly recommend that you do, you should definitely get your tickets far before show time (read: not ten minutes before). A variety of contemporary, tap, jazz, and ballet pieces comprise Orchesis’ fall 2010 showcase. One of the most striking pieces of the show concludes the first half—a piece entitled “A Broken Hallelujah,” choreographed by Molly McMenamin. Elegant and graceful dancers perform McMenamin’s fluid and beautiful choreography with a supreme quality of movement. The piece’s contemporary feel with apparent classical influence allows for moments when it seems as though the dancers are suspended in air. Danced to Rufus Wainwright’s “Hallelujah,” McMenamin’s piece, the conclusion of the first half of the showcase, leaves the audience wanting more. My favorite piece of the showcase (although there were so many truly great ones) is Caroline Walthall’s “Dust, Anew.” 13 dancers, clad in yellow, grey, and red, pleasantly fill the stage with their seemingly effortless movements and twirling skirts. Another contemporary piece, “Dust, Anew” takes a step further towards the experimental than McMenamin’s piece, and it works stunningly. Danced to a live version of David Grey’s “Babylon,” this piece is uplifting and truly makes one want to dance (or sway in one’s seat if that’s not one’s cup of tea). Amanda Kostreva’s piece, “un(Developed),” mixes sex appeal with the grotesque, creating a brilliant and interesting ballet piece performed en pointe. While absolutely telling of the ballerinas technique and ability, “un(Developed)” plays with unconventional and conventional movement, creating an enticing and interesting piece performed to Big Nuz’s upbeat “Ugesi.” The showcase concludes with its largest piece, an entertaining, beach-themed piece entitled “This works for me... it’s a Beach Party!” Fun and light while still choreographed and interesting, this piece ends the show on a happy note, leaving the audience longing to join Orchesis’s onstage dance party. The second and final showing of “down by the shORCHESIS” is today at 6 p.m. in Roone. Do not wait until the last moment to get your tickets!
There really are kids on campus, and this isn't the first time we've spotted one of their adorable little bikes. This tricked out Radio Flyer was parked in front of Avery, so naturally it's fixed-gear. 
BwogWeather was hungry this week. Special thanks to Arvin Ahmadi, AJ Garcia, Wilma, Columbia Dining Services, Victoria Dunn, Aaron Gomes, and congratulations to our new BwogWeather intern, Pauline Baudon. 
Village Copier was broken into within the last hour. Multiple tipsters have confirmed that the glass door has been shattered. There are currently six cops milling about 112th and Broadway who couldn't confirm what happened when a Bwogger stopped by. Eerily similar to that time a few months ago when a drunk dude smashed the door of University Hardware because he was mad at his girlfriend. More details to follow shortly. Update, 12:40: The cops on the scene tell Bwog that it seems to be petty vandalism and wouldn't discuss it further. Sidewalk is littered with glass shards. Update, Nov, 15, 10:50 AM: The Village Copier manager told us nothing was stolen. The culprit managed to break a "very insulated door." The shattered glass triggered the alarm, and the police arrived soon after. Bwog wishes Village Copier best of luck with their repairs. 
 It's the end of an era: Four Loko will no longer be shipped to New York State. We'll never 4get you, "blackout in a can." Reminisce, dear readers, and stay tuned for a Four Loko themed poll. How will the restless masses react without their Jolly Rancher flavored Satan sweat? Hoard? Deal? (NYTimes) We've got our own Cash Money Millionaire. Turns out PrezBo's rollin' in dough: the Ivy League's highest paid president brought home a cool $1.75 mil in 2008 (Bloomberg). NYPost thinks we're spending too much time "banging into one another" with our "noses pasted in our smart phones." Sexpert Andrea Peyser compares walking around Columbia to "a Microsoft commercial," "a blank-faced village of the damned," and "a screaming void." Basically, we're all fucked—and not in the right way. (NYPost) Update: Also, MyFoxNY dragged a camera crew here to cover the "experiment." They leave wondering how we even get dates. Well, you see... CityRoom live-blogs Charlie Rangel's Ethics hearing. Forty minutes in, he walked out, complaining he couldn't afford his lawyer. The embattled congressman faces 13 separate ethics charges. By the way, he was just reelected with an overwhelming majority. (CityRoom)
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Plus, it’s performance time!  So, we’ve compiled a separate list of upcoming artistic achievements and fall festivities. Recommended Lectures: Mon Nov 15 “The Trouble with the Congo: Local Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding” 707 IAB, 6:15 pm – 8:00 pm, Severine Autesserre “Shop Talk and God Talk” World Room, Journalism Building, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Eliza Griswold “Reincarnation Lecture” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Gadadhara Pandit Dasa Tues Nov 16 “A Conversation with NPR’s Robert Siegel” World Room, Journalism Building, 5:00 pm – 5:45 pm “Language and Expression” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Charles Taylor “Blogging, Now and Then (250 Years Ago)” 501 Schermerhorn, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Robert Darnton “Will There EVER Be Peace in the Middle East?” 413 IAB, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Adil Awadh and Gil Hoffman Wed Nov 17 “20 Differences and 3 Philosophical Questions: A Comparative Study on Social Culture between USA and China” 152 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Changhai Liu “Park 51 Reevaluated: Reza Aslan on Islamophobia and Anti-Semitism” 304 Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Reza Aslan and Gil Anidjar “Yvette Christianse, Ellen McLaughlin, and Meg Wolitzer: A Reading” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm Thurs Nov 18 “Urban Education Summit: Innovation in K-12” Rotunda, Low Library, 8:30 am – 12:00 pm, Michael R. Bloomberg, Ester R. Fuchs, Claudia Costin, Johan Aura, Mamta R. Agarwal, Yin Houqing, Eric Nadelstern, Chris Spence, and Sin Kim Ho “The Libertarian Welfare State” 301 Uris, 5:45 pm – 7:15 pm, Robert Frank Fri Nov 19 “Emerging Issues in South Asia” 150 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 5:00 pm – 6:30 pm, Amita Gupta, Sangeeta Kamat, and Monisha Bajaj “Beyond Borders 2010” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Marty Odlin and Orisha “Taiwanese American Students Association Teahouse” C555, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Various Arts Addendum &amp; Fall Festivities: Thursday, Nov 18 “The 25th Annual Alfred Joyce Kilmer Memorial Bad Poetry Contest” 304 Barnard Hall, 8:00 pm – 12:00 am, Vrious “Urinetown: The Musical!” Austin E. Quigley Black Box, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm - 10:00 pm, runs through Nov 20, Sat at 2 pm, Columbia Musical Theater Society “Macbeth,” Diana Black Box, 8:00 pm, runs through Nov 20, KCST “CU Raas Open Practice” C555, Lerner Hall, 10:00 pm – 12:00 am “Sexhibition Health Fair” Lerner Hall Ramps and Roone Arledge Lobby, 11:00 am – 3:00 pm, Liz Canner and Others Friday, Nov 19 Composer Portrait of Columbia professor Fred Lerdahl on Nov. 19 8 pm  Miller Theatre Saturday, Nov 20 Columbia Ballet Collaborative, Sat 8 pm, Marion Streng Studio Sun Nov 21 “CU Wind Ensemble’s Magic and Mystery Concert” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm FULL LIST Mon Nov 15 “Counter-Stories and Entangled Histories: Shared Heroes in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam” Faculty House, 9:00 am – Nov 16 5:00 pm, Various “Ukrainian, Russian, or Carpatho-Rusyn? The Language Question in Interwar Subcarpathia” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Michael Moser “Public Health in Southern Sudan” Hess Commons, Rosenfield Building, Medical Center, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Susan Purdin “Childhood Development and Community Learning in Earthquake Affected Haiti: Applying the INEE Minimum Standards in Plan’s Emergency Response” 152 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Various “Cultural Purity and Militant Kinship: The Transformation of Tamil Society in Sri Lanka” 208 Knox, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Sharika Thiranagama “Davis Peace Project in South Africa: Peace of Mind Leads to Peaceful Lives” 150 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm, Shannon Bishop “Day of Arafat (Youm Al-Arafat) Iftar” 616 116th Street Lobby Lounge, 4:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Various “The Trouble with the Congo: Local Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding” 707 IAB, 6:15 pm – 8:00 pm, Severine Autesserre “Transcendentalism and Its Applications” 400 Kraft Center, 6:30 pm – 7:30 pm, Christine Smallwood “Shop Talk and God Talk” World Room, Journalism Building, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Eliza Griswold “Influences of Transition in Age-Educated Structure and Internal Migration on the Labor Market in Brazil” 3rd Floor Faculty House, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Ernesto Amaral “Reincarnation Lecture” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Gadadhara Pandit Dasa “Environmental and Energy Challenges in China and the Institutional Response” 918 IAB, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Stephen Hammer, John Mutter, and Orville Schell “Off the Beaten Path: Alternative Ideas for Life after Graduation” 304 Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Various “The Lost Boys: Film Screening” 214 Pupin, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Peter Dut Tues Nov 16 “Making ‘1968’ in Japan: The Political Alchemy of Violence” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, William Marotti “Science and Society: IPCC Reform and the Global Climate Challenge” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Jeffrey Sachs, Peter Haas, Simon Buckle, Syunkuro Manabe, Laurence Tubiana, and David Krantz “A Conversation with Kate Roberts of YouthAIDS and Five &amp; Alive” 802 IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm “Focus Groups: Hot Topics in Education in South Asia” 150 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Siddhi Vyas, Romila Karnati, and Ameena Gaffe-Kucher “Waves from Nothing: Modeling Fluctuation Interactions” 214 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Steven Johnson “Academic Life of Doctoral Students: A Comparative Study of the US and China” 152 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Fan Liu “Education in India: A Discussion with Azim Behar Ji University” 150 Horace Mann, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Dileep Ranjekar and Anurag Behar “Protein Design Approaches to Chemotherapy and Renewable Energy” 825 Mudd, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Ronald Koder “Personal and Academic Success” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 4;00 pm – 6:00 pm, Syeda Lewis “Sustainable Mobility” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Larry Burns “A Conversation with NPR’s Robert Siegel” World Room, Journalism Building, 5:00 pm – 5:45 pm “Learning from the Master: Lessons in Health Policy” Teatro, Casa Italiana, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Mary O’Neil Mundinger “Invisible Children: Film Screening” Lerner Hall Party Space, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm “Edwin Armstrong at Columbia: From Student to Radio Pioneer” 750 Schapiro Center, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Mischa Schwartz “Language and Expression” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Charles Taylor “Border Talks” Earl Hall Auditorium, 6:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Various “Will There EVER Be Peace in the Middle East?” 413 IAB, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Adil Awadh and Gil Hoffman “Where Do I Stand?: Film Screening” 525 Macy Hall, Teachers College, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Molly Blank “Shelly Silver Photography Lecture and Presentation” 477 Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm “Blogging, Now and Then (250 Years Ago)” 501 Schermerhorn, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Robert Darnton “On the Uses and Abuses of Literary Theory” 517 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Stanley Fish Wed Nov 17 “2010: Youth &amp; Media” 152 Horace Mann, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Various “Educating a New Workforce: Carbon Management and the Law” 503 Lerner Hall, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Michael Gerrard “Combating HIV/AIDS in China” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, David Ho “The Social Dynamics of Classification: Examples from Music and Finance” 509 Knox, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Amir Goldberg “Addressing Challenges Across Borders with Museums and the Arts: Engaging with Marginalized Populations in New Delhi and New York” 152 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Maritza MacDonald and Roberta Altman “Teaching + Technology = Enhancing Learning? – Why and What Research We Do on Teaching with Technology” 152 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Yumin Xiao “20 Differences and 3 Philosophical Questions: A Comparative Study on Social Culture between USA and China” 152 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Changhai Liu “Climate Risk in Brazil” 802 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Sandra Baptista “French Anthropology: Between Science and Literature” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Vincent Debaene “Society of International Education 2010 Journal Launch: The Global Development of Equity, Quality, and Access in Education” 150 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “Park 51 Reevaluated: Reza Aslan on Islamophobia and Anti-Semitism” 304 Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Reza Aslan and Gil Anidjar “Yvette Christianse, Ellen McLaughlin, and Meg Wolitzer: A Reading” Sulzberger Parlor, 3rd Floor Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm Thurs Nov 18 “Urban Education Summit: Innovation in K-12” Rotunda, Low Library, 8:30 am – 12:00 pm, Michael R. Bloomberg, Ester R. Fuchs, Claudia Costin, Johan Aura, Mamta R. Agarwal, Yin Houqing, Eric Nadelstern, Chris Spence, and Sin Kim Ho “Sexhibition Health Fair” Lerner Hall Ramps and Roone Arledge Lobby, 11:00 am – 3:00 pm, Liz Canner and Others “The Digital Reproduction of Inequality” 509 Knox, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Eszter Hargittai “John Dewey and the Crisis of Individual Liberalism in the 20th Century” 150 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Roberto Cavallari “Georgia’s Economic Challenges after the August War” 1501 IAB, 12:15 pm – 1:45 pm, Irakli Alasania “The United States and Its Non-ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child” 103 Greene Hall, 12:15 pm – 2:00 pm, Meg Gardinier, Jim Hugues, and Gerald Martone “When Women Speak: Hijab and Intellectualism” 150 Horace Mann, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Noritah Omar “The Influence of the Stratospheric Equatorial Quasi-Biennial Oscillation on the Troposphere in Wintertime” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Chiam Garfinkel “Applying the Lessons of Welfare Reform to the Shelter System” 6602 Psychiatric Institute, Medical Center, 3:15 pm – 4:45 pm, Seth Diamond “Using the Mobile Phone as an Educational Tool: Theoretical and Practical Consideration” 138 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 5:00 –m – 6:00 pm, Dominic Mentor “The Libertarian Welfare State” 301 Uris, 5:45 pm – 7:15 pm, Robert Frank “Robert K. Merton at 100: Reflections and Recollections” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Barnard Bailyn, Jonathan Cole, Richard Sennett, Stephen Stigler, and Harriet Zuckerman “Translation as Performance: From Espanol into English” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Marko Miletich “Un-euphemizing Palestine” 1501 IAB, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Nora Barrows-Friedman, Ismail Khalidi, and Dina Omar “The 25th Annual Alfred Joyce Kilmer Memorial Bad Poetry Contest” 304 Barnard Hall, 8:00 pm – 12:00 am, Vrious “Urinetown: The Musical!” Austin E. Quigley Black Box, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm, runs through Nov 20 10:00 pm, Columbia Musical Theater Society “Toy Story 3: Film Screening” Roone Arledge Cinema, Lerner Hall, 9:30 pm – 12:30 am “CU Raas Open Practice” C555, Lerner Hall, 10:00 pm – 12:00 am Fri Nov 19 “Navigating a Multipolar World: Challenges and Opportunities” 1501 IAB, 9:00 am – Nov 20 5:00 pm, Various “Low Pressure Microplasmas for Chemical and Biological Analysis” 210 Mudd, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm, James Cooley “Biogeochemical Exhalations: Microbial Methane in Marine Sediments” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Rick Colwell “Emerging Issues in South Asia” 150 Horace Mann, Teachers College, 5:00 pm – 6:30 pm, Amita Gupta, Sangeeta Kamat, and Monisha Bajaj “Beyond Borders 2010” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Marty Odlin and Orisha “Taiwanese American Students Association Teahouse” C555, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Various Composer Portrait of Columbia professor Fred Lerdahl on Nov. 19 8 pm  Miller Theatre Saturday, Nov 20 Columbia Ballet Collaborative, Sat 8 pm, Marion Streng Studio Sun Nov 21 “CU Wind Ensemble’s Magic and Mystery Concert” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm *name that tag quote
 Last week, Conor defended the PE requirement, but Carly Silver wasn't entirely convinced. Below, she tells you how to dodge unnecessarily strenuous activity in Dodge. Moving is totally overrated anyway. Register wisely, friends! After all the month-long weight gain known as the holiday season, spring semester brings another opportunity to beat the bulge, Columbia-style. For freshmen, that means yet another attempt to find the easiest class to fulfill the physical education requirement. The least-active way to knock off one semester of gym is Wellness at Barnard. Though it meets for an attention-span-challenging hour and forty minutes, the class only meets once a week. Wellness aims to teach students various aspects of “living well” while at college, ranging from physical to spiritual health. To top off the semester, students complete PowerPoint presentations on an aspect of health they find interesting. You won't have to do much more physically than move your phalanges. If you have fond memories of middle school gym, grab your stick for Floor Hockey at Columbia. Meeting twice a week, this class involves hardwood floors, ridiculous goggles, and a lot of fun, childish shouting. Smack those sticks to the tune of “We Will Rock You” and prepare to pass the puck. If you want to limber up without too much effort, try Beginning Yoga. Meeting twice a week at Barnard, the class allows you to break a light sweat without too much work. From the downward dog to the meditation that ends every class, Beginning Yoga will ease your way back into physical exercise after a month off. Whichever way you fulfill your physical education requirement, remember that there’s always some way, bullshit or not, to get it done. Photo from Wikimedia Commons
 Brian Wagner keeps you informed! CCSC shook things up last night and started with a game of "Pat on the Back"! Sheets of construction paper, each labeled with a council member's name, adorned the Satow room. CCSCers wrote compliments on their fellow members' sheets and took their respective papers home after the meeting. Then shit got real: CCSC discussed the club sports resolution. Much of the debate centered around a request to add a new clause that had not been included in the original proposal. Previously, CCSC planned to work with the PE Department to monitor student participation, the overall value of the students’ experience, and the possible opportunity cost for other students. The new clause would make the opportunity cost of the gym as a public space part of the analysis of the club sports PE pilot program. One objected that priority registration for these classes was unfair to students who were already trying to find room in a gym class that they would enjoy to fulfill their PE requirement. The resolution passed. Most of the meeting focused on the allocation of the newly available rooms in Broadway, specifically whether or not CUEMS (you know, CAVA) should be given Broadway 103, the largest of the new rooms opening up. A petition created by CUEMS, which has garnered over 1,500 signatures, requests that they be granted the new spaces in Broadway 102 and 103, which opened up after the space in the new CSA allowed the advisors working in Broadway to move their offices to Lerner. According to CUEMS, the new space would solve their current issues and allow for future expansion. CCSC thought it more equitable to only grant them 103, as there are many other student groups who need storage and would be interested in the space. Many of the council members agreed that CUEMS had demonstrated a real need for the space, and that granting such a space would remedy a slew of the issues CUEMS had presented. Some argued that there hasn’t been enough time to allow other groups to present their cases for a move into Broadway. However, the fact that the old CUEMS space in Carman would become available quieted most of this discussion. Eventually, the council passed the resolution, granting CUEMS the use of Broadway 103, placing their fate in the hands of the other governing boards. The Council then discussed a Good Samaritan policy. The main purpose of a Good Samaritan policy, in this case drafted by Students for a Sensible Drug Policy, is to prevent punishment of students who attempt to get medical aid for someone suffering from an overdose. Columbia is unique among the Ivies in not having such a policy. Generally, a Good Samaritan policy grants amnesty to the victim, those who aid the victim, and other bystanders who may not have been directly involved. The aim is to prevent situations in which a student who needs medical attention does not receive it because other students who have been engaging in illicit activities fear some sort of punishment if they contact the authorities. The representative from SSDP cited a study that concluded similar laws have had no impact on drug use, but have increased the frequency with which help is requested for life-threatening drug- and alcohol-related incidents. As discussion of the policy began, council members questioned the wording of part of the proposal, nearly indecipherable to many at the meeting. Additionally, someone raised the request that the resolution be amended to also include amnesty for institutions and organizations, such as fraternities or student groups who may fear retribution if someone at one of their events needs medical attention. Eventually, the discussion wound to a close, and the Council tabled a vote until at least next week. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog Winter Enthusiast Mahrah Taufique spotted snow on 114th and Broadway! It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas... Bwog's Resident Debbie Downers figured people just threw ice in there. Bummer. Anyways, keep your eyes peeled for first flakes! 
 Teams of Schapiro floors are competing tonight in a coin war to see who can raise the most money to support Pakistani flood victims. All the proceeds go to UNICEF to supply clean drinking water for 2.5 million flood victims. Reslife will award the winning team a fully funded study break, but everyone gets free snacks. The Schapiro heroes meet tonight in the Lobby at 9:00 pm. The power is yours! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Everyone has mocked the Social Experiment. But a few brave souls are out to prove the doubters wrong with a sprinkle of Socialism. Ian Kwok and company have started a campaign to win the Social Experiment collectively and donate their $500 winnings to charity. They call their radical display of unity The Socialist Experiment. "Let's face it," the group's Facebook page reads, "the premise of the Social Experiment is well-intentioned but somewhat misguided. It's not that Columbia students aren't capable or willing to socialize, but rather they don't feel the tight-knit sense of community that would warrant elevator conversations." Ian Kwok told Bwog in an email that he thinks "the original positive message of the experiment seem to have been lost." Ian talked to Ben and Markrete, the organizers of the Social Experiment, and realized they all have similar goals for a community-oriented event on campus. Ben and Markrete are totally on board with the Socialist Experiment, though others accused the renegade social scientists of cheating. Ian stressed that he respects the initiative of the Social Experiment's organizers. "It's unfortunate that their message has been so distorted, and hopefully through the Socialist Experiment we can refocus on the real issues; community and having some ol' school good times." Here are the details from the Facebook page: Email socialist.experiment@gmail.com when you discover a password. Include your name, the name of the password holder, and, of course, the password in the email. The Socialists will pool all the passwords and put their winnings to good use. Feel free to suggest possible charities in the comments! Clarification: The original Facebook page linked above said that the Socialist winnings would go to a foosball table. Facebook commenters suggested the money should go to charity, and Ian agreed. So now it really does go to a good cause! Image via Wikimedia Commons 
 The staff of the Harvard Crimson is concerned our Social Experiment will backfire, causing vicious competitive tension which will destroy any existing social cohesion at Columbia. (Harvard Crimson) NYU's neighbors are concerned that its plans to add an additional 3 million square feet of space in Greenwich Village are not a good thing. NYU's president John Sexton readily defends the plans. (NY Mag) Steadfastly refusing to acknowledge which side of the magical apartheid they fall on, over a thousand people showed up for the Quidditch World Cup this weekend.  The cup was won by the team from Middlebury College. (NY Mag) The Feds are looking into a Four Loko ban. Connecticut Senator elect Richard Blumenthal, caught up in PotterFever, describes it as "witch's brew". The New York Times prints the phrase "Edward Four Loko Hands." Good times are had all around. (NYT) Also tickets for your opportunity to meet Joseph Gordon-Levitt in Roone on Friday are almost sold out! photo via Facebook
 A tipster notified Bwog yesterday that the source files of the Social Experiment website, including the databases of passwords for each day, had been uploaded to the open source project hosting site GitHub and were publicly available. Bwog has since notified the Office of Residential Programs and the files appeared to have been taken down from the site as of yesterday. However, Residential Programs has not responded to any requests for comment, and it remains unclear how, if at all, the Social Experiment will be affected by the leaks. So good luck to all you Social and Socialist Experimenters, and a big shout out to our tipster for valuing his or her ethics over $500.
 NYTimes reports a House ethics panel has found Democratic Representative Charles Rangel guilty of 11 out of the 13 alleged ethics violations. "I am not being treated fairly," the Morningside Heights and Harlem representative told the ethics committee yesterday before he walked out of his hearing. The committee ruled Rangel had violated House rules for improper fundraising and failing to disclose more than half a million dollars in assets. The Daily News reports the Congressman boycotted his own hearing and wasn't even present for the final ruling. The full House committee will now debate the verdict.
Bwog's Special Correspondent Zoe Camp reports from last night's SGA meeting. Tonight's special guest was Lisa Gamsu, Barnard's Vice President for Administration and Capital Planning! And so ensued a lengthy conversation on all things Facilities: During the construction of the Diana, the Lewis Parlor was used as a common space. With the Diana completed, the doors of Lewis remain closed. The administration is currently debating future uses of the room. One possibility - greeted with enthusiasm by the meeting's attendees - is a reading room, complete with long tables and nice furnishings around the perimeter in a fashion akin to the reading rooms of the NYPL. But if this happens, it seems unlikely that it would be used for luncheons, parties, etc. Representative for Diversity, Minori Takahashi, brought up many students' requests for multi-faith meditation spaces and queer lounges. Gamsu responded by noting that despite the lack of space, the administration plans to continue its efforts for finding such spaces. Of course, there's the problem of openness - Takahashi brought up the potential problems of exclusivity caused by putting the lounges in residence halls. Still, don't lose hope - it's in the works! Many students have tried to study in the Diana's comfy spaces - like near the cafeteria and Liz's Place only to find the doors locked! Well, have no fear - Gamsu pledged to speak with Dining Services and Facilities and ensure that those spaces are open for students hoping to utilize those spaces during off hours. Can't live without your Camelbak? Well, good news! The administration is currently in the middle of retrofitting water stations and hopefully installing a self-service station at Liz's Place for all your hydration needs. As the winter winds get nippier, Facilities will continue to work out the kinks of the Diana's huge doors - the ones that often require superhuman strength to open and that may occasionally bonk one in the head. Clubs looking for yet another space to slap a brightly colored sheet of paperare in luck - the hallway outside of the second-floor Diana will soon become available for flyering! While this discussion comprised most of the meeting, there were two other points of interest: 51 percent of the Barnard student body has voted on whether or not to recognize Greek Life. Attention stragglers: SGA wants your vote like Hawkma wants that juicy pigeon strolling outside Uris! Like chariots , javelin-throwing, and footraces? So does SGA! So much, in fact, that they moved to create a committee on possibly bringing the Greek Games - once a Barnard tradition - back to campus! SGA stressed the need to include everyone and increase campus and class pride. Stay tuned! image via Barnard on Picasa
Sean Zimmerman reports from last night's Engineering Student Council meeting. At the ESC meeting last night, CAVA's push for new office space was the order of the day. ESC heard CAVA’s proposal for new space in Broadway Hall, and voted in favor of giving CAVA both Broadway 102 and Broadway 103. CAVA said after the meeting that ESC’s support could lead CCSC to reconsider giving CAVA the Broadway 102 space. CCSC voted yesterday in favor of awarding CAVA the Broadway 103 space, but voted against giving them the Broadway 102 space.

 CU Photography Society is hosting an event in Kent 403 at 5:30 featuring the portfolios of photographers Lois Conner and Leilei Meng, with discussions of their work and the practice of photography in East Asia. There will be free food. CCSC 2012 is hosting a study break with refreshments at 10:00 in the Piano Lounge of Lerner Hall. There will also be a raffle for CC juniors with ID confirming they are CC juniors, the prize of which is a set of tickets to the premiere of the Harry Potter movie. Update (6:34): There is free South Asian, Caribbean, and Latin food right now at Earl Harl, courtesy of Club Bangla for their Border Panel image via Wikimedia Commons.
Bwog couldn't help but notice how nice it looked strolling through College Walk today, with our peripherals filled with a constant, hopeful tint of yellow that lifted our spirits from pre-Thanksgiving woes. Maybe this was why Hawkma was out! 
 The dean of CBS wrote an op-ed about taxes. (NYT) Read this disheartening story about buying papers and paper-factory-people in today's ivory towers. (The Chronicle) NYC's health commissioner dislikes Camel's new cigarettes, the ones marketed directly towards hipsters. (NY Daily News) Now NYPD can scan your iris to make sure you're really you.  O brave new world! (NPR) 
 Out of every fourteen days, one Wednesday is chosen--today is that hallowed day when Bwog divulges news of the TIC. Tickets sold for on-campus events this past week: 3200 On-Campus: Dumpling Fest: November 18th, 7:30pm, Lerner Party Space, $6. Tickets. Toy Story 3: November 18th, 9:30pm, Roone Arledge Cinema, $3. Tickets. KCST's Macbeth: November 18th-20th,8pm, Glicker-Milstein Theater in the Diana Center, FREE. Tickets. Urinetown: The Musical: November 18th-20th, Thursday &amp; Friday 8pm, Saturday 2pm &amp; 8pm, Blackbox Lerner, $5 w/ CUID, $10 w/o, $30 VIP. Tickets. Tickets sold for off-campus events this past week: 439 Off-Campus: The Pee-Wee Herman Show November 18th, 8pm, $61 w/CUID. Tickets. Complexions: November 20th, 8pm, $36 w/CUID. Tickets. Spider-Man: December 2nd, 8pm, $49 w/CUID. Tickets. Metamorphosis at BAM: December 3rd, 7:30pm, $23 w/CUID. Tickets. Ballet Hispanico: December 3rd, 8pm, $36 w/CUID. Tickets. 
SSDP has a table on the Lerner Ramps, and they're right now handing out condoms and lube!
The November issue of The Blue &amp; White will be arriving on campus soon.  In the mean time, we'll be trickling out the issue on Bwog. You might not know the following figure—but you should. In Campus Characters, The Blue &amp; White introduces you to a handful of Columbians who are up to interesting and extraordinary things and whose stories beg to be shared. If you’d like to suggest a Campus Character, send us an email at editors@theblueandwhite.org. If you've ever received an e-mail from Sean Manning Udell, you've only seen a fraction of his ebullient personality. Take, for instance, the salutation of his first class-wide e-mail as senior class president -- "Oh hay big SEEEENIOOOOOORRRRSSSSSS of Twenty Eleven" -- or even just the subject line -- "2 FREE PARTIES - GET THOSE PARTY HATS ON!" Although Udell admits that administrators would like him to, "tone down my emails because it seemed to suggest too much unsafe exuberance," his capitalized cheer and long elisions are, to him, an integral part of his goals for the year: "To make Columbia a good community; a good place to have fond memories of." This gregarious showmanship, however, is not self-serving. His emails are not just ploys to get seniors to attends events, but rather extensions of his perpetually caps-locked personality. "It's not a façade," says friend and senior class vice president Alexandra Coromilas. "He always has this enthusiasm and this great attitude and it really doesn't waver when he's hanging out with his friends." Udell epitomizes gay pride. "In my life I've tried to be as loudly out there as possible," Udell says. But the clash between his sexual identity and his on-campus persona has sometimes produced problems. "You do run the risk," Udell says, "of being a one issue person, and people then just assume that everything you do is for your own self interest and for LGBT interest and I've really tried to separate the two worlds." Udell's dual roles merge in the campaign for gender neutral housing, an initiative he spearheads as both senior class president and president of the Columbia Queer Alliance. Udell took up the issue because he recognized a flaw in the university housing system. "I wanted to live with members of the opposite sex and the policy wouldn't allow for that," he says. Implementation of a gender-neutral housing policy was put off by the Columbia administration last semester, news that Udell found devastating. "We didn't really know how to respond because we had gotten so many people excited about it." Udell is bouncing back this year with a new proposal, crafted in conjunction with housing officials. This revised plan will introduce a gender neutral pilot program to six upper-class buildings. Though Udell hopes it will assuage all parties, he admits, "it's not perfect." When things don't go his way, Udell does not admit defeat, per se, but rather reverts to Spanish curses and catchphrases he picked up from a former babysitter he had growing up in Florida. Ali Krimmer, CC ‘11, a friend from Carman 9 and current suitemate, delights in the confused stares the lanky Udell and his Spanish outbursts elicit from onlookers. "He doesn't take himself too seriously," Krimmer laughs. Even projects like the campaign to secure Barack Obama as Class Day speaker cannot escape his multiple exclamation points and pep. His e-mail informing seniors of the initiative asked students to "do your part! Ask not what Columbia can do for you, but what you can do for Columbia. FOR SERIOUS Y'ALL!" This enthusiasm should serve him well in his post-graduation plans -- he hopes to work as a kindergarten teacher with either the New Orleans or Denver Corps of Teach for America. His friends are optimistic about his success. "No matter what he's doing, he puts his entire self into it," Coromilas says. --Chris Brennan Illustration by  Eloise Owens
Rickshaw Dumpling Bar is right outside the 116th St and Broadway gates, once again! Photo by ECS
Not all beauty on campus is the kind that makes you nostalgic while you're still here. Some of it falls more into the stunning-glass-building-reflection class. Go enjoy the weather while it's nice! Photo by CCS
 In case you weren't worried enough about seeing/not seeing your family over Thanksgiving—or perish the thought, even about looming finals—here's something else. Tomorrow, November 18th, is the deadline both for CC students to switch a class to P/D/F and for SEAS students to drop a class. There are various and sundry rules and people you should talk to if you want to get on that.  Full emails after the jump. And for fun, name that musical and song! For CC students: tomorrow is the deadline to P/D/F a class is tomorrow.  Full email below. Dear CC Students, Just a reminder that tomorrow, November 18th is the last day to P/D/F a course. Please remember that you can not P/D/F any classes taken for the core and that most departments will not accept courses taken P/D/F for a major or concentration (see the bulletin for exceptions). If you’d like to register for a course P/D/F you can submit the attached form to the Registrar. No signatures needed. If you decide to uncover a course taken for a P in the Fall 2010 semester, you have until the last day to add a course in the Spring 2011 semester to do so. Please let me know if you have any questions. All best, Rebecca Hossain Advising Dean Center for Student Advising For SEAS students: tomorrow is the deadline to drop a class.  Email also below. Dear SEAS students: Please be advised that the last day to drop a course is Thursday, November 18th. Drop form: http://registrar.columbia.edu/files/registrar/registration%20and%20add_drop.pdf 1st year students: If you are seeking to drop a course, please complete a drop form, e-mail me a brief explanation for the drop and submit the drop form to me in 403 Lerner Hall no later than 3:00 pm on Thursday, November 18th.  My signature is required. 2nd through 4th year students: If you are seeking to drop a course that is required for the major, please contact your faculty advisor (Only faculty advisor signature required for drop of major courses): http://www.cs.columbia.edu/education/undergrad/advisors http://www.ee.columbia.edu/pages/directories/undergradstudents/index.html Otherwise, please e-mail me with a brief explanation for the drop and submit a drop form to me in 403 Lerner Hall no later than 3:00 pm on Thursday, November 18th.  My signature is required for all drops of non-major courses. Best, Danielle Wong-Asuncion Advising Dean, Center for Student Advising Photo via Wikimedia 
 Bwog has hopped and camped in libraries, but we’ve never actually explored their contents. The Columbia libraries are a treasure trove of exciting history, so with the help of our lovely librarian friends, we’re going to highlight some hidden jewels. For our first installment of BiblioBwog, Carolyn Ruvkun talked to Jennifer Lee, Performing Arts Curator at the Rare Book &amp; Manuscript Library, about the Joseph Urban exhibit. A titan of the twenties, Joseph Urban was an innovative Art Deco set designer, architect and illustrator. Urban was so famous that while staying in the hospital before his death, he was listed as John Smith to ward off gossipers. After a brief stint for the Boston opera, Urban arrived in New York to design for Ziegfeld’s Follies, Broadway shows (the first production of Showboat) and the Metropolitan Opera (the premiere of Turandot). Jennifer Lee explained she organized the exhibit chronologically to show all the various artistic projects Urban was involved in at once. Fully engaged in every single production, Urban meticulously crafted his sets with detailed 3-D models or maquettes, and watercolor illustrations. Urban even worked with the actors in William Randolph Hearst’s famous film company. The newspaper magnate was one of Urban’s wealthiest supporters, and the letters they exchanged are displayed in the exhibit. With his trademark bright “Urban blue,” the restless designer infused all of his work with excitement and fantasy. Columbia received the archives of Joseph Urban as a donation from the artist’s widow, the former director of “pageantry, spectacle and dance” and Barnard College. (Yep, you could study pageantry). For decades, hundreds of Urban’s works were buried in the stacks of the Rare Book library. Recent grants and private donations contributed to a finding aid for identifying what lay hidden in the collection. Columbia then hired conservators to repair Urban’s disassembled models, and librarian Jennifer Lee curated the fascinating exhibit. Jennifer’s favorite piece was put together from a box of miscellaneous scraps she purchased sight unseen from a dealer in upstate New York. Turns out, the package contained a full set model of one of Urban’s early productions for the Boston opera. Guided by a complementary drawing and photograph from the collection, the conservationists reconstructed the entire maquette. Despite his artistic achievements, few remember Urban. John Loring, former design director for Tiffany’s, ventured to spotlight the larger than life (and physically massive) Urban in his recently published biography. With hundreds of Urban’s stage models, watercolors and sketches, Columbia provided Loring with material evidence of the artist’s imaginative work. In one of Urban’s illustrations, the Empire State building appears as an imposing palace against the backdrop of the signature blue sky. “The Empire state building had just been completed in 1931, and Urban showed the pride of this great civic accomplishment,” Jennifer marvels. “Sometimes you come up out of the Subway and try to look at the state building as if you’ve never seen it before to try to capture the excitement of the day.” Urban wrote that theater should be “felt rather than seen” —an experience of “total immersion for the person attending.” The models and watercolors displayed in the exhibit celebrate an artist who revolutionized theater. “Joseph Urban: the World as Theater” is open to all Columbia students in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library on 6th floor of Butler through December 23rd.  If there’s anything else in the library you want Bwog to check out, tell us in the comments! 
 Heads up for some events tonight with free food: From 7:30-9:30pm in 203 Diana Center there will be a screening of My Architect: A Son's Journey.  This film by Nathaniel Kahn is about his travels visiting the architectural works of his father.  It won an Academy Award!  And there will be free food. From 9-10pm CCSC 2013's planned a study break in the McBain Lounge.  The theme is "I'm A Big Kid Now!"  Expect free JJ's Place Food, '90s cartoons and board games.  Go feebly attempt to reclaim the carelessness of youth before finals really start to loom! Image via Wikimedia 
Update, 8:57: The police tape is gone and Broadway has been reopened for traffic. Update, 8:15: With the commotion gone, there appears to be blood on the street about 3-5 yards ahead of the bike, which is still there. Policemen have confirmed to Bwog that there were no CU students involved. Police also confirm the skateboarder was a woman. Update, 8:02: A policeman tells Bwog a different story: that the motorbike hit a woman crossing the street. He says both the man and woman are in critical condition and have been taken to St Luke's. Several witnesses confirmed that it was a skateboarder who cut off the motorbike so no official word on the other party yet. Update, 7:50: The firetrucks have left the scene, but some emergency vehicles remain. The man on the motorbike has been loaded into an ambulance headed to St Luke's but the ambulance has yet to clear the scene. Witnesses report that the man on the motorbike looked very injured. No word on where the person on the skateboard is. Broadway in the downtown direction between 116th and 115th is still blocked off. Update, 7:45: Bwog checked in with a few eyewitnesses who told us that the motorbike was going at a "reasonable speed" when someone on a skateboard cut ahead of him. The man on the motorbike braked and flew, again according to witnesses, at least 10 feet off his bike. There was a motorcycle motorbike accident just a few moments ago outside Morton Williams. The entire street is currently blocked off, and police cars, a firetruck and ambulances are on the scene. The motorbike rider, who is male, is currently on the ground next to his bike. He is wearing a helmet, but there is a small stream of blood around his head. A few minutes ago, he was being helped by some civilians while ambulances arrived. We're hearing lots of sirens now. A large crowd has gathered around Morton. Updates to follow. If you find out anything, please let us know in the comments. 
 The Eye attempts to answer a stock CU question: why doesn't Columbia have any good traditions? (The Eye) Columbia Housing makes big plans to join the modern age and make all dorms wireless by fall 2012. (Spec) With the looming nation-wide ban on Four Loko, people are "sacrificing" themselves for the greater good and testing the drink in the name of science. Assemblyman Felix Ortiz and NYC Filmmaker K. Ryan Jones drink as much as they can and document their Four Loko-filled deterioration. Others have joined the mad rush to stock up. (HuffPo) Who needs crazy caffeinated alcohol when they can have caffeinated caffeine? A coffee shop in Brooklyn sells cups of 10 espresso shots. That's 20 ounces, a.k.a "coffee porn in a cup." (NYDaily) Patti Smith just won the National Book Award for non-fiction for her book “Just Kids,” a memoir of her life in New York's 1960s and ’70s. (NYTimes) The MTA confirms that its older-than-time subway system is getting slower and breaking down more often. Shocker. (Gothamist) In preparation for tonight, watch Potter and co. attempt to speak American. How cute. (Gawker) Image via Flickr
Take Back the Night's Sexhibition Health Fair is going on today from 11am-3pm on the Lerner Ramps and in the Roone Arledge Lobby. Decorate penis cookies, nab some free condoms and pomegranate vanilla-flavored lube, and enter the sex toy raffle. Baked goods and orgasms for all! At 7pm, Sexhibition will be screening the documentary Orgasm Inc.: The Strange Science of Female Pleasure in the Diana Event Oval. Filmmaker Liz Canner will lead a discussion on sex in college, the medicalization of female sexuality, female viagra pills and other such sex-inspired themes. 
CUID for JH Shih Last seen in the EC Courtyard. Please contact jrs2170@columbia.edu.
The Columbia University Students for Justice in Palestine (CSJP) have set up a theatrical mock Israeli checkpoint on Low steps. The demonstration is part of Right to Education Week and is designed to raise awareness of the hardships faced by Palestinian students on their journeys to and from school. "Israeli guards" are walking around with cardboard guns, interrogating and terrifying passersby, while blindfolded "Palestinians" crouch on the floor. In response, Hillel groups Lionpac, Just Peace, Garin Lavi, and Tarbootnikim have set up camp at the Sundial, claiming that the CSJP refuses to enter into any sort of dialogue with them. Hillel's "It's Complicated, Let's Talk" flyer after the jump. 
Nom^3 is giving out mini sweet potato-coconut (!) cupcakes in Lerner right now, promoting their Thanksgiving lunchbox next Nomday (Monday in layman terms).
An interesting melange of foodstuff, flowers, fowl and fish at the Greenmarket today: Goat cheese from new cheese maker Pete Martin Lavender by the Bay Ostrich Fish from Long Island Things to remember: The market will be open on Tuesday November 23rd instead of Thanksgiving Thursday. Go to the info tent to use EBT/debit/credit. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog's people report that the other car that got rear-ended stopped near the next intersection going downtown. What's with all the accidents on Broadway? Photos by Hans Hyttinen and Yenny Su
 Pedagogy pundit Peter Krawczyk attended "Urban Education Summit: Innovations in K-12" in Low this morning to hear Major Bloomberg assess the state of public education in New York and urge international education reps to do some shopping. As the approximately 1.1 million students in the New York City public school system began school on Thursday morning, Mayor Mike Bloomberg came to the Low Rotunda to deliver a brief speech on the state of public education in the city. The talk was the keynote address of the three-day summit “Urban Education: Innovations in K-12”, which brought representatives from 24 international cities to campus to exchange educational policy ideas. The requisite introduction was delivered without ceremony. As the crowd still bustled about the rotunda, PrezBo nonchalantly approached the podium and announced, “I’m Lee Bollinger, president of Columbia.” President Bollinger proceeded to open the conference by framing the changing requirements for education within the context of globalization and highlighting the international character of the event. “By looking to other nations and other cities, educators have a virtually inexhaustible source of educational practices,” he said. PrezBo was followed by Meyer Feldberg, the former dean of Columbia Business School and the chairman of New York City Global Partners, which organized the summit. Mr. Feldberg was not short of praise for Mayor Bloomberg, noting that in New York schools, “the quality of the graduates has improved every year in recent years.” Bloomberg, for his part, largely steered clear of anything resembling a specific pedagogical philosophy, though he did discuss a number of specific policies his administration has implemented and hopes to implement in the future. He was also very clear on his view of the societal importance of education, prefacing his talk by saying, “I know of no social problem that could not be ameliorated by better public education.” The Mayor identified two major difficulties currently facing public education: the increasing complexity of jobs in the global economy and the urbanization of the American population, which will place increasing burdens on urban school districts. The key to addressing these problems will be “innovation” through international comparison, which will be necessary to better prepare students for college and careers. Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged some of the improvements city schools have seen over his nine-year tenure as mayor, including a dramatic improvement in graduation rates and a modest decline in the racial achievement gap. He attributed these to the increased accountability of school officials for student performance. Bloomberg alluded to a new system that would help further this goal: teacher tenure based on classroom performance, which his office announced in September. Mr. Bloomberg also noted the increasing possibilities for less traditional routes to success in schools, noting that although more than one-third of city students still fail to graduate high school within four years, the number of students who stay in school to graduate in five or six years has increased. Furthermore, the mayor acknowledged that college is not the best option for all high school graduates, including those whose economic circumstances require them to join the workforce after graduation. “That’s what America is about,” he said. “It’s about people taking responsibility and working.” Bloomberg closed his remarks by urging the international delegates to “learn from each other” and to “spend some money in the stores here. We need the sales tax revenue.” Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Before you know it, a fresh copy of the November issue of The Blue and White will be in your hands.  In the mean time, Bwog will be posting highlights from the issue every day.  Today, Mark Hay investigates the politics of language learning at Columbia. Over the last decade Columbia has become acutely aware of and preoccupied with globalization. Under the auspices of President Bollinger and helped along by the World Leaders Forum and new Global Centers for this, that and the other thing -- not to mention the media hounding of Jeffrey Sachs and friends -- the global preoccupation has come to shape the central goals of the university. Even those in charge of the Core Curriculum now conceive of its "courses and requirements work together to provide a foundation of knowledge and skills that help prepare our students for today's increasingly globalized world," as Professor Patricia Grieve, Chair of the Committee on the Core, puts it. Because of this global mindset, the language requirement has become central to Columbia's mission. "It's very important to have the tools to critically understand the world, and language is the royal highway to a culture," says Language Resource Center Director Stéphane Charitos. "The fact that students are expected to reach a level in a foreign language," agrees Director of the French Language Program Pascale Hubert-Leibler, "shows that Columbia takes its mission of training global citizens seriously." Yet despite the commitment and idealism of the university, Columbia's language program falls short of providing a common baseline for students to engage with the modern world. Columbia leaves gaps in its language education, and students graduating with equal credit hours of language training under their belts do not share an equal level of fluency. The problem of disparity in college language learning is endemic across universities, but certain facets of Columbia's language problem come from within the university itself -- from the various language departments and the way each chooses to pursue its own set of goals. The problem common to all universities is the simple question of what constitutes fluency and how one reaches an equal level of fluency in all languages taught. Some languages like Arabic require students to master new sounds, new grammar patterns, or even a new script (two new scripts in some languages like Hindi-Urdu). Because of the sheer number of elements beginners need to learn, some languages simply require more hours to master. For example, Professor Charitos notes that "although we teach Modern Standard , do need to be aware of Classical Arabic as well as colloquial forms ." A student of French, on the other hand, already possesses some knowledge of Latin roots from English, and will not find Quebecois or Belgian French immensely difficult to comprehend. Given the unique demands of every language, Columbia College's four-semester requirement does not produce a common level of fluency. The current language requirement measures time spent in a chair, as opposed to the British university system and the AP and IB systems which test students for mastery. As a result, almost every language instructor will agree with the sentiments of Russian Language Coordinator Professor Frank Miller: compared to any other language, " Spanish and French are much more fluent" after an equal number of semesters. More importantly, language teachers agree that there is no coordination between departments unless it happens by accident, when instructors get together for conferences held to develop classroom techniques. "Welcome to the world of Columbia. This is not just languages. Columbia is a very decentralized place in general," says Charitos. Even the Committee on the Core, some administrators admit, exercises no real regulatory authority over the various languages students use to fulfill the language requirement beyond basic, university-wide standards of curricula and grading. In practical terms, this departmental autonomy means 53 languages are offered unevenly across eight departments with vastly differing resources and overall missions, frequently leading to oversights. Southeast Asia, for example, is an area of the world covered by none of Columbia's academic departments.No department's mission lays claim to teaching Southeast Asian culture and, because they tend to leave each other alone, the departments have not determined among themselves which department might. As a result, Columbia offers virtually no classes on Southeast Asian culture, although students can pursue several Southeast Asian languages. As Charitos remarks, seriously attempting to learn a language without a buttressing of cultural insight is nearly pointless. Still, Charitos and the Language Resource Center (LRC) have attempted to engage with this vital and vastly underrepresented portion of the world. They currently offer Bahasa (Indonesian) through the LRC, have established a small Vietnamese program within the East Asian Languages and Cultures department, and hope to offer University of Pennsylvania courses on Thai in the coming year via Skype. But with no departmental focus on Southeast Asia, Bahasa's presence at Columbia remains minuscule, with two students enrolled as of this printing. Even departmentally-supported Vietnamese remains nothing but a five-person introductory class. For lack of departmental mission focus, many languages of great importance to the modern globalized world like those of Southeast and Central Asia will remain atrophied or non-extant at Columbia. One might think that enough student pressure could force a language into good standing in the University. Indeed, there is currently a movement to secure instruction in the politically vital Pashto language, the dominant language in the Taliban-dominated areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan. But, as Charitos explains, selecting a language requires great caution in assessing its long-term staying power, financial viability, and a host of other factors. He recalls students amassing in the early 1990s for a strong Albanian program and in 2008 for a robust Georgian program following political upheaval in those nations, but it is often hard to tell when that demand will endure or whether it will be transient. Even for languages that can outlast a fad, limited funds within the LRC often cannot attract the talent needed to establish a viable program. Creating a course may be the easy part, though. Only by the grace of a larger department's intervention can a language program really take hold and prosper. And as to how those languages survive once inside a department: "For lack of a better word, I'm going to call it departmental politics," says Charitos of the dependency of languages on the missions and interests of the departments that house them. Those languages already taken in by a department are also subject to the push-and-pull of academic politics. "If we're going to have a good Slavic Department, we need other languages too," says Miller, explaining his department's insistence on offering multiple levels of study in non-Russian Slavic languages with tiny enrollments. "Plus they're important as far as linguistics is concerned," continues Miller, hinting at the influence of the now-defunct Linguistics Department which has been largely subsumed into the Slavic Languages department. Because several Slavic Languages department professors are linguists by training, the department has a clear departmental mission -- to encourage the comparative study of Slavic tongues, their structures, and their origins. Some departmental missions effectively prioritize a few languages while neglecting others. The Middle East, South Asian, and African Studies (MESAAS) has shifted its departmental values away from South Indian languages and toward North Indian languages within roughly the last decade. A shrunken Tamil program remains, but Punjabi (through the LRC) and Hindi-Urdu have become two of the faster growing languages in their respective departments. Meanwhile the LRC's programs in the South Indian languages of Kannada and Telugu are no longer offered, despite no significant change worldwide in their numbers of speakers. As goes the department's interest, so goes the fate of any language program. MESAAS also provides a fine example of locked resources. Charitos explains that during a bubble -- such as the explosion of interest in Russia during the Cold War or Japan in the early 1990s -- a university may make the informed decision to employ faculty, even full professors, whose contracts stipulate that they teach a certain language. Then when interest in these languages is no longer so politically crucial, the University retains tenured professors in areas of decreasing academic importance. Sanskrit followed this pattern -- the program was at its height a dozen years ago, but even now with an introductory class of only four students, Professor Sheldon Pollock and Assistant Professor Som Dev Vasudeva remain instructors whereas faster growing classes have only lecturers. Swahili exemplifies a more interdepartmental pull on languages. One of the rising stars of new languages, Swahili dwarfs its sister African languages of Zulu and Wolof in student interest. One might argue that Swahili has three times the total number of speakers of Zulu, but both have approximately the same number of native speakers. But, as Charitos notes, the dominance of Swahili at Columbia, especially recently, is probably best explained by the work of the Earth Institute in East Africa. "There is a Columbia emphasis on that part of the world and students are aware of that," says Charitos. They take note of, seek work with, and generally follow the linguistic prescriptions of larger university entities like the Earth Institute, which have the budgets and prominence to attract them. Small languages that have almost no budget stay alive solely through external money. The diminutive Finnish and Armenian departments are kept alive merely by the grace of donors, the likes of which cannot exist to prop up and propel the fates of every language. Even if the university could make a central decision about which languages to fund, departments will still drive their own priorities within classes. "It depends on what the department feels its mission is," says Charitos. "For some, it's to train their graduate students." For others it is to ensure that undergraduates are able to better understand a culture, or a political system, or enter a field unrelated to but increasingly dominated by that language. The East Asian Languages and Cultures Department, to these ends, has started to offer at the advanced level courses in Business and Media Chinese. It can be more subtle though—Sam Kohn, CC'13 and a student of Swahili, Spanish, and Finnish, has noticed a stronger focus on spoken language in Swahili and on reading and writing in Finnish. Most telling are the stated focuses of the language coordinators themselves: Miller wants his students to "have a good understanding of Russian culture, Russian life, and Russian people," so his advanced courses include history classes taught in Russian. His attention to linguistic difference also drives him to believe that one cannot lump together even the closely related languages into a singular class. Ukrainian and Russian, fairly close linguistically, are taught as separate classes whereas Hindi and Urdu, which use different scripts and vocabularies are taught as a singular class through MESAAS. "They're as different as Dutch and German," says Miller. Meanwhile in the French department, Hubert-Leibler aims to have students "able to read journalistic and literary texts" and to train graduate students well enough so that they are able to continue in French academia. She believes that focus is why her department's faculty "teach writing and analytical skills in their advanced courses" more than another department might. The grad student-centrism of the French department also leads them to teach many of their language classes at multiple levels with graduate student instructors, whereas MESAAS nearly exclusively employs language instructors who often have a better background and need less training in the arts of language instruction. Taken together, this translates to the fact that, even were one to find a way of accounting for common fluency standards, of finding the funding and central authority to assure that every language could receive the same level of support and of buttressing courses, the intellectual interests of the department would still hem students in as far as focuses and strengths of teachers and teaching. True, learning a second language will open doors for students. But with languages driven in every direction by their inherent difficulties for English speakers and by university and departmental goals and politics, the number and size of those doors will vary; some will jam, some will not budge. We become, then, less the global citizens Hubert-Leibler sees the language requirement driving us to become, and more envoys and scions of our departments traveling into a global, but still segmented world. Illustration by Maddy Kloss
 There will be a Slavic Study Break from 6pm to 7pm in the Lerner East Ramp Lounge with free pastries, candy, music, matryoshka dolls and tote bag decorating. The Birch, the Russian International Association, the Ukrainian Students' Society and the Polish Club will be hosting the event. Update, 7:10: Also, the Student Athletic Advisory Committee and Columbia/Barnard Hillel Executive Board are hosting a pre-Thanksgiving dinner right now in Kraft Center (across from Schapiro). They promise a free full turkey dinner. Image via Flickr
Finally, the movie event you’ve all been waiting for the first half of the movie event you’ve all been waiting for! (Hey, everyone’s got to make a living!) We here at Columbia have always been Potter-conscious, so how is everyone gearing up for the big day night? Head Girl Hannah Goldstein finds out: Costumes A number of students will be dressing up tonight for the midnight opening in IMAX at AMC Loews Lincoln Square, AMC Empire (on 42nd Street), or AMC Loews 34th Street or on a normal screen at 84th Street, depending mostly on how late they purchased tickets. According to Bwog’s findings, students will be dressing as Tonks, Dobby, and Bellatrix Lestrange; group costumes include two golden snitches and a Gryffindor seeker. There will also be countless Hogwarts schoolchildren in naughty schoolgirl costumes and/or House scarves. Columbia Hermione lives! Recreation Sure, there’s more to college than Hogwarts references. But it’s still sort of embarrassing that Columbia is conspicuously absent from the list of 46 college Muggle Quidditch leagues worldwide. In anticipation of impending Potter pandemonium, sophomore Chloe Gogo has applied with the International Quidditch Association for a CU team and is currently scouting for potential members. Festivities The Sci-Fi Club is (inexplicably, genre-wise) leading a low-key group outing to the movie sometime in early December. There will also be a massive flash mob-parade from Columbus Circle to the IMAX theater at Lincoln Square. But sadly, with Potterpalooza and Potty Break come and gone, it would seem that this party is about where Columbia Potter excitement ends on campus. Or maybe it’s just the concurrent timing of Urinetown, Kilmer, Macbeth, Sexhbition, and Dumpling Fest. Miscellaneous Columbia has been feeling suspiciously magical for some time now: already this year, Bwog has come across the entrances to Dumbledore's office, the Room of Requirement, and Diagon Alley. But "PrezBo" himself has just added a new dimension to the Tunnels; Butler 1; Harmony; St. A's; Roaree's stomach; and the roofs of Low and Mudd! Which horcrux is going where? Please leave your answers in the comments, and we hope you have a very Potter Thursday evening! 
CU Records started recording musicians at their events this year, and they've just released their first two compilations of live performances. The BetaJam and Lounge Night compilations are now available to download for free, and feature bands like Life Size Maps and Blaxel. CU Records is also hosting an Open Mic Lounge Night in the John Jay Lounge this Saturday November 20th at 7:30pm. Anyone interested in playing or in live recording should contact curecordsinfo@gmail.com. 
 The second edition of The Encyclopedia of New York City, edited by Columbia's own NYC expert Professor Kenneth Jackson, is now available. (ABC News) MySpace "surrenders"' to Facebook and announces future "integrations" between users' MySpace and Facebook accounts. (TechCrunch) Vuvuzelas banned at the annual Harvard-Yale football game. (NY Daily News) With Pluto now merely a memory, Scientists discover new planet HIP 13044b just outside the Milky Way Galaxy. (Space) Forget about finals—Facebook is "the new source of psychological stress"...and asthma attacks. (LA Times) Photo from Flickr/Gavin St. Ours
Here's a poem that should have been featured in last night's Joyce Kilmer Bad Poetry Contest, but wasn't. It was written by an anonymous poet who is also good at using computers (cough!) There is something special about this poem. Here's a hint: it's filled with money. See if you can figure it out. Enjoy. When the ammonia filled streets of experimental souls Attack hipster-lungs, ill-attended to by auxiliary social contacts, Beaten in a burlap sack, high on caffeine, We eat catfish, chalky like too many successive concerti, On a starry-eyed crusade against decisive flannel. Despite all this, there exists a certain determinism. Disconcert, Disconcert, Like the drainage from behind when on horseback. These are inalienable rights. It began with the kinfolk, no doubt. They weren't so much librarians as they were mailmen, but that's just the matrimony of our age talking. Oh the mercantile spirit of our age, with mercenary mouthpieces from the present-day sage: the neurologist. Well write my obituary already! Enough with the opportunist! The organic and overblown yuppies, overlaid with oh so pertinent feed, as they battle in the troths of a pigpen. Promote the promoter, cries the Puritanical subway loudspeaker, the mysterious voice of which only has regard for tentative delays, that is until the metro signs a treaty with the common man. The uncommon man, however, winds up in veterinary school, whereupon his workmanship subsequently fails him, and he resigns to worship strangers in the streets.
Despite weather that's frigid one day and positively balmy the next, photographer extraordinaire Hans Hyttinen reminds us that fall is still here! Bwog feels all warm and fuzzy inside. Photo by Hans Hyttinen
Head over to Low Plaza anytime between now and 4:00 p.m. for free food and giveaways from the V117 Creative Team. The Facebook event advertises free V117 ping pong balls (the perfect addition to your Thursday night!) and Monster (it's Four Loko minus the fun part!). Bwog suggests you check it out, especially if you're interested in getting involved in the show.
In the interest of fairness, Bwog would like to add an addendum to our coverage of the mock checkpoint on Low yesterday. In addition to posting Hillel's flyer, we've uploaded CSJP's, which you can now read here (.doc file). Bwog does not endorse the position of any student group. We will post information sent to us at tips@bwog.com provided it is relevant to our coverage.
For all those who will be staying on campus this Thanksgiving, you're in luck! Read on for Cooking with Bwog's Matt Powell's simple and delightful holiday recipes. Thanksgiving—the great holiday to celebrate food. Thanksgiving is America’s National Day of Feasting, feasting to the point that you feel like you’re about to explode, eating so much pie and turkey that you think you’ll never eat again. In the words of Epictetus, “Live life as at a Feast!” However, as a college student far from home and tight on cash, Thanksgiving is not quite the same when staying at school for the holiday. With this in mind, Bwog asked me to create time and cost effective holiday dishes designed for dorm cooking. The turkey main dish requires only 30 minutes of active prep time, and the two sides each require only 15 minutes of active prep. Plus, each dish costs only $15! 1. Beer-Brined Turkey (Serves 4-6) At Columbia, it is rare to make a feast for over 10 people at the most, so this recipe calls for just the turkey breasts. To put a college spin on the turkey, I brined it in a beer mixture. Ingredients: 2 boneless turkey breasts, 3-4 lbs. each 1 quart of water 1 C sugar 1 C salt 1 quart beer, about 3 bottles (I used pumpkin beer to increase the festivity. Pecan or other seasonal beers work as well.) Small handful of black peppercorns 1 bunch of sage 1 bunch of thyme 1 head of garlic, cut crosswise For glaze: ¼ C maple syrup ¼ C honey ¼ C cider vinegar 1 tbsp. pepper 1 tbsp. salt 2 tbsp. butter A couple of sage leaves Directions: In a large pot over medium-high heat, dissolve the sugar and salt in the water. Once the sugar and salt have dissolved, remove from the heat and stir in the beer. Allow this liquid to cool. In a cooler, a large mixing bowl, or a brining bag, place the turkey breasts along with the peppercorns, sage, thyme, and garlic. Pour in the brining liquid. Refrigerate overnight to 24 hours. To cook the turkey: Preheat the oven to 250 degrees. Wrap each turkey breast four times in plastic wrap and once in aluminum foil. Insert an oven-safe thermometer into the center of each piece, and place the turkey on a wire rack in a roasting pan. Add water to reach just below the rack. Cook until the temperature reads 135 degrees, about 2-3 hours. Near the end of cooking, make an ice bath. Once the turkey has reached the proper internal temperature, remove from the oven. Raise the oven temperature to 450 degrees. Submerge the turkey breasts, thermometer and all, in the ice bath to cool instantly. Unwrap from the foil and plastic and pat dry. Brush liberally with the glaze (see below). Roast for another 15 minutes, until golden. Serve, slicing thinly. To make your glaze: While the turkey cooks in the oven at the 250 degree stage, make your glaze. In a small saucepan, bring the maple syrup, honey, vinegar, pepper and salt to a boil. Allow it to reduce for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat. Stir in butter and sage leaves. 2. Classic Cranberry Sauce Ingredients: 1 package of fresh cranberries 1 C sugar 1 C water 1 stick of cinnamon 1 star anise 2 strips of orange zest Directions: First, check for bad cranberries: Fill a large bowl with cold water. Toss all of your cranberries into the bowl. Cranberries that do not float are no good. Take special care to discard any mushy cranberries. Take your good cranberries and combine with all of the other ingredients in a heavy saucepan. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring until the sugar dissolves. Once the sugar has dissolved, do not stir anymore. Just watch the cranberries pop! Once most of the cranberries have popped, remove from the heat. Depending on how you like your cranberry sauce, strain out some of the juice/none of the juice/all of the juice. Remove the orange zest, cinnamon stick, and anise star. Chill in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours 3. Macadamia-Coconut Tart (Serves 8) Ingredients: 1 prepared pie crust 1 ¼ C brown sugar 1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. vanilla extract 3 eggs 1 stick of unsalted butter, melted and cooled 1 carton (1 ½ C) of macadamia nuts, chopped 1 C flaked dry coconut Pie weights, or pinto beans Directions: Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Roll out your pie crust and place in a tart pan. Make sure to press the sides and the bottom of the pan to ensure that the dough remains in place. Cover the edges with foil and place pie weights (beans) on the bottom of the pie crust. Bake for 20 minutes. After 20 minutes, remove the crust. Remove the foil and pie weights (beans) and bake for another 15 minutes, until light gold. While the pie crust bakes for its final 15 minutes, combine the sugar, salt, vanilla, and eggs in a mixing bowl, using a whisk. Stir in melted butter, chopped macadamias, and coconut. Stir until all ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Once the pie crust is baked, pour in the filling. Bake for another 20 minutes. After baking, cool for 30 minutes. Snatch your piece early; there are never leftovers of this dessert. 
As one of the Columbia Greenmarket's biggest fans, Bwog likes to stop and chat with the lovely people who supply us with farm fresh produce. This week, Zoe Camp met with the good people of Samascott Orchards—you may know it as the booth with the awesome apple cider. We may be more than halfway into fall, but- fear not- there are still plenty of apples to be had. And while they're delicious to snack on by themselves, there's some real magic in sticking a bunch of them in a pot and slow cooking them until they produce that delicious autumnal elixir (apple cider, friends!) And some of the best is to be found at the Samascott Orchards stand at the Morningside Heights Farmer's Market. Every Thursday and Sunday, Gary Samascott and his associates sell some of the area's best cider to students and area residents. Bwog got a chance to speak with Samascott and find out what goes into this beloved fall drink. Bwog: What goes into your cider? Samascott: Basically, the apples available for sale are the best of the crop—they have less nicks, blemishes, etc. An apple with a small physical imperfection on it may not be quite good enough to sell on its own, but it's still just as delicious, and perfect for cider. Of course, there was a hard freeze this year, so we couldn't be so picky, but those apples usually make it into the cider, along with what we don't sell by the end of the day. Bwog: What types of apples make the best cider? Samascott: Generally, larger apples are tastier and make better cider than smaller ones. We like to have a nice blend of sweet and tart apples. Bwog: How much cider do you go through in a given day? Samascott: We easily sell up to 80 half-gallons a day. The hot cider always sells well too, especially on these cold days. Bwog: Where do you guys grow your apples? What's your typical farmer's market day like? Samascott: We're located out in Kinderhook, NY. On a market day, I'm up at 4:30 in the morning. Definitely some long days. All that hard work has its payoff, however—delicious, rich apple cider and relatively inexpensive, too. It's perfect with some cider donuts or apple cake. Some of Samascott's associates claim that their cider goes well with rum—watch out, Four Loko. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Bwog's Musical Correspondent Lily Icangelo reports with a full bladder: When I found out that the Columbia Musical Theatre Society was putting on a show called “Urinetown: The Musical” and that it’s general premise was about a town where private bathrooms were outlawed and peeing was regulated—I knew I had to see it. I may pretend to go to an Ivy League institution but in reality I am a flamboyant four year old boy whose two favorite things in the world are bathroom humor and over the top dance sequences. Both my four-year-old boy and nineteen-year-old lady student selves were pleasantly surprised to find everything they love, plus much, much more in Columbia’s production of Urinetown. I must say, I was curious to see how an intricate musical such as Urinetown would play out in the small setting of a Black Box theatre rather than on a traditional stage. Luckily director Hillary Kritt, along with the rest of the creative team, really made the black box work to their advantage. With some very creative and original staging, lighting, and choreography, the show was not at all hindered by the use of a black box, but rather helped as it allowed for the show to be a more interactive and intimate experience. One difficulty I did find, a problem found in really any school production, was that the words in many of the songs were a bit hard to hear.  Although the rapping and hip hop dancing in the “Cop Song” were most certainly one of the high points of the show, it was a hard to understand the actual words of the song, especially over the laughing of the audience. But because both Reni Calister and Evan Johnston (the main cops) proved to be quite the hip hop dream team and were both exceptionally funny during this scene, it didn’t really matter that not all of their words were fully understood. I was surprised to find so many strong singing voices in the cast. The musical talents of the actors allowed each number to feel effortless rather than falling flat (which I have found to be the case in the past musicals). Actors Emily Wallen, Jill Schackner, and Rebekah Lowin hit notes that I didn’t even know existed, prompting the man sitting behind me to make some positive (but extremely annoying) commentary including, “yeah girl,” “mmm,” and “get it.” The real standouts of the show came from the costume designs and art direction. Rolando Rodriguez completely outdid himself as costume designer; from the garb of the poor townspeople decorated with scraps of newspaper and neon paint, to the colorful suits of the employees at Urine Good Company, no costume looked under-prepared or ill-fitting to the character and scene it was a part of. The emotional intensity of the last couple of scenes not only made the annoying man sitting behind me sniffle loudly, but also sparked tears in many of the other members of the audience. While managing to be both hilarious and extremely dark, the end of this show is something you have to see to truly understand.There are three more shows left for Urinetown: The Musical, and although each show is sold out, there will be a waiting list that I highly recommend you get on if you have not already bought a ticket. It is completely worth it, even if you have to wait until intermission to pee.
 Katheryn Thayer saw JGL IRL (!) this afternoon, promoting his new project hitRECord. CUNUFF organized the event. Joseph Gordon Levitt (but please, call him Joe) is pretty much a movie star and the founder of hitRECord.org: a website that started as an outlet for his own personal creativity and exploded into an international network of artistic contributors and editors. Until recently, it was, as Levitt describes it, “kinda informal, kinda illegal,” but now it is 100% all good with the law, and Joe came to Columbia to tell us all about it. A former Columbia student, he greeted the audience by saying: “Lerner fucking Haaallll..” And though he dropped out, he assured us that it “was really awesome here." He asked everyone to film and record his presentation, as he records the audience, and later everyone can go to his website to work together on editing it. His aim is to make a documentary about what it is to be an artist today, and how the Internet is connecting people and promoting group collaboration in the artistic process. Making full use of the technology shaping current media consumption, his presentation included Q&amp;A over Twitter, videos of projects done through the site, and an “upload station” in the back where the audience could upload footage from the meeting. Levitt says he dropped out eight years ago because he got his first editing gig, but more importantly, he realized that he has always learned better by doing than studying. He spoke a bit about the industry: “If I wanted to make money I’d produce a reality show or something. Not that there’s anything wrong with that. Well actually, there is." Though the long line of girls waiting to get into Roone suggested this was kinda a fan event, when Joe asked for hands of artists, musicians, editors, and writers, the response suggested that people came not (entirely) for the hot movie star but for just Joe. He chirped enthusiastically, “I’m glad most of you are here because you’re down to make stuff, because so am I!” and even called on those who don’t do art or editing to contribute by going through content and “liking” the best work so that the really good stuff gets noticed. The creation of hitRECord.org reflects a view that people should work together without pretension, and though the site recognizes individual artists, creativity should be a populist project. He noted that he liked the fact that Obama puts all his speeches in the public domain to be seen and shared with everyone, but lamented that they are seldom watched because they “don’t have the theme songs and shit that CNN does." Luckily, his website is a prime birthplace for projects that could merge art and politics, and he hopes hitRECord will eventually include cut speeches that could incite more people to tune in. Despite the fact that he is putting the power of entertainment in the hands of the masses, Joe reports that the industry has responded well to his project. Joe has even been invited to join the Board of Trustees at the Sundance Festival. The entertainment business likes the new artistic voices; and the Internet makes it easy for people to get connected. He says to be recognized today, artists really don’t have to move to LA and get an agent, “unless you wanna be a celebrity, then you should go get an agent and get your boobs done." Columbia was lucky to host the presentation; after his brother died 6 weeks ago, Joe said he needed to cancel some of the more high energy shows because the loss has been so hard on him. He says talking about hitRECord like he did tonight has become a form of therapy for him, probably because his brother worked with him on the first several versions of the website. Joe, we’re glad you stopped by. Come back soon.
 Bwog's Resident Shakespeare Connoisseur Peter Sterne reports from the VagBox: It’s hard to think of a Shakespearean play that fits Columbia better than Macbeth (OK, maybe). This classic tragedy of all-consuming ambition might serve as a warning to those who have already decamped to Butler in anticipation of finals, so long as they can tear themselves away from their carrels long enough to go see KCST’s latest production in the Diana’s Glicker-Milstein Black Box Theater. After going to the premiere last night, this Bwogger highly recommends that they, and anyone else looking for an enjoyable but thought-provoking way to spend an evening, go to see this production. As the title character, James Underwood delivered a brilliant but understated performance that tracked Macbeth’s transformation from a valiant warrior to a mad tyrant. Underwood began by speaking in a rough, emotionless manner and filled his first soliloquies with long dramatic pauses. He seemed profoundly inarticulate opposite the electric Maura McNamara’s Lady Macbeth, who managed to invest every word, sigh, and even sob with feeling without ever losing her composure. But it was all an act, and a brilliant one at that!  Once Macbeth gained power, Underwood’s speech began to express the paralyzing fear and sinister anger that ruled his character, and by the end of the play he was commanding the stage with his paranoid rants. Birdy Sahagian, Katrina Kostro, and Madalena Provo were fantastic as the Weird Sisters. Sensuous and physical, often embracing one another or Macbeth, they easily charmed both Macbeth and the audience. Had Shakespeare known these three, he would never have described the Weird Sisters as “withered hags.” Dennis V. Perepelitsa had a great turn as Macbeth’s friendly voice of reason, Banquo, particularly when he came back from the dead to terrify Macbeth with nothing more than an angry, knowing scowl. Jacob Rice, as his son Fleance, only had two lines but still won over the audience with his emotive mugging and slapstick sword-fighting skills. Everett Sherman first plays the Scottish king Duncan, and later shows up as a drunk Porter who muses philosophically. In both roles, he was quite enjoyable to watch. He spoke the dense and multi-layered Shakespearean dialogue quickly and naturally. Although this occasionally made it difficult to understand his exact words, his emotive speaking style and gestures ensured that the audience always understood what he was trying to say. In addition to actors, the play made great use of the stage. In the scene of Duncan’s murder, his “bedchamber” was formed through the use of a large screen blocking off the middle of the stage. Lit from behind, only the haunting silhouettes of the murderer and his victim were visible. Later, as Macbeth’s thugs viciously killed MacDuff’s family and servants in his castle, Macbeth appeared just offstage enjoying a delightful dinner, accompanied by music from an actual violinist. This brilliant juxtaposition of Macbeth’s life of luxury and the terrible consequences of his moral depravity perfectly illustrated his character. KCST’s production of Macbeth is certainly an enjoyable and thought-provoking way to spend a Friday or Saturday night. In addition to a great performance piece, it is a great distraction from over-indulging in your own ambitions, whether those be plotting the death of Scottish nobles or breaking the curve in Orgo. There will be performances of KCST’s Macbeth tonight and tomorrow night at 8pm in the Glicker-Milstein Black Box Theater, located on Lower Level 2 of the Diana Center. Tickets are sold out, but standby seating is available if you email kcstmacbeth@gmail.com with your name, the date you will attend, and the number of tickets you want.
A board game, illustrated by Cindy Pan, from the November issue of The Blue and White! Try out your luck as a Columbia politician. (image opens in pop up) 
 What do we do up here? (NYU Local) MTA faked inspections. Safety first? (Gothamist) What's so great about gold, anyway? (NPR) How much cash money can Harry Potter make in one day? A lot. (NY Daily News)
Despite complaints from CU-EMS about their current space (too small, too noisy, too co-ed), ABC voted not to recommend CU-EMS' move from its current location in the basement of Carman to Broadway 103. The complete email from ABC follows: At its meeting on November 17, 2010, ABC voted not to recommend CU-EMS' move from its current location in the basement of Carman to Broadway 103. Seven board members supported the move while nine board members opposed it. The majority of the board believes that the student groups represented by ABC would not benefit from the move. Broadway 103, currently open to student group reservation, is roughly twice the size of the Carman space currently occupied by CU-EMS, which would be put to student group use if CU-EMS were to move. To give such a large space to one group at the exclusion of others would be a disservice to the 153 groups recognized by ABC. Our groups have long complained of the lack of meeting and storage space, and other proposals, such as the Student Sustainability Center, should be seriously considered before a decision is made. Alternative uses of 103 have not been explored, and the spaces within 103 have not been open for student group reservation long enough to justify the argument that they will not be used efficiently by student groups. The board does recognize that CU-EMS has demonstrated certain needs not met by its current space situation. There are several reasons for why CU-EMS' current space in Carman is inadequate, including 1. There is no cellphone reception in the basement of Carman 2. Members of the opposite sex are sometimes obliged to sleep in the same room, making some feel uncomfortable for religious reasons 3. There is not enough space to hold EMT training sessions 4. The band practice room next door is really annoying, especially when volunteers on duty are trying to sleep ABC values all the hard work and dedication of CU-EMS volunteers as well as the vital role they play on campus. However, ABC believes that CU-EMS' reasoning is insufficient to justify a move to Broadway. Not all on-duty volunteers are required to stay in the CU-EMS room at night; those who live within four minutes of the ambulance may stay in their rooms. Students who find the sleeping situation intolerable have the option to live in the several residence halls that satisfy CU-EMS' requirements. So the problem of individuals of the opposite sex sleeping in the same room is not universal. The board generally agrees that it is significant, however, and warrants a solution; CU-EMS deserves additional space for a separate sleeping area. A concern was raised that the 103 space, even if walls were knocked down, may still not be large enough for EMT training sessions. And even if the space were large enough, it would likely be underutilized, as only CU-EMS would be able to use it. A more efficient solution would be to allow CU-EMS to book spaces like the Broadway Sky Lounge. The band practice room in Carman is certainly annoying, but it does close at some point in the evening. On-duty CU-EMS volunteers are able to sleep at night without bands playing next door. An alternative that could be explored is moving the band practice room to Broadway 101 and allowing CU-EMS to expand into the vacated space. At this point, ABC cannot recommend CU-EMS' move from Carman to Broadway 103. As representatives of 153 cultural, performance, special interest, pre-professional, science/engineering, and publication groups, ABC members believe that Broadway 103 should be reserved for student group use and that a more efficient solution may be found to CU-EMS' current situation. *This statement has been approved by the majority of ABC board members.* 
Thursday night we gave a forecast of impending Harry Potter madness. Today we follow up with a retrospective of all the wonderful Potter pride that we witnessed. Here are some highlights: Lots of Columbia/Barnard people were spotted at the 3:30 AM IMAX show at Lincoln Square. One gay student on campus wore a t-shirt to the midnight showing that said "Dumbledore Pride!" in rainbow letters. A Dobby donning brown paper ears, a tag that said "SPEW!" and a sock pinned to a cut-up pillowcase was seen roaming about campus. Harry Potter got a special shout-out at the Bad Poetry contest. A number of students were spotted out in group costumes: And if you still have doubts about how much Columbia LOVES Harry Potter, the following information should be of great comfort: a commenter tips that the line to the midnight show at 84th Street pictured below broke out in a rousing rendition of "Roar, Lion, Roar." 
Lost at the B-School library 2nd floor Friday 11/19 after 7pm. All silver, with a Maltese cross on the face. Hope you found it! email mea2152@columbia
 Bwog was on our way home from the Abbey (accompanied by our BwogWeather pals—thanks for the Van Gogh shots, Paul!) late the other night when we saw a group of drunk freshpeople being loud and annoying outside Westside. Suddenly, one fresh-boy left the group and up to Koronet's. He tried to yank the door open. It was closed. He stood back, aghast. He turned around and shouted to no one in particular: "Wait, but I thought O'Connell's never closes!"
The Social Experiment is over. Spec reports that roommates Sharon Wu and Abril Dozal, both CC'13, tied for the win, both accumulating 145 passwords. Ian Kwok and our friends at the Socialist Experiment came just behind them, acquiring 108 passwords. "I didn't feel the purpose of the game was to get me to talk to other people... to me, it was just a really fun game," Abril said. If the Social Experiment taught Bwog anything (besides that Columbia is really easy to make fun of), it's that the Columbia hacker community is going to run the world. The Sunday night before the Experiment started, Bwog was sent the entire list of passwords by one adept hacker. We let ResLife know, being good sports and whatever, but received no response or comment. The passwords were changed by the morning. Another hacker-friend got into the system again easily on Thursday, who then wrote this little poem for you that contained all the passwords. Hacker-friend also did some math and figured out how many people played the game each day. It dwindled! Take a look: Columbia, resume  your lives! We'll see you guys in the elevator. We'll be the ones not talking.
Claire Sabel reviews last night's concert at Miller Theatre. The work of Fred Lerdahl, the Fritz Reiner Professor of Musical Composition at Columbia, was showcased last night in the second of Miller Theatre's Composer Portraits, a monthly staple of their 2010-11 season. Lerdahl, a Guggenheim fellow and a Pulitzer Prize finalist, has also written extensively on music theory, and emerged as an influential figure in new music in the '70s. The first half of the concert was composed of two works of about 20 minutes each: Time After Time, performed by notable new music group the Argento Chamber Ensemble, and Third String Quartet, premiering for the first time in New York and performed by the Daedalus Quartet, by whom it was also commissioned. Both pieces shared a tumultuous intensity, respectively described by the composer in his notes to the program (available here) as "explosive" and "turbulent," and each structured around two central interwoven streams. The second half focused on the renowned Finnish cellist Anssi Karttunen, who performed the US premiere of an exhilarating work for solo cello, There and Back Again. Navigating "400 years of music in four minutes," the piece was based on a 17th century cello piece by Giuseppe Colombi, and written as a 50th birthday present for the cellist. The diversity of these three pieces served as an excellent introduction for the composer to take the stage for a brief conversation with Robert Sirota, president of the Manhattan School of Music, and a former pupil of Lerdahl's. For an audience member lacking any formal training in musical theory, this was a welcome interlude, and a chance to reflect on a varied and challenging program. Sirota highlighted the complex eclecticism of Lerdahl's music, describing it as "kaleidoscopic polyphony of sound." Discussing his recurrent motif of interweaving patterns that he calls his "spiral forms," Lerdahl elucidated some of the anatomy of his composition. He gave a broader overview of his intentions, explaining that he always seeks the "right form to go with the right expression." This was subsequently illustrated in the final piece of the concert, Arches (a world premiere this time!) Performed by Karttunen and the Argento Ensmble, Arches was written as a dialogue between the cello and ensemble, rather than a traditional concerto. Informed by the structure of Gothic cathedrals, the entire piece consisted of arches within arches, tracing individual phrases and across the entire piece. The most approachable of the four pieces performed, Arches was a very satisfying conclusion to the evening. Lerdahl had described his frustration with the impenetrable theoretical structures of some new music, "systems nobody could hear." The aim of his compositions was to lay bare his systems in a way that still enabled the listener to appreciate a beautiful surface: "of course my music is complex, but I wanted there to be an access point for any listening. The best music is one that sounds completely natural." The late pause in the program allowed for reflection on the works already played, and an intimate introduction to the lyrical arcs of the concluding one. Miller Theater wants you! Tickets for all performances are reduced to $7 for students, and promotions are frequently available for free tickets through the Music Department.
 Some New Yawkas are learning to tawk with a less distinctive regional accent. (NY Times) The Pope says condoms are OK for male prostitutes. (NPR) Luckily, the Post has the "inside story of the turkeys set to be pardoned by the president." Two of the Ben-Franklin-promoted birds "will live the life of luxury" while their brethren are mercilessly stuffed and eaten. The Feds are preparing insider trading charges against bankers, consultants, traders, and analysts in the wake of a three year investigation. (WSJ) Thanks to union financial troubles, the children of more than 30,000 home attendants will no longer have health insurance. (Metropolis) Image via Wikimedia Commons
 Bwog caught up with the winners of The Social Experiment, Sharon Wu and Abril Dozal, to find out how they won, what they plan to do with their winnings, and whether or not they will buy their friends cake. What are you going to do with the money? Sharon: I'm using it to pay for my sorority dues. Abril: I'm paying for my plane ticket home. We're also buying a cake for the friends that helped us win. What was your strategy for winning? We asked all of our friends to play even if they weren't actually interested, just so that they could help us out. We also asked anyone we could via facebook and text. Because we were working together, we were able to reach more people than we would have if we had worked alone. What did your friends think about you playing? Our friends were pretty supportive. We're getting them a cake to show our gratitude. Do you think anything has changed about the way people interact with each other? By the end of the game, not many people were playing, so we made better use of our existing contacts than engaging with strangers. Maybe if more people had played and really understood the game, there would have been more campus interaction. Do you like talking to people in elevators? Yes! In Nussbaum (where we live), people are really friendly, so it isn't awkward to start a conversation in the elevator. What's your favorite fall-back small talk conversation? Lately we've been obsessed with Harry Potter, so that's been popping up in every conversation. Do you think Columbia's reputation as an anti-social school is unfair? We've always felt like people here are really friendly, but we understand why we might have a reputation for being anti-social. We might not have the same campus cohesiveness as some of the schools in rural areas do, but we definitely are social people. We don't think you can actually enjoy living in the city if you're anti-social. We think that because of this reputation, the media really distorted the purpose of the game and put it in a negative light. We took it as a fun way to distract ourselves from the stress of classes, not as a necessary means of facilitating friendships. We do hope that the game continues in years to come... we promise not to win again! Image via Wikimedia Commons
A boy and girl are walking outside of Lerner: Boy: So, I'm not going to see you next week. Girl: Why? Boy: Because you'll have your period.
Hannah Goldstein spent a night at the ballet last night. Here is her story. It's always a pleasure to see the Columbia Ballet Collaborative, and this semester was no exception. The performance group, which was founded to contain just some of the vast ballet talent at our proud talent-filled university, is extraordinarily selective and accepts only professional-level (if not professional) ballet dancers—not to mention the most talented up-and-coming choreographers. Last night the group put on the second show of its fall company showcase with six original pieces at Barnard's Marion Streng Studio. The program started off with "Sound in One Movement," a very lovely ensemble piece featuring Alexandra McGlade and Kara Buckley as soloists to the music of live violinist Philip Wharton playing an original composition. The corps flanked the soloists on either side as they performed a classical-type variation with lots of chaînes and piques en pointe. Once the corps started to dance—"on flat" rather than en pointe—the piece turned decidedly more neoclassical. Dancers crossed the floor with outstretched arms and upturned palms, a more experimental touch to an otherwise traditional piece. The second piece was farther to the contemporary end of the ballet spectrum, straying much farther from the traditional ballet lexicon though it was set to a recording of Vivaldi. Dancers Elysia Dawn and Amar Ramasar—the latter appearing courtesy of New York City Ballet (!)—wound around each other in black-tie dance costumes, with Dawn performing long, almost sorrowful penchées. Both dancers expressively captured a repeated wave-like outward spiraling motion that seemed to flow from their core to their hands and fingers to poignant effect. This piece was calm and seemed quieter than the first, even beyond the lack of pointe shoes. Both dancers exhibited a supreme quality of movement that lent itself to serpentine but precise steps and sharp gestures in the air. The third piece fell more in the realm of neoclassical or lyrical dance. Dancers performed in a rainbow of soft pink and yellow costumes. The choreography incorporated intricate recurrent chains of pas de bourrées across the floor that seemed evocative of the famed Dance of the Little Swans. In one moment of particular grace, the entire corps stepped into a pique arabesque in unison and began to dance as one larger unit. Dancers then executed short bits of the signature quick steps and jumps of petit allegro to the music, a song by Joanna Newsom, all while displaying an impressive amount of upper-body control. There was also an aesthetically pleasing use of costume, with a color symmetry in the pas de trois sections. The use of line was also especially interesting in this piece, with cupped hands and delicate positions that were almost reminiscent of hastas and Kathak poses in classical Indian dance. After a fourth classically balletic piece and a fifth airy dance that made most use of the floor, the program ended with "Palindrome." It was markedly different from any other that had been showcased thus far. In an unusual combination of forms, CBC's resident choreographer Emery LeCrone had her dancers perform ballet and modern movements in a hip-hop context. To a fast, jarring, and almost machine-gun like electronic recording, dancers fluidly popped and locked between more fragile and traditional movements, sometimes accelerating those more classical movements to a hip-hop pace. It was very abstract and unexpected, a further reminder how versatile and talented the CBC company members can be. Even in interludes with no music at all, the dancers held focus and danced with a kind of quiet intensity, catching each other's bodies as they nimbly wove out and around from each other in webs like one giant spiraling organism. Instead of taking the requisite curtsies (or bows, in the case of the danseurs), the dancers continued weaving all the way offstage as the lights went down. The show was beautiful to watch; this Bwogger's only complaint was the aforementioned space in which it was held: Barnard's Streng Studio, which is generally a class or rehearsal space and not an ideal venue for performances of this scale. Especially after seeing the company last year at Miller, this space felt anticlimactic, even if it was just for one of the three performances (which are otherwise taking place at the Manhattan Movement and Arts Center vvenue downtown). Otherwise the show was excellent, and the switch back to the larger venue will surely only add to the exquisiteness of the CBC's fall program.
Eegad! The side door of SIPA exiting onto Amsterdam is all bruised up! It's not a safe time to be a door in Morningside Heights. If you have any idea as to what happened, let us know in the comments! 
While waiting for the November issue of The Blue and White to arrive you can read the entire magazine as we preview it on Bwog. Michael Gallagher, the Sherman Fairchild Conservator in Charge of Paintings Conservation at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, has spent his career breathing new life into the works of the past. After receiving his degree in studio art, he attended the Hamilton Kerr Institute at the Fitzwilliam Museum at the University of Cambridge, a three-year program in conservation that then accepted only two students per year. Before coming to the Met, he worked at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin, and the National Galleries of Scotland. As an artist, conservator, and Briton native, Michael lends his perspective on New York, museum operations, and sustaining his passion for paintings. Blue &amp; White: How did you discover conservation and what drew you to the field? Michael Gallagher: I trained in studio art in the UK and left college not really knowing what to do with a fine arts degree. It was when I was traveling in Italy that I saw a lot of exhibitions where conservation was featured, and from one in particular I came back in high dudgeon. It was the restoration of an equestrian statue. The conservation treatment was really amazing, but I thought they over-glorified its actual role. I came back sort of complaining about it to a friend, and he said, "Have you ever thought about conservation?" And I said, "Oh, I couldn't do that, it's all science." And then it sort of planted a seed--a worm, probably, would be a better description. When I got back to the UK, I wondered how you do this, how you study it. I rang the National Gallery, which seems a little presumptuous, but I was very lucky. They put me through to someone in Paintings Conservation, and the person I spoke to was patient enough to explain that science is a really integral part of the field, but as were other aspects, and that most people had to play catchup in some area. I think one of the most sensible things she did was suggest that I get a few books, including a set of Science for Conservators. I think she thought, "Let's see if he gets past this." And that was how it started. B&amp;W: How do you think your fine arts training has impacted your work as a conservator? MG: I'd always looked at Old Master paintings. And I think in having manipulated materials, it gives you some insight--I don't think this necessarily has to do with my studio art training, but I feel very aware of how humbling this work is. On vacation I still paint, and I always come back with a renewed sense of humility. B&amp;W: What is a typical day like in the studio? MG: It's changed a lot over my career. When I worked in Berlin, my entire role there was to turn up and work entirely on the paintings. And that was a great experience, but one I felt was a bit one-note. I actually quite like the diversity here but I get very grumpy if I'm out of the studio for more than a couple weeks. Well, take last week. On Monday, there was a connoisseurship class, which is when the curators bring in a group of students. Then the Gossart show--I was taking part in a two-hour presentation with someone else from conservation and the curator. Then we had a visitor from Russia. This isn't so typical, but I went down to MoMA to see the Matisse exhibition. Last week wasn't a good week for doing practical work, because there's e-mails coming in between. I try and block out time to work in the studio. Then today, I was working on an article in here and doing e-mail. It varies like that. Sometimes there's just reports to be done. However, I think compared to when I was working in a national institution in the UK, there's much less administrative work and bureaucracy . Some performance indicators are sort of meaningless targets in this field. No one can say if we work on two pictures or if we work on 25 which has been the better year. It depends what the problems are and how they've been resolved. I honestly feel that we should try to capture the interest of as large an entry group as possible. But when that starts to be dragged into a political agenda, it distorts it. It changes-- B&amp;W: It changes the meaning of your work. MG: It's a fine line. Some institutions manage to sail along that line really well, and others you go to and you feel like you've lost your way or you've sold your soul. It's like when an institution starts to patronize its audience, as though no one's ever going to come back. If you aim your labels at a smart 14-year-old, what happens when that 14-year-old grows up? B&amp;W: But you feel like the Met is aiming a little bit higher? MG: Yes. When I told people I got this job--I was at the National Galleries of Scotland at the time--it was coveted more by curators, because they think the Met is like nirvana. They see that serious scholarship goes on, serious exhibitions are still being programmed here, and they think, "This is why I went into art history." B&amp;W: Do you think that sense of seriousness has something to do with the intellectual culture of New York and the Met's place in that? MG: It probably does. I grew up in a small town. Small towns are fine, but there's not the same intellectual ferment you get in cities like London or New York. There's an audience here willing to take on the challenge of an exhibition that might not be so mainstream. It's the responsibility of an institution to keep up that challenge rather than take an easier route. I'm biased, but I do think the Met's managed to retain its integrity. With something like the Gossart show, the curator worked on that for five years. It was a commitment on the part of the institution to the cost of doing an intellectual exhibition. B&amp;W: Do you ever get to integrate technical information into your exhibitions? MG: There seems to be a move in that direction. It's clear the public has an interest, and I believe that an institution like us should be curatorially-led. I find the most relevant role of conservation is when the understanding of the work of art is enhanced, rather than it all being about conservation. It's not always a field that's well understood, and it doesn't always lend itself-- B&amp;W: To being understood? MG: --To sound bite. It tends to get reduced to the genius of recovery, or to some kind of vandalism, and there's not much in between. Conservation should contribute to a sophisticated understanding, not just a shopping list of materials. The miracle of great paintings is that they're these simple things turned into visual poetry, and in any discussion of what we do that should be central. B&amp;W: One of the biggest controversies in the profession is between reconstruction and preservation. How do you balance those two concerns? MG: I worked on a very large picture once in the National Gallery of Scotland, and the public came in during the entire process. I'm not sure I'd ever do that again. But it was really revelatory to listen--because I had no choice but to listen--to what comments were being made. It's like you're on television so people think you can't hear. You're working and they talk about you as a disembodied thing. The understanding of what was happening--what was cleaning, what was retouching, and what we do in retouching, which is that we retouch damages--whereas people felt we were brightening, as though we were wholesale repainting. It's because it's a slow process, but the impact can be enormous, so it's difficult to grasp. In terms of retouching, I always tell people it's like cancelling out white noise. If it were for a piece of music, it would be so you could hear the original. It isn't digitally remastering, it's just getting rid of that hiss of damage. It's surprising how dominant, especially with a great painting, the remaining original is. Great pictures do rise from the dead! And fortunately, not every picture that comes through the studio is in a particularly damaged state. Many things come up here to be examined to see if they're stable to go on loan, or to be examined and researched for questions that may come from curators and art historians in the building. B&amp;W: But when you do have to retouch an image, it seems that developing technology--infared spectroscopy, for instance, which allows conservators to analyze pigment composition, or x-ray technology, which allows conservators to see underlying layers of paint--could significantly improve the process. MG: Conservation is a young field. The sense of a shared agreement about the sets of skills required for the conservator in terms of an understanding of painting technique, an understanding of factors that might cause deterioration--whether it's the effect of light, or changes in humidity, the solvent action, deterioration of varnishes--that's all almost postwar. That being said, it isn't as though mistakes haven't been made in the past fifty years. Paintings are not rocket ships. If you're using really sophisticated technology to ask the wrong questions of a work of art, you can start to go into a manic preservationist mode that is inappropriate for works that have survived many centuries. How you use technology requires sensitivity and intelligence to ask the right questions and use the right tools. The potential is definitely there to do good, but it doesn't mean that the potential to do harm has gone away. B&amp;W: How would you characterize the sensitivity that makes a good conservator? MG: I have always thought that if someone came through and thought, "I don't think he likes pictures," that would be the most crushing criticism that anyone could level. It sounds really superficial, but when I see people come through who are interested in studying conservation, if they're more interested in the problems than they are in the works of art, that sets off an alarm bell to me. You want to resolve a problem because you love the work of art and you respect it. You don't want to just fall in love with solving problems and being clever. I love my job, and I wouldn't have been sucked into it if I didn't find it an exciting field. But I know that one day when conservation isn't there for me, the pictures will be. B&amp;W: Do you have any favorite projects? MG: It's been really exciting working on a group of pictures associated with Velasquez. I was in on Sunday, and I was going up the stairs, and I looked down and I saw the Velasquez and Rubens and Del Sarto and I thought, "You know, life isn't so bad." I always get mother love for the next thing. Working on the Velazquez from the Frick and the rediscovery of the Velasquez portrait last year have been exciting, but you get sucked into whatever you're working on. B&amp;W: Like the Velasquez portrait? MG: It was a picture that had come into the collection in the ‘20s. It had come in as a Velasquez, but we learned that it had been radically distorted before it was sold by a restoration that attempted to turn what was a life sketch into a finished portrait and was "Old Masterfied"--it killed the picture, really. As the materials that had been used to tone it back aged, it just got more and more dull until it really didn't register on the wall. Keith Christiansen was always intrigued by the picture, and when I worked on the Frick's Velazquez, he said it might be a good time to look at this portrait. I did a cleaning test and was really shocked by the level of distortion. I carried on cleaning, and a couple hours later I rang Keith and said he had to come up. That was a very exciting thing to happen. It doesn't happen very often, and probably will never happen again. Velasquez is such a wonderfully painterly artist that it's very exciting to be involved in something like that. B&amp;W: Do you feel like you've come to any new understanding of Velasquez, or any other artists, through working so closely with these pieces? MG: You get some insights. It's very tempting to think you get insight into the person, but with any art form you have to be really careful about thinking you understand or know the artist. You can start to project who they were, and again and again you're proven totally wrong. Sometimes a body of literature that has been amassed about--well, an old master--can start to resonate with things you see in the work, and you do feel like there's some connection. Certainly, if you work on a number of related things, aspects of technique start to become familiar. But again, I always think you need to approach that with a degree of humility. When I first came to New York, I was very naïve. When you'd say you needed something, everyone said, "Oh, I've got the best"--the best cobbler, the best dentist. Gradually it dawned on me that everyone's choice was the best. And they want you to be the best: to swing in with your silver-tipped cane and say, "It couldn't possibly be a Titian!" I think you have to avoid that--the comic, absurd side of it. When it comes to complex issues, they are just that. They need reflection, they need discussion. Sometimes a gut instinct is good, but then you have to analyze what's creating that instinct. B&amp;W: Your life isn't The Da Vinci Code, basically. MG: Yes. But I think often people would like it to be.
Spotted on the outer wall of John Jay, a doodle to cheer you up, then make you sad, then cheer you up, then... 
BwogWeather gets dangerous. Thank you to James Fletcher, Cape Air, Roger Lemery of North Country Auto Rentals, Henry Jones, Jeremy Pfau, Jake Smith, Jake's siblings Caleb and Rebekah, and the City Council Board of Tourism for Lebanon, NH. 
 Relay For Life at Columbia wants you to come by for free food in John Jay Lounge from 10-11 PM. Homemade candy apples, homemade pumpkin cupcakes, popcorn, and candy will be served in honor of Relay For Life's 2011 theme - Candyland Carnival. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 The New York Mets have a new manager. This will be your year, guys! No more unfortunate Met-ahpors... (ESPN) The Northwest Science Building is ruffling some feathers. Is it interdisciplinary enough? SEAS-sy enough? Transparent enough? At least it reflects clouds —a magic mirror to the sky! (Spec) This past weekend everyone was kvetching about getting fondled by TSA. People are getting super angry and naked. Safe travels friends! (NYTimes, NY Mag—best headline award: "Don't Scan Me, Bro," Politico, MSNBC, TIME). The Atlantic has a pretty good run-down of all the drama minus the stories about urine and prosthetic breasts. Remember when you used to blaze and go on Chatroulette sometimes? Then you saw too many penises and stopped. Well, some other techie folks haven't lost hope in random video connections (NYTimes). Barnardians, Lily Cederbaum and Vaidehi Joshi, waited in line to see the midnight Harry Potter showing, chatted with a reporter, and got quoted in the WSJ blog. From the article: "Vaidehi Joshi, a 20-year-old Sirius Black impersonator, arrived with 20-year-old Lily Cedarbaum, dressed as Buckbeak the Hippogriff. “I wanted to be Sirius because he’s awesome, and I got to go all out,” Joshi said. “We’re the Harry Potter generation, so this is a momentous thing.” Word. (WSJ) Photo from Wikimedia Commons
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Mon Nov 22 “Negotiating for Palestine” 707 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Alvaro de Soto and Diana Buttu “Sabor Inferno: Our Divine Comedy” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 11:00 pm, Sabor “Lost at Sea: Environmental Refugees from a Scientific and Legal Perspective” 312 Mathematics Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Michael B. Gerrard, Michael Oppenheimer, and Alex M. DeSherbinin Tues Nov 23 “The Architecture of Michelangelo” Casa Italiana, 2:00 pm – 3:45 pm, Francesco Benelli “America’s Economic Crisis—Where Do We Go From Here?” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Jeffrey D. Sachs “Death Squadrons—Film Screening” 517 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm FULL LIST Mon Nov 22 “Social Influence and the Autism Epidemic” 509 Knox, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Ka-Yuet Liu “Parental Social Capital and Educational Attainment” 509 Knox, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Anette Fasang “The New Financial Regulatory Regimes: Japan, U.S., and Europe” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Gillian Tett, Takatoshi Ito, and Lawrence Golsten “Information Communication Technologies for Smart Cities” 1512 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “Negotiating for Palestine” 707 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Alvaro de Soto and Diana Buttu “Sabor Inferno: Our Divine Comedy” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 11:00 pm, Sabor “Lost at Sea: Environmental Refugees from a Scientific and Legal Perspective” 312 Mathematics Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Michael B. Gerrard, Michael Oppenheimer, and Alex M. DeSherbinin “ROOTEd Sundaes on Mondays: Class at Columbia” Intercultural Resource Center, 9:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Student Led Tues Nov 23 “Educating a New Workforce: The New Carbon Management Masters Program” 503 Lerner Hall, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Peter Schlosser “From Beirut to Baghdad to Kabul: Civil War, Sectarianism, Occupation, Resistance, and Counterinsurgency” 1302 IAB, 12:10 pm – 2:00 pm, Nir Rosen “Five Years of the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission: An Appraisal” 501A IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Vanessa Wyeth “The Architecture of Michelangelo” Casa Italiana, 2:00 pm – 3:45 pm, Francesco Benelli “America’s Economic Crisis—Where Do We Go From Here?” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Jeffrey D. Sachs “DSLR Photography 101” 568 Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Columbia University Photography Society “Death Squadrons—Film Screening” 517 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm 
 They're installing new turnstiles. Stylin'! Cross your fingers they won't install revolving doors like the Broadway-facing side. Fun fact: the trick with those is to pull the door/ metal contraption before you push it. Retreat to move forward! 
 Brian Wagner was on the scene. The meeting started with a brief update on the new space CUEMS had requested. GSSC and ESC voted to give them both Broadway 102 and 103, but ABC voted against CUEMS using either one of the rooms. Then, CCSC moved into the main business of the evening. Generally, meetings start with a few requests by student groups for CCSC to cosponsor events. CCSC usually accepts the requests, though sometimes provides slightly less money than a group wants. This time, however, Bacchanal requested a CCSC consponsorship. As you know, their events tend to be a little larger and more expensive than those of the average student group. Members raised concerns that CCSC’s money would merely be a drop in the bucket compared to the total cost of Bacchanal's event, and delayed a vote until more in-depth discussions take place. Then came the controversial smoking ban. Following the September release of Tobacco Working Group’s report, which recommended increasing the required distance between smokers and the nearest building entrance, CCSC discussed the whether to recommend a 20- or 50-foot anti-smoking force field. After checking out some fancy maps of campus with both 20- and 50-foot bans delineated, CCSC voted unanimously in support of a resolution backing a 20 foot rule. The Good Samaritan Policy, discussed last week, was also passed unanimously. However, the council made an  important change from the version previously discussed. The resolution now includes amnesty for student organizations, as well as individuals. Some council members feared this might be abused by organizations. Perhaps people would make unnecessary calls to CUEMS for no reason other than to gain amnesty if there is fear a party might be busted. The council concluded the risk of this type of abuse was relatively low compared to the benefits of instituting the policy. Finally, CCSC considered the creation of a Columbia Club Soccer . Club sports are technically not allowed to use “team” in their official titles; that’s reserved for varsity sports. CCSC has no power to create a club soccer team, but the resolution would show that council members support the creation of such a team. The issue isn’t a new one; the Club Sports Governing Board considered a similar proposal last year. As it stands, Columbia is the only Ivy with no club soccer “team,” leaving us conspicuously and embarrassingly absent from the annual tournament. The main problem in creating a club soccer team is the lack of practice space, but the club soccer advocate made it clear that the group would completely take up the responsibility of finding practice space. A CSGB representative mentioned that in order for club soccer to happen, the CSGB constitution would need to be amended because it currently forbids the creation of club teams that have a varsity counterpart. CSGB was concerned that allowing club soccer would open the floodgates for a surge of new requests for recognition. Still, the rep noted that CSGB would maintain strict requirements and monitor new clubs closely. Bearing all these complications in mind, CCSC voted unanimously in support of club soccer. Image via Wikimedia Commons
It seems everyone’s lookin‘ for a little lovin‘ at Columbia these days. People also do a lot of whining at this school that they’ll never find love. Bwog is here to prove those people kind-of-wrong! Believe it or not, people find their life long mates here! Even Hawkma rides the wings of love. In this installment of College Sweethearts, meet Skylar and Duncan, two Texan freshmen who prove the Lone Star state isn't so lonely after all. Raphaelle Debenedetti reports... Know a Sweetheart-worthy Columbia couple? Tell us: tips@bwog.com. How did you guys meet? Skylar: We are both from Houston, Texas and we met at the Houston acceptance Columbia reception on April 10, 2010. Duncan: Yeah, I probably wouldn’t have started a relationship if I didn’t know we were both going to be at Columbia. So because you both live in Houston, have your families met? S: Yeah. our families have spent quite a bit of time together, we have a brother and sister in common who are the same age and have a lot in common, and they are friends (just friends, not dating!). Our parents all really like each other. D: Yeah your mom was with my mom like two days ago. S: Our moms hung out two days ago in Houston. It's cute. It makes it easier since we are both really big family people— D: We put family first. S: Family is really important. What's it like being one of the only successful freshmen couples here? D: It's weird because people always ask us awkward questions like— S: “Did y’all just meet here? You're already dating?” D: And we have to repeat the story all over again. S: And some are like “Oh so you guys applied together, how cute!” D: There’s actually another couple on campus that met exactly the same way. What activities do you do at Columbia? S: Yeah, what activities do you do? D: What do I do? I play football. S: And I’m in a musical. And we're contributors and copy editors at The Federalist. D: Well she’s a copy editor— S: And he’s a contributor. Do these activities give you any time to spend together? D: Well they kind of separate us, but we see each other quite often, as often as possible. S: We try to eat together as often as we can, because that’s an easy time—we both have to eat during the day! D: It’s a good coincidence we have time in common. If I would have had more choice, since I have football, on what time to set my classes, I would have tried to get more time together though. What do you do to see each other more often? D: Catching movies, going downtown— S: We walk around. D: We swing dance! S: Yeah, and we took some salsa dancing classes. D: She’s teaching me how to play the piano, and we play guitar together. What’s your favorite song to play together? S: Well, considering I only know like three songs… I’m not very good at the guitar, but he’s really good. D: Well she knows how to play “Black Bird” a lot better than I do, so we play that together. It sounds really nice. But we like playing other songs— S: We are really disgustingly cute. People hate us for it! We sing to each other too. Could you name each other’s favorite movies? D: Yes! Moulin Rouge definitely. S: That's unfair! It’s sitting upstairs on my shelf! D: You’re turn. Do my favorite movie now. S: Well you don’t— D: Yeah I don’t— S: You don’t have a favorite movie really. D: Yeah I’m just like “I love that movie” all the time! Just pick one, and if it’s one I really like I’ll just say its my favorite. S: You love Snatch. D: Okay that’s good! So will you guys see each other over the breaks? D: Yes definitely. S: It’s awesome that we get to see each other back home. D: Well we are still going to spend half the holidays with our families. S: But our families are going to do joint festivities since they get along really well. What are your biggest differences? D: Differences happen in relationship, but nothing to fight about. If you can understand them and talk about them, it’s all good. S: Our biggest differences are that we wish we could be more like the other person. Like, he’s really relaxed all the time and I’m high stressed all the time. I wish I could be more chilled about everything, but he calms me down when I’m stressed. D: But she’s a lot more devoted to things, like doing work, being a really good student and successful because of the work she puts in to it. I hope it rubs off on me a little bit. You stole my next “favorite thing about each other” question. Any thing else about you two you want to add? Together: Mmm. D: We make each other things all the time. S: Yeah! Like I needle pointed him a belt. I’m currently knitting him a scarf and needle pointing him a Christmas socking. I cook for him. I bake him cookies—
 Objects in the window may be closer than they appear... In other news, the Natural History Museum is missing a Tyrannosaurus. Remember when NPR told us dinosaur exhibits reflect the national mood? Apparently, we're going through a dinosaur family values phase... Update: Ivan Duschatzky, SEAS ’13, writes on his dinosaur,  "It reminds me of a night that will forever haunt my mind." Spotted in a McBain window.
It's only November, but your "most cherished professors" are already bidding adieu. Tomorrow at 10:00, registration opens for the first farewell of the Closing Remarks Professor lecture series. Our very own PrezBo will give the inaugural lecture on December 7th. Seniors from all four schools in Columbia University are invited. Full email from "The Closing Remarks Committee" below: Dear Columbia Senior, You are invited to attend the inaugural lecture of the newly-launched Closing Remarks Professor Lecture Series, an initiative by your peers in the Columbia University class of 2011. Lee C. Bollinger, President of Columbia University and a University Professor of Law, will be the first speaker of the Closing Remarks series. The lecture will take place on Tuesday, December 7, 2010 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in Low Memorial Library. The lecture will be followed by a question and answer session and a reception. Advance online registration is required and is open to all seniors in Columbia University's four undergraduate schools. Registration will open on Tuesday, November 23, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. at http://www.universityprograms.columbia.edu/. The Closing Remarks Professor Lecture Series aims to give Columbia undergraduate seniors a chance to hear parting words from their most cherished professors. Following President Bollinger's participation in Closing Remarks, the series will resume in the spring and continue through the rest of the semester. If you have any questions, please send an email to closingremarks@columbia.edu. Sincerely, The Closing Remarks Committee 
Until the print edition arrives, read the November issue of The Blue and White on Bwog. Today, Sam Schube catches up with the director of Columbia's Miller Theatre. Miller Theatre, although regarded as a premier forum for contemporary dance and music, has struggled to carry its citywide renown into its own backyard. Despite Miller's on-campus presence and the nearly 80 percent ticket discount it offers, Columbia students only make up a fifth of each concert audience. Even then, Miller Theatre Director Melissa Smey recognizes that those undergrads are there mainly for concerts like the Bach series--anything that furnishes a usable essay for Music Humanities. "You should want to go to a concert, not because you have to, or because you ought to," she says. The current season--Smey's first since her recent promotion to director--features Miller's trademark eclectic blend of early and new music, but Smey is eager to continue innovating the way the Theatre interacts with the University. Simply put, she is convinced that the Theatre can play a more significant role in student life. Smey credits her predecessor George Steel with making Miller "the only game in town for new music" during his 11-year reign. After spurring Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center to develop new music programming (with Carnegie Hall even building a Miller-sized space for new music), Miller, always the innovator, looked inward for inspiration. This season's program reprises the traditional "Composer Portraits" series, but the current iteration will feature two Miller firsts: a world, U.S., or New York premiere at every concert, along with a discussion with the composer. Miller's ambitious, constant reinvention reflects its aim to establish a niche in the New York music scene. "There's no point in being the third-best string quartet series," Smey explains, "because you can go to Carnegie and hear number one and number two." Smey hopes to focus these aspirations to tackle one of the fine art's biggest hurdles: programming for the everyman, or in Miller's case, the Columbia man. Miller is a destination for music aficionados throughout the Tri-State area, but Smey admits that "in a way, it's easier to attract the press than a wide audience of students." Under Smey's direction, then, audience development has become one of the Theatre's top priorities. Smey describes the Miller- Columbia dynamic, with its "brand-new, self-renewing potential base of audience members every year," as a laboratory to explore strategies for audience growth. She has, for example, arranged for four sections of Music Humanities to hold class inside Miller during concert rehearsals, and the Theatre has begun analyzing ticket data to better target audiences in addition to conducting focus groups among students. Ultimately, Smey aims to "distill the principles of audience development: what is it that's compelling, what makes it interesting?" With Columbia's help, she hopes Miller can set yet another example to make Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall salivate: "A national model for audience development everywhere." It's worth pointing out that Smey seems perfectly suited for the admittedly difficult task. She's excitable and bubbly (she favors the adjective "awesome"), and she has a proverbial ear tuned to youth culture to broaden Miller's experimental horizons. Last year, for example, a New York Times piece revealed her affinity for bands like Arcade Fire and Vampire Weekend. To her, thinking-man's indie rock is another avenue to attract student interest, envisioning a Miller "unplugged indie series." "They could all be showcased here," she says. "And then we could hang out with them--wouldn't that be great?" Illustration by Stephen Davan
The Barnard Bulletin will give you unspecified snacks in the Saint Anna Quindlen Room at 8:00pm. Then stop by the Lerner Ramps at 9:00 pm for a free Havana Central empanada, courtesy of the POTUS project. You don't have to shell out any cash, but this pastry comes at a price: you have to write a letter! Bwog suggests you "tell your friend POTUS he's got a funny name and he should learn how to ride a bicycle."
Live from the SGA meeting-- the votes have been counted! 56.9 percent of the student body voted. 768 students voted for the recognition of Greek Life at Barnard and 577 students voted against. Thats 57.1% for and 42.9% against. A difference of 191 students out of the 1345 students who voted. DSpar is at the meeting, and she expressed her satisfaction about the way SGA has handled this issue. SGA will vote on whether to officially recognize Greek Life next Monday.
Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, master virus hunter and a professor at the Mailman School of Public Health, is featured in the Times for his mad virus skills. (NYT) Someone put a "9 3/4" train sticker on a sign for the 14th st.-Union Square subway station. The MTA is not expected to provide service to Hogwarts, however. (NYP) The national executive director of the fraternity Tau Epsilon Phi, which was founded at Columbia in 1910, is being sued for making unreasonable financial demands of the fraternity's chapters, while providing little service. (NYT) You can expect to find this pair of cowboy boots in Central Park every night. Is it ghosts? Is it art? Is it a labor union organizer? (CityRoom) Today is Miley Cyrus's 18th birthday! (MTV) image via Wikimedia
 Zoë Camp tells all! Of course, the night's main point of interest was the revelation of the Greek Life poll results. But last night's SGA meeting had other notable moments. Big Bossy Lady DSpar stopped by the meeting for about an hour to address a number of questions and to give attendees an update on her recent travels. She's been traveling to Dallas, Houston and Boston  to reach out to alumnae and prospective students. Spar hopes to expand the alumnae clubs and further emphasize their inclusion in the greater Barnard community. Those looking for internships outside of the New York area should stay tuned-- according to DSpar, the administration is investigating internship opportunities in Dallas, thanks to alumnae networking. In the spring, DSpar will head to South Africa and South Korea with the hopes of internationalizing the Barnard name and getting more young women interested in the school. New Barnard Dean Avis Hinkson (A-Hinks!) will start her new job on February 14th (&lt;3), and DSpar is thrilled to have her on board. "The New Dean is wonderful. She’s really Barnard- she loves this place and everyone who talks to her says she’s really excited to be here," she said. Vice President Denburg will have plenty to do, as well - among the possible ventures she will be heading are expanding the college's programs in Israel, developing a three-part, multidisciplinary study of the Hudson River, and planning more pre-college programs in areas like architecture and theatre. Early Decision application rates are way up for the college - anywhere between 30 and 40 percent by current estimates, and, according to DSpar, this year's pool is very strong. While she is excited by this news concerning the 2015ers, she stressed her vision for alumnae - “the most important thing you can all do is get involved as alumnae the second you walk off this campus” - and her idea that in order to get older alumnae engaged, younger alumnae need to get more involved as well. She also stressed the need for developing more Barnard traditions, and was visibly excited when SGA mentioned the Greek Games' possible return. "The chariot's in the basement!" she reminded them. Students eager to voice their opinion on the proposed smoking ban on Barnard's campus will have their chance to do so next Monday. In next week's SGA  email, students will be able to vote on the proposed smoking ban. SGA will take these opinions consideration when they vote on the issue in a few weeks' time. And a hearty congratulations to Yoga Inspire, who by unanimous vote was granted the status of a Stage 1 recognized group! Now go and perform Sun Salutations to your heart's content.
 Greenmarket is today and not Thursday ('cause Thursday is Thanksgiving, duh) so that means that this is your last chance to stock up on local- and localish-ly produced comestibles on Broadway before break. Some highlights: A duck booth, offering Thanksgiving duck of all varieties: smoked duck, duck legs, duck confit, and duck fat Decorative fall-y things like Indian corn and a variety of colorful squashes and what have you An extra offering of seasonal pies and muffins from Meredith's Bread Pride of New York wine, hailing from Long Island and offering free samples of an array of reds and whites for between-class drinking image via Wikimedia Commons
Last night Sabor, Columbia's largest Latin dance group, performed its show Inferno: Our Divine Comedy.  Before the show, the line to enter Roone was out the door and down towards the 115th street gates, and the show was packed indeed.  Inferno featured singing, dancing and spoken word, directly or indirectly revolving aroung the axis of kindness and love and service.  Proceeds from the event will fund Sabor's annual service trip.  The show was divided into five Cantos (you know, like Lit Hum) featuring different themes such a "Kindness," "Confusion" and "Addiction."  In addition to traditional Latin American music, performers danced to Kanye, R. Kelly, Coldplay and musical numbers, inspiring the crowd to cheer, whoop and call out friends' names.  The show maintained a frenetic, contagious energy throughout. Hooray, Sabor! Loads of images after the jump. Photos by CDS
 The holidays in New York are the most wonderful time of the year... so long as you live in New York. For the rest of us, it entails a desperate odyssey to get out of the city in order to see our friends and families. There are lots of ways to get out in one piece. Bwog’s resourceful Peter Sterne tells you how. Trains If you’ve shrewdly decided to live close to Columbia, then you should be able to take the train home. Those traveling to Westchester or southern Connecticut on Metro-North should make sure to check the holiday schedule here and you should wish you had the foresight to buy a ticket online. If you (like this Bwogger) have yet to buy a ticket, make sure to get to Grand Central at least an hour or two early since the lines in front of the ticket machines will be ridiculous. Alternatively, you could take the M60 to 125th station, which should have shorter lines at the ticket machines. But remember that if you catch the train at 125th, you’ll be lucky if there’s standing room, let alone a seat, on the train. When traveling on NJ Transit or the LIRR, the same advice applies. Here are the NJ Transit and LIRR schedules that cover Thanksgiving. Just make sure you go to Penn Station instead of Grand Central or 125th! If you’re an Amtrak customer, be sure to take advantage of the Quik-Trak system. All you have to do is make a reservation on Amtrak’s site, print out the order confirmation, and scan the order confirmation at a kiosk in Penn Station that will print out your ticket for you.  If you’re an Amtrak customer, though, you’re probably paying way too much for your ticket (especially if you’re taking the Acela!) if you’re willing to endure a longer travel time, you can get to the same place for a fraction of the price. Planes If you decide to fly, make sure to check if your airline offers online check-in. This service allows you to check in to your flight before you even arrive at the airport, saving you fro waiting in the long line at the check-in counter. Most major airlines, including United, Continental, Jetblue, US Airways, Southwest, Delta, American Airlines, Air Canada, and British Airways offer this useful service. Of course, one of the biggest hassles of flying out of New York City (other than those new full-body scanners) is just getting to the airport in the first place. If you’re going to LaGuardia with light luggage and you have an hour or two to spare, you can’t beat taking the M60 for only $2.25. You could take a cab to JFK (check out Carsplit, always!) but it’s much cheaper to get to the E  train (at either Port Authority or 50th street) and take it to the JFK Airtrain. If you’ve inexplicably decided that your best bet is to fly out of Jersey, you should avoid the roads at all costs. There’s a reason the GWB was named one of the most congested freeways in the country. Instead, get down to the Port Authority PENN STATION and take NJ Transit to the Newark Airtrain. And Automobiles The king of buses is BoltBus, which offers dirt cheap tickets and amenities including WiFi and power outlets. Unsurprisingly, every single Boltbus ticket for Wednesday is sold out. At post time, there were a few tickets available on Craigslist, but they weren’t too cheap. For us frugal students, the next best option is probably a Chinatown bus line. But be warned: these buses are almost overbooked, so get there early and practice your Mandarin ahead of time. Fung Wah, the oldest and most famous Chinatown bus, will get you from Manhattan to Boston with no stops and no amenities for $15. If you can afford an extra $5 and want a more BoltBus-like experience, you can check out the new Worldwide Bus, which will get you from Manhattan to Newton, MA (Boston College) or Cambridge, MA (Harvard/MIT) for only $20. If you need to go to another East Coast city, you can check out the prices of various routes that Chinatown buses cover here. If you want to stay away from Chinatown, you can check out the mainstream line Greyhound, which has guaranteed seating and rates that are sometimes competitive with the Chinatown lines. What if you’re not lucky enough to live on the East Coast? Well, Greyhound can take you anywhere in North America if you’re willing to pay over $100 for a ticket. However you plan to get out of the city, make sure that you don’t leave it to the last minute. Unlike TAs, trains and planes won’t give you extensions. And if you any advice on traveling during the holidays, feel free to leave it in the comments! Happy no-school, friends! image via Wikimedia Commons
Sean Zimmermann reports on last night's ESC meeting. ESC Sustainability Liaison Will Cybriwsky, in collaboration with GreenUmbrella, GreenBorough, and Eco Reps, is working to organize a “book swap,” where students would give their used textbooks to ESC after the semester. The council would then sell the books for the student, and give them the money from the sale. If the book doesn’t sell, the book is returned to the student. The idea is to encourage student to recycle books while also giving students the real market rate for their books (instead of the book store, which only pays students a percentage of the market rate). Council members discussed that, according to dinning services, only 30 students so far have used the newly implemented takeout options at JJ’s place. This comes as a surprise to both the council and Dinning Services, as the lack of JJ’s takeout was one of the most common complaints in the recent dining survey. Though the council discussed splitting the current amnesty policy proposal into two separate initiatives, one for individual students and one for groups, it was decided that the council would vote on a single updated proposal, which would offer amnesty to both individuals and groups, at the next meeting. Under the proposal passed by CCSC, student groups hosting an event, as well as students in the immediate vicinity, would receive amnesty if a student called CAVA. ESC President Chris Elizondo reported EC will receive an electronic turnstile for a second entrance. This should decrease the amount of time required to get into EC during busy nights, and is a small step in the council’s continuing efforts to expand the swipe system on campus. 
Chocomize was founded by three young entrepreneurs—Nick LaCava CC '09, Eric Heinbockel CC '08, and  Fabian Kaempfer CC'09—who met while studying together at Columbia University. One day they all went to a supermarket together. Nick, the one with the famed sweet tooth, visited the penny candy section and loaded up on candy, chocolate, and nuts. He accidentally left the bag in the car during the day, and when the three returned all the chocolate and candy had melted together into one giant ball. Fabian and Eric dared him to put the bag into the fridge and eat the hardened ball of chocolate, candy, and nuts. It was surprisingly delicious, (both Fabian and Eric ended up trying some) and the idea for Chocomize was born. Sylvie Krekow checked in with the sweet-toothed alum. Bwog: What has Chocomize’s biggest challenge been? Nick LaCava: It wasn’t difficult in the sense that writing a business plan or trying to raise money was a huge challenge, but taking something that just seemed like a good idea and then actually taking the risk and acting on it was a huge leap forward for all of us. In my experience, almost everyone seems to have a great idea that they think would work for a business. The biggest challenge is actually forcing yourself to take the risk and get your business started. Once you get the wheels moving you are able to tackle specific problems, but before you take the first step, you’re facing the imaginary and that can be pretty daunting. How’s business going in the chocolate world? Nick: Business is going great! Right now we’re getting geared up for the holiday season which is our busiest time. Our chocolate bars are really popular for gifts, so things get really crazy around Christmas.  We’ve also been getting some great press recently. In addition to Bwog, we’ve recently been in the NYT, Bloomberg Business Week Magazine, WSJ, and USA TODAY. It’s made things pretty crazy around the chocolate factory. What’s the best part about Chocomize? Nick: Being my own boss is great, not because I don’t ever have to answer to someone (not wanting to let Eric or Fabian down is probably tantamount to having a boss) but because every time we have some sort of success, I know that it is because of the hard work and risk that we put into starting the company and keeping it going. Plus being able to eat all the chocolate and candy that I want without having someone yell at me is pretty awesome. What’s the weirdest chocolate bar someone has ordered? Nick: We’ve had a lot of strange combinations, but the first bar that comes to mind is milk chocolate with bacon, Sour Patch Kids, Pop Rocks, and potato chips. I wouldn’t recommend it. What’s your favorite Chocomize bar? Nick: The s'mores bar is always great. Right now I really like milk chocolate with pretzels and M&amp; M’s. Bwog tested out some Chocomize bars and found the overall quality of the chocolate to be solid and loved the idea of designing your own bar.  Although some of the toppings were lackluster (the coconut flaked off!) the complete experience of eating a Chocomize bar was downright delicious.  Bwog can’t make up its mind on putting gummy bears in chocolate, but you, gentle reader, are free to make your own call on that one. 
 The Culinary Society is having a study break featuring seasonal pies at 9 PM in Lerner Ramp Lounge East. Reported flavors include cranberry-blueberry, macadamia-coconut, apple-sour cream, pumpkin, and pecan. You know it's gotta be good cause it's the Culinary Society, right? Right. See you there. Update, 6pm: Also, the Columbia University Photography Society is holding a workshop tonight on DSLR basics where there will be free pizza. It starts at 7pm in Lerner 568. Go get filled and learn something fancy that'll impress your relatives back home! Image via Wikimedia Commons
Catch up on the November issue of The Blue and White on Bwog until the print edition arrives. Always an area of intense pressure and continental clashes, Morningside Heights was pretty much the same place 450 million years ago as it is today. Except instead of panic attacks in Butler and anti-protest protests on College Walk, the neighborhood disturbances tended towards the geological. Continents collided, layers of sedimentary shale burst through the surface, and an extremely tough form of bedrock known as schist abounded. Today, a 30-foot pile of schist remains on 114th Street, sandwiched between the service entry to Havana Central to the east and the Columbia-owned brownstone Greenborough to the west. Although it's roughly the size of a circus tent, the rock is far from a spectacle. Instead it is a surprisingly uncared-for piece of Morningside lore. "It's hard for many of us to imagine that there once was, and still is to a lesser extent, a natural landscape here," says Andrew Dolkart, professor of architecture, planning and preservation and author of Morningside Heights: A History of Its Architecture and Development. Despite the daily deliveries that bring meat and produce into the restaurant's kitchen, Erika Rodriguez, manager of Havana Central, says that much of her waitstaff isn't aware of the boulder's existence. But the residents of Greenborough, a special interest house dedicated to environmentally sound living, are a more conscientious bunch. Among its residents, the pile of schist is referred to as "the famed rock." Elizabeth Kipp-Giusti, CC ’12, awaits the famed boulder's big break. "After years of working the burlesque circuit, next will be the inspirational movie about its life starring Sandra Bullock as a glacier. I smell Oscar!" Fanaticism aside, the rock elicits a kind of pacificism, if not distinctly romantic feelings from Emlyn Resetarits, CC ’12. She connects with the rock, saying it's nice to have such a "mountainous, natural entity" next door. The prospect of the rock, just outside her window, is a constant reminder of the essential tenets of the house—"A balance between nature and us living here sustainably." Covered in moss and saplings of an invasive species, some refer to it as the Tree of Heaven, the rock leads Resetarits to transcendental ecstasy: "If I could go out and sit and read on the top of the rock, I'd be the happiest person at Columbia." A recent construction project undertaken by Columbia Housing, however, would suggest that the organic majesty of the rock lies more in the eye of the beholder. The backyard of Greenborough and the rock were directly contiguous up until last spring when Housing erected a concrete wall resolutely separating the two and dashing all hopes of union between man and nature. Rock and a hard place, indeed. --Mariela Quintana Illustration by Hannah Ford 
Our time together was too short, friend.
The band gave a brief, unsolemn, Orgo-Night-style funeral to the alcoholic energy drink we all just barely knew. More touching images after the jump. 
 The Bloomberg administration has plans for this cool bike-sharing thing, and they think they have a plan to deal with theft and graffiti.  Talk about idealistic! (NYT) There was an unusually violent fight at Rikers, and officials won't say why.  Bwog suspects inmates are understandably upset that Weezy is gone. (NBC New York) Other people are picking up on the CUSJP checkpoint protest/counter-protest.  We're a forum for dialogue!  (YNetNews) CUIT is considering switching to Google Apps, but apparently they  " heard many student complaints about CubMail."  Also, apparently some people still use CubMail at all instead of forwarding.  Come on, people! (Spec) Update: Those new TSA scanners may cause cancer, according to a Columbia doc.  (The Consumerist) Image via Wikimedia http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-3988387,00.html
An anonymous tree-rights activist posted this flier at Lerner.  The daring disputant of all things deciduous forgot one thing though--how pretty naked trees and things look in the snowtime!  The squirrel point is well taken. Photo by JYH
You know how on Thanksgiving Day, every year there are reruns?  Well Bwog can see the greatness in Charlie Brown and so today we're rerunning some Thanksgiving posts of years past. In case yours is the misfortune/relief to be in Morningside Heights for Thanksgiving, turkey sandwiches abound. Or, should you be hankering for fellowship as well as a chicken inside a duck inside a turkey, Bwog can help you with that. And, with break up weekend very much a thing and very much here, there will be a shoulder to cry on, even if Bwog is "supposed to be snarky and cynical." Image via Wikimedia
Last year, Mark Hay cooked a turducken in a McBain kitchen and fed it to to the basketball team. Never to be outdone, Matthew Schantz made a Tofucken—a vegetarian turducken—in Nussbaum this week. He lived to tell the tale—and it wasn't half bad, either. Thanksgiving is a sad time for us vegetarians. No matter how much mashed potatoes or asparagus we heap onto our plates, we cannot forget the turkey’s absence. But this Saturday, instead of staring into the turkeyless void and having it stare back at me, I chose to fill the void—with Tofucken. Tofucken is the vegetarian equivalent to the Turducken. Instead of ramming a duck into a chicken into a turkey, I placed down a bed of mock-meat, tethered several mysterious mock-meats together, and stuffed them with more mock-meat. I had no idea where to start. My culinary experience is limited to cooking omelettes and sauteing things to put into omelettes. The only mock-meats I have ever cooked are veggie burgers in the microwave. Luckily, there are recipes for Tofucken. I followed this one, which called for one Tofucken, three stuffings, and a gravy. Due to time and skill constraints, I decided to cook only Tofucken and the mock-sausage stuffing. My goal was to pile as much fake meat as I could into one metal pan. My Tofucken adventure began with a trip to May Wah Healthy Vegetarian, a small store in Chinatown specializing in imitation-meats. They carry everything from the standards (chicken, turkey, duck) to veggie versions of the very exotic (BBQ gizzard). I am almost certain May Wah sold nothing but fake meats. As the recipe instructed, I purchased 6 packages of mock-meats: 2 chicken, 2 duck, turkey, and sausage. I also picked up several less exciting foods from the grocery store for the stuffing. A wall of "meat" at May Wah Gang's all here! I started by cooking a slightly improvised version of the sausage stuffing. As the recipe suggested, I made bread crumbs by ripping up a piece of French bread and baking them in the oven for around 20 minutes at 200 degrees. I then cut up four of the fake sausages (I chose to use Veggie Hong Kong Sausage) and cooked them in 3 tablespoons of olive oil and 2 tablespoons of margarine (in substitution of the soy butter called for in the recipe) over medium heat. The Veggie Sausage was a little softer than the real sausage and, also like real sausage, contained mysterious bits I could not identify (pictured below; is it onion?).  I tried to mush them up as best I could as I cooked them. The sausage crackled and popped, and occasionally tiny bits exploded out of the pot. I apologize if any of my suite-mates are reading this. I might have stuccoed the walls with Veggie Hong Kong Sausage. After 5 minutes the sausage was lightly browned and I dumped in one chopped onion. After another 5 minutes, I dumped in three stalks of chopped celery, half a chopped green bell-pepper, two tablespoons of brown sugar, and 7 cloves of chopped garlic. I let the whole mixture cook for 5 minutes before taking it off the heat, adding two more tablespoons of butter, and folding in the breadcrumbs. With the stuffing complete, it was time to move on to the exciting part- assembling the Tofucken. I removed the first piece of fake duck from its wrapper and laid it out on a bed of sausage stuffing. The mock-duck was molded to resemble to resemble a real duck and felt cold, damp and firm to the hands. Delicious! Next, I took the two pieces of chicken and skewered them together, creating the structure of the Tofucken, which I affectionately named the chiducken hut. The mock-chicken was shaped perfectly: each piece was molded to resemble the side of a chicken, giving the chiducken hut a realistic shape. There were also hints of a strange canvas-like pattern on the mock-chicken. Mysterious. Next I cut up the mock-turkey. Unlike the duck and chicken, the mock-turkey bore no resemblance to actual turkey. It came in a puck. The outer turkey-puck membrane felt like cold, wet skin and its insides had the consistency of soggy scrambled eggs. I piled the turkey-puck inside the chidunken-hut. Finally, I crowned the mess with the final piece of duck and surrounded the Tofucken with the remaining sausage stuffing. Driving the last skewer through top of the Tofucken. I heated the oven to 350 degrees, put the Tofucken in and cooked it for 20 minuets. When I removed it, I was overwhelmed by pride in my new creation and the strange perfume of mock-meats. I ate a bit of the stuffing, overwhelmed by curiosity. To my surprise, it tasted pretty great. A (normally meat-eating) passerby took a pinch of the stuffing and gave a similarly glowing review. I gently loaded the Tofucken into the elevator and transported it across campus to a friend’s suite where we carved it up and dished it out. Reviews were all positive. The duck and stuffing were especially tasty. The flavor was similar to real meat, but lighter and a little saltier. Lacking any structure of its own, the Tofucken collapsed into a sea of mock-meat and stuffing as soon as we carved it, making it difficult to judge the flavors independently. While tasty going down, the Tofucken filled everyone quickly and left them with an uncomfortable feeling in the gut. I highly recommend this dish to anyone looking for a novel way to feed many. The dish is very easy to make, and I highly recommend it to all disenfranchised vegetarians and open-minded eaters. Be warned: one Tofucken feeds a lot of people. Ten semi-enthusiastic eaters barely made through half of the one I cooked.
The November issue of The Blue and White will be arriving on campus soon.  In the meantime, we're previewing the issue on Bwog. Many Columbia students did not attend a high school that lives and dies by the football team's fortunes. And even if they did, they certainly don't attend a college that does. Despite this, being a naturally competitive bunch, Columbians are sympathetic to the obsession with making varsity. However, the peculiar athletic culture here means it's not necessarily true that being a varsity sports team is more rewarding than existing only as a club sport. Last spring, the Columbia University Sailing Team held its first alumni dinner, where sailors of all ages dined on roast beef and quaffed Martinelli's in Wien lounge. Tanned students and weathered alumni clad in Sperry Top-Siders and J. Crew chatted about favorite regattas and hovered over the club's merchandise table. Dave Perry, a coach from a major sailmaker and the Chairman of the U.S. Sailing Appeals Committee, spoke of the intimacy of the sailing community, mocking himself for showing up in flip-flops. That night celebrated the culmination of the club's fundraising for the spring, an effort that raised an inspired $115,000 for ten new 420 Class dinghies—the two-man, 14-foot boats widely used in collegiate sailing. Fordham, which sails out of the same yacht club as Columbia on City Island, also purchased 10 new boats that year, and, agreeing to pool their resources, the teams now share a fleet of 20. Despite this dynamism, sailing team co-captain Marie Johnson, BC ’12, denies aspirations for more competitive divisions: "We're improving our program, but we're not moving to varsity." The claim not to have varsity aspirations, coupled with the serious energy the sailors have devoted to the program's recent overhaul, suggest a program not quite sure of its identity. The world of collegiate sailing seems to exist beyond the scope of traditional athletics and also cultivates a particular social milieu that seems somewhat out of place in the middle of Manhattan. Morningside Heights simply is not a campus well-suited to competitive sailing, nor does it have much in common with the sun-splashed dock towns full of lobster-print chinos. Despite the obvious physical impediments, co-captains Kerry Morrison, CC ’11, and Marie Johnson have worked diligently to expand the club's horizons. In addition to fundraising and buying new boats, last summer the club hired as coach one William Brown, a former Inter-Collegiate Sailing Association of North America All-American. The team feels the difference: "Our new coach this year is obviously a lot more competitive than some of the coaches we've had in the past," says Morrison. Given their successful trajectory thus far, one might wonder why the club would not want to make the jump to varsity status to further increase their edge amongst competitors. Such a move, however, would require funding from the University—Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972 stipulates that no educational program receiving federal financial assistance can discriminate on the basis of sex, meaning that men and women's sports have to be invested in equally. Since male sports tend to attract more funding as a general rule, the sailing team would have a better chance of attracting varsity sponsorship by promoting just the women's team. But this idea is unpopular among sailors who feel that it would weaken the team's chummy character. "My freshman year there was talk of just the women's team of going varsity, but our team didn't want to have that divide between men and women," says Morrison. Not only would the team be broken up by sex, but the team would suffer an unwanted loss of independence. Team captains would lose the right to send sailors to a regatta without a coach, as well as the ability to take on sailors with little experience. "There are a lot of captains that come to our team who have never sailed before college," says Morrison. "You can have people become a really important part of our leadership that came in with no experience." Sam Hicks, BC ’11, is one of these sailors. "I came to campus for accepted students day and my mom jokingly pointed to the table where the sailing team set up," she remembers. "There were two guys in Polo shirts and she just goes, ‘Sam, hey, you should totally join the sailing team. You love J. Crew.' I was like, ‘Mother, stop. Please?'" But Hicks' mother clearly knew best — her shared affinity for preppy clothing soon developed into an e-mail/Facebook relationship with sailing team members that compelled Hicks to join up upon arriving on campus in the fall. Even if the team were willing to give up its co-ed roster of beginners and old hands, it is likely the team would lose money as a varsity sport. All varsity teams pool their donations into one fund while clubs keep whatever they raise. With strong connections to an affluent alumni community, a club could easily take in more than an official varsity sport. This is the case at Brown, whose sailing club was established in 1896. While Columbia sailing was established during World War II and lacks a 19th-century endowment, the club is nonetheless in a position to capitalize on donations from its older seamen and is working to establish an annual drive in addition to its alumni regatta and dinner. While beneficial connections allow the team to flourish as a club, they are still missing out on certain benefits of the varsity cache. Within the Ivy League, Yale, Brown, Harvard, and Dartmouth traditionally have the top performing teams, with Columbia, Penn, Princeton, and Cornell residing on the second tier. While club sports have gained weight in admissions processes at those other schools, Columbia still only allows varsity coaches to recruit. The captains believe their inability to influence admissions decisions in favor of experienced sailors is responsible for this loss of ground in the league standings. The principal benefit of going varsity would be to establish legitimacy in a sporting community that discriminates between clubs sports and their varsity brethren. Club sports at Columbia, which can only call themselves "clubs" and not "club sports," are not allowed to associate themselves in any way with the lion mascot, nor can they display the school colors in certain ways. The Columbia University Club Sports Style Guide dictates the particular shades of blue to be used in the crown logo and typeface. "That holds back the club," says Morrison. "We had to almost beg to have our website just say ‘Columbia Sailing Team.'" Hassles like these motivate clubs to weigh carefully the value of moving to varsity. Rumors have circulated that men's hockey and men's rugby have thought about upgrading their programs, but men's and women's squash are the only club teams to have made the change recently after a generous donation from Geoff and Annette Grant, SEAS ’82 and BC ’83. These teams will benefit from improved facilities and administrative assistance from the athletic department, but sailing is working to prove that with enough initiative, club sports can succeed without the varsity moniker. --Adam Kuerbitz Illustration by Wendan Li 
It's kind of hard to be thankful for Columbia at the end of November. Finals and papers loom, everyone suddenly remembers what school is like when it's cold, and you're just waiting for that "oh shiiiiit" moment the Monday you get back from break. We're happy to be away this weekend, too, but we figured we'd remind you that there is plenty to be thankful for within the Gates. Meet Kevin McAllister, an electrician at Columbia nicknamed "Mr. Light" because he replaces most lightbulbs on campus. Kevin is also deeply committed to Morningside community service. Bwog is thankful for people like Mr. Light who make Morningside what it is. Sarah Camiscoli writes. “They call me that because after all these years, I’ve come to know a lot of people. I’ve probably worked in every building off and on campus, so they kind of know me. When there’s a flood, that’s okay, but when the lights are out that’s something else. And when I come in, it feels like I just brighten up their whole day . I’m surprised that they still call me that.” While “Mr. Light” is a clever nickname for a man who has served as an electrician at Columbia and acted a source of vitality to his home community for over twenty years, Kevin McAllister tends to view himself less as a “light” and more as a conduit for community, kindness, and spirit. Otherwise, it would just be too easy. After 27 years at Columbia, Kevin can say, “I’ve done a lot of things here.” And it has been more than just maintaining voltage. Kevin has served as a union representative, subcontracting and grievance committee member, chief shop steward, and even “with all the hard work and dedication,” union president of Local 241 Transit Workers Union. While his salaried and political work most definitely speak to his charged devotion, Kevin admits, “this is my job, this is where I make money, but my passion is in the work that I do in the community.” It is service that charges him. “Specializing in saving lives,” Kevin has spent the last two decades organizing Uptown Inner City League, a not-for-profit baseball league that welcomes over 280 kids spanning the ages of twenty-four months to just under twenty years. In organizing groups of toddlers to teens, diverse in age, ethnicity, and gender into baseball teams for the summer, flag football teams for the fall, and “spring training” sessions after winter vacation, Kevin pledges, “We turn no kids away.” And this doesn’t pose too much of a problem since the league’s philosophy is that if a child can walk, he or she can join in. “You have to start that early,” explains Kevin, “Most people don’t want to deal with those kids, but from ages two to seven they can absorb so much.” In addition to skill, much of that absorption lies within a meaningful understanding of community, one that resonates more to family than to team spirit. “Once you become a part of Uptown Inner City League, you become part of my family,” is how Team Manager McAllister puts it.  “They come over and have dinner with my family and me and my wife take them to sporting events.” With the support of his wife (and childhood sweetheart), Stephanie, and the company of his two sons, Kevin keeps himself from burning out by making his success at the family level and his success in the community one and the same. “My success is the success of a lot of people,” is how he puts it. It’s the kind of achievement that manifests itself when a retired player visits his home 15 years later and says, “Thank you for giving us the opportunity to have a place to go.” While Kevin thrives on the success of individual community members, he is also propelled by his impact in the Morningside/Mahattanville community at large. Since 1985, crime has dropped drastically in the area, and Kevin believes that while it largely has to do with Columbia’s gentrification project, some of it can also be attributed to the work done by community leaders like himself. Similarly, Kevin does not see his success on the field as extricable from his connection to Columbia. While he most definitely recognizes the rarity of his devotion, he also cherishes that Columbia has bestowed on him a slew of resources, opportunities, and lovely individuals. Still, Kevin is confident in his work and the work of his collaborators alone. He explains, “Without Columbia Community Service , I think we would still be successful. Before we didn’t have much, so sometimes we used to sew the thumbs back onto the gloves.” Still, Kevin does not forget the work of individuals that he has connected with through community impact, rewiring rooms, or just having casual conversation. One of the first Columbia volunteers, who eventually became the strength, conditioning, and track coach for the league, jumped on board when she came across the league while running on the track at Annunciation Field where they hold practice. Beyond singing her praises as a devoted volunteer and mentor, Kevin adds, “I call her my CU daughter.” Together, a group of engineering students in Mudd helped to set up a secure storage room for the kids’ equipment. The SEAS students also ended up engineering a batting cage for a project. Kevin says, “We are diligently working together… I have a way now in reaching and having a great relationships with the students here at Columbia University and when the project is over I still maintain a great relationship with .” And what about faculty? From Don Slosher, VP for Facilities, to “Jimmy” at Ciao Bella Pizza, Kevin has quite a team. Support has taken the form of sodas, grills, or space for awards ceremonies. At the end of the day though, it’s his faith and his wife Stephanie that keep it all together. Beyond Stephanie’s resolve to “put up with for 20 years,” Kevin claims, “I knew what the plan was about and I just put it into motion.” For this reason, Kevin does not perceive the magnitude of his 14-hour days as entirely his own. Instead, he sees himself as a conduit for a greater force and a vehicle for opportunity. He says, “The moment that the Lord taps me on the head and says get up, I have a good day.” As for keeping the kiddies motivated, Kevin says it’s just about showing up, watching what you’re doing, and following through on promises.  “If there is a community leader who says they are going to be there and do it, the kids will come.” As for the Morningside Heights community at large, Kevin believes that the future lies in the “hands of advocates.” For those who may not see themselves in this way, he claims that it’s just that “you just don’t realize the impact you have on people and the differences you can make in their lives.” And who’s to say? Maybe Kevin is right. Maybe, in someway, it is just that easy. To get involved with Uptown Baseball League on the field, or to help them in their pursuit of a website or learning center in SIPA, email KMcallistersenior@aol.com or uptowninnercityleague@gmail.com.
 The Bwog staff did what we always do and compiled a list of things we are thankful for. Feel free to leave yours in the comments. Columbia, have an absolutely lovely Thanksgiving. We are so very, truly thankful to you for reading this website and for lots of other things. Randos PDF versions of textbooks The idea of going abroad Firm handshakes Being of the Harry Potter generation The mysterious sliding window between RotiRoll and Suite Free hot water everywhere sans embittered glances Palindromes Actually going downtown when you say you will The Canon 5D Walking about the campus on a sunny day and feeling fresh Riding the lion outside Dodge Having just enough pencil lead to finish an exam Having exactly $0.00 left on a Metrocard Things overheard through Wien's thin walls Clothespins Overly abbreviated text messages from my parents The beautiful beautiful architecture strewn across (most of) campus NBA League Pass Watching the sun rise for non work-related reason Getting there just in time Those moments when you stop procrastinating Bananagrams Adhesive lint rollers The cute guys who work at Book Culture Bikes The car rental age in New York being 18 Places Boerum Hill, Brooklyn New Jersey The commuter lounge in the Diana The Lehman 2nd floor printer- it has never been broken when I needed it. Ever. New Hampshire The Notary Public at Citibank The ATM in Lerner Facts Planning to read on Low Steps, never actually reading on Low Steps This year not being Sophomore year Realizing that a career isn't the only thing in life Free New York Times Magenta suede in the Diana Having a three-day weekend every weekend Exchanging awkward, enduring smiles with people I sort of know from class Wearing other people's sweaters and thinking about them The crosswalk light to cross Broadway turning green (white) just as you reach ir No credit card minimum at Morton Williams Fridays at Potluck The banter at Milano The fact that things are open past 9PM (a true city luxury) Solid high-fives Seeing movies with old people at Lincoln Plaza The fact that Fayerweather smells like condensed soup Realizing you know almost everyone in your prospective major Loved Ones Parents My Dad for offering to call to wake me up for my 6:00 AM flight home (Oh Dad, don't you know I just won't sleep?) People on the subway who are so thoroughly engaged in the music on their iPod that they sing and dance to it as if no one else was around Friends whose parents send them great care packages (with peanut butter fudge) Anthony Randolph + our raggedy New York Knicks Everyone who works at Housing for dancing with me during Room Selection and being generally lovely people Friends who live off-campus My friends' signature dance moves Friends that straight live in Butler Cafe The other kid in Butler at 3am Seeing your friends from home and talking about the same old useless things Raj's smiles (Butler Cafe) Kia's sass (Cafe 212) Ricky Martin Hunter Parrish Sir Mike of Carman The guy who always presses the open and close elevator buttons to make crowded Mudd elevator rides faster Suitemates My neurotic dog My corporate finance problem set team all of whom are awesome The Westside Staff - props to Andrew and Luis! My neurotic family Asian tourists who treat our campus like a real New York landmark Security guards that keep pictures of their girlfriends/wives/families on their desks while they work People taking pictures of Columbia People taking pictures of people taking pictures of Columbia Visitors New friends The people who go insane at dubstep shows The kitchen power couple The Hewitt dining staff—the sassier the better! Squirrel Man Friends with rich parents Bella Ayalof (the woman who works at Cafe Nana)'s Israeli accent Architecture majors: for perspective Freshmen: for perspective All of the friends who do more for me than I ever could have asked for, the most amazing people I could ever fathom Netflix, etc. 30 Rock, Season 2 Megavideo time limits Those days when you just watch an entire episode of 30 Rock with your roommate SVU on Netflix Buffy the Vampire Slayer on Netflix Boardwalk Empire Weezy F. Baby A free Weezy Brownies (pot variety) Mid/late-aughts hip-hop "Youthful indiscretion" High-quality marijuana Trey Songz Bringing the beat back, bitch No-pants parties My younger sister buying me an eighth to celebrate that I am coming home for Thanksgiving The new Kanye album The Intelligentsia Max Weber, Herman Melville, John Pemberton + Wen Jin New York Magazine Capital New York The United States Science in pre-1800 literature Thinking too much about sports Overthinking most other things, too Marxist anthropology Reading for pleasure Not going to grad school My Corporate Finance problem set team all of whom are awesome Eric Foner bringing history alive Having a tolerant roommate Eric Foner at least partially restoring my faith in college as an institution/idea Christia Mercer for genuinely caring about her past students Grad students who love what they do Journalism not dying Mark Hay, Duh Ira Glass Hindi Urdu Farsi Pashto Islamic Law Peter Awn Doing everything in the most janky way possible Using the word janky Wael Hallaq Being on a listserv for Mongolian real estate … you know, just in case This couplet: “Nind us kii hai, dimaG us ka hai, rate’n us kii hai’n/Teri zulafe’n jis ke bazuu par parisha’n ho ga’ee” Not living in Spokane anymore The fact that Daniel Day Lewis makes shoes and one day I will buy some Sustenance The grill at Smith and Wollensky's Udon at m2m Tea Lemsip The wealth of appetizers that come free with bibimbap at Mill Korean Chilling out and calling starbucks drink sizes by their goofy given names (also recognizing that sometimes it's OK to go to starbucks, guys!) Oren's iced coffee, scones and other baked goods Egg and cheese on toasted cinnamon raisin from Nussbaum Hummus 2 Vitamin Waters for $3 at Westside Ice-cold water fountains Koronet during the day Brownies (Avery eatery) Brownies (tasty dessert) The Junior's cheesecake shop in Grand Central Thai Market lunch specials Toasted anything at Milano Southampton Double White beer at Mel's Hale and Hearty Soups and Sandwiches Food trucks Froyo Maoz falafel/salad bar Trader Joe's Barnard bake sales Apple cider Momofuku Milk Bar chocolate-chocolate-chip-marshallow cookies The large peanut butter cookies at 212 Ollie's noodles Silver Moon Bakery Milano M3 Microwave in my room Spontaneous brownie baking Peppermint ice cream Gingerbread lattes at Starbucks Peppermint tea The Ollie's delivery guy who comes in 6 mins or less Coffee, in all its forms Levain Bakery Bubble tea from Cafe East Making banana bread in my dorm toaster oven CrackDel The Hungarian Thin crust pizza at the Diana Café Ben and Jerry's Cafe East French Vanilla Bubble Tea Hooda Salt and Vinegar potato chips Morton Williams challah Tofucken Selling chocolate chip cookies in Lerner Subsconscious for having my favorite lollipops Amir's discounts Gummy frogs Cider donuts at the Greenmarket Stocking up on green tea, mugs, cups, flatware and fruit at John Jay The cranberry-encrusted goat cheese that the Diana Cafe sometimes has Drink Mango margaritas at the Heights Regular flavored (duh) margaritas at the Heights Rome at 1020 Drunch Belgian-style wheat ales 1020 bathroom graffiti Drinking games $4 champagne Britas used to filter Nikolai $11 Magic Hat at Crackel Going out on Wednesdays Paul, bartender at the Abbey Awful fakes that work in Morningside Seeing freshman girls in leather jackets (you know, those girls) with armfuls of fourloko at Crackdel—if that wasn't jumping the shark, I'm not sure what is. Shelter Woodbridge Getting shafted by housing and realizing that it only gets better from here The river view that makes up for my tiny double Having a single for the first time Having a full bed for the first time Living really fucking close to Columbia College! Uris Library Red Bull African Studies Reading Room on Butler 6 Butler Cafe Pseudo-intellectual jargon when you can use it to your own advantage Interlibrary loans Extensions (for papers, not hair) Staedtler erasers Assigned reading that doesn't feel like work When your professor doesnt call on you the one day you haven't done the reading Never having read a book at Columbia Professors who post their own lecture notes on Courseworks Weekly departmental foreign films Butler librarians Male TAs who carry “man-purses” and wear “dress-sneakers" The abundance of Morningside newsstands, so it never feels too much like a bubble Good advisers-- they do exist! Core requirements that you end up loving The Butler Cafe crew who stick around til midnight and let me slip in (sometimes) after they close the doors Google GChat invisibility Google Translate Google Docs Forwarding my Cubmail to Gmail Meta BwogWeather My cameo on BwogWeather Bwog gifting us two minutes for wackiness Listservs Eliza's little brother The mysterious bottomless bank account of Pat Blute The freshman contributions to this list Bwog bless us. Every one! 
It's the morning after Thanksgiving and you feel fat. Exercise! Diana Clarke sacrificed her knuckles for the sake of Bwog and health. If you take the steps at 108th Street down into Riverside Park and veer south, you’ll follow the stone steps of an amphitheater down to a patch of sand overlooking the Hudson. The seats are empty, but the sand is dotted with people surrounding the two lines of hanging rings suspended from central metal bars standing twenty or thirty feet high. One of those people is Jamila Barra, BC ’13. “Here, wanna see my hands?” she asks me. Though she coats her palms in chalk before swinging from the rings, her hands are callused, the skin peeling. What makes her take time out of her week to rip up her palms and leave her sides aching? Jamila is one of a few Columbia/Barnard students who visit the hanging rings looking for an unusual workout. More social than running, the rings also attracts a crowd of people from around the neighborhood, most of whom are really friendly and helpful in getting newcomers started. “Nobody looks down on you if you suck,” Jamila says. It’s true; when I visited the rings, everyone there cheered me on and offered advice as I tried haphazardly to swing myself down the line, even though some of them were doing flips and twists that looked like they belonged in the circus. Jamila, in fact, likes using the rings to practice for the trapeze and build upper body strength for the circus back home in Germany. However, even for those students less acrobatically inclined (like me) there are options—swinging down the line of rings, but also leg-ups and pull-ups and simulated crunches. It’s different and way more fun than going to the gym, more like being five years old and just happening to work on your abs at the same time. You meet cool people, run around barefoot, and, says Jamila, “the rings are free and they’re always there,” and sometimes when it’s a beautiful, sunny day “there’s really nothing else you can do." 
The November issue of The Blue and White will be here soon and we'll be posting all the articles on Bwog.  “At Two Swords’ Length” is a feature presenting opposing opinions on an issue. This month, Brian Donahoe and Sam Schube discuss whether you can get away with it. Affirmative I've been doing it for years. It's not like it's hard; who even notices? See, the problem is that people just get too paranoid about this kind of thing. People start thinking that they are being too conspicuous, start worrying about passers-by, start thinking that they are going to get caught, start ruining the vibe, and then no one has a good time. Sam Schube is people. Whether it's in the park, some little nook on campus, or, hey, even a secluded residential cross-town block, chances are that there really are not going to be that many people around and with a little planning, you can almost always fool the ones who do pass by. If someone should happen to walk by, just play it off like you were in a midst of an animated conversation, nothing more. It doesn't have to be the most convincing act in the world. The key is to not make eye contact, and chances are they'll buy it; most people aren't looking that closely. What Sam doesn't realize is that most people fall into either one of two categories: those who are oblivious and those who are down. Those who are oblivious naïvely believe that this sort of thing doesn't go down all that often, at least not in their neighborhood. They go about their lives without it even crossing their minds. Sure, maybe they went for it one time that summer in Berlin, but that was the '60s. One need hardly worry about these folks, and the best part of all is that even if the clueless do catch wind of what's up, more likely than not, it will only make them walk by a bit faster. See, Sam doesn't get this. Sam is under the impression that the slightest clue will instantly alert passers-by to what's going on. Enraged, those passers-by will take enough time out of their busy lives to 1) call the police and 2) file a police report. Visions of handcuffs, public humiliation, and ashamed parents presumably flash through his eyes. But Sam's got it all wrong: the subtle risk that he finds nauseating, others find thrilling. But the secret is: even if they realize what's going on, a surprising number of people are down. And why not? It's a good time. You'll come to recognize these ones from the knowing nod of respect. You pick a nice spot, maybe with a pleasant view, or if you're more skittish, somewhere a bit more private. You get organized, you take one last quick look around, and then you go for it. Don't spend too much time trying to find the perfect hiding place—you'll only end up psyching yourself out—or worse—attracting attention. Now I'm not advocating reckless abandon. By all means keep an eye out or whatever and don't linger, but there's no need to rush through the whole thing constantly looking over your shoulder. You won't enjoy that. Once it's done, the risk of getting caught pretty much drops from slim to none. The evidence against you is minimal and, hey, you're not sticking around. Then comes the opportunity to relish having gotten away with it. Imagine the sense of satisfaction, walking smugly down the street knowing full well that no one has a clue of what you just pulled over on them. And as you're walking back into your building, sitting on the subway, or getting seated at a restaurant, you'll get an incomparable sense of satisfaction. You got away with it. --Brian Donahoe Negative It's said no good deed goes unpunished. I think that's a load of crap, not to mention beside the point; no bad deed goes unpunished, either. That's why I'll respond with a firm "no" when someone like that Brian comes along trumpeting his churlish ways. He thinks he's invincible. He's never been caught and can't imagine a world in which he'd ever fall prey to police, dorm security, or any hint of a moral code. So he'll ask, and I'll refuse, thank you very much. Yes, I know it seems harmless. No one ever gets caught, and guys like Brian believe you're only really living, man! when you're displaying flagrant disregard for social convention. But in the same way the gazelle, having made a valiant effort at escape, just knows he'll be consumed by the chasing lion, I know that I will not get away with it. I'll be seen. I'll be heard. And I'll be caught. The slightest wrong move, the merest peep! And I'll be whisked away, locked up, shamed, or worse. It's supposed to be relaxed, and I know it feels good. It makes no difference. I'm always looking over my shoulder. My head always remains on a swivel--while I'm watching my back, and keeping an eye out and an ear to the ground. And that's not particularly relaxing. You start to see things. That streetlamp? Hidden camera, for sure. That old lady with the walker probably has a particularly gossipy e-mail relationship with your aunt. Big Brother lives, everyone is watching, and you will not get away with it. Hell, even assured success, I'd be miserable. Here are the purely practical and pragmatic reasons that I would not even enjoy getting away with it if I could. Let's see: it makes me paranoid. It's too loud. Outside, at least, it smells funny, and it can be itchy--I greatly prefer the comfort, familiarity, and soft corners of a bedroom, say, or someone's car. I don't like to do it when other people are watching. It's too obvious. Also too noisy. And you need too many damn objects to enjoy yourself: the preparation alone is cause for knee-quaking anxiety. And on top of all that, it's just gauche--for Brian, nothing is sacred. There's a whole constellation of psycho-social-moral hang-ups and neuroses that curb my optimism, too. Part of it's genetic, I think: "Hope for the best, expect the worst" is the New York Jew's categorical imperative. The sort of rosy, goyish hubris that tells me I can get away with it is the very same false friend that led Woody Allen to take a break from movies to marry his stepdaughter. There's something to be said for knowing your roots and in this case, my roots are telling me--with all the subtlety of an elephant eating dynamite--that this just won't work. There's an old bit of Jewish humor that says the world's made up of two kinds of people: there's the schlemiel who spills his soup, and the schlimazel, whose lap he spills it on. That proverbial borscht bowl always seems to wind up on my lap, and that's fine. There's a certain honor in being the schlimazel, dammit. --Sam Schube Illustrations by Nora Rodriguez 
Rejoice! Bwog did its homework this weekend instead of writing posts so you have your BwogWeather early today. 
Jumpin' Jehosaphats! The overhead lights in the Reference Room have been off all weekend and the room is glowing strangely and kind of beautifully. It is also freezing. A man with a Nike baseball hat sits hunched over his homework, coat and scarf on, rocking back and forth for warmth. Surprise: there still aren't any seats, so don't bother. The Powers That Be at Butler informed a Bwog tipster that the lights went out over the weekend. Since it's a holiday weekend, nothing can be done now. 
Today sucks. We just want to be back home getting drunk with our high school friends instead of in this freezing cold dark sad Reference Room writing Bwog posts. But there is fun on the horizon! Bacchanal's Fall Concert, featuring Mickey Avalon and Night Eyes, is this Thursday! Here's a video that Bacchanal made about it. Video cred to Jeremy Daniel Grossman-Greene. Remember to buy your tickets here. 
As soon as Thankgiving is over, it's Christmas/Hannukah whatever wintry holiday you choose to celebrate time! With the influx of decorations and festive cheer, there's the bitter cold, and of course, renovated ice-cream stores. Bwog brings you neighborhood minutiae courtesy of Boringside Heights... Fro-Yo next to M2M is being revamped, apparently into Hershey's Decorations at MoWi Trees for sale on the east side of 112th &amp; Broadway, also available on the southwest corner of 110th and Broadway Depressing Festive windows at Banco Popular Nussbaum outside seating revealed! (Just in time) 
 Columbia Film Theory prof James Schamus was profiled in the NYTimes Mag as a standout scholar and screenwriter. Schamus proves his Columbia ties by talking about Plato ("the philosopher’s job is to love knowledge, logos, but it’s always corporealized...") and smoking near Dodge Hall ("Schamus found a spot in the sun behind Dodge Hall to smoke a cigar"). Professors—they're just like us! Except for the whole movie career. Anyways, he likes us: “For me,” he said, “the happiest place on earth is a well-run school." Aw shucks. (NYTimes Mag) FeelGoodCU, better known as those kids who sell grilled cheeses in JJ's place, are on CNN. Amarynth Sichel, president of the Columbia chapter, is not only a "devout grilled cheese-maker," but a much more official sounding "social entrepreneur." Kudos FeelGooders for doing good and making scrumptious sandwiches! (CNN) History prof and midnight biking enthusiast Kenneth Jackson is coming out with the second edition of his New York encyclopedia. "People love New York City," he tells City Room. "This is a physical manifestation of a love affair." But it wouldn't be a great love without some drama; some people feel left out... (City Room) This absolutely adorable article on Bingo fans was featured on the cover of the Metro section yesterday. The author follows Bingo addict Cynthia Kilvan: "Bingo is her fixation, her delight, the center around which her 74-year-old life rotates, as is true of thousands of believers who gravitate to the remaining commercial halls." After her cancer surgery, Cynthia headed right to the bingo hall. Anywho, turns out a former Columbia math prof played a major role in Cynthia's favorite past time. Toy salesman Edwin Lowe had faith in the then-fledgling game and enlisted Columbia prof Carl Leffler to "configure more than 6000 different bingo cards." Apparently, he then went mad from all the combinations. Poor guy. Big thanks, Carl, because Bwog really likes Bingo. (NYTimes) Big deal news: WikiLeaks, the whistle-blowers version of Wikipedia, released secret American diplomatic cables. (NYTimes) And here's something nutty that will make you chuckle. (New Yorker) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter  Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Plus, it’s performance time!  So, we’ve compiled a separate list of upcoming artistic achievements and fall festivities. Recommended Lectures: If "various" is listed next to the event, it means there we haven't found out who the speakers are yet. Maybe they haven't finalized the speaker list or there's a surprise guest. After all, only special people get to talk about AIDS in Low... FYI: It's World AIDS week! Mon Nov 29 “Nuclear Energy and Climate Change” 106 Greene Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Susan Eisenhower, Barton Cowan, Robert Alvarez, Peter Bradford, and Michael Gerrard “Who’s the Boss? Women’s Religious Leadership in Judaism and Islam” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Various “HIV and African Diaspora” Earl Hall Auditorium, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Robert Fullilove Tues Nov 30 “Tea Leaves: The Right, before and after the Election” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Jill Lepore “How Not to Help” 707 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Kate Cronin-Furman and Amanda Taub “Capital Punishment Debate between CU Dems and CU College Republicans” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Students Wed Dec 1 “The Aftermath of the Financial Crisis: Towards a New Framework for Monetary Policy” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Jacques de Larosiere “Somalia: Rebuilding a Failed State” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Abukar Arman “Perspectives on Manhattanville” 313 Fayerweather, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Various Thurs Dec 2 “Reclaiming AIDS: On the Dawn of 30 Years with HIV/AIDS” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Various Fri Dec 3 “Afghanistan: Prospects for Peace” 1501 IAB, 9:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Zalmay Khalilzad, Jean-Marie Guehenno, Randy George, Anthony Cordesman, Abraham Wagner, Austin Long, Hassan Abbas, Christine Fair, Joshua Foust, Gilles Dorronsoro, Michael Semple, Dante Paradiso, Clare Lockhart, and James Shinn “The Genesis Projects: From Forming Stars to Forming Life—Followed by Guided Stargazing” Pupin Laboratories, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Daniel Wolf-Savin Sat Dec 4 “The International Criminal Court in Motion: An Analysis of Its Seven Years of Activities and Perspectives” 1501 IAB, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Luis Moreno-Ocampo Sun Dec 5 “Environmental Racism and Inner-City Politics” Intercultural Resource Center 552 W 114th, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Tour Wildcard Lecture: Thurs Dec 2 “Stories of the Stigma, Stories of the Strength: Ethnographic Oral History with Sanitation Workers in New York City” 754 Schermerhorn, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Robin Nagle Arts Addendum &amp; Fall Festivities: Thurs Dec 2 “Bacchanal Fall Concert: Mickey Avalon and Night Eyes” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 1:00 am “LateNite Fall Performance” Black Box Theater, Lerner Hall, 11:00 pm – 1:00 am, Runs Dec 3 11 pm, Dec 4 8 pm and 11 pm, LateNite Theatre Fri Dec 3 “Bhangra in the Heights” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 1:00 am, Anakh-e-Gabroo, NYU Bhangra, Rutgers Bhangra, SMD Bhangra Club, and CU Bhangra First Friday: The Vagina Ball” Lefrak Gymnasium, Barnard Hall, 11:00 pm – 2:00 am, Simon Herzog and Others Sat Dec 4 “Om for the Holidays” 569 Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Pandit Dasa Sun Dec 5 "Columbia University Orchestra Concert" Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm, Runs through Dec 7th, Music Director Jeffrey Milarsky “World Music Ensemble Concert” 301 Philosophy Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Columbia Klezmer Band and Lion in the Grass Bluegrass Band “Shalhevet Israeli Dance Troupe” Rennert Auditorium, Kraft Center, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm FULL LIST Mon Nov 29 “Neighborhood Mobility and Inequality in Multi-Ethnic America” 509 Knox, Van Tran “Gender-based Violence in the Congo” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Les Roberts, Susan Bartles, Paula Donovan, and Dirk Salomons “Nuclear Energy and Climate Change” 106 Greene Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Susan Eisenhower, Barton Cowan, Robert Alvarez, Peter Bradford, and Michael Gerrard “Who’s the Boss? Women’s Religious Leadership in Judaism and Islam” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Various “HIV and African Diaspora” Earl Hall Auditorium, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Robert Fullilove Tues Nov 30 “Engineering a New Workforce: Carbon Management and Engineering” 503 Lerner Hall, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Juerg Matter “Kazakhstan’s Refugee Crisis: Violence, Hunger, and the Transformation of Broader Central Asia, 1930-1933” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Sarah Cameron “Japan Circa 1959: The High-Growth Economy and the Social Effects of Television” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Yoshikuni Igarashi “A Conversation with Permanent Representative of Switzerland to the United Nations Ambassador Paul R. Seger” 802 IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm “Recent Progresses in Electro-Acoustic Imaging, Based on the Idea of Imaging by Modification” 210 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Yves Capdeboscq “The HIV Epidemic in the United States: A Time for Action” Hess Commons, Mailman School for Public Health, 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Wafaa El-Sadr “Panel on Religion, Prisons, and Prisoner Reentry” Refrectory, Union Theological Seminary, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Theresa Lantz, Steve Lanza, and Raymond Rivera “Climate Change Research and its Application” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Yochanan Kushnir “World Wide Fair” James Room, 4th Floor Barnard Hall, 5:30 pm – 7:30 pm, CU Bellydance, CU Bhangra, Dhoom, Orisha and Others “Celebrate Romania” 1219 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, John S. Micgiel, Marian Parjol, H.E. Simona Miculescu, Lavinia Preda, Mona Momescu, Lauren Hermele, and Others “Tea Leaves: The Right, before and after the Election” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Jill Lepore “How Not to Help” 707 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Kate Cronin-Furman and Amanda Taub “Big Media—Pro and Con: A Conversation with Dean Nicholas Lemann and Prof. Richard John and Tim Wu” Lecture Hall, 3rd Floor Journalism Building, 7:00 pm – 8:00 pm “Capital Punishment Debate between CU Dems and CU College Republicans” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Students Wed Dec 1 “World AIDS Day Getting Tested Educational Campaign” Low Steps, 10:00 am – 3:00 pm, Various “Czech Foreign Policy after the Fall of Communism” 1512 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Jiri Paroubek “Lake Baikal, Siberia: Will Industrial Development Destroy the World’s Largest, Cleanest Lake?” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Elena Agarkova “Perspectives on Political and Economic Dynamism in Northeast Asia: Challenges of China and North Korea” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Young-Mok Kim “Journalism and News: Untangling Their Histories” 107B Journalism Building, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Mitch Stephens “Critical Factors in Shaping the Future Global Energy Landscape” 1501 IAB, 2:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Fatih Birol “Tolerance without Liberalism: Conflct and Coexistence in Twentieth Century Indonesia” 801 IAB, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Jeremy Menchik “The Aftermath of the Financial Crisis: Towards a New Framework for Monetary Policy” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Jacques de Larosiere “Queer Harlem: Sexuality During the Renaissance” Earl Hall Auditorium, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Monica Miller “Conversations with Composers: Henry Threadgill in Conversation with Brent Hayes Edwards” 301 Philosophy Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm “Immigration: Past and Present” 614 Schermerhorn, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Christina Burnett, Mae Ngai, and Jose Moya “Somalia: Rebuilding a Failed State” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Abukar Arman “Italian Harpsichord Music” Casa Italiana, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Andrew Appel, Krista Bennion Feeney, and Loretta O’Sullivan “Perspectives on Manhattanville” 313 Fayerweather, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Various “Final Philosopy Forum of the Year: Dewey, Democracy and Education” 720 Philosophy Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Phil Crone and Others “My Perestroika” 417 IAB, 8:00 pm – 10:30 pm, Robin Hessman “Alpha Chai Omega’s Winter Wonderland Party: A Festive Fundraiser” Wallach Lounge, 8:30 pm – 10:30 pm, Various “World AIDS Day Candlelight Vigil” Sundial, College Walk, 10:00 pm – 10:20 pm, Students Thurs Dec 2 “A Conversation with Adolfo Carrion, Regional Director of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development” 1501 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm “Migrations of Jewish-Hungarian Professionals through Germany to the United States, 1919-1945” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Tibor Frank “Frequency Shifts in Transient Response to External Forcing” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Lei Zhou “Memory, Identity, and the ‘Good War’” 801 IAB, 4:10 pm – 6:00 pm, John Bodnar “Biological Measures of the Standard of Living North and South of the Border” 802 IAB, 4:15 pm – 6:00 pm, Richard Steckel “Stories of the Stigma, Stories of the Strength: Ethnographic Oral History with Sanitation Workers in New York City” 754 Schermerhorn, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Robin Nagle “Literary Genres in Flux: The Maiji State and the Politics of Novelistic Imagination” 403 Kent, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Satoru Saito “Is There a ‘Brain Drain’ of French Academics to the United States?” Duell Hall, Maison Francaise, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Ioanna Kohler, Laure Bereni, Jean-Laurent Casanova, Pierre-Andre Chiappori, Souleymane Bachir Diagne, and Francois Rachline “Sexual Networks and HIV Transmission in a High-Prevalence Setting: Evidence from a Sociocentric Study” 503 Hamilton, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Stephane Helleringer “Reclaiming AIDS: On the Dawn of 30 Years with HIV/AIDS” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Various “Barnard Poetry Slam” 2nd Floor Café, Diana Center, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Students “Shayari Night” 509 Knox, 8:30 pm – 11:30 pm, Janaab “Maasoom” Manav, Aftab Ahmad, Dalpat Rajpurohit, Joel Lee, and Humaira Rahman “Bacchanal Fall Concert: Micky Avalon and Night Eyes” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 1:00 am “LateNite Fall Performance” Black Box Theater, Lerner Hall, 11:00 pm – 1:00 am, Runs Dec 3 11 pm, Dec 4 8 pm and 11 pm, LateNite Theatre Fri Dec 3 “Neurotechniques: New Approaches to Understanding Mind, Brain and Behavior” Casa Italiana, 8:45 am – 7:45 pm, Aniruddha Das, karl Deisseroth, Winrich Freiwald, Michael Goldberg, Uri Hasson, David Heeger, Elizabeth Hillmann, Adam Kohn, John Maunsell, and Frank Tong “Afghanistan: Prospects for Peace” 1501 IAB, 9:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Zalmay Khalilzad, Jean-Marie Guehenno, Randy George, Anthony Cordesman, Abraham Wagner, Austin Long, Hassan Abbas, Christine Fair, Joshua Foust, Gilles Dorronsoro, Michael Semple, Dante Paradiso, Clare Lockhart, and James Shinn “The Craft of Ethnography: A New Workshop on the Practice of Ethnography” 509 Knox 2:00 pm – 6:15 pm and Dec 4 707 IAB 9:00 am – 12:45 pm, Various “From a Raindrop to a Steam Pebble to a Delta: Recent Research on Predictive Modeling” 833 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Efi Foufoula-Georgiou “Asia in Africa: New Connections in Historical Perspective” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 3:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Howard French, Deborah Brautigam, Abdoulie Janneh, and Wang Hongyi “How Would We Act If We Took Climate Change Seriously?” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Robert H. Socolow “Hot Pot Night” Lerner Party Space, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, CU Generation, CU Wushu, and Others “Become a Google Ninja: Mastering Google Apps for Communications” 614 Schermerhorn, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Jeremy Caplan “The Never-Ending Bob Dylan” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Greil Marcus and Christopher Ricks “The Genesis Projects: From Forming Stars to Forming Life—Followed by Guided Stargazing” Pupin Laboratories, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Daniel Wolf-Savin “Bhangra in the Heights” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, 8:30 pm – 1:00 am, Anakh-e-Gabroo, NYU Bhangra, Rutgers Bhangra, SMD Bhangra Club, and CU Bhangra “First Friday: The Vagina Ball” Lefrak Gymnasium, Barnard Hall, 11:00 pm – 2:00 am, Simon Herzog and Others Sat Dec 4 “The International Criminal Court in Motion: An Analysis of Its Seven Years of Activities and Perspectives” 1501 IAB, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Luis Moreno-Ocampo “Om for the Holidays” 569 Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Pandit Dasa Sun Dec 5 “Environmental Racism and Inner-City Politics” Intercultural Resource Center 552 W 114th, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Tour “World Music Ensemble Concert” 301 Philosophy Hall, 6:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Columbia Klezmer Band and Lion in the Grass Bluegrass Band “Shalhevet Israeli Dance Troupe” Rennert Auditorium, Kraft Center, 7:30 pm – 8:30 pm 
Elderly woman on the 1 train to a Bwogger: "It's so good to see you reading! Look at all these other kids on their phones!  There's no service down here. Who could they possibly be talking to?! Kids these days..." This calls for a resurrection of the the social experiment! Whatever happened to our favorite mildly sketchy subway pastime: people watching? Eye contact is sexy!  And the top of your head just isn't that ridiculous...
Bwog has hopped, poked, and swiftly skimmed, but now we’re inviting other writers into the Bwog Bubble. We think there’s lots of fantastic campus journalism out there that sometimes slips under the radar. In the spirit of Enlightenment salons from centuries past, we present our newest feature, BwogSalon. Bwog asked the editors of each publication on campus  to send us a teaser article from their most recent issue—something distinctly representative of their point of view, but still accessible. Below, check out Jeff Picker's feature story from NOW!HERE, Columbia’s Journal of World Travel. You’ll make your fave French intellectual and your free-spirited cousin proud. Nordic Dangers: Caught in the Eye of a Norwegian Storm A view of Mount Ulriken in Bergen, Norway from the ground is not much of a spectacle. Its subtle sublimity blends serenely into a countryside known for its hills, small mountains, fjords, lakes and endless greenery. If not for several dozen pamphlets in the tourist office, trumpeting the extraordinary nature of the mountain, Storm (my travel companion) and I would never have seen its exquisite beauty. We also would not have ventured into unforeseen danger. We traveled to Bergen by train from the Norwegian capital of Oslo, the sightseeing opportunities of which we had exhausted by our third day. We were excited to experience the more natural tourist attractions of our destination. We spent our first day in Bergen settling in to our hostel, meeting other (mostly English-speaking) travelers, and scouring the city for the elusive, affordable meal. We spent the whole second day cycling the western coast of Norway, slightly north of urban Bergen. On the third day, we rode a train to the nearby town of Voss, a world-renowned center for outdoor recreation. We kayaked on the visually dramatic yet calm Nærøyfjord, occasionally stopping the paddles to lay back and imbibe the view of the breathtaking, bright green mountains which flank the narrow, blue-hued ocean inlet on either side. By then Storm and I had seen all we needed to from the ground - it was time to check out the Norwegian landscape from above. So upon the suggestion of the tourist office and some fellow backpackers, we embarked on a 6-hour hike around the brim of Mount Ulriken. The sky was clear and the air was still when we boarded the cable car at the bottom of the mountain. A university campus, a hospital and several blocks of apartment buildings surrounded the boarding area for the cable car, but we soon learned that the sights and sounds of urban Bergen at the base of the mountain betray the extraordinary natural beauty of the landscape only a few thousand feet above. When we arrived at the peak of the mountain, our senses went wild. The air up there was so crisp it seemed impossible to inhale enough of it. The pure scent, completely uninhibited by the urban scents of the city below, filled our nostrils and lungs; we gasped for air not out of shortness of breath but out of a powerful desire to ingest the delicious breeze. The panoramic view was even more exhilarating – the whole urban area of Bergen below seemed inconsequential when surrounded by the vast spectacle of natural scenery. Fjords of all shapes and sizes, kilometer after kilometer of lush green mountains and valleys and the ocean all came together, creating an aspect the likes of which I would be surprised to find elsewhere on Earth. The top of the mountain was colder and windier than the base had been, but that was to be expected given the altitude, and Storm and I commenced our hike with little worry. Neither of us was prepared for bad weather, but the sky was still clear, so we hiked on. After about 45 minutes, though, the sky began to give us clues that the weather might not hold out as we had hoped. Clouds hovered, the wind picked up and it began to drizzle. We decided to keep trekking and hope for the best. We made it to the other side of the mountain, which offered different – but equally stunning – views, and we found some rocks on which to sit and enjoy the grandeur of the landscape. While we sat, the storm descended upon us. By the time we decided to quit the hike and head back to the cable car, we were enveloped in a storm cloud, freezing, soaked to the bone and slipping around the side of a mountain riddled with rocky crags and cliffs. We could see no more than two meters in front of our feet, and we had lost all sense of direction. The only thing to do was to search haplessly for distinct natural landmarks we had noticed on our way and try to find mild pockets of the storm that would not whip us around. This proved quite difficult; we spent much of the next hour and a half scurrying to our feet after a slip or a particularly harsh gust of wind knocked us to the ground. The air grew colder, and the rain began to harden into small pricks of ice that stung when the wind whipped them into our bright red faces. Our feet and hands were numb, making it difficult to walk or climb, and several times we resorted to a crawl out of necessity, grabbing onto rocks and pulling ourselves across the ground of soaked grass and mud. We made it back to the top of the cable car and fell to the floor of the small, carpeted room, exhausted but laughing. The spectacular views of a few hours earlier were hidden from us by the relentlessly thick storm clouds, and we had never been happier to re-enter civilization. Spectacular but temperamental, Mount Ulriken left us with a story to tell and a heightened sense of the remarkable power of nature. Jeff Picker, CC '11 Read the rest of NOW!HERE's Fall 2010 issue on their website
 Jay-Z warned you: "Can't none of ya'll mirror me back!" Spotted on 116th and Broadway
Scandalous! The NY Post reports the Manhattan DA nabbed George Castro for allegedly stealing millions from Columbia. Bwog is in touch with University officials now, and we'll keep you updated when we hear back. Update: Double scandalous, the Post was wrong. The Wall Street Journal reports that Mr. Castro is not, in fact, an employee of Columbia. More details to follow.
The newest issue of The Blue and White will soon arrive.  Until then, enjoy the magazine in its entirety as we preview it on Bwog. Morningside old timers remember "the castle" at 106th and Central Park West as it once was. Not an inch of the restored structure betrays its past today, but for 40 years, the five crumbling turrets of 455 Central Park West dotted the skyline with decay. Only rats, squatters, and ghosts called its cluttered hallways home. The castle first opened its doors in 1890 as the New York Cancer Hospital, a state-of-the-art experimental facility and the only one of its kind in the U.S. To visit the building in those days would have felt like stepping into the Loire Valley--its French Renaissance revivalarchitecture gleamed with red brick and black ironwork, and its circular turrets lent a romantic grandeur to its grim medical mission. (The round towers were, in fact, functionally designed to eliminate the corners where physicians once believed germs collected and grew.) Breakthroughs in the use of radium for cancer treatment put the castle-cum-hospital at the forefront of the medical world, but by 1955 the hospital vacated the circular wards for a more modern facility. The center then became the Towers Nursing Home--a low-rent elder-care facility shuttered in 1974 for abusing and swindling its residents--before falling into total neglect. For the next 30 years, the castle lay abandoned, saved from demolition by a timely landmarks designation and the periodic, but fruitless, chatter of possible renovation projects. A white knight finally rode to the castle's rescue in 2003. After purchasing it in the late 1990s, developer Dan McLean finally succeeded in corralling funds to restore the building by convincing Columbia University to help cover the $150 million needed. In return, McLean would set aside for Columbia faculty 15 floors of a luxury apartment tower he planned to build and attach to the restored structure. In just two years, the castle was recreated as a complex of luxury condos so chic that they attracted the attention of celebrities like Phil Collins and Bill Clinton. Now called "The Towers," the once-decrepit castle stands today as a clean, beautiful model of Victorian institutional architecture and, as Sarah Bernard of New York Magazine put it on the eve of the restoration, a monument to "the winds of uptown gentrification." --Liz Naiden Illustration by Adela Yawitz
As part of World AIDS Week 2010, Student Global AIDS Campaign presents 30 Years and Counting: The HIV/AIDS Pandemic. They promise to serve you free dinner from Long Grain Thai and free dessert from Kitchenette. Plus, Sociomedical Sciences Professor Robert Fullilove, will feed you words of wisdom. It's all going down at 8:00 pm in the Earl Hall Auditorium. 
A tipster reports that two cabs collided. One cab swerved into a tree and the other stopped in the middle of the street, apparently pretty badly smashed up. Details to follow. If you're nearby, send a picture to tips@bwog.com. Update, 9:30: Both cab drivers are in stable condition but there was still an ambulance on the scene. 
This just in! SGA has voted to recognize sororities at Barnard by a vote of 14-5. Zoe Camp reports. Some words from the SGA meeting happening now: SGA was asked why the student poll existed in the first place, to which SGA members replied, "the student body really stood up and there was a large majority. It's our responsibility to do what we said we would do and follow the poll." A follow-up to the vote has been proposed. "Maybe fifty years ago, Barnard didn't accept Greek Life," an official said, "but fifty years later, that may have changed." Members of the council announced they were headed out for drinks after the meeting.
Lost Tues 23/11/10 between 1020, O'Connell's and Sip (oh dear). It's a tiny gold bracelet with my name (Natalie) engraved. It's of no monetary value but is of huge sentimental importance as I've had it since I was born (!). If you find it, please contact njr2115@columbia.edu
 More (and even more) on George Castro- who is not in fact an employee of the University-- the man indicted on charges of stealing nearly $5 million from Columbia, including the quote, “The money just appeared in my account.” (NYT/WSJ) Two researchers at the Mailman School of Public Health find that ineffective treatments and high costs hinder the U.S. healthcare system. (NYT) The Rockefeller Center tree-lighting ceremony is tonight. Unfortunately, it looks as though it will rain. (Rockefeller Center/WSJ) The Federal Transit authority has requested that NJ Transit repay $271 million it was awarded for a Hudson River tunnel project that has since been cancelled. The letter sent to the Executive Director of NJ Transit politely declines to use the classic Jersey-ism, "Where's the fuckin' money, shithead?" (AP/WSJ) Cathleen Black, Mayor Mike's pick to run New York public schools, was confirmed in that position yesterday when she received a waiver from the state education commissioner. (NYT) image via Wikimedia Commons
The November issue of The Blue and White will be arriving on campus momentarily.  Meanwhile, enjoy selections from the current edition on Bwog. At first it seemed innocuous enough: a couscous-like, gluten-free, and protein-rich alternative to rice. What damage could it possibly cause? Formerly confined to the lower shelves of Whole Foods and other "informed" markets, within the past few years quinoa (KEEN-wha, not ki-NO-ah, folks) has blossomed. It made its mainstream debut in supermarkets' premade salads, rapidly rose to prominence in university dining halls across the nation, and now regularly appears on both family dinner tables and the fine china of Manhattan's swankiest restaurants. It is more than a passing trend--this is no mere bubble tea. Quinoa, it seems, is here to stay. But in the face of the grain's meteoric rise, one cannot help but ask: how did it happen? Quinoa is classified as a member of the goosefoot family of plants, and despite appearances, is a close relative of spinach. Botanically speaking, the plant's edible seeds are "pseudograins," meaning that while it is not actually a grain, it can be used like one, and eaten either boiled or ground into flour. For this reason, it has long enjoyed a well-deserved cachet amongst those afflicted with gluten allergies. But the gluten-free crowd alone cannot account for the recent upswing in the miracle grain's popularity. Vegetarians and those more cognizant of their protein intake have turned towards the ringed, Saturn-like grain. Unusual for a single plant, quinoa has a perfect balance of amino acids, making it a complete protein. Olivia Burke, CC ‘12, an organizer of Columbia's Community Supported Agriculture program and a resident of the veggie-friendly, famously earth-loving Potluck House, "wholeheartedly endorses" quinoa. And why not? The grain boasts high fiber and iron counts. Crowds are still swarming toward this product, even though it is comparatively more expensive than its more mainstream grain competitors, such as rice and barley. The evangelists of healthy eating at Columbia Dining Services have in the last few years taken a cue from the earthy-crunchy set and begun incorporating quinoa into dining hall menus. Columbia, perhaps more so than anywhere else, displays the superfood's success. In 2008, Dining Services used a respectable 200 pounds of quinoa. By the next year that number had quadrupled to 800 pounds, and projections for 2010 estimate that an astounding 1000 pounds of quinoa will have been eaten by year's end--all in addition to the 360 pounds of quinoa-based breakfast blend that, mixed with yogurt and fruit, has become wildly popular amongst John Jay diners. This extensive North American intake might surprise the Incans, the first consumers of quinoa. In fact, the word "quinoa"--along with "jerky"--is one of only two words in the English language derived from Quechua, the indigenous Andean tongue. And lest you think it's overly colonialist that the only two words English took from the destroyed Incan culture pertain to food, you should also know Columbia just started offering Quechua as a foreign language this year. Now you can nourish your stomach and mind with all things Incan. On paper the grain's surge in popularity makes sense. It takes a mere 20 minutes to make and is incredibly good for you. In retrospect, quinoa seems to have been destined for greatness since its days in the Andes. But should we fear a possible health crisis from our newly elevated intake? Quinoa devotees are so loyal, so passionate, it's as if the grain is cultivating them. Just remember, there's a reason the Incans aren't around anymore. --Brian Donahoe Illustration by Louise McCune 
 Sean Zimmermann reports from last night's ESC meeting. Theresa Martinez, Dean of Community and Multicultural Affairs, spoke at last night’s Engineering Student Council meeting. She was hired last year to help foster a greater sense of Columbia University community. Dean Martinez explained that she is currently working on the open housing policy, the CUEMS proposal, and an electronic payer card system. She described some of the bureaucratic parts of Columbia as “archaic,” explaining, “I don’t recall the last time I saw a quadruplecate form before I went to Columbia.” Much of the discussion on student life focused on the role of student groups and how to connect with students. Freshman Representative Siddhant Bhatt proposed that the Dean could help foster community by playing music in the dining halls, and providing “advertising” for student groups between pieces. Bhatt claimed that this would be a “less invasive” way to alert students about events on campus than knocking on doors. When asked about how to combat the habit of students usually branching off into small groups and failing to communicate with other groups, she explained that she finds it interesting that many student groups are duplicates of other groups. She explained that there is no venue for student groups to collaborate or communicate—one council member recalled that two similar on-campus organizations had planned similar events at the same time. Because of the lack of communication between groups, Martinez explained that is critical to try to understand why students feel a need to create overlapping groups. Santosh Balachandar, VP Student Life, commented to the Dean that there appears to be a lack of a definite sense of Columbia community when compared to other schools—there is no clear “what it means to be Columbian” for alumni to hang on to when they leave. Dean Martinez explained that one of the challenges Columbia faces is showing the Morningside community the good that Columbia does. She said there is no venue to hear from students about the good they do for the community, so it's difficult for her to advocate for students. For example, the Dean explained that when investigating converting some of the Columbia-owned buildings in the neighborhood to extra residence halls, there were concerns from the local community about having Greek life on their block, and though she would love to inform them of all the positive things Greek organizations do for the community, she has no way of knowing what the Greek organizations are working on, so it’s difficult to reassure the community when all she sees are the negative reports. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
God may be dead, but it seems this guy is still alive and printing stuff out in Butler.
Certain members of our community have been letting off end-of-semester angst by writing angry comments on dining hall bulletin boards. For example, this note was left in Hewitt circa 11:07 this morning: Hang in there, champ. We know classes are stressful (and dining does stuff like that) but there's no need to yell. 
Enjoy leaves now! Go do it! Now!
Study suggests that attending an Ivy doesn't necessarily pay off with a higher starting salary after graduation.  That's bad, because money defines success in life and education is only a means to that end. (NYT) Read about the convoluted history of the crew's huge painted "C" facing Inwood Hill Park. (Manhattan Times) A Barnard ROTC cadet tells her story. (Spec) The NY state House race is the last one on the fence. (WSJ) Remember The Marshmallow Test?  Turns out our own Dr. Walter Mischel just took home a $100,000 grand prize for researching stuff like that about self control. (PRNewswire) Last night was the lighting of the Rockefeller tree.  If you missed it/were too cynical to go you can watch it in your room, in secrecy.  Not everyone was there for fun, however, as some unemployed people protested the long-term cut-off of unemployment benefits.(Examiner, AP, NYDailyNews) Image via Wikimedia
Oof! It's terrible outside today. If you're late for your 10 a.m., take heed: do not bring an umbrella outside. The wind will eat it and it'll turn inside out. Wear rainboots. Don't catch a cold. And eat something, you look skinny. Are they even feeding you up there? Bwog's Weatherman Pat Blute chimes in on the situation: "Sock monkey is our resident expert on rain safety and precaution. He says the situation looks bleak. As we all learned in lit hum, each raindrop is a mixture of Zeus' tears and lost endowment funds. It's gonna pour all day." Stay tuned! Send us pictures and overheards from today's blustery, umbrella-destroying hurricane-monster to tips@bwog.com. 
Right now, until 3pm, the Student Global AIDS Campaign is hanging out on the Lerner Ramps, spreading info about testing, stigma reduction and policy updates.  Free Starbucks coffee as well as desserts/baked goods are there too too!  While you're there you can sign a petition and make calls to Obama asking him to come through on his funding promises to Global AIDS. World AIDS Day Getting Tested Educational Campaign 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. Low Steps Stop by to get information on local HIV/AIDS resources, policy updates, stigma reduction, and getting tested. Free Starbucks coffee, desserts, and various baked goods! Link: http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=145415988840678
 Look, sometimes things work out for English majors! Anna Feuer, CC '11, will head to Oxford next year on a Marshall scholarship to write about the interaction between Irish and Indian writers during the early 20th century. Niche history... it gets you free shit! Congratulations, Anna!
A startling discovery has been made: Justin Bieber's number 1 fan attends Barnard, and she honors him with the namesake of her WiFi network.  Bwog has seen both some pretty serious Bieber fans as well as some pretty strange network names in its day, but props to this anonymous fan for mashing them up so seamlessly! Image by LPI
Behold the treasures which lie before you. Tickets sold for on campus events this week: 2275 On campus events on sale now: Silence: December 9th, 10th, 11th, 2pm &amp; 8pm, Diana Black Box, $5, Tickets. Portrait and a Dream: December 9th, 10th, 11th, 8pm, Lerner Black Box, $5, Tickets. A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum: December 11th &amp;12th, 2pm and 8pm, Roone, $5 w/ CUID, Tickets. Tickets sold for off campus events this week: 257 Off campus events on sale now: Spider-Man: December 2nd, 8pm, $49, Tickets. Ballet Hispanico: December 3rd, 8pm, $36, Tickets. Metamorphosis at BAM: December 3rd, 7:30pm, $23, Tickets. 
 
Ladies and gentlemen, the future is here.  Oren's Daily Roast, the coffee shop that is so much better than Starbucks, I mean why would you ever drink Starbucks, has entered the modern age.  Instead of their old stamp cards, they now have plastic swipe cards. Behold.  Behold the bi-chromatic design, the name stamped boldly across the top, the simple-yet-elegant layout and the central logo we all recognize.  This is something you want in your wallet. Now when will Oren's start taking Flex?
We'll let you know when the November issue of The Blue and White arrives in buildings on campus, but until then, enjoy the entire issue as we preview it on Bwog. In an nontraditional marketing move, author and Columbia professor Gary Shteyngart attempted to attract a different set of readers to his summer release, Super Sad True Love Story. Rather than courting subscribers of the New York Review of Books, Shteyngart released a series of videos aimed more at the Gawker set. An interviewed Columbia student shares that her favorite class with Shteyngart was "his seminar on how to behave at a Paris Review party"--smash cut to Shteyngart swirling wine in a plastic cup and commenting, "I do so much prefer early Ian McEwan to late Ian McEwan," while his students, including James Franco, imitate him. It's not just Shteyngart who can't read in the dystopian future world of Love Story, where books are antiquated relics. There are riots in Central Park, our Chinese creditors are getting fed up, and everyone is entirely dependent on a sinister descendant of the iPhone, the äppärät, which displays an individual's vital stats, including hotness and fuckability. Yet, even in Shteyngart's world, Barnard, and presumably Columbia, persists. So welcome to future Columbia circa, let's say... next Tuesday. First, our äppäräts will have to have a special Columbia setting recalibrating hotness to fit the standards of our academic bubble. A student glancing up from his perpetually low fuckability rating will pass a new Columbia landmark--the rotating tombs of Foner and Delbanco. Before they pass away, the two professors will have commissioned special spinning sepulchers from the engineering school, ensuring that they will be rolling in their graves for the rest of time. This student will now continue on to University Reading. Columbia, ever-preoccupied with preserving lost arts, will have finally given up getting people to care about the musical stylings of Josquin des Prez and shifted its attention to preserving the art of literacy. The syllabus will include the seminal works of the last era of literate humanity, Atlas Shrugged and tutorials on the Julia Roberts' Eat, Pray, Love iPhone app. After class, our student will go grab coffee (some things, thankfully, never change). IAB is closest, but the building, now a bomb shelter, requires a retina scan to enter. The student proffers his eye only to be blinded by the always-broken light (some things, not thankfully, never change). Our one-eyed student stumbles back across campus toward Butler, passing the Center for Career ReEducation, and almost misses Columbia's main financier, Glenn Beck. Now that Columbia's endowment portfolio consists solely of Goldline gold, hawked by Beck during commercial breaks on Fox News, there are obvious improvements to the campus, such as the Low Plaza Digital Sundial. Butler, taking a cue from Low, is now also book-less, and consists solely of Butler Cafe and 209. Our student, still singed, gets himself a latte and sinks down into one of the blue chairs. He pulls out his äppärät and waits. Like everyone else in the room, he isn't doing any work. The many flatscreen TVs in the former library display the end of life as we know it--ROTC forcing freshman COÖPers up a mountain, the Upper West Side's Wal*Mart grand opening, and the 1 train skipping from 242nd Street to 14th Street. Unfazed, our student pokes his nose over the rim of his device at his Butler companions, waiting for the inevitable: it will get later and later, people will care less and less, and finally (hopefully before the predicted firestorm) his fuckability rating will go up. --Hannah Lepow Illustration by Cindy Pan
Unless you were stuck all day in some windowless room in Pupin—in which case Bwog is sorry—you can't have missed the torrential winds and elemental forces that struck campus today. It was raining sideways! Or whatever else your grandma says when it rains a lot. But anyways, it was all worth it since Michael Rady CC '13 snapped a shot of this beautiful rainbow over Low. Perfect! 
From 5-7 p.m., despite the weather, Chabad will be lighting a giant Menorah on College Walk. Head over there for free donuts, cider, Menorahs, candles and other give-aways. Update: Attendees were happy the rain had passed, and gamely fought against the night chill with hot cider and friendly company. The group of 40 or so were alternately chatting warmly, singing and listening to the rabbi tell the story of the Maccabean Revolt. It was a nice break from the books. 
Overheard in Era of Civil War and Reconstruction, a.k.a. Foner: "Whoever said this was going to be the worst fucking Chanukah ever was RIGHT." Bwog hopes folks feeling this way investigated the Chabad Menorah. Or at least head to any of the other candle-lightings around campus tonight. 
Happy Holidays! Barnard Housing sent out an email yesterday, just in time for the start of Chanukah, notifying students that not only are they forbidden to light candles in their room, simple possession is also forbidden. Even if you're just holding them for a friend, it's against the rules, kids. In its divine wisdom, however, Housing has designated candle-lighting zones and times when candles may be lit. This begs the question: where does one keep her candles when they are not being used legally? Ah well. Full email after the jump. From: &lt;housing@barnard.edu&gt; Date: Tue, Nov 30, 2010 at 8:10 PM Subject: Holiday Observance - Candle Lighting To: Dear Residential Students, As the holiday season begins, all of us in Residential Life and Housing would like to send along our best wishes for a successful completion to your semester and for a happy and healthy holiday season. The holiday season is filled with special occasions and traditions, which have an impact on our entire community.  We would like for everyone to be safe in their observance of the holiday season.  With this in mind, please be reminded that the possession and lighting of candles in the residence halls is prohibited.  We will do our best to accommodate as many observances as possible providing they are safe for the entire community. For example, this Chanukah season (December 1-8) lighting of candles will ONLY be allowed in the Sulzberger Lobby and the Second Floor Lounge in 600.  However, if you would like to light your own Menorah, you are welcome to do so in the Kraft Center/Hillel building (606 W. 115th).  In collaboration with Rabbi Yonah and with the help of student volunteers, one Menorah will be lit at the following times each night: Wednesday  (12/1) Sulzberger Lobby: 5:15pm and 7:30pm (community lighting at 7:30pm with donuts &amp; music!) Building 600 (2nd Floor Lounge): 6:30pm Thursday (12/2) Sulzberger Lobby: 5:15pm, 6:15pm and 7:15pm Building 600 (2nd Floor Lounge): 6:30pm Friday (12/3) Sulzberger Lobby and Building 600 (2nd Floor Lounge): 3:45pm Saturday (12/4) -- Wednesday (12/8) Sulzberger Lobby: 5:15pm, 6:15pm and 7:15pm Building 600 (2nd Floor Lounge): 6:30pm If you need to arrange something for another tradition, please be in touch with housing@barnard.edu so we can assist you.  Thanks for your cooperation and we wish you a very happy holiday season. Image via Wikimedia
Just because Thanksgiving is past doesn't mean there can't be a cornucopia of free food to graze on! From 7:30-8:30 p.m., enjoy the Campus-Wide Candle Lighting, which celebrates the first night of Chanukah. Free Dunkin' Donuts!  You can get in on the action in the lounges in Broadway, Carman, Hartley, Schapiro and Sulz, and in the second floor lounge of EC. Or visit the talk "Manhattanville Perspectives" by the Students for Environmental and Economic Justice in Fayerweather 313. It's from 8:30-9:30 p.m. with a free veggie Indian dinner before. And finally, from 8-10 p.m. go see QUARTO's Short Shorts in Short Shorts, and hear under-140-word pieces that were invented before Twitter was. You can write your own too, or just skate by for the free pizza. World AIDS Day Getting Tested Educational Campaign 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. Low Steps Stop by to get information on local HIV/AIDS resources, policy updates, stigma reduction, and getting tested. Free Starbucks coffee, desserts, and various baked goods! Link: http://www.facebook.com/ev ent.php?eid=145415988840678
It's a red samsung t-mobile flip phone. I know I dropped it somewhere between the Lerner lobby and college walk where the ambulance is parked OR outside faculty house or Wien. It happened around 12 to 1 on wednesday.
Bengu Sezen, a former Ph.D. student in Columbia’s chemistry department, committed 21 instances of scientific misconduct in her doctoral research and is now banned from all sorts of government work. (Spec) WikiLeaks went on a Twitter tirade against its former host, Amazon.com, after Amazon crumbled under government pressure and shut the site down. (NY Mag) Scientists found the slutty gene. Well actually, it’s the “thrill-seeking” gene, DRD4, but people with it are more likely to enjoy horror movies, have uncommitted sex, and be politically liberal. Ring a bell? (Gawker) The number of rapes, burglaries and assaults in the area has been on the rise--but no worries! Morningside Heights' murder rate remains the same. (Spec) Update: Econ legend and U.S. Soccer president Professor Gulati spearheaded the U.S.'s formal bid to host the World Cup '22. Other notable presenters included Bill Clinton, Morgan Freeman, Obama (via video) and star player Landon Donovan. Photo via Flickr
For your sensory entertainment, today Bwog explores the Greenmarket's current comestibles chromatically. White: Look for pure white parsnips at Monkshood and white rutabaga at Stannards (they are usually yellow). Brown: The big round loaves of bread from Cayuga are crusty on the outside and soft on the inside. If you want them, come early; they're the first to go! Red: You can find out-of-season fruits in jam form at Beth's Farm Kitchen. They're perfect for pancakes. Purple: Try purple cabbage! Cut it into strips and sauté them with other cut vegetables. Add an egg for a healthy and filling breakfast. Green: Gonzalez Farm has leafy greens. Their two types of kale look great. Image via Wikimedia Commons
Hark! Get coupons for free hummus from Westside-- go to Hamilton now to investigate. 
 
Tickets for tonight's Bacchanal Fall Concert are officially sold out at the TIC. You should definitely pick up your ticket early if you ordered it online to avoid TIC lines out the door later tonight. Columbia: let's dance. 
 Photo by DH
It's freezing outside, everyone's getting sick, and finals loom near... which can only mean that it's time to light up the trees, surround ourselves with song and dance, drink warm drinks and have MiMoo try to make everyone feel happy, sane and loved again! It's worth braving the cold for some hot cocoa, cider, cookies, and a free scarf. The ceremony begins on College Walk at 6 p.m.! 
 CU Dance Marathon and Student Global AIDS Campaign are sponsoring a screening of the movie Philadelphia and a free dinner tonight from 7pm to 10pm in the Satow Room in Lerner. Cuisine details remain a mystery, but the movie is a "1993 American drama inspired by the true story of Geoffrey Bowers, an attorney who sued the law firm of Baker &amp; McKenzie in one of the first AIDS discrimination cases." Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 
Columbia all-star Professor Jeffrey Sachs tells us why we should make the "conscious pursuit of happiness the Ninth Millennium Goal." The key, he argues, is equilibrium. (NYT) House votes 333-79 to censure Harlem Rep. Charles Rangel for numerous ethics violations. (HuffPo) The U.S. unemployment rate rises to 9.8%. (Bloomberg) Creepy Disney town Celebration, FL sees its first homicide. (Gawker) Obama celebrates Hanukkah with Michael Oren, CC '77, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, LAW '59, and Elena Kagan. (LA Times) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog found Mickey Avalon's backstage spread rather ordinary - fruit, iced water, some Red Bull. When Zoe Camp and Peter Krawczyk showed up to interview him before last night's show, they couldn't detect slightest sign of illicit behavior - for all we know, it could have been Al Gore's green room. But then out walked the sultan of sleaze-rap himself, sipping on a small cup of Red Bull, smiling at the giddy students that walk by. Going into an interview with an artist whose biggest hits include songs about dicks, sluts and "hot dick dot com," one would expect a certain air of crassness. Bwog found Mickey Avalon delightful backstage; onstage he had his moments. Mickey did pretty much what we expected him to do: make out with all the girls in the front row (twice), play "Jane Fonda" and "My Dick" (during the last five minutes) and be fucked up. Overheards ranged from "I'm getting tired of trying to have fun," to "I am so happy I go to college." The cigarette-smoking and ensuing threats of shutting the show down, the awkward moments where kids were dragged off the stage by Public Safety and the middle school dance grinding may not have lent the evening a refined air, but we suspect that's not what anyone was looking for last night. Mickey and his dancers were spotted at O'Connell's, of all places, around midnight last night. They played "My Dick" in his honor. Happy birthday, Mickey! Thanks for giving an excellent excuse to actually attend an event in Roone, Bacchanal! Bwog loves you. Bwog: It's your birthday tommorow! What are your plans? Mickey: I fly out for Honolulu in the morning. I play the 3rd, the 4th, and the 5th. Then I have a break before the 10th, so I can relax, surf...just chill. Bwog: Very cool! So you did a song with Ke$ha ("Sticky Mickey"). What was that like? Mickey: It was fun. She came on tour with me and opened for me. I knew she was going to be bigger than me but we share the same record company and they wanted to give her exposure. I've collaborated with others, too...Kid Rock, Katy Perry, Perry Ferrel. For rap music, it used to be all about the verses without hooks. But now, you need hooks. It's nice to have other people - especially girls - singing on the hook. Bwog: In songs like "What do you Say", you go for obscure samples (King Kong Kitchie Kitchie Ki-Me-O,  by Chubby Parker and His Old Time Banjo). How do you pick those samples? Mickey: I like folk and country. We sample a lot of 60's psychedelic stuff too, and I'm working on some Bob Dylan covers. Subterranean Homesick Blues especially - the way it's structured, it's already great for a rap song. I like samples because it helps to expose people to music they wouldn't hear otherwise. My friend, his niece knows who Ke$ha is, but not who Keith Richards is. I don't get that. Bwog: You've spoken about being a male prostitute in the past, and it's something that pops up in your music a lot. Now, with your music career, you obviously don't need to do that any more. Does that mean we won't hear about it in your music, or will we still get to hear stories of your past? Mickey: It's a progression. I think of each album as a chapter in my life. The next record is the next chapter. I might poke fun at myself here and there, but at the same time, I don't want to hear 50 cent talking about selling crack all the time. This is just my job and it pays the bills and child support and all that. Bwog: Ok, so of course we had to bring up "My Dick". Did you - pardon the pun - know it was going to be so big? Mickey: We've never done anything that's a good business choice. I've always thought that it was a terrible idea, a terrible song that was so stupid. Same with "Jane Fonda", actually. But people work 9-5, they come to these shows and they just want to have fun. When I hear people that want to get deep or philosophical, I just say, "dude, it's rock and roll. If you wanna get philosophical, do it somewhere else." But I've heard some pretty funny stuff - the funniest was when my music publisher said that his son loved "My Dick." I was like, "Dude, you shouldn't be telling everyone this." Some people take the music a bit too seriously, though. I played this show at Mount Holyoke, and there were these girls outside protesting with these signs that said my songs were pro-rape. I'm not pro-rape - I have a daughter...That kind of hurt my feelings. It was like they were sitting there wanting to be mad at me. Bwog: Speaking of mad, a lot of people have been getting worked up over Four Loko. Do you drink it? Mickey: What's that? Why, are young girls getting date raped or something? (after an explanation, a visible wince) There's reason that hard alcohol makes your stomach lurch. You NEED that, and young girls definitely need that. Caffeine just masks that. Bwog: One last thing: Would you rather give up oral sex or cheese? Mickey: Cheese. Wait, as in being a vegan? (a beat.) Yeah, I like both things, but cheese. 
Goodbye lawns, we barely knew ye. See you in the spring! They're baaaack!
Found in the African Studies Reading Room on Butler 6. Looks like the War on Fun is still alive and well... 
Students eyeing federal government positions, beware. The U.S. State Department has barred its staffers from reading classified documents released via WikiLeaks. A SIPA alumnus working in the State Department saw fit to email SIPA's Office of Career Services to warn students against linking to any leaked documents on social media sites as well, as it could jeopardize their future government employment. A Reddit user posted the full email on a thread discussing the topic: “Office of Career Services” sipa_ocs@columbia.edu Date: November 30, 2010 15:26:53 EST To: Hi students, We received a call today from a SIPA alumnus who is working at the State Department. He asked us to pass along the following information to anyone who will be applying for jobs in the federal government, since all would require a background investigation and in some instances a security clearance. The documents released during the past few months through Wikileaks are still considered classified documents. He recommends that you DO NOT post links to these documents nor make comments on social media sites such as Facebook or through Twitter. Engaging in these activities would call into question your ability to deal with &gt;confidential information, which is part of most positions with the federal government. Regards, Office of Career Services
Cooking with Bwog's Matt Powell is back to warm your hearts with some sinfully delicious recipes for hot chocolate. We promise they're way better than the usual Swiss Miss. New York weather continues to confuddle me, but I do know one thing: the perfect cure for the cold weather blues is a nice cup of hot chocolate. Here are three of my favorite flavor combinations. Feel free to experiment on cold days! I also made sure to include alcohol pairings for spiked hot chocolate—sure to warm your holidays! Chai-Spiced White Hot Chocolate (Serves 4) Ingredients: 4 C whole milk 3 bags of black tea (I use Lady Gray) 12 green cardamom pods, lightly crushed 3 cinnamon sticks 5 small slices of fresh ginger root 1 tbsp black peppercorns 4 tsp whole cloves 2 star anise 2 tbsp brown sugar 8 oz. white chocolate Directions: In a small saucepan, bring the milk to just under a boil. Remove from heat and add the tea, cardamom pods, cinnamon sticks, ginger root, peppercorns, cloves, anise, and brown sugar. Give the milk a quick stir, dissolving the sugar. Then, cover the saucepan and allow the milk to steep for 30 minutes. Strain the milk into a bowl using a fine sieve. Press down on the solids to release any residual flavor. Pour milk back into the saucepan and bring to just under a boil. Once the milk is hot again, stir in the white chocolate and serve. If you are so inclined, spike it with Crème de Cacao. Orange-Cinnamon Milk Hot Chocolate (Serves 4) Ingredients: 4 C whole milk 4 cinnamon sticks Strips of orange zest from 1 orange 1 tbsp granulated sugar 8 oz. milk chocolate Directions: In a saucepan, bring the milk to just under a boil. Remove from the heat and add the cinnamon sticks, zest, and sugar. Stir to dissolve sugar. Then, cover with a lid and allow to steep for 30 minutes. Strain the milk into a bowl using a fine sieve. Press down on the solids to release any residual flavor. Pour milk back into the saucepan and bring to just under a boil. Once the milk is hot again, stir in the milk chocolate and serve. To take it up a notch, add Grand Marnier or Cointreau. Lavender Dark Hot Chocolate (Serves 4) Ingredients: 4 C whole milk 3 tbsp dried lavender 3 tbsp honey 8 oz. bittersweet chocolate Directions: In a saucepan, bring the milk to just under a boil. Remove from the heat and add lavender and honey. Stir to dissolve honey. Then, cover with a lid and allow to steep for 30 minutes. Strain the milk into a bowl using a fine sieve. Press down on the solids to release any residual flavor. Pour milk back into the saucepan and bring to just under a boil. Once the milk is hot again, stir in the dark chocolate and serve. Spike it with Crème de Cassis or blackberry liqueur. Photo from Flickr/Dennis Wong
Break out of your pre-finals slump and head over to Hewitt Dining Hall for WBAR's Winter Formal for free unidentified giveaways, in addition to the free music and fun. Featured artists include Amen Dunes, Sweet Bulbs, Sleepies, Mr. Dream, and Midnight Magic. The Facebook event promises lots of dancing, so for all those tired of grinding in Campo, go get your grind on in Hewitt. The Village Voice seems to care about this event, and so should you! Doors open at 8. But if dance parties aren't your thing, check out a musical showcase hosted by Youth for Debate in Wien Lounge at 9 PM. Cupcakes, cookies, cider, and hot chocolate will be served in abundance! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
LateNite Theatre presented the first showing of its fall anthology last night. Bwog's own Peter Sterne reports. Last night, LateNite presented a series of six short plays written, directed by, and starring members of the Columbia community, as they have for the past 15 years. All of them were quite funny, though they varied in tone from laugh-out-loud hilarious to almost dark comedy. Some were just short sketches based on a central idea, while others were full-fledged short plays. The opening play, “The Haunting of Our Lives,” written by Augusto Corvolan and directed by Steele Sternberg, examined what happens when a demon tries to haunt an apathetic loser. Despite the simple premise, it was very entertaining to watch Dan Aprahamian remain completely oblivious to everything and everyone around him, from Alex Katz’s suave but increasingly frustrated demon to Hannah Ceja as his terribly under-appreciated girlfriend. The ending is fairly obvious, but the journey there is a treat. Another popular play was “Lost Manuscripts.” Written by Brian LaPerche and directed by Zack Sheppard, this show has no plot. Instead, the actors all play drunken versions of Shakespeare brainstorming ideas for his next play. The actors are a mix of KCST and improv types, and it shows as they deliver quick sketches of classic plays that are short, vulgar, and pitch-perfect in their middlebrow Shakespearean satire. Who else could summarize Taming of the Shrew as “Bitch get trained!” or call the end of Othello a “pillow fight”? By the time the actors run out of Shakespearean parodies and tackle everything from Waiting for Godot (“He never fucking comes!”) to Inception (BWAAAAANG!), the audience is in stitches. In a similar vein, Alyssa Lamontagne’s “Don’t Teach Archery (Lest You Become the Target)” mocks Ocean’s Eleven-type caper movies and soap opera drama. It also makes great use of music. The centerpiece of the play is a scenario, set to the tune of “Mission Impossible,” where various stereotypical assassins (a ninja, a sexy Russian, a bombs expert, etc.) work together to assassinate the English king and prince, with the Mission Impossible theme blaring in the background. Perhaps the best scene occurs when the prince’s archery teacher (Kendale Winbush) and the queen (Lida Benson) find themselves attracted to one another. While romantic music swells in the background, Winbush and Benson express the melodrama of the scene to a truly absurd degree. Throw in a great finale, where the assassins try to execute Winbush with a bow but struggle to do so until he teaches them how to hold it properly, and you’ve got one hilarious show. While all of the plays were humorous, some of them are smart and funny in equal measure. “Heteronormative,” written by Jacob Rice and directed by Andrea Lopez, gently pokes fun at the stereotype of Columbians as overly self-conscious fans of ridiculously postmodernist social science classes. Jessie Cohen plays Izzie, an undergrad with an internal monologue full of self-doubt who takes “The Fallacy of Gender” and develops an interest in a stereotypical carefree “cool” male classmate, played by Max Banaszak. Cohen’s spectacular performance highlights the tension Izzie experiences between her belief that gender is a fallacy and her growing desire “to do incredibly inappropriately heteronormative things” with her new friend. As the focus of the class shifts from the pretentious language of the teacher, played by Tara Pacheco, to the relationship between Izzie and her “seat buddy,” it suggests that love is possible even at Columbia. The surprise ending, though, turns the moral of the story on its head. Throughout, this play is smart and funny in equal measure. “Parental Involvement,” written by Erica Drennan and directed by Jessie Cohen, deals with a similar theme. Shira Albagi plays a counselor at a parent-teacher conference at an ultra-liberal high school who refuses to judge or discipline any students on principle, yet still feels a student has transgressed by having sex with a teacher (as her visually evocative hand gestures imply). As she struggles with this problem, the aggressive Type A parent, played by Colette McIntyre, of the student just leaves once she realizes the school is relying on her to punish her daughter. Although the play is quite funny, it is also the most serious. The final play of the night was “The Adventures of Scott Maxwell Part III: The Unsolvable Dilemma,” written by Mke Kennelly and directed by Kennelly and Victoria Ugarte. Co-president of LateNite Zack Sheppard commented after the show that “we usually do something very strange or experimental for the last play,” and this play certainly fit the bill. The play, which takes place around 30 years from now, is both a great parody of Scott Pilgrim and a commentary on life at Columbia from the perspective of the future. The play’s plot is very difficult to follow, especially once time travel is introduced. A bit like “The Wire,” there is not much helpful exposition; the audience is expected to follow the dialogue and figure out what’s going on for themselves. The LateNite Fall 2010 anthology will be performed again tonight at 11 p.m. and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. in the Austin E. Quigley Blackbox Theater on Lerner 5. Free tickets are available from the TIC.
The latest issue of The Blue and White hits campus very soon.  You can read the entire magazine on Bwog until then. In this installment of End of the Line, Claire Sabel visits the Bronx riviera. The 6 train emerges from beneath East 139th street, rising in languid arcs above the Bronx. It crosses over the Bronx River and the newly completed and still-manicured Concrete Plant Park, a renovated abandoned cement factory. A pair of children shriek with Disney-inspired delight at the announcement of “Castle Hill,” and an older man patiently clasps his collapsible bicycle. The train proceeds northeast until it reaches its final destination: Pelham Bay Park, the massive green space that draws both the kids and the bikers. Pelham Bay Park is perhaps best known to outsiders for lending its name to John Godey's 1974 novel The Taking of Pelham 123, the story of a subway train that leaves Pelham Bay Station at 1:23 pm and is hijacked beneath Midtown. But today, the pace of a police thriller seems incongruous with Pelham Bay's tranquility. An expansive, middle-class neighborhood, its residential streets betray its physical and ideological distance from Manhattan's tumultuous density. Brick colonials and two-story Tudors add a suburban touch and house the neighborhood's mix of elderly couples and new families. In recent years, the once predominantly Jewish and Italian-American area has become more diverse with the influx of Hispanic, black and Eastern European families. While a third of Pelham's population commutes roughly half an hour into the city to work in service, construction, or maintenance industries, a stroll through Pelham hints at the peaceful seclusion of a true suburb. On a recent Sunday afternoon, the streets were empty except for one elderly German woman hoping to find customers interested in contents of her bulging garage. The unique feature distinguishing Pelham Bay from both the inner city and further-flung suburbs is the park itself. It is the city's largest park property at more than 2,700 acres and covers more than three times the area of Central Park. But from the neighborhood, it's easy to miss that expanse of green lying just beyond I-95. A small Parks Service office is the only hint of the undiscovered acres of woodland that line the Bronx's edge. Defining the neighborhood almost as much as the Park is I-95, which cuts a wide swath through Pelham Bay to carry hundreds of thousands of cars in and out of the city each day. The 6-lane thoroughfare courses a level down from the street, dividing the subway station and the edge of the neighborhood from the park. Above, the elevated subway line straddles Westchester Avenue, a main artery of the neighborhood lined with local businesses. Pelham's subdued character makes it seem all the more cloistered when one realizes its proximity to Co-op City, a cooperative housing development for some 50,000 New Yorkers. Rising as many as 30 stories high, the physically imposing development contains three shopping centers, six schools, a power plant, and a firehouse. Its homogeneous concrete form dominates I-95 and the skyline alike, reinforcing Co-Op City's self-contained autonomy. Despite urban planning's oft-sterile feel, Pelham preserves its character. The neighborhood is well-worn and characterized by generations of New Yorkers, not by a development committee. Shingled roofs are visible walking down Pelham's quiet avenues, not high-rises, and on the overpass that leads back to the station, neither the monolithic eyesores nor the rush of traffic detract from the satisfaction of the vista stretching out to the Sound. --Claire Sabel Illustration by Liz Lee 
The New York Times talks about education with professional dancers in GS. But we all love to see people chain smoking anxiously outside of Mathematics... (Spec) Elaine Kaufman, owner of the famous restaurant Elaine's, dies at 81. (NYT) He's got 99 problems, of which one is definitely not a birthday. Happy birthday from all of us on Bwog, old pal. (Observer) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Photo by MT
The November issue of The Blue and White will be on campus shortly.  Bwog has posted highlights from the issue over the last few weeks--take a look! "You could die," reads the slogan of the Broadway Bomb, an unsanctioned longboard race down the legendary avenue. The disclaimer is no exaggeration; more than 500 boarders barreled down Broadway to the bronze Bowling Green Bull on Oct. 16th, rolling through red lights and weaving between cars. Skaters gathered on Riverside and 116th Street before officially starting the tenth annual race outside the Columbia gates. Adrenaline aficionado Phillip Dupree, SEAS ’11, joined the daring skaters, whom he affectionately calls "concrete surfers." "Do you know what it feels like to be so in the moment that time goes from a ticking clock to a fluid flow?" Dupree asked. For him, the speed and the danger make the race seem like a blur. "Ten minutes, an hour? Not important." Had you been standing on the corner outside of Morton-Williams when the race began that Saturday, you probably wouldn't have also lost your grip on the space-time continuum, but you might have nearly lost much worse. Only moments after the stroke of noon, a torrent of boarders charged up 116th Street, careened around the corner, and jetted down Broadway, all with the hell-bent fury of a pack of Harpies. Taxi drivers angrily honked and bewildered tourists grabbed their cameras. One spectator even played the concerned mother—Dupree remembered a middle-aged woman shouting "helmets and pads" to the flood of racers. In less than an hour, Dupree completed the Broadway Bomb and joined his fellow longboarders in celebrating the race's end with cheers. "Your legs are burning," Dupree remembered. "People that don't think skateboarding is exercise have no idea what they're talking about." But the party did not last long—screaming sirens soon interrupted the cheering. "I heard someone yell, 'It's the cops. Book it!'" Dupree said. "Did I mention this race is completely underground and illegal?" --Carolyn Ruvkun Illustration by Maddy Kloss 
Photo by DH
The ever-subtle Huffington Post believes SIPA's WikiLeaks drama (beat you by a day, HuffPo!) worthy of the following massive headline: That Photoshopping! Brutal!
Things spotted by Bwog this week that were less dull, and more sparkly, in all sorts of ways: The bookstore is now totally stocked for holiday shopping...but more importantly there are hats with rhinestones! Thank god for Collegiate Fashionista! Holiday lights at Westside New light outside Greenborough New signs at Ferris Booth proclaim the glory of food. If Virginia Woolf liked it... Liz's Place has recently started serving holiday cups Let it not be forgotten, that Oren's now has swanky swipe cards Boringish things to tips@bwog.com please!
Guys, you'll never believe this: Mark Hay was there! Just past the doors of Roone Arledge Auditorium last night, a chubby and balding older man spasmodically twirled about to the sharp rap of a dhol over a loud speaker. As he twisted about in what could have been a reenactment of Monty Python’s Ministry of Silly Walks skit, a circle of men and women formed around him, jumping up and down, one hand in the air as if screwing in a light bulb and the other at their side as if patting a dog. From the back of the crowd came a low and rolling battle cry, as if to dispel any doubts as to what audience members had just walked into: “bruuuuaaaaaHHHHH! Bhangra!” And all of this before the show itself—featured performances by some of the region’s best Bhangra teams—even began. An older man in the audience, watching the action in the back of the room, chuckled and remarked, “we have already gotten our money’s worth out of this. The rest of the night is just a bonus.” It was a comment made in jest, but oddly representative of the experience at such a large and bustling Bhangra event. While everyone is in part there to see the teams, cheer for their friends and communities (many students and alumni come in from New York University, Rutgers, and beyond), they are there just as much for the opportunity to dance themselves. Recognizing this, the opening act was not a dance team, but rather a singer, Nikki  Manku, not herself an exceptional stage presence but a great enabler of the kicking, jumping, smiling circles forming just behind the rows of chairs (only about a third of the room in deference to the dancers in the audience). But if the nights performances were a bonus, they were a generous one. The night started with a performance from Rutgers Bhangra, launching straight into a wild frenzy of wide-stanced, jumping steps. The performance was all the more impressive for the sparkling stage smiles the dancers maintain throughout, something only a coating of vaseline along the gum line or the true euphoria of the delirious joy of dancing can bring about. Or possibly they were only smiling with the knowledge that they would be joined by a dancer towards the end of their act dressed as deadmau5. After Rutgers came a performance by the all female SMD Bhangra Club, accompanied again by a live performance by Ms. Manku—a group with a fair number of male fans in the audience as sufficed by the orgasmic refrain of “yeah, yeah, yeah” following their every jump by a chorus of men the row behind me. And after a performance (with particular flourish to every step) by NYU Bhangra came an act by the lotharios of the Bhangra world (or at least of Queens), Anakh-e-Gabroo. It is telling that the all male group spent the bulk of the start of their number hoisting with glee large poles into the air, and later blowing kisses to the audience, giving each other friendly stage pats on the butt, and opening their vests to reveal paper hearts on the inside. The nights performances ended with a showing by our own cuBHANGRA—and they did not disappoint on their home turf. One of the largest groups of the night with sixteen members, cuBHANGRA was also one of the most expressive, enthused, and fluid groups, drifting back in forth in some of the most complicated and varied choreography of the night. The proud showing by our home team was just the thing to rile the audience up for a sweaty, exhausting, exhilarating dance party, lasting longer than the performances themselves, and helped along by the spasmodic shimmy of the same little balding man, jumping and twisting well into the night. Photos by Jai Radhakrishnan
 Notoriously stubborn New Jersey Governor Chris Christie has come to a compromise that may bring medical marijuana to the Garden State by next summer. (NYT) St. Patrick's Cathedral, the one on Mulberry Street, has been designated a basilica, New York's first. (Daily News) Governments are scrambling in the wake of the most recent WikiLeaks document release. China is no exception, and officials there have censored the site. (Guardian) Congratulations to the men's basketball team, who defeated Stony Brook 73-72 in the final seconds of last night's game. (CU Athletics) Image via Wikimedia Commons
It's that time of the year when we post the new Spec managing board and people on Spec and their supportive suitemates write lots of comments like "Go Hallie!" and "I love you Jake, lol remember that time when we stayed at the Spec office sooo late rofl." So here we are again. A hearty congratulations to Spec 134 (is that right Ben?) and to the new Spec 135. Editor in Chief: Sam Roth Managing Editor: Michele Cleary Publisher: Aditya Mukerjee News Editor: Sarah Darville News Editor: Leah Greenbaum Editorial Page Editor: Gabriella Porrino Editorial Page Editor: Rebekah Mays A&amp;E Editor: Allison Malecha Sports Editor: Jim Pagels Sports Editor: Mrinal Mohanka Spectrum Editor: Mikey Zhong Eye EIC: Amanda Cormier Eye ME: Ashton Cooper Eye Art Director: Cindy Pan Head Copy Editor: Alex Collazo Photo Editor: Jasper Clyatt Design Editor: Ann Chou Design Editor: Jeremy Bleeke Online Editor: Jake Davidson Staff Director: Hannah D'Apice Alumni Director: Andrew Hitti Sales Director: Mabel McLean Finance Director: Spencer Duhaime 
Rami Levi was studying in the stacks when he felt the urge to procrastinate. Upon finding a bottle of Mike's Hard Lemonade, our procrastinator extraordinaire was inspired. He did what any reasonable person would do in the situation; he used the bottle, and a few books, to make a stop-motion video. 
There are NO FUCKING SEATS IN BUTLER. Stay in bed. Don't come here. We should mention that there are other libraries, they just don't stay open at night when you need to them to be.
The Flute Choir is giving a performance on the 2nd floor of the Diana Center right now. And there is free food! Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog has hopped, poked, and swiftly skimmed, but now we’re inviting other writers into the Bwog Bubble. We think there’s lots of fantastic campus journalism out there that sometimes slips under the radar. In the spirit of Enlightenment salons from centuries past, we present our newest feature, BwogSalon. Bwog asked the editors of each publication on campus to send us a teaser article from their most recent issue—something distinctly representative of their point of view, but still accessible. Below, check out Yurina Ko’s piece from the Columbia Political Review. You’ll make your fave French intellectual and your passionately political Papa proud. Memory and Pacifism: Three voices from Okinawa Okinawa is ambiguous. It is an idyllic, subtropical vacation spot in the eyes of most Japanese as well as the site of the 1945 Battle of Okinawa, the largest land-sea-air battle of World War II. Okinawa is one of 47 prefectures in Japan, but it also doubles as a home to 14 U.S. military bases which in total occupy one-fifth of the island. Its advantageous geographical location allows easy access to East Asia and the Middle East, making the island indispensable for U.S. forces. As long as Japan wants to maintain peaceful diplomatic relations with the U.S., Tokyo will not ease the burden of the bases on the Okinawans. To some, Okinawa is a ghostly reminder of the devastations of war. “Just looking at these pictures terrifies me,” an old woman said, partly to herself, while looking at a photo of a wounded Okinawan child at an exhibition in Naha City. “War is terrifying. Terrifying.” She repeated this for a while and sat down on a chair nearby, exhausted. Her occupation was to tell war stories to youths like me. Mrs. H., as I’ll call her, is currently 78 and, despite her age, very articulate. Towards the end of the Battle of Okinawa, she relayed, most of the civilians hid in caves. Mrs. H, then 13 years old, was among them. When American soldiers advanced towards the hiding sites, Japanese soldiers distributed hand grenades and other weapons to civilians. Sacrificing oneself for the nation was deemed a better alternative than being captured by the enemy. No one knows how to tell the story of the mass suicides. One version might imply that Okinawans collectively took their lives out of genuine patriotism, while another would implicate the Japanese government for instilling fanatic militarism in innocent people. “You see this scar?” She pointed to her neck, just below her left ear. It was a mark left from the mass suicides. “I just fled the cave out of panic.” “I have an obligation as a survivor,” she continued. “This is my purpose in life, to tell people about the horrors of war, so that maybe those people can prevent wars from happening again.” When I asked her about her position on U.S. bases, she said, “I’m against war, and if U.S. bases are here to train soldiers for more war, I’m against them too.” Her pacifism, fueled by unforgettable, horrific memories of war, is her argument against the presence of current U.S. bases. For Mrs. H., the young soldiers currently training in Okinawa before departing for Afghanistan look no different from American soldiers she encountered in 1945. Noticeable anti-base protests, however, didn’t begin until the 1960’s. “In a way, I think accepted the situation for what it was,” she commented. A majority of the current participants in the anti-U.S. base protests are middle-aged. Born after the war, they grew up seeing the U.S. bases gradually expand in their neighborhoods. One such man is Shoichi Chibana, a 61-year old activist who became famous for burning the Japanese national flag in 1987, demonstrating his dissent against the Japanese government’s mistreatment of Okinawa. Because of people like Mr. Chibana, Okinawa burns with an aggressive pacifism. Mr. Chibana lives in an area called Yomitanson, 48 percent of which is made up of U.S. bases. He hosts an inn that has attracted scholars, anti-U.S. base activists, and pacifist artists to gather and talk. This past April, more than 90,000 Okinawans, seven percent of the total population, rallied to protest a relocation of an air base within the island. When I met him this summer, he was wearing a T-shirt with the inscription: “The Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation and the threat or use of force as means of settling international disputes.” It was from Article 9 of the postwar Japanese Constitution—the anti-war clause. He and most anti-U.S. base protestors interpret this article to represent an ideal, humanist law: If every country in the world had Article 9 in their constitutions, war would become illegal and peace would be something that was enforced, not merely envisioned. “Aren’t I stylish?” he said, smiling. Mr. Chibana is instantly likable. He is tall and built, and looks reliable. It’s hard to believe that he, a dedicated father to three children with a calm personality, was ever arrested for sedition and that he is still an avid protester of the presence of U.S. bases. “Go back to America!” Mr. Chibana shouted at a U.S. military tank driving next to us—a frequent sight when driving in Okinawa. He dreams of a day when all the bases disappear from the island and Okinawa can prosper independently as it did before Japan annexed it in 1872. The American soldiers, flicking their cigarettes out of the tank window, didn’t notice Mr. Chibana’s comment. Cigarettes, it would turn out, bought my ticket into the heavily guarded military base. “Do you have a light?” a man with a crew cut asked me in front of a university library in Naha City. I noticed that he was struggling with his Japanese so I continued the conversation in English. When he found out that I was researching U.S. bases in Okinawa, he said, “I’m an officer at the air base. If you have your passport, I can show you around.” I hesitated at first. Common sense tells you to not go driving with strangers. Yet I had carried my passport with me during my stay in Okinawa, hoping for an opportunity like this. I had to talk to an American soldier, and the P.R. department at the base was rather unhelpful. The officer, Mr. Y, is 28 years old, comes from Michigan, and has been at Okinawa for the past two years. To people like him, Okinawa is bliss. “When I had just enlisted, my three choices were Okinawa, Hawaii, and Guam. I was happy to get Okinawa because I wanted to see what it was like to live in Japan,” he said, adding that all the locals have been warm and welcoming to him, especially the ones working inside the base. “It’s like paradise,” he said, “especially compared to the Middle East.” Mr. Y was previously stationed in Afghanistan, training the local police force. During the car ride, he put on Jack Johnson music, commenting that it fit the scenery well. From inside his vehicle, Okinawa did indeed begin to look like California, with palm trees lining the roads and the beach somewhere in the periphery. Once we were inside the base, I saw soldiers in camouflage uniforms everywhere and tanks parked casually side by side. “I feel like I’m in the set of a movie!” I said, wide-eyed. He laughed. “You’re easily amused, aren’t you?” he said, smiling proudly. “This is my life.” Mr. Y would make a terrible villain. He has a kind smile and a soft, low voice that resembles a reporter for National Public Radio. When I asked him about what he thought of the anti-base protests, he responded, “I mean, I know about the protests. I hear about them every now and then, but it’s not like we go out of our way to do something about it.” He shrugged. “We’re just doing our job.” At that point it was clear to me why Okinawa remains such an ambiguous place. I found myself sympathizing with every Okinawan war survivor, anti-U.S. base protestor, and American soldier. When I went back home to Tokyo, it occurred to me how easy it was for most Japanese people to remain complacent about the Okinawa Problem. For Tokyo, responding to Okinawa’s dissent, which stems from lingering war memories of a devastating battle and decades of unheeded protests, is not worth the risk of shattering the U.S.-Japan relationship and the national security both countries gain from having U.S. bases in Okinawa. The ostensibly pacifist purpose of Article 9 that Mrs. H and Mr. Chibana embrace ultimately turns out to be the very law that enables the presence of U.S. military bases, for Japan’s military forces are limited to self-defense. But while outright military conflict has been absent from Japan’s shores and the question of war appears solved, a smoldering tension is left, unsettled and unresolved, on Okinawa. The rhetoric from Tokyo cannot ease the palpable and personal tensions on the island. Only by engaging with the voices of Okinawa can Japan set this long-festering issue to rest and begin to heal. 
The Marching Band really wants you to go to Orgo Night, so they made this promo: 
HOLIDAY CHEER! Special thanks to XMAS 5! A Corporate Carol - go see it next Monday night! Also thanks to Eli Grober for playing guitar, Wallen and D'Offit for vocals, Matt Star for orchestration, John Nordin, Eduardo Santana and Nathan Bailey for dancing, Bwog staff for helping with lyrics and Kenny Durrell for his filming talents. 
Lotsa people are talking about SIPA's reaction to WikiLeaks. Huffpo gave us this ridiculously dramatic photo, the Village Voice called Columbia fascist, and now NY Mag endorses NYU-style topless protesting. Apparently, telling students to ignore a major event totally revolutionizing journalism and politics counters the goals of most universities. Be rebellious, friends, go learn! Captain Derek Jeter is staying on with the Yankees for a cool $51 mil three-year deal. Better not screw up. (ESPN) Our favorite Business School Dean and Bush tax-cut architect Glenn Hubbard argues "fiscal contractions can be expansionary" in an NYTimes article today. He and his other Bush era cronies say continuing the tax-cuts would be part of a longer plan to lift American spirits and increase business investment. To democratic Keynesians, this just sounds like a formula for reducing demand and increasing unemployment. But wait, there's compromise on the horizon—"hints of a truce in economic battle." Apparently Hubbard praised the recent recommendations from Obama's deficit reduction commission. Optimism? Harmony? Shenanigans. (NYTimes) And for some news on the home front: Sophomore roommates Tiffany Firebaugh, CC '13, and Megan Armstrong, SEAS '13, entered a music video sweepstakes. If they win, the pair has pledged to donate their $2500 prize money to help stop sex trafficking. The vid is pretty cute, and this winner is selected by popularity. So go view it, post it, share it, "like" it, tweet it, or whatever crazy "it" thing you kids are doing these days. 
 Grant D'Avino keeps you up to date! The University Senate passed a smoking ban! As it stands, smoking will be prohibited within a 20-foot bubble around all buildings. The old, and loosely enforced, ban, as per New York state law, of 20 feet only applied to residence halls. Ashtrays or some other type of cigarette receptacle will be placed at the edge of the new 20-foot perimeters, along with information about quitting smoking. The council then discussed a resolution to create centralized publication racks in Lerner. The logic behind the racks is that they would provide publicity for publications and reduce waste by cutting down on the number of publications that are thrown away. Currently, publications are forced to haphazardly distribute in residence halls, around Lerner, and in various academic buildings, and hope against hope that someone will pick up the magazine or journal that they happened to stumble across. The funding for the new racks in Lerner would come from Lerner itself, and building representatives have already pledged to pay. Three suggested locations for the publication racks were the current location of the New York Times racks, the piano lounge, and that awkward nook near the new advising center. One council member noted that "it's not going to be fixed by one publication rack. That would have to be pretty epic." Given that observation, council members named the lobbies of John Jay, Hamilton, and the Butler lounge, as other possible rack locations. However, funding for those locations has not been pledged, so there was little discussion about them. The council did not vote on the resolution. Bacchanal then gave a presentation. Or, more precisely, Bacchanal asked CCSC for money. Bacchanal has requested that CCSC, along with the other three undergraduate councils, contribute $20,000 to improve the spring concert. "We're trying to make the spring concert as awesome as possible," one Bacchanalian said. The concert is expensive: "1.5 Wiz Khalifas equals one stage." The thrust of the presentation was that while Bacchanal has been a great event in years past, the additional money would allow for higher quality performers, and a higher quality concert. Comparisons were made to the spring events at Penn and Brown that are known to draw students from nearby schools because they are so awesome. As it stands, the group has roughly $60,000 to $70,000 to spend on artists, and they may begin negotiations for artists as soon as this week. When asked why the funding could not be generated with ticket revenues, Bacchanal reps claimed it was impossible. Either they would need to ask students to pay up front (like, now) based on the promise that they could secure the concert of the students' dreams. Or, they would need to secure an artist at a certain price and make a similarly unfounded promise that they could raise the money through ticket sales. Finally, given that the concert is held on the steps, tickets would mean a high level lockdown by campus security so that those coming in and out of the gates could be assured to be ticket holders. In discussing the sizable donation, CCSC members raised concerns about oversight, the short time frame in which to make a decision (Bacchanal requested a decision by Wednesday), the lack of details provided by Bacchanal, and the other expenditures the council would forego in making the contribution. The council will vote online sometime in the coming days or weeks, and the results of that vote will be made public. The meeting ended with a vote for the co-chairs of Glass House Rocks. Explaining the event to 2014 representatives, one council member bluntly explained its goal: "Turn it into the student center it was supposed to be, but never really became." Image via Wikimedia Commons
Hark!  Snow approacheth! The first person to tip a picture of snow in Morningside gets their name mentioned on Bwog and eternal glory. Below, a poem by Robert Frost: The way a crow Shook down on me The dust of snow From a hemlock tree Has given my heart A change of mood And saved some part Of a day I had rued. 
We have a winner! Jody Zellman captured the first flakes! "The scourge is here," Jody writes in his winning email. And a few more snowflakes courtesy of Hans Hyttinen: 
The cast of the 117th Annual Varsity Show has been revealed at last! Congratulations, friends! Cast Alia Munsch (BC ‘12) Andrew Wright (CC ’14) Bob Vulfov (CC ’13) Chris Silverberg (CC ’13) Elizabeth Power (CC ’13) Isaac Assor (CC ’14) Naomi Roochnik (BC ’13) Rachel Chavez (CC ’14) Rebekah Lowin (CC ’14) Sam Mickel (CC ’14) Sean Walsh (SEAS ’14) Victoria Pollack (BC ’12) Production Team Adrianna Aguilar (BC ’13), Asst. Choreographer Amelia Lembeck (BC ’14), Stage Manager Elizabeth Logan (CC ’14), Asst. Director Emma Ziegellaub Eichler (CC ’14), Asst. Art Director Malida Tadesse (CC ’14), Asst. Producer Mark Ruddy (CC ’14), Stage Manager Michael Hsu (SEAS ’12), Asst. Tech Director Yuxi Wang (BC ’13), Publicity Manager We posted the creative team last month. Check it out here 
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter  Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. Have a gander, who knows what you’ll find! Plus, it’s performance time!  So, we’ve compiled a separate list of upcoming artistic achievements and winter wonders. Recommended Lectures: Mon, Dec 6 “Elizabeth Bishop’s ‘Geography III’” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Rachel Hadas and Jane Shore “The Journal of International Affairs Thought Leadership Forum on ‘Innovation for Development’” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, John McArthur, Laurence Tubiana, Manuel Pinho, Upmanu Lall, Paul Hudnut, David M. Driesen, and Steven Cohen Tues, Dec 7 “Engaging with Armed Groups: The Mediation Challenge” 1102 IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Teresa Whitfield “Closing Remarks” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Lee Bollinger “The Black Power Struggle of the 1960s” LL 104 Diana Center, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor Wed, Dec 8 “Nursing Home Care Paradox: Ensuring Quality of Life, Fostering Dignity in Death” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Anthony J. Lechich “Art and Social Justice” Union Theological Seminary, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Alfredo Jaar “Straight Up: A Real Talk about Allyship” 702 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm Hudson Taylor, Chaplain Davis, Melinda Aquino, and Linda Hellman Thurs, Dec 9 “The Ancients Teaching the Moderns” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Nadia Urbinati Fri, Dec 10 “Bolder Policies for Diversity at the Top?” Casa Italiana, 8:00 am – 12:30 pm, Esther Duflo, Debora Spar, Ann Bartel, Barbara Colwell, James DeGraffenreidt, Amy Dittmar, Sheila Hooda, Gita Johar, Bruce Kogut, Mona Lena Krook, Kathryn Kolbert, David Ross, Susan Sturm, Gillian Tett, and Ellen Stafford-Sigg “Stuck in the Middle: How and Why Middle Schools Harm Children” 801 IAB, 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Jonah Rockoff “It is Necessary to Revolutionize Climate Prediction: Is It Possible?” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Jagadish Shukla Arts Addendum and Winter Wonders: Mon, Dec 6 “Knitting with Dean Denburg” 17th Floor Sulzberger North Tower, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm Tues, Dec 7 “Columbia University Orchestra Concert” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Miller Theatre, 8:00 pm, Music Director Jeffrey Milarsky Thurs, Dec 9 “Silence” Minor Latham Playhouse, Milbank Hall, Runs Dec 9-11, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm “Portrait and A Dream” Lerner Black Box, Lerner Hall, Runs Dec 9-11, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, NOMADS “Winterfest!” Lehman Lawn and Diana Center, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Raw Elementz, Orchesis, Metrotones, Bhangra, Life Size Maps, Jake Snider, XMAS, Lion Dance, WBAR Fri, Dec 10 “Columbia University Gospel Choir Winter Concert” Lerner Party Space, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm Sat, Dec 11 “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum!” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, Runs Dec 11-12, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Columbia Musical Theater Society “A Yule Ball Concert” Earl Hall Auditorium, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Clefhangers “Annual Winter Candlelight Concert” Union Theological Seminary, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Barnard-Columbia Chorus Sun, Dec 12 “CU Glee Club Winter Concert” Lerner Party Space, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm “A Christmas Carol: Jubilation! 2010 Winter Concert” 555 Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm FULL LIST Mon, Dec 6 “Film Screening and Roundtable Discussion with Pierre Boulez” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 10:00 am – 12:00 pm, Pierre Boulez, Fabien Levy, Miller Puckette, Martin Scherzinger, and George E. Lewis “The Foreign Policy Priorities of Moldova” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, H.E. Alexander Cujba “From Three-Legged to Two-Legged Races: The Emergence of Women’s Competitive Sports in Japan (1910s-20s)” 918 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Robin Kietlinski “Southern Buddhism: Tracing Later Buddhist Art in South India” 208 Knox, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, John Guy and Sheldon Pollock “Investing in Southeast Asia’s Emerging and Frontier Markets” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 6:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Stephen Chen and Matthew Magenheim “Elizabeth Bishop’s ‘Geography III’” 2nd Floor Common Room, Heyman Center, 6:15 pm – 8:15 pm, Rachel Hadas and Jane Shore “Knitting with Dean Denburg” 17th Floor Sulzberger North Tower, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm “The Journal of International Affairs Thought Leadership Forum on ‘Innovation for Development’” 1501 IAB, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, John McArthur, Laurence Tubiana, Manuel Pinho, Upmanu Lall, Paul Hudnut, David M. Driesen, and Steven Cohen “Finance in Asia” Broadway Room, Lerner Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Kamsen Lau, Kevin Kung, and Marcus Chin “Pierre Boulez: 85th Birthday Celebration” Millter Theater, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, New York City Talea Ensemble, James Baker, and Pierre Boulez Tues, Dec 7 “The U.S. Business Press and the Financial Crisis” 610C Journalism Building, 12:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Anya Schiffrin “International Human Rights Day Celebration” 1512 IAB, 12:40 pm – 2:00 pm, Various “Engaging with Armed Groups: The Mediation Challenge” 1102 IAB, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm, Teresa Whitfield “Workshop on Meaning: Language and Socio-cultural Processes” 802 IAB, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Kristine Billmyer and Shamus Khan “Water” 102 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Upmanu Lall “Closing Remarks” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Lee Bollinger “The Economic Legacies of Colonial Rule in Latin America” 801 IAB, 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm, Rafael Dobado, John Coatsworth, and Jose Moya “Crude—Film Screening” 569 Lerner Hall, 7:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Steve Donziger “Aghet—Film Screening” 413 IAB, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Eric Friedler “The Black Power Struggle of the 1960s” LL 104 Diana Center, 7:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor “I Am Love—Film Screening” 413 Kent, 8:30 pm – 11:00 pm, Elizabeth Leake Wed, Dec 8 “Neither Sick Nor Normal: The Social Ontology of Newborn Screening” 509 Knox, 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm, Stefan Timmermans “Who Brings the Water?” 208 Knox, 4:30 pm – 6:30 pm, Stina Hansson “Nursing Home Care Paradox: Ensuring Quality of Life, Fostering Dignity in Death” Davis Auditorium, Schapiro, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Anthony J. Lechich “Art and Social Justice” Union Theological Seminary, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Alfredo Jaar “Straight Up: A Real Talk about Allyship” 702 Hamilton, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm Hudson Taylor, Chaplain Davis, Melinda Aquino, and Linda Hellman Thurs, Dec 9 “Hydro-Climatic Diagnosis and Modeling to Support Adaptation to Tropical Climate Variability” 214 Mudd, 3:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Lareef Zubair “The Foreclosure Crisis in NYC: Patterns, Origins, and Consequences” 6602 Psychiatric Institute, Medical Center, 3:15 pm – 4:45 pm, Ingrid Gould Ellen “The New York City Origins of the Disability Rights Movement” Satow Room, Lerner Hall, 4:00 pm – 6:00 pm, Warren Shaw and Barbara Simon “Transforming Humiliation and Violent Conflict” Grace Dodge Hall, Teachers College, 5:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Various “The Ancients Teaching the Moderns” Rotunda, Low Library, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Nadia Urbinati “Political Conditions for Diffusion? Anti-Corporate Movements and the Spread of Cooperatives in American Capitalism” 503 Hamilton, 6:30 pm – 8:30 pm, Marc Schneiberg “1848 is 1948: Poetic Echoes of Endurance from Palestine to Latin America” 413 IAB, 6:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Mark Gonzales "Winterfest!” Lehman Lawn and Diana Center, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Raw Elementz, Orchesis, Metrotones, Bhangra, Life Size Maps, Jake Snider, XMAS, Lion Dance, WBAR “The ‘Cinema of Attraction’ is Born Twice” Faculty House, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm, Andre Gaudreault “In Search of Memory—Film Screening” 312 Mathematics Hall, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Eric Kandel “Silence” Minor Latham Playhouse, Milbank Hall, Runs Dec 9-11, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm “Portrait and A Dream” Lerner Black Box, Lerner Hall, Runs Dec 9-11, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, NOMADS “The Function” Lerner Party Space, 11:30 pm – 2:00 am, Raw Elementz and DJ Skool Fri, Dec 10 “Bolder Policies for Diversity at the Top?” Casa Italiana, 8:00 am – 12:30 pm, Esther Duflo, Debora Spar, Ann Bartel, Barbara Colwell, James DeGraffenreidt, Amy Dittmar, Sheila Hooda, Gita Johar, Bruce Kogut, Mona Lena Krook, Kathryn Kolbert, David Ross, Susan Sturm, Gillian Tett, and Ellen Stafford-Sigg “Stuck in the Middle: How and Why Middle Schools Harm Children” 801 IAB, 1:00 pm – 3:00 pm, Jonah Rockoff “Education is a Road to Success—Art Exhibit” Student Dining Center, Diana Center, 6:30 pm – 9:00 pm, Exhibit “It is Necessary to Revolutionize Climate Prediction: Is It Possible?” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Jagadish Shukla “Columbia University Gospel Choir Winter Concert” Lerner Party Space, 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm “Bacchristmas!” Earl Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Bacchantae “S’madar Winter Concert” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 9:30 pm – 10:30 pm “Shabeh Yaldah” Lerner Party Space, 11:00 pm – 1:00 am, Columbia Iranian Students’ Association Sat, Dec 11 “Worldmise Concert Open Rehersal” Sulzberger Parlor, Barnard Hall, 2:00 pm – 5:00 pm, Jane McMahan “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum!” Roone Arledge Auditorium, Lerner Hall, Runs Dec 11-12, 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm, Columbia Musical Theater Society “A Yule Ball Concert” Earl Hall Auditorium, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Clefhangers “Annual Winter Candlelight Concert” Union Theological Seminary, 8:00 pm – 10:00 pm, Barnard-Columbia Chorus Sun, Dec 12 “CU Glee Club Winter Concert” Lerner Party Space, 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm “A Christmas Carol: Jubilation! 2010 Winter Concert” 555 Lerner Hall, 7:30 pm – 9:30 pm 
The SIPA WikiLeaks saga has come to a close. Last week, SIPA Office of Career Services warned students eyeing government positions to shut up about the whistle-blowing wonder that is WikiLeaks. Even tweeting and  linking to leaked documents on those crazy social networking sites could jeopardize future employment opportunities. "Engaging in these activities," the email read, "would call into question your ability to deal with confidential information." Naturally, everyone went crazy! Luckily, SIPA Dean John Coatsworth (what a dignified-sounding name!) put out the fire. "Freedom of information and expression is a core value of our institution," Coatsworth wrote in an email to SIPA students. It's also a "core value" of the Constitution, but whatevs. You can talk about WikiLeaks now "without fear!" Outspoken SIPA prof Gary Sick took it one step further. The Middle East expert who served on the National Security Council under Ford, Carter, and Reagan, passionately declared, "If anyone is a master's student in international relations, and they haven't heard of WikiLeaks and gone looking for documents that relate to their area of study, then they don't deserve to be a graduate student in international studies." Curiosity... it's valued! Full e-mail from SIPA Savior/Dean John H. Coatsworth below: December 6, 2010 Dear SIPA Community, Last Tuesday, SIPA’s Office of Career Services received a call from a former student currently employed by the U.S. Department of State who pointed out that the U.S. government documents released during the past few months through WikiLeaks are still considered classified.  The caller suggested that students who will be applying for federal jobs that require background checks avoid posting links to these documents or making comments about them on social media sites such as Facebook or through Twitter. OCS emailed this cautionary suggestion to students, as it has done many times with other information that could be helpful in seeking employment after graduation. We know that many students today share a great deal about their lives online and that employers may use that information when evaluating their candidacy.  Subsequent news stories have indicated that the Department of State has issued guidelines for its own employees, but has not issued any guidelines for prospective employees. Freedom of information and expression is a core value of our institution. Thus, SIPA’s position is that students have a right to discuss and debate any information in the public arena that they deem relevant to their studies or to their roles as global citizens, and to do so without fear of adverse consequences. The WikiLeaks documents are accessible to SIPA students (and everyone else) from a wide variety of respected sources, as are multiple means of discussion and debate both in and outside of the classroom. Should the U.S. Department of State issue any guidelines relating to the WikiLeaks documents for prospective employees, SIPA will make them available immediately. Sincerely, John H. Coatsworth Dean
 We beseech you Columbia: wear a coat. While walking to class, Bwog was appalled by the number of people thoroughly unprepared for today's flurries. (Flipflops? Come on...) It's fucking cold outside; dress appropriately.
Gerry Visco, Bwog's favorite classicist and "keeper of the flame," sent out another memorable e-invitation to Saturnalia. "Those of you who are scared of me or anyone else here belongs in the suburbs with the Stepford Wives," Visco wrote in a Bwog comment. Read on and wish your professor were this adorable: Please join us in celebrating the holiday season and the end of the term this Thursday, December 9th 5 to 8 PM or so at the Kellogg Center, 15th floor of the International Affairs Building (after 7 PM, you'll need to enter through the entrance at 420 West 118th Street between Amsterdam and Morningside). We invite you to eat, drink, and be merry -- but NO on-premise sacrificial rites will be permitted under ANY circumstances and will be strictly enforced (haruspicy is a violation of university conduct). Significant others are welcome -- and for those who can only stop by briefly, please do! Gerry Visco Keeper of the Flame, Vestal Virgin, etc. sacerdos Vestalis Department of Classics 617 Hamilton Hall Full email (with pictures!) below: A typical Department of Classics party Welcome to the Saturnalia! The Circle of the Year is cut in fourths, and in the ancient lands of Greece and Rome the darkening time from autumn equinox to winter solstice was the time to plow and plant the ground, to store away the seeds. You gracious Gods: Saturnus, Consus, Ops, accept our thanks and look on us with love. And let us see that seed corn must be saved, that we need light to bring our seeds to fruit. As we have done this day, so every day! Department of Classics staff Seneca the Younger wrote about Rome during Saturnalia around 50 AD: It is now the month of December, when the greatest part of the city is in a bustle. Loose reins are given to public dissipation; everywhere you may hear the sound of great preparations, as if there were some real difference between the days devoted to Saturn and those for transacting business....Were you here, I would willingly confer with you as to the plan of our conduct; whether we should depart from our daily routine, or, to avoid singularity, both take a better supper and throw off the toga. 
Why gorge yourself on over-priced Butler Café scones when you can eat for free? Bwog presents two opportunities to satisfy your stomach without sparing a dime: First, head to the Broadway Room in Lerner at 6:45 for delicious Albanian pastries courtesy of CIRCA (Columbia International Relations Council and Association). You'll be in good company: Representative of Albania to the UN, Ambassador Ferit Hoxha, will be giving a presentation. Intellectual nourishment! Then, run across Broadway to the 5th floor of the Kraft center at 8:00 for unidentified free food and laughs. Chow down with Fruit Paunch and Jewish humorist Aaron Friedman.
Here is a very long letter signed by leaders of all the student councils about CU-EMS/CAVA's request to move their HQ from Carman to 103 Broadway. The  councils have decided to support CU-EMS' move to 103 Broadway, but not 103 and 102 Broadway, as CU-EMS had originally requested. The councils hope the CU-EMS will be able to make the move across the street during winter break. Bureaucracy, after the jump! To Whom It May Concern: In Fall 2010 Columbia University Emergency Medical Services (CU-EMS) approached the student councils requesting an office transfer from the basement of Carman Hall to the recently vacated Broadway 102 and 103. After a review process, the Columbia College Student Council (CCSC), Engineering Student Council (ESC), and General Studies Student Council (GSSC) passed separate resolutions in support of the transfer, but containing a discrepancy over the allocation of Room 102. Whereas the CCSC voted to allocate only 103, the ESC and GSSC voted to allocate both Broadway 102 and 103 to CU-EMS (Exhibits C &amp; D). The councils approached the Activities Board at Columbia (ABC) and the Student Governing Board (SGB) at the beginning of this process, whereupon both ABC and SGB voted on the transition. SGB voted unanimously to support the transition of CU-EMS to Broadway 103, but did not support allocating Broadway 102, finding that the former room was “sufficient to meet the needs of CU-EMS” (Exhibit A). ABC voted 9-7 against the transition of CU-EMS to Broadway. The councils have decided to remain in support CU-EMS’ request to move to Broadway 103, given the support from the SGB and the divided opinion of the ABC. The councils appreciate the careful considerations presented by ABC. The ABC acknowledges that “CU-EMS deserves additional space for a separate sleeping area,” and also suggests that the band practice room be moved from Carman to Broadway, “allowing CU-EMS to expand into the vacated space” in Carman (Exhibit B). However, the councils have noted that much of CU-EMS’ membership does not have access to undergraduate dormitories and that there are costs associated with sound-proofing rooms in Broadway. Given these constraints that ABC itself recognizes, we ultimately argue that the most efficient allocation of space given various constraints is to move CU-EMS from Carman to Broadway 103. The councils have resolved their discrepancies by deciding to support the allocation Broadway 103 but not 102 for the ongoing use of CU-EMS as its center of operations. In addition to significantly increasing the space available to CU-EMS, Broadway 103 addresses nearly all of the issues to which the CU-EMS proposal refers. The councils discussed at length the merits of allocating Broadway 102 to CU-EMS. CU-EMS argued that Broadway 102 could be used to store confidential documents that require storage in a locked space. However, rather than an additional room, any item could be used to secure these confidential documents. Thus, the councils recommend that CU-EMS obtain a device to secure such documents (e.g. a locking cabinet) and that Broadway 102 be used for student groups as originally intended. We recognize that failure to obtain Broadway 102 may limit CU-EMS’ ability to conduct training sessions within their own offices. Therefore we hope to implement a method so that CU-EMS can book space on campus through University Event Management, which will alleviate the challenge of training and information sessions. Given the acquisition of Broadway 103 by CU-EMS, we require that CU-EMS relinquish the Carman space, and we require the Carman space be allocated for student groups following a review process. This CU-EMS proposal has revealed a lack of continuity in agreements made between councils, administrators, and governing boards dating back to 2008, and we would like to implement a formal review process for space allocation moving forward. However, these considerations should not delay a speedy transition for CU-EMS, and we would ask that the possibility of transitioning over winter break be seriously considered. Signed, Chris Elizondo (President, ESC) Learned Foote (President, CCSC) Jacqueline Thong (President, GSSC) Heidi Ahmed (VP Policy, ESC) Andrew Nguyen (VP Policy, CCSC) Elliot Shackelford (VP Policy, GSSC) Benjamin Paladino (Delegate At-Large, GSSC) 
The November issue of The Blue and White will be here shortly.  Until then, enjoy selections from the issue on Bwog! Tiresias2T-Pain Recite Lit Hum’s lines and receive T-Pain’s rhymes (feat. Mista Ramsay &amp; Shorty Sancho). Ballin’. Pothole Protection Maps protruding and raised obstructions on College Walk, including but not limited to: cracks, loose stones, divots, kids, and protesters. No need to make eye contact with last weekend’s mistake--or anyone, for that matter! M2m on the hour Hourly updates on supply levels of miso soup, broth temperature, and tofu content. Runs, of course, morning 2 midnight. Translator 2.0 Input foreign tongues and receive English. In this new Editing Edition, Translator 2.0 will eliminate from speech pretentious qualifiers, allusions to Western Imperialism, and tangents about that time you felt enlightened in a Third World country. Shut It Down Turn neighbor noise to white noise. No more electric guitar riffs, Freddie Mercury impressions, or questionable grunts. Sleep soundly. 
CCSC's "Traveling Cafe" (like magic!) is in the Butler Cafe giving out some pretty-good-not-great cookies and coffee. There's also a survey about the Global Core. Anonymous Bwogger "B" (like Gossip Girl!) tells us all about it, below. 
Bwog's sources report a fire alarm in Butler at the ungodly hour of 9:45 AM.  The building was evacuated. On the plus side, for a brief while there were tons of empty seats. images by MEQ
 A Med School researcher says that while prescription rates for antidepressants are rising, fewer Americans are seeking psychotherapy. (BusinessWeek) In a meeting of the top two teams in the AFC East, the New England Patriots defeated the New York Jets by a lopsided score of 45-3. (WSJ) Julian Assange, WikiLeaks founder and global supervillain, was taken into custody by London police this morning to face sex charges in Sweden. (NYT) An NYPD officer testified yesterday in the case of a Wall Street worker who claims he was sodomized by a policeman with a baton in 2004. (NYP) Image via Wikimedia
MyFoxNY is reporting that five Columbia students were arrested today for drug dealing. Undercover NYPD officers bought a variety of drugs, including marijuana, cocaine, and LSD, from these students. The suppliers to these students were also arrested. This has been an ongoing drug investigation that Police Commissioner Ray Kelly dubbed "Operation Ivy League." Since July, undercover cops have made 31 purchases of LSD, marijuana, cocaine, Adderall, and ecstasy from students in AEPi, Psi U, and Pi Kappa Alpha (Pike). DNA Info reports that Chris Coles (CC '12), Harrison David (SEAS '12), Adam Klein (CC '12), Joseph Stephen Perez (aka Stephan Vincenzo, CC '12), and Michael Wymbs (SEAS '11) have been arrested. The police found a list of "10 agenda items" on a wall at Psi U last night, including an eleventh that read "Don't sell drugs out of the frat house" with a note that read "Adam should have followed this rule." The five students' dorm rooms were searched last night and police found a bottle of LSD, 50 MDMA capsules, 15 Adderall pills, over half a pound of marijuana and about $2,000 in cash according to the NYPD's press release. City Room has more on the arrests of the students' suppliers in the East Village. According to Deputy NYPD Commissioner Paul J. Browne, one of the suppliers, Miron Sarzynski, asked one of the undercover cops to help him "kidnap and torture rival cocaine dealers." As a possible consequence of this, a tipster has informed us that sororities have been instructed to take down Theta + Pike posters around campus and to remove Facebook photos taken from inside fraternity houses. At 1:40 PM, a Bwogger saw a girl tearing down posters on 114th Street for the Theta/Pike event. The NYC Office of Special Narcotics has released an official statement detailing that over $11,000 of drugs were sold to undercover officers and that the five students arrested are expected to be arraigned in Manhattan Criminal Court later today. NYPD's table detailing CU students and their sales and charges is reprinted after the jump. Update, 1:10 PM: Bwog just got off the phone with Mark Williams, the nationwide Psi U representative. Psi U has no official comment, but will continue to cooperate with the University to "get to the bottom of this." Update, 1:40 PM: Looks like people care about this besides us. There are hundreds of Tweets about the drug bust, as well as new stories on Gawker, MSNBC and the Las Vegas Sun (!) Update, 2:45 PM: Dean Shollenberger has just sent out an email to all students concerning the drug bust. An excerpt from the email, pasted in its entirety after the jump: "The alleged behavior of the students involved in this incident goes against not only state and federal law, but also University policy and the principles we have set—and strive together to maintain—for our community. Please rest assured we are taking this matter very seriously." Dean Shollenberger then outlines resources for drug and alcohol abuse and links to University policies on drug use. The University has no other comment at this time. Again, full email after the jump. Update update, 5:15 PM: Dean Denburg also sent to Barnard students a copy of Shollenberger's statement, further emphasizing that "Barnard College policy fully supports New York State and federal law on the use of controlled substances." Update, 3:15 PM: Anonymous witnesses report that police broke down locks in EC to arrest one of  the students in his suite early this morning. Update, 3:30 PM: The WSJ is reporting that two of the suppliers, Miron Sarzynski and his girlfriend Megan Asper are currently being held at Riker's Island on $250,000 and $10,000 cash bail respectively. Sarzynski is the supplier accused of asking an undercover cop to assist him in kidnapping and torturing rival cocaine dealers. Bwog has contacted ESC for comment on Mike Wymb's former role on the council. ESC is not providing comment at this time. Update, 4:45 PM: The Columbia chapter of Students for Sensible Drug Policy has released a statement, calling today a "sad day, because the real problems related to drug use that desperately need to be addressed, were not" and the events today the result of "poor policy." The full statement is reprinted after the jump. Update, 5:45 PM: Bwog has received comment from Jeffrey Fagan, a Columbia Law Professor currently on leave who specializes in Criminal Law, Drug Policy, and and Juvenile Justice. Fagan commented, "I would guess that (a) they have no priors and so they will get a big discount from the Court at sentencing, and the discount will be even bigger if (b) they give up what they know about the suppliers." Fagan continued that much of their sentencing will have to do with the quality of their legal counsel. Bwog has learned that at least one of the arrested students has parents who practice law. Fagan commented that the "multiplicity of drugs they were selling" is a major strike against them. "This is way beyond an informal network of marijuana sales," he said. Fagan noted that this will make it more difficult for the Manhattan DA to argue for the students. We have also learned that ABC News is camped out at Manhattan Criminal Court downtown, and they report that as of 5:01 PM, the students were waiting arraignment, shackled together, some wearing Columbia fraternity sweatshirts. Update, 5:55: Spec's Alix Pianin reports that each of the students have pleaded not guilty. The judge has set the following bonds and bail for each: Harrison David: $75,000 bond, $50,000 cash Jose Stephan Perez: $30,000 bond, $20,000 cash Michael Wymbs: $35,000 bond, $25,000 cash Chris Coles: $40,000 bond, $25,000 cash Adam Klein: $35,000 bond, $25,000 cash Apparently Wymbs' parents arrived at Manhattan Criminal Court with a blank check, prepared to post bail. The students who don't post bail will head to Riker's tonight. Below: Early this morning, a Bwog tipster found several cop cars and what appeared to be a riot car along Frat Row at about 6:30 AM. We are waiting for confirmation from the University, but we can speculate that the arrests took place very early this morning. Pictures of the scene at about 6:40 AM below. There is currently an NY1 news truck filming on Frat Row, as well as Public Safety officers stationed on 114th Street to ensure that reporters do not enter Frat Houses without the explicit permission of fraternity members. Sales to Undercover Officers at Columbia University Cocaine 40 grams $1,100 MDMA 50 capsules $1,000 LSD 44 tabs $440 Marijuana 2 ½ lbs $7,900 Student Charges Chris Coles Intercultural House CSCS* 5th – 2 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 1st – 1 ct. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 3rd – 4 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 4th – 1 ct. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Harrison David Alpha Epsilon Pi CSCS 2nd – 1 ct CSCS 3rd – 1 ct Criminal Sale of Marijuana 3rd – 6 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 4th – 2 cts. Criminal Nuisance 1st – 1 ct. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Adam Klein Psi Upsilon CSCS 5th – 2 cts. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Jose Stephan Perez Pi Kappa Alpha CSCS 5th – 4 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 3rd – 1 ct. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Michael Wymbs East Campus Housing CSCS 5th – 6 cts. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. *Criminal Sale of Controlled Substance Update, 2:50 PM: Dean Shollenberger's email to students: Dear Students, As you will likely hear from one another or read in the news, this morning the NYPD arrested five Columbia students in connection with an investigation into illegal drug activity. The alleged behavior of the students involved in this incident goes against not only state and federal law, but also University policy and the principles we have set—and strive together to maintain—for our community. Please rest assured we are taking this matter very seriously. If you would like to talk, we encourage you to reach out to one of your many advisers who are available to assist you. Students who live in Columbia residence halls may also contact the associate director of their residential area directly. Our students’ health and well-being is of our utmost concern. Should you or anyone you know need counseling or treatment related to drugs and alcohol, there are many people on campus with whom you may speak. Columbia offers a variety of programs to help members of our community who may be suffering from the effects of drug or alcohol use. Please contact Health Services for more information and support. The University’s policies regarding drugs and alcohol are clearly described in Essential Policies for the Columbia Community . It is the University’s expectation that all students are familiar with and adhere to the policies outlined therein. If you have questions about your responsibilities as a member of the Columbia community, you may contact the Office of Judicial Affairs and Community Standards for clarification. Each of us, through our individual behavior and actions, helps define our campus environment. Decisions made by individuals affect the community as a whole. Please consider the potential impact of your actions on both your individual lives and the University community at-large.   Thank you for your assistance promoting a safe, honest, and responsible Columbia community. Regards, Kevin G. Shollenberger Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Student Life, Arts and Sciences Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Update, 4:45 PM, a statement from Katharine Celentano, Director of Media Relations for Columbia's Students for Sensible Drug Policy: Today is a sad day, because the real problems related to drug use that desperately need to be addressed, such as youth use and addiction, were not. The pervasive Drug War strategies like those employed today are not only in vain, but in fact create new problems - the product of poor policy, not drugs. We don't condone the activities the 5 students were allegedly engaged in. But drugs are still around. The inability to resolve market disputes through the legal system still fuels black market violence. The trajectory of young lives with great potential are still diverted by barriers to education and scarring experiences within criminal justice system. Law enforcement still diverts valuable resources from violent crimes like rape, murder, and domestic violence, and the public health issue of drug use is still left unaddressed by evidence based, effective, sensible policies. And society and our campus still bear the additional social and economic consequences of these realities. Bwog adds that Columbia offers resources for support: you can contact the Center for Student Advising at 212-854-6378, Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878, the Office of the University Chaplain at 212-854-1493, Nightline at 212-854-7777, or Residential Programs at 212-854-6805.
OK, let's all take a deep breath. Here's the latest news on Operation Ivy League, and a run-down of what's happened today, who's written about it, and what's next. The most recent news: as of 7:20 p.m., Bwog has some important updates from the Special Narcotics Prosecutor's Office. Kati Cornell, the Communications Representative, just told Bwog that each of the arrested students has secured a private lawyer. Christopher Coles will be represented by Curtis Faber, Harrison David by Samuel Felman, Adam Klein by Hershel Katz, Jose Perez (aka Stephan Vincenzo) by Robert Weinstein, and Michael Wymbs by Michael Bachner. Bachner has been involved in several high-profile legal cases recently, including Caroline Giuliani's shoplifting arrest case, former NY Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik's federal case, and New York Giant Antonio Pierce's case involving ex-teammate Plaxico Burress' accidental shooting. The University, Cornell confirmed, was not involved in the five-month investigation at all, but Columbia Public Safety was "helpful to the NYPD in facilitating the arrests" made this morning. The investigation will continue. If there is new information about drug dealing at Columbia, the Office will follow that information. However, Cornell commented, “the Office waited until everyone that we wanted to identify and arrest was identified and we made all the arrests we intended to make at Columbia.” The Office also confirmed that all five suspects were indicted before they were arrested this morning, which is often the case in a long-term investigation such as this one. Here's more of what we can expect looking forward: there will be the standard hearing for the five accused students with discovery process, which is the process during which the prosecution turns over evidence to the suspects' defense attorneys. If the defense lawyers then see any issues with the evidence presented that they wish to take up, they can file a motion to suppress certain pieces of evidence. At least one of the five suspects has made a statement to the police, and defense attorneys can also motion to suppress those original statements. Although the five defendants have already pleaded not guilty, they may choose to plead guilty to avoid trial, which is potentially a very drawn-out process. If that were the case, the defense and prosecution would discuss the charges and penalty for the five defendants. The New York Post has video of the students' arrest. Just before 6 p.m., we found out that all five arrested students have been arraigned at Manhattan Criminal Court. Their bond and bail amounts follow: Harrison David: $75,000 bond, $50,000 cash Jose Stephan Perez: $30,000 bond, $20,000 cash Michael Wymbs: $35,000 bond, $25,000 cash Chris Coles: $40,000 bond, $25,000 cash Adam Klein: $35,000 bond, $25,000 cash Wymbs' parents arrived at the Court today with a blank check for his bail. The other students will head to Rikers tonight if their bails are not paid. We checked in with legal expert and Columbia Law Professor Jeffery Fagan, who commented, “I would guess that (a) they have no priors and so they will get a big discount from the Court at sentencing, and the discount will be even bigger if (b) they give up what they know about the suppliers.” The biggest strike against them is the “multiplicity” of drugs the students were selling. This isn't an informal weed-dealing situation, Fagan noted. And here's a synthesis of what happened today, starting at 6:30 a.m. After a five-month investigation by the NYPD's Special Narcotics Unit dubbed “Operation Ivy League,” five Columbians were arrested for having and dealing sizable amounts of marijuana, cocaine, LSD, ecstasy, and Adderall. They were arrested between 6 and 7 a.m. this morning. Police unhinged the locks of Mike Wymbs's EC suite to arrest him. The full police report can be found here. Then the Internet exploded. We're looking at hundreds and hundreds of Tweets (including this one from our own fake-PrezBo) articles from Gawker, Gothamist, New York Times, Wall Street Journal... even the Las Vegas Sun. Reporters and news trucks swamped Frat Row. The University has issued comment only through Dean Shollenberger's email this morning, in which he pointed to the student handbook's rules about alcohol and drug use. Students for a Sensible Drug Policy also issued a statement this afternoon calling today a “sad day, because the real problems related to drug use that desperately need to be addressed, were not” and the events of today the result of “poor policy.” None of the Greek councils has issued comment yet, but tipsters spotted girls taking down posters for an event with Theta and Pike. We have heard that members of the Greek Life community are meeting tonight to discuss the ramifications of today's events for the community, but the Councils have not confirmed this. Some wild cards looking forward: there's Miron Sarzynski, one of the East Village suppliers currently being held at Rikers Island. Sarzynski asked one of the undercover cops working on Operation Ivy League to help him “kidnap and torture” rival cocaine dealers. Going forward, it seems likely that the sentencing of the “Columbia 5” will depend on how much information they can give about their downtown suppliers. We've also heard that Coles' parents are both lawyers. The arrested students' decision to plead “not guilty” also opens some questions about how their hearing will proceed. For tonight, we know that they'll be sleeping at Rikers if their bail is not paid.
More news this morning about Operation Ivy League. For synthesis, check out yesterday's Six O'Clock Wrap-Up. According to NYC Department of Corrections latest files on Perez, Wymbs, Coles, Klein and David, the students are currently being held at the Manhattan Correctional Facility at 125 White Street. Their next court date has already been posted for January 18th, 2011. That date's accuracy depends on the defendants' decision to continue to plead 'not guilty' or to change their plea to avoid a trial. DNA Info confirms that Wymbs was the only student with a parent at the arraignment. His father was at yesterday's arraignment and "Wymbs looked back at him several times to make eye contact during the proceedings." DNA Info also has the most detailed breakdown of the drugs each student was accused of selling: Wymbs of LSD and MDMA; Coles of marijuana; Perez of Adderall and "other amphetamines"; David of marijuana and cocaine; Klein of marijuana, LSD, DMT and MDMA. The Times has pictures of all the students sitting in court yesterday. Perez (aka Vincenzo) has a band-aid his right eye apparently due to a scuffle with the police. The Times quotes William Novak, an assistant attorney in the Special Narcotics Office: "He fought pretty vigorously with the warrant team." The Times also reports that Harrison David was the main target of Operation Ivy League, which originally began after the NYPD received multiple anonymous tips via Crimestoppers about David's drug dealing. David has also been accused of having the most contact with the three downtown suppliers arrested earlier. David has been charged with selling 20 grams of cocaine as well as marijuana. Operation Ivy League made the storied front page of the Daily News. Headline: "Ivy Sleaze", accompanied by a picture of Perez being led away by cops. The Post's headline: "'Columbian' Drug Ring is Broken Up." The Daily News reported that Klein's family found out about his arrest from a reporter. Some news from the students' attorneys, via Bloomberg. Wymbs' lawyer, Michael Bachner, who we reported last night is a high-profile white-collar criminal lawyer who has dealt with Caroline Guiliani and Bernard Kerik's cases, said that Wymbs has applied to grad school and "hopes this arrest will not derail his plans." Perez's lawyer identified Perez as the "only student who does not come from financial means," noting that his mother is a marine biologist in the Bahamas. 
 In case you haven't heard, some major shit went down yesterday. There was a genuinely shocked campus, there were droves of news people swarming around, and it seemed like the whole student body was a little on edge. Well, now the night behind us, we can all take a deep breath. Here are some overheards and general campus musings from yesterday. About our own peanut gallery: The question is, what's the Varsity Show going to do with this? Drug busts: the new Social Experiment: Girl 1: Did you hear about the thing? Girl 2: The thing? Girl 1: You know... the thing. Girl 2: Yeah I heard about the thing. Guy 1: This is crazy. Guy 2: Yeah. How can you not think about it? Guy 1: I dunno. I've been thinking about it. Everyone's thinking about it. Have you been thinking about it? Bwogger: Yeah, how can you not think about it? Priorities, they're subjective: Wait, your biggest concern over this is if your dealer got caught?? Crime, it's also subjective: Drug dealing is starting to become dangerous. We should start trafficking kids or something. Yet somehow the Gap rebranding is still worse: "Operation Ivy League!" Hilarious! The NYPD has an elitism problem! Image via Wikimedia 
Today until 3p the Barnard/Columbia Earth Coalition is on the ramps.  They're passing out free reusable shopping bags and serving up free food. They're supporting bagthebagnyc.com's bag tax initiative with petition signing.
 Sean Zimmermann reports from Monday's meeting of the ESC. SEAS Dean Feniosky Peña-Mora came to tonight’s Engineering Student Council meeting. President Christopher Elizondo introduced Dean Peña-Mora as “the greatest champion for engineering students that we have on campus.” The Dean opened by explaining that he had “no particular agenda,” for the meeting, but he wanted to observe how a normal council meeting worked. The council then moved into a Q&amp;A session for council members to discuss issues with the Dean. When asked how the school could develop a better sense of community with the surrounding Morningside residents, the Dean explained that he had been focusing on developing the engineering school’s own community rather than working on relations with the outside community. The Dean cited his office’s work in developing SEAS pride, such as the SEAS scarves and ties given to seniors, as well as the planned student carnival next year. He explained that the engineering school “may have small numbers,” but should have “a strong presence.” The Dean also spoke about the Manhattanville expansion during the meeting. Peña-Mora explained that the cost of building into Manhattanvile will be “significant,” and though there is a place in the Manhattanvile expansion reserved for the engineering school, he explained that any development is at least 10 years away. The Dean explained that the engineering school is hoping to acquire space in Uris Hall (currently occupied by Columbia Business School) when the Business School moves into Manhattanville in 7 years, but there are “many others vying for the space.” Additionally, the Dean explained, in today’s world, an undergraduate degree in engineering is not enough. Therefore, a committee of professors tasked with investigating the undergraduate curriculum has recommended that all departments develop integrated BS/MS programs, similar to the ones already in place in the Electrical and Mechanical departments. The programs allow student to begin taking Masters courses in their senior year, so they could receive their undergraduate and graduate degrees in 5 years. Also in Peña-Mora news,  Columbia General Council was "not thrilled" with the idea of the Dean going skydiving. Therefore, after consulting with Columbia's lawyers, it has been decided that the skydiving with Dean Peña-Mora event will not take place due to liability issues.
 Bwog has seen Butler camping and even orated on its behalf.  But if you're in CC or SEAS, today you received an email from your senators which may threaten that sacred masochistic rite. Amidst standard student government "we want to hear what you want" business-as-usual, Bwog found this bit: Libraries and Technology - Contact: Kenny Durell We are working with CUIT to set the groundwork for a program employing student programmers for University projects. We are also a part of conversations regarding a switch to Gmail or another outsourced email provider, pending legal and privacy concerns. We hope to find a solution that works for everyone. In the Libraries Committee, we are working to extend hours on the upper floors of Butler and perhaps implement a peer-enforced anti-camping program. "Peer-enforced" measures against camping?  Could this be politico-jargon for "We can't do anything about this so we'll put it on you students" perhaps?  Bwog isn't sure, but warns you--stay vigilant! Image via Wikimedia
There some activity up on the plaza between Pupin and the new Northwest Science Building.  Walkways are being laid down, the broken bricks you kick on the way to class are being repaired and this ridiculously long awning connects to a big tent. Could it be some ritzy opening ceremony?  If you know, email us at tips@bwog.com. Update, 2:15 PM: A tipster reports that the building's dedication is tonight Friday morning at 9:15. Photos by CCS
SGA met Monday. Bwog's Katheryn Thayer was there. XMAS! 5 A Corporate Carol, the annual theater production, asked the council for $1000 so their show would be free for all. The council didn't grant them the full $1000, but voted to award the group $500. Students Organization Committee advocated the revival of a long-dormant club dedicated to “Feminist Thought” and the creation of a club for promoting awareness of the human papillomavirus (HPV), prompting one council member to ask, “What’s HPV?” In response, another member quipped, “I guess that’s why we need the club.” Fifteen minutes later, the “It was a rhetorical question, guys!” defense was invoked. Of 200 Barnard students who voted in a recent referendum on a campus-wide smoking ban, 72% voted in favor of the ban. SGA members voiced concerns that many students don’t understand current rules and that the minority of students who smoke would be unduly affected. Discussion of the ban will continue. Bacchanal asked for SGA’s co-sponsorship of their spring concert via a contribution of $20,000, suggesting a possible battle of the bands on Barnard’s campus to find an opener for the concert. The council indicated that Barnard would make a contribution so long as other undergraduate colleges also contribute. The council also approved a new student position within the Food Allergy Group. The council was informed that approvals and rejections of winter break housing requests will be sent out Tuesday and that Barnard course evaluations will now be available online.
 Bwog's very own David Hu, SEAS '13, recently created OwlPrinters.com, a site showing the availability of printers and public computers around Columbia's campus. Bwog caught up with dear David outside our non-existent headquarters and forced him to answer some questions. 1. What does Owl Printers do for me, the clueless, printerless student? Owl Printers lets you see what printers and computers are available (and more importantly, broken) around campus. What's even better about it is that it was designed for the "mobile web," meaning it's meant to be viewed on smartphones while you're running between classes and ignoring the world around you (lol, social experiment). You can still view it on a desktop browser though! 2. Where did you get the name from? Who doesn't know about the owl hidden in the statue of Alma? It's obscure enough to not have everybody in the world can get it, but well known enough around Columbia to have a special meaning to people that care. Also, "Owl Printers" sounds like "our printers." ... Get it? 3. What was your inspiration? The line for the printers in Butler 209 around 4pm is just so depressing sometimes. And it's especially annoying when you're running to class and have to basically guess where the free printers are. 4. Can you recall a particularly tragic printer experience? ... Yes! Running to class around 4pm and going to Butler 209, actually. I think one printer was jammed so there was a line of about 5 people for the other one. I went to 213 next but naturally all the computers were taken. I think I ended up printing on the 4th floor. 5. How did you create the website? I actually created the site all over Thanksgiving break, when I probably should have been doing real school work instead. The site uses information that CUIT makes available. (I have to stress that the site has no official affiliation with CUIT though.) Owl Printers just takes this information and presents it in a way that is useful to people who need to find where free printers and computers are.
Some updates this afternoon about Operation Ivy League: according to the New York State Department of Correction, Michael Wymbs was discharged today and Adam Klein's court date has been moved from January 18th to tomorrow. DNA Info is reporting that Mark Williams, the national rep for Psi U whom Bwog spoke with yesterday, is headed to campus today to interview the 30 members of our Psi U chapter. Williams commented that Columbia owns the house, so Columbia controls the fate of its Psi U Chapter. The IRC doesn't seem to be in trouble; some students just received an email asking to apply to live in the IRC next year. Update, 4:50 p.m.: A spokesman for the Department of Corrections has confirmed that Wymbs was released on bail today. The four other students are still in custody at the Manhattan Detention Center on White Street, not at Rikers. The Department of Corrections did not comment on Klein's plea bargain and we are waiting on comment from other sources. Bwog has confirmation from an anonymous source close to AEPi that the fraternity brothers held a meeting last night at a JTS dorm rather than their own house, apparently due to fears about surveillance.
 It seems everyone is lookin' for a little lovin' at Columbia these days. People also do a lot of whining at this school that they’ll never find love. Bwog is here to prove those people kind-of-wrong! Believe it or not, people find their life long mates here! Even Hawkma rides the wings of love. In this installment of Columbia Sweethearts, meet Laura Spitzer BC '83 and Steven Rubenstein, CC '83. Happily married for 25 years and living in LA, this couple proves that CU loving lasts for ever. Here's the kicker: Bwogger Carly Silver, BC '12, is dating the Sweethearts' son, Michael Spitzer-Rubenstein, CC '12. Columbia Sweethearts Generation 2 perhaps? Bwog: How did you meet? Steven: So, the first time we met, we had a mutual friend who introduced us. At the time, Columbia was pretty much all male and, at the student activities center, which used to be Ferris Booth Hall, there were very few bathrooms for women. And so my friend was outside the bathroom guarding the door because Laura was inside. Laura: Yup. S: As I was passing the bathroom, I saw my good friend stationed outside and she said, “My friend Laura’s inside.” So I poked my head into the bathroom and said, “Hi, Laura!” L: I should have known then. S: She came out very embarrassed. Bwog: Had someone planned on setting you up? L: It was because of that. So Steven had seen me or whatever... saw each other with Carolyn and we asked to meet each other. So Thursday she was going to have us over, but, then, we met before because Sunday night there was a UJA dance. S: It was like a federation. L: United Jewish Appeal. That was like the Jewish student fair. So, we both went and then we started talking. Bwog: What kinds of things do you do together? L: Hiking and swimming. S: We walk. L: Cooking. But he doesn’t cook anymore. S: I cook sometimes. L: Sometimes. S: We don’t have a lot of limes yet , but I do the bartending and Laura does most of the daily cooking, just because I have two jobs. Bwog: After you got married and had kids, did you ever figure that at least one of your kids would end up going to Columbia, or did it just sort of happen? L: It just happened. I mean, we had always, whenever we were in New York, gone back and walked around campus and things like that. Columbia has always felt like a part of our family culture, but it didn’t occur to me explicitly that one of our children might go. S: We love to sit on the steps. I have very fond memories of sitting on the steps in the springtime. L: Being on Furnald lawn. S: Right, yeah. Furnald used to be the cool dorm, by the way… L: We like to walk on the West Side on Broadway in Riverside Park. I always think of that as part of Columbia, even though it’s not really. S: We don’t really visit Butler. But it’s just fun to soak up the whole Columbia vibe.
The November issue of The Blue and White will be here soon. Read selections from the magazine on Bwog. Say Cheese An adult, leading a group of what looks like young high school students onto Revson Plaza, points at statue of Bellerophon Taming Pegasus: "That's modern art..." Points at the statue of the Tightrope Walker "Look, this is modern art too! You can take a picture if you want." Nuked "I can't believe it. She decided to put the ENTIRE pumpkin in the microwave." A father to his child in Oren's: "If only every meal were cookies—but it can't be, 'cause you'll get sick and your skin will fall off." Pardons et Petit Dejeuner Saturday morning on the patio outside John Jay, a French frosh approaches an American gal: "I have been reminded of what I did last night, and I apologize." Beta Pledge Class 2019 Small child on Broadway, pointing to liquor store: "Mama, let's go there!" Wanted: GPS Guy on phone: "Hey, I'm right in the middle of campus, why don't you meet me at that round thing, whatever it's called." Philosopher MILFs CC student 1: "Your mom is the ideal form of prostitution." CC student 2: "Well, if there were an ideal form of slut, it would be your mom!" CC student 1: "Your mom thinks she lives in the ideal citystate because she is shared by all the men..." Older brother's advice to his freshman sis, delivered over a cup at Hungarian: "Enjoy yourself, and you will probably be diagnosed with mono before you graduate." The latter may in fact be caused by the former... The Times of Their Lives One drunk freshman to another: "Dude, this is fucking awesome. I'm not even gonna BRUSH my TEETH tonight." Professor Herbert Sloan, during his "U.S. History to Civil War" lecture: Prof. Sloan: "Does anyone know the year your state was born?" Uncomfortable silence. "Come on, guys... isn't this something you learn in elementary school? In third grade?" Uncomfortable silence. Then, dismayed, and with gravity... "This is depressing. The people who are worried that America's going to Hell in a hand basket would be only too convinced by this demonstration." ...1776 is not the right answer? Schist...It happens!
Tonight at 8pm in 702 Hamilton, CQA is hosting Straight Up, a discussion on what it means to be an ally. Expect free pizza and refreshments! Meanwhile, get classy at the CC 2012 class dinner. Head to the Lerner Party Space at 8 pm for (get this!) Dino BBQ take out! Chicken and mac 'n cheese galore!
We confirmed earlier that Michael Wymbs had been dispatched from the Manhattan Detention Center, and have now learned that Adam Klein has also been released on bail, according to a quote from Klein's lawyer, Hershel Katz, in DNA Info and Klein's Department of Correction information. Wymbs and Klein's parents each posted $35,000 bail. The University is not commenting at this time about whether any of the arrested students will be permitted to finish their semesters. Update, 10 p.m.: Oof! Spec has a statement from Shollenberger announcing that the three fraternities involved in the drug bust have received interim suspensions. Full email is below. Update, 12:40 a.m.: Early this morning, all members of the Greek community received an official statement (.doc) signed by leaders in the Inter Greek Council. "The entire Greek community was disappointed," reads the statement. "The IGC will be in complete cooperation" with the investigation conducted by the University and NYPD. Bwog has emailed leaders in the organizations involved with the incident for further comment. Shollenberger's email: “The Division of Student Affairs has issued an interim suspension of the Iota Chapter of the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity, the Iota Lambda Chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, and the Lambda Chapter of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. The suspension of these organizations is the result of the NYPD’s arrests of several fraternity members who are alleged to have taken part in illegal drug activity within Columbia’s fraternity houses on West 114th Street. According to Columbia’s Fraternity and Sorority Life Community Standards and Greek Judicial Board Handbook, a fraternity or sorority can be suspended if determined “necessary to promote the best interest” of the chapter and the University. Given the severity of the alleged behavior, we believe these interim suspensions are in the best interest of our community at this time. The three named chapters have been instructed to cease all activities, including and not limited to recruitment, initiation, and social events pending further review. We have notified the chapters’ national organizations about the suspensions. The Division of Student Affairs will initiate an internal review of the three fraternity chapters and the Intercultural House (ICH), where the alleged behavior also took place. We plan to work closely with student leaders, the fraternity and sorority community (including national organizations), and the ICH to assess the scope of the problem and what reforms may be necessary to address these issues. We envision the involvement of students, administrators, and other members of our campus community in these conversations. Terry Martinez, Dean of Community Development and Multicultural Affairs, will oversee this review. We remain most concerned about the health and welfare of our students and will utilize this review process as an opportunity to further educate students about their decisions and how they impact our community. In the meantime, information about Columbia’s drug and alcohol policies may be found in Essential Policies for the Columbia Community. Student advisers and Health Services remain resources for students seeking more information or support. As part of our review, we are also committed to exploring the role of fraternity and sorority life and special interest communities on campus. We look forward to working with students to ensure all recognized organizations provide students with an enriching experience that benefits the University community. We recognize there will be a number of questions regarding the anticipated duration of the suspension, the review process, potential outcomes, and numerous other factors. While we are not yet in a position to answer these questions, please know we are committed to conducting a timely and thorough review.” Kevin G. Shollenberger Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Student Life, Arts and Sciences Dean of Student Affairs Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science
With studs on the edge. somewhere in Lerner, Broadway, or Mudd (2,3,6 flrs). my mother saved up to give them to me so they have an incredible amount of sentimental value. If found please email/call me: isl2111@columbia.edu
 Oh Hey, 2015! Columbia ED results are out today. Columbia bartenders don't have to strip. Phew. (NYT) Anonymous “hacktivists” took down the websites of Visa and Mastercard yesterday in their war for WikiLeaks' revenge, but the Feds know how to strike back. (NYMag, Gawker) Tania Bruguera talks about using dirt and cocaine in her behavior art. (The Eye) Columbia librarian and graphic novel selector Karen Green was named an Eisner judge for 2011. (Columbia). On the Upper East Side, a 21-year old was fatally hit by a truck while crossing the street and listening to his iPod. (Gothamist) Composer Pierre Boulez celebrated his extended 85th birthday run with a Composer Portraits concert at Miller Theater. (NYT) Image via Wikimedia Commons
Bwog just checked in with a representative from the office of Hershel Katz, Adam Klein's attorney, who confirmed that Klein's court date remains January 18th. There have been conflicting reports, but that's the word from the attorney. More news this morning about Coles and Perez. Coles gave an interview to reporters at the Manhattan Detention Center yesterday claiming that "this whole thing has been exaggerated. It's been blown up to the umpeenth," according to the Daily News. Coles also told reporters that when Jose Perez (aka Stephan Vincenzo) was roused by police early Tuesday morning, he asked for a jacket and cops offered him a Columbia sweatshirt, apparently laughing. Coles told reporters that he planned to finish his time at Columbia: "Going to Columbia was my dream," he said. The News also reports that Klein left the Manhattan Detention Center yesterday wearing his mother's sunglasses and jacket to shield him from the cameras. Updates to follow.
The Greenmarket is full of potential gifts and festive things for the holidays: Lavender from Lavender from the Bay in pretty packages Gift jams at Beth's Farm Kitchen Wines from Long Island at Food and Wine Associates Ballard's Honey's three tea flavors: clover, wildflower and buckwheat Ostrich and emu eggs, and ostrich skin wallets (on Thursdays only) Sunday For the next two Sundays only, Deep Mountain Maple Syrup will join the market with maple syrup, pure maple sugar, and maple sugar candy (also in different flavors like ginger and chili). Baked sweets from Meridith's Bakery Red popcorn kernels at Madura Farm EBT/debit/credit are accepted. Just find the market manager's tent. Happy shopping! Image via Wikimedia Commons
It's the last day of (okay, okay, Tuesday/Thursday) class! As we bid the fall semester farewell, your professors may seize the opportunity to impart their words of wisdom/insanity/insight. Whatever they have to say, we'd love to know. Send quotes (please include the names of your professor and course) to tips@bwog.com or post them in the comments! Image via Wikimedia Commons
 There was a protest against Manhattanville at the Gates that was ended by the protestors themselves. There are some cops lingering. Apparently protestors were playing drums and were dressed up like buildings. Probably not the best week for a protest. Carry on! Full flyer after the jump. Columbia Is Not Neighbors Helping Neighbors Columbia Is Neighbors Displacing Neighbors Support the Harlem Community and hold columbia accountable Columbia University is building a huge second campus in the neighborhood of Manhattanville in West Harlem. 18 acres of land will be bulldozed, spanning from below 125th to 134th street. What will be the effects of Columbia’s Expansion? -Columbia’s own statistics estimate their expansion into Manhattanville will displace almost 3,300 residents. -Additionally, the 3,300 estimate does not take into account that people will no longer be able to afford rent because their previously rent-stabilized units are quickly falling out of regulation. -The “affordable housing units” said to counter this displacement have rent based on the median income of the entire metropolitan area, including Westchester County and part of Long Island, and therefore do not adequately reflect the economic status of Harlem residents. Where are the jobs? -Columbia has tried to promote the Manhattanville expansion by advertizing that it will deliver over 7,000 jobs, but Harlem was home to thousands of well-paying skilled labor and manufacturing jobs before Columbia’s presence in the neighborhood. -Moreover a large number of jobs supposed to be ‘given’ to the community are comprised of construction jobs, which are temporary and will not be a long term benefit to the community, low wage service jobs, paying less than many of the jobs to be displaced by the expansion, and -The inherently high-risk biotech labs Columbia wants to build are touted as another source of new employment, however these jobs are dangerous not only for employees but for the community at large because of the immanent threat of environmental contamination How did this happen? -Columbia University used eminent domain to seize many of the properties in Manhattanville. Eminent Domain is the power of the state to seize private property without the owner’s consent for so-called “public benefit.” -In 2005, Columbia sent a letter to a company named ESDC, which has the power to condemn property for seizure on the behalf of private developers, aka.  In order to ensure that the neighborhood would be declared “blighted”, Columbia intentionally kept the buildings it owned in the area vacant. For their services, Columbia paid ESDC $300,000. Has the community had a voice in all of this? -Community Board 9 voted against Columbia’s plan 32-2 but Columbia has not taken into account the massive amounts of testimony against the expansion at nearly every public hearing. Columbia University continues to ignore Community Board 9 ‘s alternative plan for development, 197-a , which prohibits the use of eminent domain. Want to get involved? Check out www.stopcolumbia.org, www.harlemtenantscouncil.org, and scegblog.wordpress.com
 Hark! UEM has free cookies and cider until 3, Stressbusters is giving out free massages until 2, there's something DDR-related in the Piano Lounge, Habitat for Humanity is selling (!) cookies and has a petition, and people from the B-School are giving away free snacks. IN EXCHANGE FOR YOUR SOUL. Sike. Just go eat. It's been a long week.
Once again, many a wooden chair has gone missing from the Schapiro lounges, and Housing is prepared to take action. Darleny Cepin, Associate Director of the Office of Residential Programs, warned residents that all of the furniture must be returned by 9am this Friday, or else a team of Res, Housing, and Facilities staff will open and search every room. For real! Don't think they won't do it. Full email after the jump. Dear Schapiro residents: The Office of Residential Programs is committed to providing a residential experience that encourages respect, mutual understanding, and a sense of community.  I write to bring the issue of missing Schapiro communal lounge furniture to your attention. When individuals in our community remove furniture from our common lounge for private usage, the entire community is impacted. Schapiro RAs previously sent an e-mail encouraging the prompt return of all lounge furniture – thankfully, some of that furniture has reappeared. Below is a list of the missing furniture that has not been recovered: 15th Floor (2) wooden chairs and (2) large 1 seaters 14th “  (1) wooden chair 13th “  (3) wooden chairs 10th “  (1) wooden chair 7th “  (1) wooden chair 6th “  (1) wooden chair 5th “  (1) large 1 seater 3rd “  (2) wooden chairs  and (1) large1 seater 2nd “  (2) wooden chairs Our primary goal is to have this furniture returned to the lounges immediately so that our entire community can benefit from full use of the lounge.  Conducting room searches is always a last resort; however, if all of the furniture has not been returned by 9am on Friday, December 10th, Residential Programs, Housing, and Facilities staff will need to enter residential rooms between then and 5pm on the same day.  Any piece of “missing” furniture found in a student room will immediately be removed from the room and returned to the lounge.  Each resident who has furniture in their room will be subject to further follow up from our office. We hope that we will not have to take this step and would therefore appreciate everyone's cooperation in resolving this matter. Thank you for your consideration of the Schapiro community. Darleny Cepin, MA Associate Director Office of Residential Programs Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Columbia Earth Compost Coalition is collecting compost today on the patio of Schapiro as part of a project to assess how much compost Columbia students can generate. Action Carting will take the compost away early tomorrow morning, so feel free to deposit your organic mush any time until midnight. Image via Wikimedia Commons 
As per tradition, Columbia's Undergraduate Admissions team ceremoniously marched out of their Hamilton office this afternoon, singing "Roar, Lion, Roar" and carrying Early Decision admissions packages, which they sent off on the FedEx truck waiting on college walk. Congratulations, Class of 2015! Don't be too jealous, but this year the electronic admissions letter is a video clip of campus with the fight song playing the background, and a flash animation welcome message.
Winterfest is going on right now until 9pm on Lehman Lawn and at the Diana. There's a bonfire, s'more making, tons of food, and free things (of what nature, Bwog is not sure). There's entertainment--Raw Elementz, Metrotones, Bhangra, Jake Snider, XMAS, Lion Dance, and WBAR--and games, and a holiday tree! Sounds too good to be true. Everyone be happy before finals! 
In case you missed today's other complementary comestibles, from 9pm to 10pm there will be free hot chocolate and homemade pumpkin cupcakes in Lerner West Ramp Lounge, brought to you by Relay For Life. They will be writing holiday cards to cancer patients at the American Cancer Society's Hope Lodge. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 Just when you thought the scandal had died down, NY Daily News is reporting that David Epstein, a professor in the Political Science Department has been charged of a 'sexual relationship with a female relative.' Epstein has a silver nugget on CULPA, and has received glowing reviews from past students, although these are all over five years old. He was teaching two courses this semester, 'Scope and Methods,' 'Game Theory and Political Theory' as well as a dissertation seminar, and was scheduled to teach a course on 'Game Theory, Strategy, and Law' in the Spring. Currently one student is enrolled in this course. According to the News, Robert Hornsby, the University's top spokesman, commented that Epstein is currently on leave and not teaching students. According to Epstein's CV, he has been an advisor to undergrads in the Poli Sci major since 2004. If you've ever taken a class with Epstein, please email us at editors@bwog.com. Update, 8:50: NYPD told Spec that the relative was his daughter, who is 24. A tipster informs us that Epstein's wife, works across the hall from Epstein and was speaking to a private investigator in or near her office yesterday. Update, 9:05: A student of Epstein's has informed Bwog that Epstein was "a very nice guy," who had prominently displayed "pictures drawn by his children" in his office. Here's a video of Epstein debating on Obama's economic policies at Columbia last November. Epstein comes in at about 1:48. Update, 9:15: Robert Hornsby replied to Bwog's request for comment with the following: "While we cannot comment on matters within the criminal justice system, we can confirm that the faculty member is now on administrative leave and will not be teaching students." Epstein's wife, multiple sources confirm, is Sharyn O'Halloran, also a PoliSci professor. Her full title is George Blumenthal Professor of Political Economics and Professor of International and Public Affairs, and according to her CV, and Wikipedia, is a big deal. She has co-authored several books with Epstein. Update, 9:33: Spec just posted a response from Matthew Galluzzo, Epstein’s defense lawyer: "David is a respected member of the Columbia University and national academic communities and we think he deserves privacy and respect while the investigators are investigating. We are asking people to remember that these allegations are nothing more than allegations… We’re asking his friends in the Columbia community to support him and give him the benefit of the doubt." They also report that he "confirmed that Epstein is not in custody anymore—he was released, and no trial date has yet been set"
More breaking news tonight: according to the statuses listed on their NYPD inmate records, Chris Coles and Jose Perez (Stephan Vincenzo) have been "released." More to come soon. We've heard rumors that Adam Klein was back on campus today, attending class, but we can't confirm that yet. Spec reports that Coles is back on campus now, having been escorted by Public Safety. We're waiting on comment from Public Safety. Update, 1:20 AM: The Boston Herald has an interview with Harrison David's father, a Massachusetts-based cosmetic surgeon named Dave David, in which the elder Mr. David alleges that he has been funding his son's college tuition "since Day 1." According to court papers reported in the New York Times and other sources, Harrison David told police upon his arrest that he was dealing drugs to pay for college. Harrison David is currently the only remaining defendant who has not yet posted bail and been released from jail. The elder Mr. David told the Herald that he plans to fly to New York today to "take care of everything and be with my son."
After years of just one Manhattan branch in Harlem, IHOP is finally coming to Times Square. Tourists rejoice! (Gothamist) Two men are accused of attacking a Queens imam in a subway and shouting racist and anti-Muslim epithets. (NY Daily News) Sarah Palin plans to visit Haiti—probably because she can't see it from her house. (HuffPo) These are ludicrous times at Columbia University. Bwog's very own Eliza Shapiro tells it how it is. (Capital) Nobel Peace Prize winner and Chinese dissident Liu Xiabo was  not permitted to attend the prize ceremony. His medal was awarded to an empty chair. (NYT) The Political Science Department has no comment on Professor David Epstein's arrest, and the University is unable to comment on continuing police investigations. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Friends, today is a sad day. From this day onward, beer distributors will no longer deliver our beloved Four Loko into New York. Though retailers (read: CrackDel) will still be able to sell Four Loko (provided they can prove that it was ordered before the 10th), there shall soon be a day when nights of "going Loko" are just a fond memory...not that you'd remember (or even want to remember) your night, anyway. The Four Loko era has marked us all, mostly in the form of incredibly embarrassing inebriation. Bwog foresees the rise of the Four Loko speakeasy—coming to an EC suite near you! Farewell, dear Loko. It's been real.
Something isn't adding up about the case between the two Mr. Davids. As we reported last night, Harrison David's father, Dr. Dave David, gave an interview to the Boston Herald claiming that he was planning on coming to New York from Boston today to "take care of everything and be with my son." Harrison David gave an interview to the Daily News in a gray jailhouse jumpsuit, claiming that he collect-called his father in Massachusetts after his arrest, only to hear a click on the other line. David told the News: "My dad told me growing up that if I ever get in trouble, he wasn't going to help me out." David also allegedly told the police after his arrest that his father does not pay for his tuition, and that he was selling drugs to help pay for college. David also told the News that he has not contacted his mother: "I don't even know if I could look her in the face," he said. Harrison David is currently the only student of the five arrested on Tuesday who has not been bailed out of prison. Bwog is waiting on comment from Dr. David.
There's a new Operation Ivy League in town, and this time it's selling T-shirts. Four students, Slav Sobkov (SEAS '12), Wilmer Cerda (SEAS '11), Carmen Marin (SEAS '11), and Elizabeth Pino (CC '11), have decided to combat negative media portrayal of Columbia this week by raising $11,000 (hey, that number sounds familiar!) and doing good things with it. The plan, run by the group naming itself Operation Ivy League: The Legit Deal, is to sell T-shirts to raise funds for a "larger five-month operation" that will focus on substance abuse prevention and treatment. The hope is that Columbia will "make the news headlines again, but this time for a good reason!" The T-shirts will read "Operation Ivy League: The Legit Deal" printed on a white cotton shirt, much like the image to your right. T-shirts are $15 each, so they'll need to sell, according to our calculations, 733.3333-with-a-bar-over-it T-shirts excluding the cost of actually printing the shirts. The Legit Deal hopes to sell T-shirts through the end of the semester. The Legit Deal trumpets: "It is time for Columbia to come together and show the nation the good that Columbia does every day. Something that is truly lost in the eyes of the outside community and even within our own sometimes-jaded Columbia community."
If finals have got you down, Bwog knows just the thing to cheer you up—seasonal cookies! Read on to find out how Cooking with Bwog's culinary master Matt Powell likes to get into the holiday spirit. Peppermint Chocolate Cookies (Makes 50 2-inch-round cookies) My friend found this cookie recipe a few years ago and came to me saying, “You have to make this!” I’m glad I did. These cookies are simply irresistible—a sure favorite at the holiday table. And while you’re still at school, they’re perfect for a sweet relief from finals. Ingredients: 1 C Flour 1/2 C cocoa powder 1/2 tsp. baking soda, 1/2 tsp. baking powder, and 1/2 tsp. salt 5 tbsp. butter 3/4 C sugar 1 egg + 1 egg yolk 3/4 tsp. peppermint extract 1 lb. white chocolate 6 crushed candy canes Directions: Sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a separate bowl, cream butter and sugar together until fluffy. Add the egg and blend. Add the yolk and blend. Blend in peppermint extract. Blend in dry ingredients. Wrap half of the dough in a disk shape in plastic wrap. Wrap the remaining half in a disk shape as well. Refrigerate both disks for an hour. Roll out each disk with a rolling pin on a well-floured surface. Roll to about 1/8 inch thickness. Use a cookie cutter to cut to desired shape. Place cut-out dough on a plate and place in the freezer for 15 minutes. Place cut-outs on a baking sheet that is covered with parchment paper. Bake for 12 minutes at 325 degrees. Transfer cookies with the parchment paper to a cooling rack. Melt white chocolate in a double boiler. Dip cookies in white chocolate and place back on the parchment. Sprinkle with peppermint candy pieces. Set in the fridge for three hours until hardened (or next to an open window). Gingersnaps with White Chocolate (Makes 48) I can’t make it through the holiday season without baking these cookies at least once. Unlike typical gingersnaps from the store, these cookies stay chewy and full of ginger flavor, with the drizzle of white chocolate on top as an added bonus. Ingredients: 2 C flour 1 ½ tsp. baking soda ¼ tsp. salt 1 tsp. cinnamon 1 tsp. ginger ½ tsp. cloves ½ C molasses 1 C brown sugar 1 egg ½ C crystallized ginger, chopped 8 oz. white chocolate, melted Directions: Sift together the flour, baking soda, salt, and spices. In a separate bowl, combine oil, molasses, brown sugar, egg, and crystallized ginger. Add dry ingredients and blend together. Place the dough in the refrigerator covered with plastic for 30 minutes. Line baking sheets with parchment paper. Remove dough from the fridge. Scoop out 1 tbsp. of dough for each cookie and roll into a ball. Space apart on the baking sheets about 2 inches apart. Bake at 350 degrees for 10-13 minutes, until the tops are crinkled. Let cool on racks after baking. Using a fork, drizzle the white chocolate on top of the cookies. You can drizzle as much (or as little) as you like. I typically allow the white chocolate to cool and harden before serving, but you can serve them when the chocolate is still gooey. 
Bwog's Megan McGregor shuffled down Broadway through the cold yesterday to see the first performance of the Barnard Theatre Department's Silence. Last night, the audience walked into the Diana Black Box to be shocked and awed by an elaborate and well-crafted set the likes of which the theatre has never seen before. A low wooden bridge spans the theatre, dividing it—and the audience—in two. At one end of the theatre stands a large set of double doors, and at the other, a staircase leading to a lofted room. The set, designed by Antje Ellerman, is reminiscent of earlier times, perhaps the 10th century—the time period during which Silence is set. Written by Moira Buffini and directed by Rob Bundy, Silence is put on by the Barnard Theatre Department. At the play's opening, one can easily be overwhelmed by the elaborate, historic-looking set and costumes. Initially, one may think they are looking at, as director Rob Bundy puts it, “a diorama replication of the 10th century.” Once the play takes off, the audience becomes aware that Silence is not a typical history play. In fact, it is not a history play at all. Bundy describes it as a “modern fairy tale set in a time long ago.” Silence is the story of a 14-year-old boy named Silence (Emily Kaplan, BC ’11), a half-British, half-Viking ruler of a Viking kingdom, who is given by the King of England (Daniel O’Neill, CC ’13) a bitchy French wife (Alice Mottola, BC ’11) who suffers from hysterical fits. Silence, written with the utmost wit and in contemporary vernacular, is side-splitting, unpredictable, and an all-around great pleasure to watch. Kaplan exquisitely plays her role as the young boy ruler, Silence, struggling with his sexual feelings as he becomes a man and a husband. Kaplan not only plays her role as a young boy brilliantly, but also displays perfect comic timing and sincerity. Silence’s companion in England, who attempts to rid him of his heathenism and serve as his spiritual guide, is the comic and agoraphobic priest Roger, played by Nahuel Telleria, CC ’11. Like Kaplan, Telleria’s comic ability is impeccable. Roger serves as priest to the King of England, Ethelred, played by O’Neill. Throughout Silence, the play alternates between scenes of Silence and company and Ethelred cowering or scheming. O’Neill hilariously performs his role as a feeble and useless king and shows great flexibility as an actor after Ethelred has a life-changing vision. Ethelred’s right-hand man, a bulky warrior with a love for hallucinogens, played by Dan Flatley, GS ’12, steals many well-deserved laughs from the audience with his absurd behavior. Silence’s wife and the object of desire of most of the male characters in the play, Ymma, played by Alice Mottola, BC ’11, is one of the most multidimensional characters in the entire play. Mottola phenomenally fluctuates as Ymma from hysterical, to comical, to fierce, to sexy, to compassionate. Mottola plays one of the most difficult roles in the play with the utmost devotion. Ymma’s emotionally abused servant, played by Ashley Butler, CC ’11, also undergoes a great transformation throughout the play. Butler attacks each of these changes with grace and skill. Not only is Silence aesthetically pleasing due to its elaborate set and costuming, but it is extraordinarily written and performed. Those looking to be shocked and surprised or those just looking to laugh their asses off while watching really good theatre, are highly recommended to attend Silence on Friday at 8 p.m. or Saturday at 2 p.m. or 8 p.m. in the Diana Black Box. Tickets are available at the TIC.
This just in from an anonymous tipster: hey bwog, just wanted to let you know that at 4:20 pm, I bought the last case of four loko from Crack Del. I checked with the cashier and he confirmed that I got the last ones. it's the end of an era. Good night, and good luck. Update, 6:30: Well, we spoke too soon. A Bwogger just saw "cases and cases" of this sweet elixir being unloaded from a blue truck and carried into HamDel CrackDel. And we live on to fight another day. 
Last night, NOMADS held their customary first-show gala for their newest student piece: Portrait and a Dream. Bwog's Katheryn Thayer now reports. We know finals are coming up, but what better way to de-stress than to watch someone else worry about the end of the world, death, and losing everything important? Student writer Jacob Rice, CC '12, quips, “People keep asking me what the play is about, and so far, the only answer I’ve been happy with is: ‘It’s about an hour and forty five minutes.’” The concept began as four hundred Post-its on Rice’s wall and undoubtedly turned out much better than the four hundred Post-it notes crammed into your textbooks will. Its short scenes were artfully strung together into a thought-provoking work through the collaboration of writer, director, and actors. Student theater groups differ from repertory theaters in that the creative process includes collaboration; as actors familiarized with their characters, they offered suggestions for new scenes and changes. Rice made changes as he saw the show performed, and the director, Alex Brinkman-Young, could share Rice’s plans for the look and feel of the play. Rice enjoys “experimenting with a huge amount of power,” and recognizes how lucky he was to have the patience of the cast and crew: “I change things up a lot. I feel bad—the actors were incredible! They had to memorize their lines and then re-memorize and re-memorize as I rewrote.” Though Brinkman-Young, an accomplished student director studying to receive a directing concentration at Barnard, had never worked with a writer before, she went from the “exciting but terrifying” fear of “Oh god, he has a vision!” to feeling “so proud of how much it has changed.” In the end, she found that she enjoyed the experience of working with a writer. “When you don’t like something, you can change it,” and this allows the cast to become involved in the process as well. The short scenes in the beginning of the play feel so brief that one may wonder whether the decentralized authority over the script lent itself to a lack of cohesion, but the disjointed style is intentional. In a game-changing second act, the shaky presentation is artfully focused into an intensely poignant depiction of love, frustration, self-deception, and human tragedy, or as Rice describes: “love and betrayal and life and shit.” The meaning of the play is more fully understood as the fragmented scenes become increasingly complex and interconnected, as Rice’s intent was to write something “highly non-linear it’s about letting the audience find out.” What stands out most are the intelligent characters. They make literary references; they analyze what Apocalypse means; they decry brunches that lack the logic to fall between breakfast and lunch. The banter is witty and the self-searching monologues intimate; Brinkman-Young calls it “a very wordy play.” NOMADS President Kurt Kanazawa described it as their “most conventional offering” compared to their next semester’s offerings: 5 Minute Plays, Brownies Café puppet shows, and Fringe Festival (writers, actors, and directors interested should request applications from nomads.columbia@gmail.com). So good luck studying, but really make it out to this show. Before you set off on your next two-week camping trip in the scenic Butler Stacks, remember, “all you have to do is not die and you are surviving.” Portrait and a Dream will be performed again tonight at 8 p.m. and tomorrow night at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. in the Austin E. Quigley Blackbox Theater on Lerner 5. Tickets are $5 at the TIC.
It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas... (Gothamist) NPR suggests you listen to annoying Christmas music. Richard Nixon wasn't racist or anti-Semitic.... oh, wait. (NYT) A man got trapped between a train and the platform at Union Square. Scary! (New York Post) Update, 2:04 PM: Mark Madoff, son of Bernie Madoff, committed suicide this morning. (NYT) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
in: Butler, 5th Floor bathroom at: 6pm on Friday, December 10 Silver ring with swirl design, about 0.8 cm wide. I love it; if you found it, email awc2129@columbia.edu
Photo by CS
Photo by Michael Radtke Radtke makes a keen observation: "Nowhere else in my life have I seen people take the newspaper and leave the sports section. Only at Columbia."
The crusaders against camping seek justice! Determined to displace the denizens, they dole out notices of "relocation." What a euphemism! Mr. Red pen knows what's really going down: eviction. Beware, your drink and dignity will be discarded. Photo by Mike Rady
 SantaCon makes Bwog think about holiday spirit. We would love to see your elaborately or uniquely decorated suites! Send your holiday cheer to tips@bwog.com. We know decorations aren't always Kosher with Housing, so your submissions will remain anonymous. Photo via Wikimedia Commons
It's been a crazy week. Since Sunday, a whopping 312,852 visitors have clicked on Bwog. (Remember when our biggest news was a casting call for a Jay-Z look-a-like?) So you might be asking yourself how you can get involved in such a thrilling, savvy and treat-loving weblog? Huzzah! Bwog is looking for new Daily Editors to join us next semester. The role of a Daily is to curate the morning's headlines, compile features, traipse around campus sniffing out posts, and take pictures. It's sort of like truffle-hunting. The perks: fulfill your love for people-watching and procrastination. But it's finals you say? You're on Bwog anyway. Please send the following application to editors@bwog.com by midnight TONIGHT! About Bwog Omg you totally have a crush on Bwog! Confess your love in a letter. Name one Bwog post you liked and one you didn't like. Briefly explain. What's your favorite Bwog tag? Draw Bwog. Seriously! About You Dream up a Bwog post of your choice. A mock free food alert, feature idea—anything you like. Please include a picture. Areas of Columbia life you’re interested in writing about (student government, city, arts, PrezBo's twitter, sports, food, etc.) Anything else you want to tell us about yourself? Being a Daily Editor is a big deal! You need to prepare posts the night before, and be constantly available on your day to investigate, interview, take pictures, Gchat, and generally make sure things run smoothly. Which day(s) of the week would you be able to commit to Bwog, in addition to our Sunday meeting? Too much work? We’d love to have you as a contributor to pitch story ideas and cover events. Keep an eye out for our Official First Meeting Announcement at the start of next semester! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Friends, if you are debating where to go tonight, consider that this Saturday might be Campo's last. After hearing rumors that Campo is going to be shut down, Bwog called the restaurant for comment. The gentleman who picked up the phone was emphatic that the restaurant isn't going anywhere, but continued, "We are simply modifying our late night arrangements." It turns out that Michael Wetherbee, the man who coordinates Campo's late night scene, is "moving on to different opportunities." We also spoke to Rashad, another manager at Campo, who said that due to Mike's absence, "We don't have anyone to coordinate late night the way it has been." This means that right now, they are unsure whether or not the college bar scene will die down completely in the future or if they will hire someone to pick up where Mike left off. There will be a "last night hurrah" for Mike at the bar tonight, so go out there and make some memories!
 In case you missed it, SantaCon participants gathered in large Santa-costume-clad groups across the US and went on a pub crawl. Bad Santa! (CBS) In other "Holiday Season" news, lobby decorations have become an increasingly contentious topic in apartment buildings across the city. (NYT) New Jersey's black bear hunt is a boon to taxidermists and butchers across the Garden State. (WSJ) Modern Times raise Modern Questions. Modern Questions require Modern Answers. Should you Google at dinner? (NYT) The Daily News has details on the quantities of drugs found after Tuesday morning's arrests: Coles had a pound and a half of weed, Klein had four oz. of pot, three bottles of LSD and over $4,000 cash, Wymbs had Ecstasy, a bottle of LSD and 40 SweeTARTS laced with LSD, and David had a half-pound of weed. Perez is accused of selling Adderall and Ecstasy. (Daily News) Image via Wikimedia Commons
Huzzah! ESC, SGA, CCSC and GSC have allocated a combined total of $20,000 to the Bacchanal Committee this year. This allocations is still a one-time-deal, and future allocations to Bacchanal will depend on a separate resolution. Council members will sit on the Bacchanal selection committee (hey Learned-- Weezy F. Baby!) for oversight. The one thing you can look forward to after the sky fell on Morningside Heights this week: Spring Concert! 
General Electric's Head of East Coast Television and Microwave Oven Programming has relocated to Mudd! 
 Speaking of East Coast Television and Microwave Oven Programming! Creed, CC ’88, is the executive producer of NBC Nightly News and the Vice President of NBC News. There has only been one female Class Day speaker since Columbia went co-ed in 1983: Claire Shipman, CC ’86, also a TV journalist, spoke in 1999. Creed was profiled in Columbia College Today in December 2007. Brian Williams (also 30 Rock's best guest star, we think) calls Creed a "hustler", but in a good way. Wallace was an English major and she played on the tennis team. A note: Class Day and Commencement are not the same thing. Commencement is the University-wide graduation. The POTUS Project is the initiative for President Obama to speak at Commencement, not Columbia College Class Day. An excerpt from CC 2011 President Sean Udell's email announcing Creed: We are writing to you today about Class Day, a tradition specifically for Columbia College where we welcome a beloved alumnus to deliver the College's official farewell to CC seniors. Columbia College is unique in its requirement that the Class Day speaker be a Columbia affiliate, and we personally celebrate this tradition, as it helps to ensure that our speaker be particularly able to speak to the experiences of Columbia College graduates. When determining who to invite to speak at Class Day, your senior class council was particularly interested in the following qualities for a speaker: 1) passion for Columbia College, 2) success in personal and professional life, and 3) positive spirit and attitude capable for the inspiration of students. Moreover, in consideration of the comments that you contributed as we moved through this selection process, we agreed that it was additionally important to chose a speaker who reflected the relatively new gender balance that Columbia College has finally attained since this school became open to women in 1983. Since then, only the 1999 Class Day speaker has been a woman: Claire Shipman, CC '86. Therefore, I am absolutely thrilled to announce that our first choice for Class Day speaker has agreed to join us on May 17, 2011. ALEXANDRA WALLACE CREED, CC '88, executive producer of the NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams and vice president of NBC News, will be this year's Class Day Speaker. A renegade in her field, she is part of a small group of women who have shattered the glass ceiling of television network news in order to serve as the chief executive for the United States' largest nightly network news broadcast. Moreover, she has been honored with six News and Documentary Emmy awards and a John Jay Award for distinguished professional achievement. We were particularly impressed that in addition to this incredible professional responsibility, Ms. Wallace is also the mother of young children and an extraordinarily active alumnae who hosts several Columbia College events every year and serves on the Columbia College Board of Visitors. Class Day is a time for Columbia College seniors to celebrate their incredible achievement and to be inspired by the distinguished Columbians who have come before them. Alexandra Wallace Creed is someone that all Columbians can be proud of and admire as a role model, and we look forward to welcoming her to campus next semester as our Class Day speaker. Update, 2:40 PM: The University has just issued its official press release announcing Creed, including a quote from Dean Mi-Moo: “Ms. Wallace’s accomplishments affirm our conviction that a strong liberal arts education inspires possibilities and opens doors to leadership opportunities in myriad industries and professions,” said Dean of Columbia College Michele M. Moody-Adams. “We are honored that Ms. Wallace has accepted our invitation to return to campus to address the Columbia College Class of 2011 on this most important occasion.” Creed won a John Jay award in 2008 and is member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Full press release after the jump. NBC News Producer Alexandra Wallace Creed to Speak at Columbia College Class Day 2011 NEW YORK, December 12, 2010 – Columbia College announced today that Alexandra Wallace Creed (CC ’88), senior vice president of NBC News¸ will deliver the keynote address at the 2011 Class Day ceremony. The annual event, which honors graduating seniors, will take place on Tuesday, May 17, 2011, on the South Lawn of Columbia’s Morningside Heights campus. Named executive producer of NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams in March 2007, Wallace became the first woman to lead a weeknight network evening newscast in a decade, and one of a small group of women to serve in the top post of a Big Three daily newscast. “Ms. Wallace’s accomplishments affirm our conviction that a strong liberal arts education inspires possibilities and opens doors to leadership opportunities in myriad industries and professions,” said Dean of Columbia College Michele M. Moody-Adams. “We are honored that Ms. Wallace has accepted our invitation to return to campus to address the Columbia College Class of 2011 on this most important occasion.” While leading Nightly News, Wallace repositioned the program as the number one evening news broadcast in terms of both ratings and viewership. Wallace also extended the show’s digital reach by orchestrating a relaunch of the website, increasing online video, and adding a digital correspondent to the show’s staff. Since December 2008, Wallace has served as senior vice president of NBC News, overseeing Nightly News, news production, and staffing. Wallace was first named vice president of NBC News in January 2006. Previously, Wallace was executive producer of Weekend Today and senior producer of Today. During her time as executive producer, Weekend Today’s ratings remained dominant and Saturday Today was number one across the board. Wallace, who has a BA in English literature from Columbia College, began her network career at the CBS News London bureau. Prior to landing at NBC, Wallace held several positions at CBS, including senior broadcast producer for The Early Show and senior producer for The Early Show and CBS This Morning. Wallace has been honored with eleven News and Documentary Emmy awards, a Gracie Award, and a Peabody Award. In 2008, Columbia College recognized Wallace for professional achievement by presenting her with a prestigious John Jay Award. She is a member of The Council on Foreign Relations.
Lost @ Campo, Saturday Night (sunday morning)! iPhone 3GS in a really nifty neon green case. Will be a reward if found. Call (646) 543-ELIE
 This has not been the best week for Columbia's public relations. Now it gets worse. Ivo Sanader, former Prime Minister of Croatia and current visiting scholar at Columbia's Harriman Institute, was arrested in Austria on Friday, and remains in custody pending extradition. Sanader is suspected of conspiring to commit crimes and abuse of office by the Croatian Office for Suppression of Organized Crime and Corruption.
Bwog's Lily Icangelo stopped in for a Columbia Musical Theater Society performance of A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum. It’s the end of Columbia’s week from hell—how are you celebrating? Before you set up camp in Butler and become a slave to a paper on some obscure post-modern art movement (or something else that will never help you in the “real world”), I suggest taking time to support Columbia theater. Columbia Musical Theater Society’s presentation of Stephen Sondheim’s “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum” proves to be an entertaining two hours of music, dance, and laughter—a perfect escape from the stress of finals. Taking on “Forum” was a bit of a lofty goal for CMTS; not only is the show 48 years old, but the original was on Broadway and in 1963 won a Tony for Best Musical. But a talented group of actors, creative team, and production team, did their best to successfully revive the show for the Columbia audience. Forum tells the tale of an eccentric slave named Pseudolus (played by the incredibly talented Chris Silverberg) who attempts to win his freedom by setting up his young master with the courtesan next door. Hilarity ensues as the plan runs into many unsuspected, and often silly, challenges including a large amount of mistaken identity and an even larger amount of falling to the floor. Silverberg was the perfect choice for the lead role as his presence on stage is magnetic and his beautiful voice successfully took on each of the songs he sang. The role of Hero was also very well cast as the ever-adorable David Offit was incredibly convincing in the role of a young clueless boy in love. This show employs many classic devices of comedy, including a great deal of physical comedy. The actors fight, they fall, they run into each other, they run into walls, and they dance in silly ways that adds to the comedy. Choreographer Sara Miller did a fantastic job choreographing each dance routine, making sure that the routines for this comedy were light and fun while still maintaining traditional elements and complexities of dance. Actors Miriam Pensack (Hysterium), Chris Silverberg (Pseudolus), and Sam Mickel (Marcus Lycus) showcased some incredible skills as physical comedians and were often the most fun to watch. Pensack was especially hilarious and at times, I would argue, even managed to steal the show. Her comedic timing was spot on, especially when her character (a male servant) dressed up as a fake dead girl. One of the only qualms I had with the show was with the set. I understand that the set was supposed to look cartoon-like and silly as Forum truly is a cartoon-ish show, but it came across as a little more elementary than it did cartoon-like. Forum is such a big production that it seems as though the set could have matched up a little better with the grandeur of the rest of the show. Overall however, CMTS’s presentation of “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum” was completely worth the five-dollar admission and the two hour “study break” in Roone. See it tonight at 8 pm in Roone Arledge Auditorium for its last performance!
Okay, so the point of Boringside Heights (as explained by the title, which has the word 'boring' in it), is to note some boring things that happen in Morningside Heights (see it's a play on words because 'morning' and 'boring' sound kind of similar). Bwog delights in these details, and we think you should too. Especially after the week we've had, can you really blame us for a little bit of local fluff? Here are some of the highlights from the festive decorations that have cropped up around the neighborhood. Revel in the minutiae, REVEL IN IT. Lights: Blue and white (coincidence?) lights line the island dividing Broadway, very pretty. Wreaths and holiday lights decorate the church on 114th. Winter Wonderland: These ridiculously adorable penguins were spotted in the Cardomat window... *sigh* Cardomat. MoWi, Dame of Décor, has transformed into a sparkling, snow-flakey fantasy. Menorahs: At Oren's and University Hardware—as well as a sled! Thank god there's snow to sled on. Flora: Seasonal plants at the flower store on 112th st. These might be better to look at...props to anyone that can keep a plant alive in their dorm for more than 3 days. Holiday Crafts: Delightful wreaths of yarn hang in the windows at Book Culture on 114th, but if you're really running out of ideas for Secret Santa, the Baileys-filled candy canes at International could be the way to go. Photography by CR
One night in September, Bwog went to visit Zak. "Zak," we asked, knowing of his video-production proficiency, "could you maybe help us film for this absurd weather show we're trying to do? Because we have no idea what we're doing." Zak said okay. The next morning, Pat and Zak met to film the first BwogWeather. "So, uh, what exactly are we supposed to do?" they asked. "I dont know," we replied, "I guess report the weather?" And the rest is history. Bwog is delighted to present you with the 13th and final episode of BwogWeather. Special thanks to CUMB (go to Orgo Night, this Wednesday at 11:59PM in 209) for helping out this week. Everyone we know has a 15-page paper due tomorrow, so now would be a good time to re-watch all your BwogWeather favorites. It's been good, guys. Real good. 
The Community Impact Leadership Program will be hosting a Winter Warm-up study break for first years (but everyone else is welcome, too!) from 8-9 PM in John Jay Lounge. There will be hot cocoa and a chocolate fountain—yum! Also in John Jay Lounge, a celebration of John Jay's birthday will include "ungodly amounts of birthday cake, hot chocolate, and cookies" from 9:30 PM until at least 11. And don't forget your tacky sweater! CU Photography Society will be on hand to take pictures of you and your friends and to raise money for a charity in Ecuador.
THERE ARE NO PRINTERS WORKING ANYWHERE! If you know where there is a functioning printer, put it in the comments and help out your printerless brethren. UPDATE: Some printers are now working, according to Owl Printers. It's not Armageddon, there are just more broken printers than usual. Here's the official word from CUIT: At approximately 3:15 PM today (Sunday, December 12), we began receiving complaints about slowness on Morningside’s data network affecting various systems. Cubmail, SSOL, NINJa terminals, and CourseWorks are among the affected services. Technicians are currently working to resolve the issue. A follow-up service alert will be sent out when this has been resolved. The alert was posted at 3:15...
I lost a big green and yellow Nautica umbrella. Can't really remember where exactly, though. But it was at some point between 11 am and 6 pm today. bsr2116@columbia.edu.
 This week brought a doozy of dramatic distractions. Then the sky cried, and Bwog stepped in a puddle of tears. So, we dug up this installment of Dear Bwog from the archives. Dear Bwog, The following is my stream of consciousness while trying to write a paper in 209: Curse you cursor, mocking my mindlessness and blinking before my blank screen! That grad student sitting across from me is revealing a little too much chest hair. When did unbuttoning the top three buttons become acceptable? Now he’s twirling his pen. He’s got skills. Damn, I wish I could twirl a pen like that… The powers that be should create stilts to prop open eyelids… I have to fart… Whatever happened to Ja Rule …and Legends of the Hidden Temple? Here’s the deal: I have a ton of shit to do. Out of nowhere, I was hit with a boatload of work. Wanna do it for me? Sincerely, Seriously screwed. Dear Seriously Screwed, First things first, people don’t go to Butler 209 to study; they go to be seen studying. And you have things to do, so leave now. While you’re ascending the Butler steps, stare up into the knowing eyes of Butler himself. He made it, and so can you, my friend. Now don’t go sitting next to someone hot. You may think that sitting across from someone attractive will make you want to look studious and therefore you will be studious. But you are wrong. Find a space? Good. Now, we could tell you to load up on caffeine and crank it out, but that wouldn’t be too inspirational. Instead, take 5 minutes to go outside and walk briskly around that narrow grassy knoll between the two lawns. Just do it. You deserve it, pal. So now you’re back in your seat. Devote the next 15 minutes to writing whatever random ideas you’ve got bobbing around that insightful brain of yours. Ellipses are your friend; you’re not engraving this anywhere. Just type like you’re taking one of those Words Per Minute tests—the ones you sometimes use to procrastinate, except now you’re actually working. Wow, look at that! You have some words on a page. Kudos! Now print out your jumbled jargon and grab a writing utensil. Sometimes it’s really fun to write with a colorful pen. Why assault your precious retinas with grading-pen red when you can opt for sea-foam blue? Draw lines and squiggles to start connecting and organizing your ideas. Now you have a rough outline. You’re such a champ! Don’t forget that you go to Columbia. And that’s pretty fucking cool. Remember back in the day when you first saw Butler and thought, “I’m going to think big things in there.” Or maybe you didn’t think that. Anywho, momentous contemplation went down right here. According to Aristotle, that should be pretty pleasurable. So, throw yourself into your thoughts the way all those happy philosophers did. Love, Bwog P.S. Adderall is for pussies. P.P.S  Shit seriously hit the fan this week, and you commenters sound exasperated. If you're in a funk forrealz, there's nothing wrong with seeking support. Counseling and Psychological Services: 212-854-2878 Nightline Peer Counseling: 212-854-7777 Office of the University Chaplain: 212-854-1493 Residential Programs: 212-854-6805 you deserve to feel awesome.
 This morning, the Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari to Tuck-It-Away and the Singhs, the last parties opposing the Manhattanville expansion scheme, meaning that they will not be considering the case (official court order list from 12/13 here). This formally ends any possible legal opposition to New York State's use of eminent domain, and that construction will proceed on the new campus. The Blue &amp; White interviewed Nick Sprayregen, owner of Tuck-It-Away, over the summer, while he was in the process of appealing to the Supreme Court. He said then that he thought his building would be demolished within a year of the court's decision. (Spec) In other news from the Expansion Bureau, Wal-Mart's third attempt to make a move into New York City has been delayed until January, when a room large enough can be found to accommodate all the local business owners who want a say in the decision. (NYTimes) Forget WikiLeaks, Gawker was hacked yesterday. (Gothamist) Really! WikiLeaks is soon to be supplanted by Openleaks, a site designed by Julian Assange's second-in-command. (BBC) Regarding a different kind of storytelling, Tovah Klein, the head of Barnard's Center for Toddler Development argues that story time is for fun, not for impressing your friends at dinner parties with your baby's mad reading skills. In Defense of Kids! (Huffington Post) Photo via Wikimedia
And now Scabbers is gone! 
You may have noticed several news vans near campus this morning. They are here to cover an event taking place in Lerner today, whose speakers include Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Senator Evan Bayh, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Senator Joe Lieberman, columnist David Brooks, and MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” co-hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski. Over 1,000 people are expected to be in attendance. The event is the official launch of No Labels, a nonprofit organization dedicated to nonpartisanship. In their own words, "to creating a new voice that encourages politicians to lay aside the 'labels' of party politics and address problems on practical common ground. The idea is to create a voice from citizens all over the country—Republicans, Democrats, and independents—who want to break through the extreme polarization of Washington and bring a less partisan, less ideological, more pragmatic approach to the table." You can watch the launch live online, and read the full information about the event here.
Today is the last day of class. Nuggets, CULPA and otherwise, abound! As per tradition, at the end of the semester we want to hear your professor's closing remarks. Your professors will say something (they read Bwog! they know what's up). If it's mundane/erotic/humorous or pithy in any form, pass it on to tips@bwog.com, or subject it to the whims of Bwog's readership by leaving it in the comments.
 Bwog is your exclusive source for CCSC Secret Santa news. Grant D'Avino reports from last night's festivities. Not much official business took place at CCSC last night. In the words of Learned Foote, "We have one resolution, and then we have pie." The council began with a brief discussion of the resolution to install publication racks in Lerner. Concerns were raised about oversight, and about the fact that publications might shove recent copies of their magazine, journal, or other pieces of paper in front of those of other publications. "We could paint the racks blue and white," one council member suggested, hoping to bring some Columbia spirit to the hypothetical shelving units. "That might be partial to The Blue and White," responded another. So much for that. The council eventually voted in support of the resolution. Then Secret Santa (and pie)! Senator Alex Frouman was a little surprised to find that everyone would learn who their "Secret Santa" was. "I'm Jewish, I don't do this shit," he said. "I feel like it should be called temporarily Secret Santa." Gifts included a copy of Love Actually, multiple hats, a penguin shaped lunchbox, various "survival kits," at least three different bottles of vodka, a pair of socks, and "maple products." Kenny Durell got his Secret Gift Receiver a pair of Four Lokos, one of which perfectly matched Sean Udell's purple shirt. "I was trying to make a commentary," he said of the gift. Durell also confirmed that, as of yesterday evening, CrackDel was stocked with "at least a hundred cases" of Four Loko. Ryan Mandelbaum gave his Secret Gift Receiver a "Ryan Mandelbaum Sweater." Ryan Mandelbaum sweaters are generally multicolored and heavily patterned. This sweater was no exception. Two council members who had forgotten to register for Secret Santa gave each other an imaginary yearlong subscription to Netflix and an imaginary Knicks ticket, respectively. Everyone else was extremely impressed with these gifts until they learned that the gifts did not actually exist. Image via Wikimedia Commons
 On Monday No Labels took over Roone Arledge Auditorium, and Alex Jones was there to check out all of the super-exciting bipartisan action. The event started at the ungodly hour of 8 a.m., and began with an address by the four “founding leaders.”  What followed can only be described as uncomfortable. No Labels commissioned Akon to write a song about bipartisanship‚—because Akon is the post-partisan hip-hop equivalent of Henry Clay, apparently. The crowd (mostly middle-aged to elderly) swayed back and forth to such inspiring lines as, “see a man with a blue tie, see a man with a red tie, so how about we tie ourselves together and get it done.” It was an auto-tuned, bipartisan sight to see. In case you haven’t picked up on it by now, No Labels is an organization that would like to inspire bipartisan politics. So Democrats and Republicans take off their “labels," forget which team they play for, and everything works much better. This event was the kick-off for the 2012 election cycle, and No Labels gathered a dozen or so prominent Republicans and Democrats to give short speeches in support of the No Labels ideology. The speakers, however, didn’t have much substance per se, but instead stayed in the abstract realm of political no-nothings. In fact, it kind of sounded to Bwog like these politicians came here to whine about how hard things are now a-days. So things are difficult now, sure, but does bipartisanship really help at all?  Don’t we just want good-hearted partisanship? How about passing around Oreos and milk during every roll call vote? The No Labels event just doesn’t seem like a profitable exercise if they are only complaining about things going wrong and not proposing a solution. Talking about what each speaker said doesn't seem necessary because everyone just repeated permutations of the same basic argument: Hyper-partisanship is worse than ever The people need good government more than ever We’re basically fucked If you write those statements twice each on a die, and you roll that die three times, you have just drafted a speech with as much coherency and importance as was given by each speaker. So sleep well knowing that something out there is wrong, and some people are concerned about it, but it’s anyone’s guess how to fix it. Sounds a bit familiar.
Bwog got a little misty-eyed when we applauded for our favorite professors yesterday. The end of classes always both feels much too soon and way overdue—in a "shit, I haven't done anything for this class since the midterm" kind of way. This week, we'll celebrate the people who teach us things by reducing them to pithy stereotypes. It's only because we love! We'll start with the Marxist. Here we have the Marxist. He is a bit dated, torn, a collector’s item, one might say. Marching through Hamilton with round yellow-tinted lens from which he sees the commodification of the globalized world, the Marxist struggles to provoke the children of Generation Y. In the prelude to his course, he recites an account of a Chinese migrant worker who spends 87% of her day in a factory for a salary of $70 American dollars a month to make Tonka trucks for Target. Pointing at his students donning screen-printed tees and chomping on granola snack bars, the Marxist reminds the bourgeois elite that sit before him of the sweat and blood of the proletariat that are forever in the threads of their discount tops and the grains of their crunchy snacks. The Marxist does a significant amount of scoffing. Why wouldn’t he? His every day is haunted by Walmart, the mass consumption of grapefruit in the dead of winter, 12oz steaks, and PhD students. He often reminds the class that, “I too am a commodity. And when you enter the workforce, you will be nothing but an expendable source of labor.” Rubbing his withered temples, he asks if anyone knows the meaning of “fetishization.” Silence. Nothing! His students are a spectacle of kitsch and bouge. They oppress with every apathetic sip from their aluminum water bottles. He denounces the “iTunes,” the “MyBooks,” and the “FaceSpaces,” and begs for someone, anyone, perhaps the androgynist who sits in the back or maybe anarchist who walks in 40 minutes late, to stand with him in protest against the forces of capitalism. —Sarah Camiscoli Illustration by Chloe Gogo
Seriously! This Oreo costume was spotted giving away the classic cookie in Lerner. There appear to be many boxes. Flock thither! 
We pondered its meaning, and delighted in its reflections. This building has been going up for years, but has managed to remain mysteriously shrouded in scaffolding. No longer! A day before the building officially opened on Friday, Bwog had the opportunity to join a group of  journalists on an architectural tour of the building, guided by PrezBo, and the architect himself, José Rafael Moneo. Claire Sabel was there. From the brand new entrance on 120th and Broadway, you climb an elegant staircase made from huge slabs of pale green marble. This takes you to a large open space, walled on three sides with glass and floored with more marble -- soon to become the café -- that seems to hover just above street level. In fact it is essentially hanging. Not to delve too deeply into the mechanical structure of the building, but it was draped (as far as you can you say that about glass) on a huge frame. The frame was built over the existing gym, and all of the facade, (basically the glass panels and steel fins) was simply hung on the outside (friction between the new layer and underlying building is reduced by giant pads of Teflon). Therefore there are no supporting columns that divide any of the spaces within the building itself, only supportive ones at the corners of the building. One of the architects from Davis Brody Bond Aedas, who also worked on the project with Moneo, explained that part of the aim of the building, and the first floor in particular, is to be transparent to the world outside, and so without the columns, you can have unobstructed views of the entire interior. Standing by the glass wall you can see all the way down Broadway. You're close enough to ground level that you don't feel removed, but far enough that it's not too voyeuristic to gaze out at passersby. The tour met on this first level, and was ushered onto the elevators to the campus level, to where the entrance will be across the courtyard from Pupin. From this entry, you can walk right into the new two-story library. It was here that the group congregated in front of President Bollinger. PrezBo expressed warm appreciation of Moneo's work, indentifying the building's completion as both finally fulfilling of the McKim, Mead, and White plan, and the first landmark of the planned expansion. The building's dimensions are exactly those specified by the original design, except for a bit of extra height, and the architects involved in the building's design are also advising the Manhattanville project. Bollinger's introduction, while heartfelt, was not what we had really come for. After the conclusion of his opening remarks we set off, following Moneo on a guided tour of the building. The library had set the tone for spaces that felt very different to the minimal, rather cool attitude of the entrance. Similarly uninterrupted by columns, the theme of openness continues to be apparent. All of the desks and booths are made from slotted wood, creating many semi-private study spaces that you can still see through. The ceiling is similarly paneled with wood and -- rather bizarrely -- with lots of small mirrors. The wooden interiors did make the rooms feel much cosier, an effect extremely well-achieved in the new auditorium on the floor above, with wooden walls and steeply sloping seats. It seats 170, but still feels relaxed, far less austere and sterile than one might expect from a state of the art science facility. Moneo compared the intimacy of the space to that of an operating theater (think this, kinda). There are also smaller teaching rooms on the lower floors, similarly wood-floored and snug. From these we walked through some of the lab spaces. Located on the higher floors they have beautiful westward facing views, to UTS, Riverside Cathedral, and the river beyond. While some are designed for specific needs, many of the labs operate on a 'plug and play' model, where the equipment and surfaces can be moved around and rearranged, depending on the needs of the researchers. Such interdisciplinary connections that the building is supposed to foster are manifest in every aspect of the design. Offices for professors run alongside the building on each lab floor, so that at any time, one can cross through the lab to offices on the other side. Many professors and grad students had already moved in by this point, and were working away at their computers. The harmony of the office and research spaces was already apparent - each individual fit together, neatly delineated, but comfortably compact. The tour culminated at the top of the building, on the 14th floor, which is also walled almost entirely in glass. Although not yet finished, this space really did feel majestic, as if you were floating above the city, rather than holed up away from it. It was hard to believe that the imposing steel-clad fortress had managed to achieve such loftiness throughout its many stories. Moneo himself was delightfully enthused by the whole project, excitedly pointing out to all the intricacies of his blueprints at every possible moment. We have, by now, gotten fairly accustomed to the view of the outside. While I appreciated its elegance, it takes the interior to complete your understanding of buildings function, and its remarkable success in marrying its academic needs with sophisticated design. Most of the public facilities are expected to open in January. Even if Frontiers was too much for you and you swore you'd never enter a science building again, it's definitely worth a look around. Video of the building's construction can be found here. Images courtesy Michael Moran and Columbia University
 Hooah! Head to the Lerner Ramps for free Crumbs cupcakes, courtesy of Columbia Political Union. Stock up on tasty treats before finals eat your soul.
 And so it ends—not with a bang, but with a whimper—the last semester of the first decade of the new millennium. And if you needed more roundabout and somewhat forced catharsis than that, we asked for your professors’ closing remarks, and here is a collection of the most outstanding. Feel free to leave any we forgot in the comments. Study well! Paige West, Interpretation of Culture: “Remember, condoms rhymes with fun.” Susan Elmes, Intermediate Microeconomics Wincing after rolling a chalkboard in need of WD-40: “I am NOT going to miss this chalkboard.” Panagiota Daskalopoulos, Ordinary Differential Equations After talking about her time as a grad student at the University of Chicago, in reference to exams: “You know how it’s like when someone has suffered a lot, and they want to make other people suffer too?” David Weinstein, Economic Organization and Development of Japan “Will Japan be able to restore its growth again? Well, if Japan grows again it will provide a world of opportunity for you, and a new set of lecture notes for me.” “Just because Japan has an aging population does not mean we can assume that there will be a blow out of the budget deficit. There are costs associated with young people. They tend to do things like commit crimes… and form drug cartels. But only Columbia College students would do that. Not the GS students here.” James Shapiro, Shakespeare I Suggesting a possible question for the final exam: “Drugs and incest: How do A Midsummer Night’s Dream and Hamlet prepare you for Columbia?” Cathy Popkin, Literature and Empire “I’m always ready to talk about Chekhov. I still have my ‘I love Chekhov’ tattoo.” Caterina Musatti, Principles of Economics “Around the year zero, when Jesus was born, it would have taken you about 7,000 years for the economy to double output. Maybe Jesus should have focused more on the economy… then again, when you can come back from the dead, you don’t really have a great concept of time.” Gary Okihiro, Intro to Comparative Ethnic Studies “Do your best to leave behind traces of a life well-lived.” Roosevelt Montas, CC “Locke is like a Christmas carol—music to our ears.” Marcellus Andrews, Intro to Economic Reasoning “We should really have a class on how to fuck.” Beau Shaw, CC “So… did any of you spend the weekend in jail?” Evan Neely, Art Hum “I have nothing more to say about art. Now you have to look at it yourself and figure it out. Actually, no. Go get a drink now. Tomorrow, look at art.” "If you don't see the value in understanding how other people make meaning... that's not my problem." Randall Balmer, Unknown Class After handing out the finals and leaving the TA to proctor: "Alright... well... have a nice life!" Sarah Schaeffer, Art Hum "But I don't wanna end the class talking about Nazis, so here's a picture of The Simpsons." Richard Sacks, Lit Hum "I don't know. It depends, maybe you'll go to a party like Jesus and run out of wine and you'll need extra shelf space to hold a few 6 packs at all times to keep up the party." Gary Okihiro, Intro to Comparative Ethnic Studies "You don't wake up in the morning and go, 'Damn! I'm white!'" Matthew Jones, CC "I kept trying to get you guys to talk about sex, drugs, and rock &amp; roll, but all you wanted to talk about was public policy." Christia Mercer, Lit Hum “Rock, paper, scissors, penises! …and vaginas! it’s the end of the semester, anything goes!”
 Bwog's Holiday Cheer Leader Peter Sterne reports. As the first snowfall (flurries don’t count) of the year descended into Morningside Heights last night, students gathered on the Lerner Ramps and outside Roone, eager to see the latest edition of XMAS!, the VShow-like student-run musical that’s been satirizing the holiday season for the last five years. When the audience was finally let into Roone, they found the speakers blared the Maccabeats’ “Candlelight." It was an interesting introduction to a show that spent the next two hours poking fun at corporate culture, hipsters, Jews, gays, and New Jersey, before tying it all up with the saccharine moral that XMAS is for everyone and it will always be around. The show begins in a boardroom in XMAS, Inc., where recently hired hotshot executive William (Andrew Wright, CC ’14) is upstaging power-mad CEO Thurston Wallace I (Thomas Spry, CC ’14), who bought Christmas from Santa Claus back in the 1980s. Spry channels Jacobim Mugatu more than Gordon Gekko in his portrayal of Thurston, and the camp he brings to his character’s prima-donna personality and deliciously evil scheming are a delight to watch onstage. Once he decides that William may be a threat, he forces his poor elf assistant, Sprinkles (the phenomenal Emily Wallen, BC ’11), to lure him to a warehouse in Hoboken. Though she’s only a supporting actor, Wallen is really the heart and soul of this play. She shines during the musical performances, effortlessly able to command the stage during a solo. More importantly, she brings an endearing awkward schtick to her character Sprinkles, who’s torn between her good conscience and the realities of working for XMAS, Inc. Surely, some of Sprinkles’ charm comes courtesy of brilliant writers (“What else can I do? Merrill Lynch isn’t exactly hiring elves and I can’t join the military because of ‘Don’t Ask Don’t Telf!’”). But it is Wallen’s delivery that brings her character alive. Even when she tricks William and  locks him the Hoboken warehouse, the audience remains sympathetic to her plight. In the warehouse, William meets others that Thurston has locked away, including the cute but assertive Tooth Fairy (Arielle Diktowich,Teachers College ’11), a pessimistic Easter Bunny (Nick Bloom, CC ’13), Paula the Purple-Nosed Reindeer suffering from a split septum (Sara Lederman, BC ’12), the annoying hipster activist Benetha Africa (Emily Feinstein, BC ’13), a mischievous leprechaun (Rachel Bronstein, BC ’13), and a sassy Grinch (the fabulous Will Hughes, CC ’13). Swaggering and prancing across the stage, Hughes had the audience in stitches when he announced that “My heart’s not the only thing that grew three sizes.” In the basement of XMAS headquarters, they discover a washed-up Santa (Ben Weiner, CC ’11) living with a woman he believes is Mrs. Claus, but who in fact is just a sexy blonde actress (the very saucy Amelia Lembeck, BC ’14) hired by Thurston to keep Santa oblivious to the changes he has made to Christmas. The constant innuendo in the scenes between Weiner and Lembeck titillated and delighted the audience, and one of funniest moments of the play comes when Santa hints that he knows Michelle isn’t really Mrs. Claus, prompting Lenbeck to ask innocently, “But Santa, if you knew this whole time, why didn’t you say anything?” In the climactic final scene, the XMAS Board of Directors votes for Thurston to remain CEO, but Santa uses the “Claus Clause” (a joke that has never been used before) to overrule them and give the job to William, who has now learned the true importance of Christmas. He then makes Sprinkles the “XMAS Keeper of Tradition”, and appoints “ruthless, heartless, and not very nice” Thurston the mayor of Chicago. In the end, of course, everyone breaks into song and sings that XMAS is for everyone and it will always be around.
Bwog has hopped, poked, and swiftly skimmed, but now we’re inviting other writers into the Bwog Bubble. We think there’s lots of fantastic campus journalism out there that sometimes slips under the radar. In the spirit of Enlightenment salons from centuries past, we present our newest feature, BwogSalon. Bwog asked the editors of each publication on campus to send us a teaser article from their most recent issue—something distinctly representative of their point of view, but still accessible. Below, check out this interview with Professor Bruce Robbins from The Gadfly. You’ll make your fave French intellectual and your fashionably philosophical friends proud. Making Small Talk with Bruce Robbins Bruce Robbins is the Old Dominion Foundation Professor in the Humanities in Columbia’s English and Comparative Literature Department. His primary interests include nineteenth and twentieth century fiction, literary and cultural theory and postcolonial studies. A prolific author, Professor Robbins has published such works as Feeling Global: Internationalism in Distress, The Servant’s Hand: English Fiction from Below and Secular Vocations: Intellectuals, Professionalism, Culture. From 1991 to 2000 he was co-editor of the prominent journal Social Text. He regularly teaches courses on contemporary literary theory, modern comparative fiction, and intellectual history. Recently, we sat down with Professor Robbins to discuss his undergraduate years, the important relationship between literary theory and philosophy, and the Core Curriculum. Q: How did you first get into your field? A: I was a history and literature major at Harvard, which was a combined program for those students who hadn’t quite figured out which field they were more interested in. I had gone into college thinking I would become a philosophy major. I had read Plato, Nietzsche, and Sartre during my adolescence, in the heyday of existentialism. I remember I once told my high school friends that I was interested in ‘existentionalism.’ I was, of course, mocked and put down in the way that people are severely put down in high school for being pretentious. Anyway, I was familiar with those thinkers before I got to Harvard but I never ended up taking a philosophy course during college. Instead, I was turned on to literary criticism through a close reading course that I took freshman year. The best way the history department and literature department had found to combine the two subjects was, in effect, a sort of compromise. We did read social historians who were big in that period, but intellectual history was at the center. That’s what gave me the confidence to take a shot at so-called “theory” when it took off in the U.S. in the 70s. At some point in senior year, I went more in the literary direction. I guess it seemed to me that literary criticism was more open than other fields. The philosopher Richard Rorty said it well when he said that philosophy had abandoned the goal of asking the big questions, and literary criticism had picked up the ball after philosophy dropped it. For instance, around 1972 there was a certain excitement around Claude Levi-Strauss, and a friend of mine, an undergraduate at the time who actually went on to become a professor at the University of Chicago, suggested we form a reading group with an assistant philosophy professor in order to read Levi-Strauss. We did, but it didn’t work. The guy in the philosophy department was not interested in answering the larger questions, such as, What is this thinker trying to do? Why is it worth doing? This particular philosopher, not the discipline as a whole, was not prepared to answer these larger questions and I believe I was because there was more room to do so in literary criticism, at least at that moment. Q: Have things changed for literary criticism? A: It is not a good moment for literary theory. All across the country, partly due to financial pressure, scholars have pulled back into a narrowly historical understanding of their field; many only work within that particular period. Not many people are asking questions that transcend their period. Theory exists to impose these larger questions on the discipline. Are we really talking about the same object as in earlier periods? Or are we relying on the lazy assumption that these texts are the same simply because they are all called “literature”? To a certain extent, literary criticism is a place where that still happens, just less so. As a historical fact, the impulse of French theory in the ’60s and ‘70s does not seem as strong now. Today, people are looking elsewhere for that philosophical excitement that we got from French theorists. Q: Is there anyone working in theory now who gives you that philosophical excitement? A: Etienne Balibar, for one, who is actually teaching a seminar at Columbia this fall. He is asking very interesting questions about violence and civility. He and Judith Butler are working on the same problems, particularly the problem of universality. Q: Is there such a thing as the Western canon as taught in Literature Humanities and Contemporary Civilization and is the Core an adequate way to teach that canon? A: I have never had the good fortune of taking Lit Hum or CC or teaching either course. It is something I would like to do while I’m still walking. The Core is great when I want to refer to a certain philosophical tradition in my other classes because students have read Herodotus, Kant, etc. There are not many other universities where you can do that. However, I think it would be a good thing if the Core were revised in some way by integrating other traditions into Lit Hum and CC. Not as other options on the side but at the center—I would like to see the Core tell the story, the true story, of the communication between these traditions and the Western tradition. This could happen in the Core. This currently happens through institutes around campus that bring together people from different intellectual backgrounds to explore the same problems. Q: What philosopher or philosophical tradition has most influenced your approach to literary theory? A: The Kantian tradition. It is Kant’s interpretation of the aesthetic that makes literary criticism a viable discipline whether critics acknowledge that debt or not. That being said, traditions that are hostile to Kant are also influential for me and for the discipline; Hegel, for example. A great deal of contemporary theory is based, at least in part, on readings of Chapter 4 of the Phenomenology of Spirit. And in turn, the anti-Hegelian traditions of French post-structuralism have also become important to me and to the discipline. Q: What’s your favorite novel? A: Dickens’ Bleak House. But I will put in a good word for Franzen’s new novel, Freedom.
Good news bears! The University expects to raise its original goal, announced in September 2006, of $4 billion nearly a year ahead of schedule. The $4 billion plan was the largest fundraising effort in the history of higher education. But we can't stop, won't stop: the University hopes to raise a total of $5 billion by December 2013. Ca$h money will be roughly distributed to: enhance financial aid ($100 million to CC, $43 million to SEAS), $100 million to faculty support, $300 million to Manhattanville, the new Baker, and the Medical Center, increased funding for global programs associated with SIPA, Architecture, Planning and Preservation and the Earth Institute. Phew! Let's take a look back at some of the bonkers donations of the last few years: $400 million from the late John Kluge, $250 million from the late Dawn Greene, $100 million from Henry Kravis, $50 million from Roy and Diana Vagelos. So, uh, donate to the Senior Fund! 
New Year's Eve ball drop? Skating at Rockefeller Center? Going below 96th St? Your magical winter in New York may be jeopardized! For the first time, Columbia is requiring students to register in order to stay in housing over winter break. Registration is not only mandatory for entering your own dorm, but any Columbia residence building. According to the Housing website: Approved students access will be changed in the system at each residence hall beginning at 5pm on December 23. In addition, a list of students who have registered will be provided to the guard at each residence hall entry. No registration, no entry. Visitors are able to be signed-in throughout the Winter Break period (other Columbia students who did not register to stay during Winter Break may count as visitors). In order to register, you must complete an application by 5 pm today. And it's not even guaranteed! Bizarrely, you have to specify a reason for staying, "coursework," "enjoy NYC without classes," etc. Once you have completed the form, you will not be notified until Friday, December 17th, of a confirmation of your eligibility. Cutting it close! Photo via Wikimedia
A good chunk of the Columbia JSchool faculty has signed a letter to Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder claiming that the recent publication of diplomatic cables by WikiLeaks is "protected by the First Amendment." The faculty looks back a few decades and points out that “as a historical matter, government overreaction to publication of leaked material in the press has always been more damaging to American democracy than the leaks themselves.” Letter after the jump. President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Attorney General Eric Holder U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 December 13, 2010 Dear Mr. President and General Holder: As faculty members and officers of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, we are concerned by recent reports that the Department of Justice is considering criminal charges against Julian Assange or others associated with Wikileaks. Journalists have a responsibility to exercise careful news judgment when classified documents are involved, including assessing whether a document is legitimately confidential and whether there may be harm from its publication. But while we hold varying opinions of Wikileaks’ methods and decisions, we all believe that in publishing diplomatic cables Wikileaks is engaging in journalistic activity protected by the First Amendment. Any prosecution of Wikileaks’ staff for receiving, possessing or publishing classified materials will set a dangerous precedent for reporters in any publication or medium, potentially chilling investigative journalism and other First Amendment-protected activity. As a historical matter, government overreaction to publication of leaked material in the press has always been more damaging to American democracy than the leaks themselves. The U.S. and the First Amendment continue to set a world standard for freedom of the press, encouraging journalists in many nations to take significant risks on behalf of transparency. Prosecution in the Wikileaks case would greatly damage American standing in free-press debates worldwide and would dishearten those journalists looking to this nation for inspiration. We urge you to pursue a course of prudent restraint in the Wikileaks matter. Please note this letter reflects our individual views, not a position of Columbia University or the Journalism School. Respectfully, Emily Bell, Professor of Professional Practice; Director, Tow Center for Digital Journalism Helen Benedict, Professor Sheila Coronel, Toni Stabile Professor of Professional Practice in Investigative; Director, Toni Stabile Center for Investigative Journalism June Cross, Associate Professor of Journalism John Dinges, Godfrey Lowell Cabot Professor of Journalism Joshua Friedman, Director, Maria Moors Cabot Prize for Journalism in the Americas Todd Gitlin, Professor; Chair, Ph.D. Program Ari Goldman, Professor LynNell Hancock, Professor; Director, Spencer Education Journalism Fellowship Marguerite Holloway, Assistant Professor; Director, Science and Environmental Journalism David Klatell, Professor of Professional Practice; Chair, International Studies Nicolas Lemann, Dean; Henry R. Luce Professor Dale Maharidge, Associate Professor Arlene Morgan, Associate Dean, Prizes and Programs Victor S. Navasky, George T. Delacorte Professor in Magazine Journalism; Director, Delacorte Center for Magazine Journalism Michael Schudson, Professor Bruce Shapiro, Executive Director, Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma Alisa Solomon, Associate Professor; Director, Arts Concentration, M.A. Program Paula Span, Adjunct Professor Duy Linh Tu, Assistant Professor of Professional Practice; Coordinator, Digital Media Program
Why the hell not, guys? Free chairs on the 4th floor of Schapiro CEPSR. That's fun! 
With pre-Kerouac horn-rimmed glasses and a penchant for using Yiddish terminology in lecture, the Tweedster is both your favorite professor of all time and your grandfather’s Long Beach High Class of ‘48 classmate. You could fit two of your Wien singles into their southern-facing (northern light is for scholars of Africa, Asia, South America) Fayerweather 6 palaces and still have room leftover for each edition of their twenty-two published volumes of history. The Tweedster could spend your entire lecture recounting anecdotes of Delancey Street back when Sammy’s Roumanian was cheap and no one would mind. The Tweedster does not want to see your cell phone. The Tweedster does not want to hear you talk about the signified and the signifier. The Tweedster does not fuck with Foucault. This isn’t University Writing, son. The Tweedster and his tweedy friends live in Morningside Heights ca. 1952. We didn't know from Gender Theory then, and it was better that way. --Eliza Shapiro Illustration by Suzanna Buck
Everyone and their mother has a final (or three) tomorrow, and we're all hanging out in Strugglesville tonight. We've seen a lot of people do some silly stuff in Butler this week, and discovered these two blogs of Columbians sleeping in funny positions instead of studying. Leave your own overseens in the comments. Guy walking across campus singing "Baby" by Justin Bieber out loud to himself. Not wearing headphones In completely full Ref Room, a very serious looking man in a suit drafting a single Facebook comment for 20 minutes Someone filling out an add/drop form (it's a little late, pal) Dead quiet in a room, then somebody's computer blares "Ain't no party like a Liz Lemon part--" Man walks in, sits on chair, pulls coat over his head, and goes to sleep Girl showing two fancy dresses to her friends in the Reference Room. She holds each up on a hanger and poses A girl pushes her laptop away from her, sits back and her chair and pulls Play-doh from her bag. She listens to her iPod and kneads Play-doh for about five minutes 
Tonight! Orgo Night! Midnight Breakfast! Don't! Study! Orgo Night will take place, as always, at midnight in Butler 209. Get there early if you want to see anything. Midnight Breakfast is Candyland themed this year-- Barnard freshpeople can get to LeFrak at 11 PM, Barnard everyone can get there at 11:30, and everyone else is allowed at midnight! Laughs, candy, delights, procrastination! 
In the wise words of Jody Zellman: "bummer, bro." We also hear that there are Public Safety officers directing traffic at Midnight Breakfast. Expect a review within a few minutes. E-Z on those butt-comments, we took the original picture down at the request of the, um, involved parties. 
Tonight was Orgo Night, that (rare) cherished Columbia tradition, in which The Cleverest Band in the World occupies Butler 209 and strives to "lower the curve on the orgo exam" by telling raunchy jokes with topical music interspersed. Likely due to a number of recent events, 209 was buzzing by 11:10 p.m. By 11:20 Public Safety had arrived, and by 11:30, all library taboos were out the window! Burly Public Safety officers acted as bouncers, keeping disappointed students penned in the hallway. As one freshman girl noted, "Orgo Night is harder to get in than Campo!" At 12:00 a.m. sharp, CUMB entered that hallowed hall and proceeded to entertain. CUMB teased the crowed early with a Vincenzo/drug bust joke, but then backed off and went for the Social Experiment. The band made classic riffs on paying Columbia students to talk to people, and referenced the Crimson article which belittled it. Harvard students, the band explained, had their fathers to buy them friends. After playing "Tainted Love," the band cheered the recent sorority recognition, noting that "one fourth of Barnard women are in sororities. In an unrelated Spectator article, one fourth of Barnard women have herpes," to very mixed reactions. The band rejoiced in the sororities since Barnard had apparently lacked a place for women to join together in sisterhood, at least until the recent mandatory meal plan, because friends who "binge together, purge together." Again, mixed reactions. At the end of "Stacy's Mom," CUMB moved on to Assange. The "secrets" released by Wikileaks are really no big deal, the band believes. "Saudi Arabia supporting terrorism? Afghanistan being a shitshow? Those things are about as secretive as a SEAS kid's porn addiction." Next they stopped by the email from SIPA, and mused why art majors didn't get such an email. After a few more Barnard jokes, they played "Toxic." Next our marching band advised the crowd on TSA travel tips. If you're a SEAS student and get patted down, refrain from ejaculating—CUMB knows that to you "a foreign touch is your left hand." But it's no big deal, the band comforts, because being groped by high school dropouts is just like a Well Woman center. "Sweet Dreams" came next. Gender-neutral housing was praised. The band wondered, why are these conservative pundits complaining we'll live in sin on our parents' dime?  "Haven't they been to college?" And it's great for another reason: "Barnard students can spend the night with a guy and see him again." Finally, what the crowd had been waiting for: Epstein. A concerned citizen called CrimeStoppers because he heard exuberant cries of "Who's your daddy?" from Epstein's office. The crowd laughed, cried, groaned. The affair began, CUMB confided, when at the breakfast table Epstein asked, "You come here often?" After being arrested in what the police called "Operation Poppa Cherry," Epstein is on indefinite leave, probably to spend "less time with his family." The band regaled the lovers with "Sweet Child of Mine." And in a grand finale, the band broke with word of the 5 Loko (groan). The band noted that frat boys often use drugs to get ahold of busts—but that the NYPD was doing it wrong using busts to get ahold of drugs. Then again, the dealers are party to blame. After all, when a GS student wants to "score some reefer, brah," it is probably best to decline.  The NYPD was unfair in naming it "Operation Ivy League," they bemoaned—if NYPD arrested NYU students would it be called "Operation Safety School"? The band thanked their stars for the procrastination tool Bwog comments provided and congratulated campus news sources on their good work, but "not you Spectrum, nobody fucking cares." Sadly, this was where the show ended. CUMB advised the crowd to "try not to damage the shelves" on the way out, and everybody left feeling like we have a community here after all. Photos by AB and CDS
Former Bwog energy explorer, Armin Rosen, and The Curent's Editor Emeritus, Jordan Hirsch, report for the New Republic on Columbia's new Center for Palestine Studies. “Unaccompanied by a dedication to real expertise,” the pair writes, “the CPS will be little more than a clique of like-minded academics whose defining commonality is a hostility toward Israel.” Responding to Joy Resmovits’s article in the Forward, they argue, “in its current form it’s likely that the first Palestine Center at an American university will lead the way not in 'a new era of civility,' but, rather, in politicizing Middle East studies further than ever before." (New Republic) NYTimes profiles Caltech’s loveable losers on the basketball team. An adorable Alaskan b-baller once argued a foul call by explaining conservation of momentum principles to the ref. The team, defying all laws of probability, maintains a 297-game conference losing streak. Maybe we’re not so bad after all. (NYTimes) George Castro, the Bronx native busted for rerouting $5.7 mil from Columbia into his own pocket, pleaded not guilty yesterday. Remember when this was big news? (NYPost) Columbia announces a three-year JD/MBA program, so now you can sell your soul and defend yourself from the haters. If that falls through, get a master's in real estate development. Apparently, we have one of those too. (NYTimes) Google launches a new search filter on its “advanced search page” that allows you to sort results based on reading levels: basic, intermediate or advanced. How dumb is your fave site? Before you try, we pitted our humble blog against columbiaspectator.com, and proved our inferior "intermediacy." Blerg. Hope you keep reading anyway. (Google) It's easy to forget amid the finals frenzy, but some of your classmates did pretty cool things before coming here. Part of the Scholarship Incentive Awards Program dedicated to cultural enrichment for teens, Samantha Medina, CC ’14, helped put together a massive cookbook featuring Barack Obama’s chili recipe. (NYPost) Something to make you count your blessings—a really interesting piece on “the lingering scars” of the Park Slope  plane crash. (CityRoom) The latest installment of NYTimes's never-ending coverage on attention disorders. ADHD, this doc argues, is a real thing, not a metaphor for the distracted masses. (NYTimes) Finally, here’s something festive and clever: a disgruntled elf leaks surprising facts about Santa. (New Yorker)
The Superstar is often late for class on account of just having flown in from Singapore/Zurich/LA. Nevertheless, s/he breezes in casually. S/he chills with presidents after all, it's no big deal. While the Superstar may be calm (they have seats that recline to become beds in business class), their brilliant TAs (who actually read what you write, choose the readings, and might possibly know your name), have been biting their fingernails anxiously because they misused a semi-colon in their last e-mail to the Superstar. Superstars do not appreciate bad grammar from their minions. The Superstar will have to miss class occasionally to receive honorary degrees or organize panels in which they hang out with other Superstars. In the event of this you may end up watching more movies than you bargained for (but really, who’s complaining?). However, the Superstar does also occasionally invite his/her other Superstar friends in to be guest speakers, you know, because they do get tired sometimes, even in business class, which is a pretty fair trade-off. You will not become pals with the Superstar. Even PrezBo is not pals with the Superstar. If you're very lucky, you might say hi to his/her apprentice, one of the haggard, nail-less TAs in Butler Cafe, but it is important to realize that these TAs like talking to you for the same reason the Superstar likes talking to his/her TAs. It makes them feels good to talk to people infinitely less likely of achieving Superstardom than you! Text by Claire Sabel, illustration by Abigail Santner
Overseen during Orgo Night: a studious young fellow memorizing Chinese characters and watching "Piano Man." God bless you! 
Lily Icangelo satirically explains why horror, bemusement, and brunchfoods go hand in hand at Barnard's traditional last-night-before-finals feast. Midnight Breakfast is as absolutely terrifying as it is incredibly awesome. Walking into a crowded gym of highly stressed out, type-A personality, sleep-deprived girls? So, SO scary. The nervous energy that fills LeFrak Gym during Midnight Breakfast is enough to induce multiple panic attacks—as if you hadn’t already had enough of those in the past week. Now don’t get me wrong, I am a very proud “strong, beautiful Barnard woman” who loves traditions almost as much as I love unhealthy breakfast food, but Midnight Breakfast fills me with fear and anxiety every semester. Think about it, it’s the night before finals start and you have been awake for the past 48 hours writing that 15 page paper that was due five minutes ago. By the time you get to the gym it is hard to tell whether or not that creepy dancing bear is real or just a hallucination. (If you see more than one dancing bear next to Beyonce riding a unicorn, you are definitely hallucinating). Before attending the breakfast last night, I prepared to steel myself against the “cheering” that I expected to have hurled at me upon entering LeFrak. Normally, you are immediately attacked by 20+ overly excited, happily cheering ladies who you must pass in order to get to the food. It is absolutely horrifying. But this year I was surprised to find myself welcomed in by just a few girls who gave me and my friends a couple of unenthused cheers. Fraught by exhaustion and paranoia I became fixated on figuring out what I had done wrong to upset these girls. Why weren’t they cheering for me? Did I give them a mean look? Is my cynicism really that unattractive? I’m just tired! Was I better-looking last year? It is difficult to be a socially awkward, sleep-deprived person in a very crowded, very loud gym full of food, music, and every single one of your peers. Midnight Breakfast is basically estrogen on speed. But no matter how strange the experience is or how afraid (or terrified) you are of Millie the dancing bear, it is still one of the best experiences that Barnard has to offer and gives us a sense of community that we sometimes wish we had more of. So thanks Midnight Breakfast, even though you make us feel sick from strange combinations of ice cream, gummy bears, and tater tots, you are still one of the best traditions/nightmares that this school has to offer. Photo via Wikimedia
Sometimes Bwog procrastinates by reading Bwog. While digging through our archives, we found this gem of a playlist by 2006 CC prof Dermot Albert Ryan. Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy The Police: "Spirits in the Material World" Locke, Second Treatise of Government The Beatles: "Mother Nature's Son" Hebrew Bible, Ecclesiastes The Byrds: "Turn! Turn! Turn!" New Testament, Gospels The Velvet Underground: "Jesus" Aristotle, The Nicomachean Ethics The White Stripes: "We're Going to be Friends" De Las Casas, On the Just Causes for War Against the Indians Neil Young: "Cortez the Killer" Machiavelli, The Prince The Clash: "I Fought the Law" Listen to the full playlist here, courtesy of David Fine. Any other suggestions? Leave them in the comments!
...for which not even the gods could cram. Hark, freshpeople! Way back when, a few Bwoggers converted several thousands of pages of reading into limericks—the perfect size for you to memorize in between sips of Red Bull and Pepsi Max. Read on for anapests aplenty! Homer, The Iliad Achilles, the raging Achaean, Agamemnon’s war plans was derailin’. For the city of Troy, And for Helen, a ploy With a horse was the Greek soldiers’ way in. Homer, The Odyssey After Troy, brave Odysseus wandered, Adventured and tarried and pondered, Saw Calypso and Cyclops ‘Pon Ionian outcrops, Thence home ere Pen’s honor was squandered! Herodotus, The Histories Father of history, Herodotus Wrote of wars, and lies and lust: “Gyges ruled, Scythians were cruel, But remembering human achievement’s a must.” Euripides, Medea Jason was not a good guy. To Medea he had said goodbye. So you know what she did? She killed all her kids And then she flew off in the sky. Aristophanes, Lysistrata Of war all Greek women had tired, So together they met and conspired. They knew what men wanted, So their husbands they taunted: “For sex, complete peace is required.” Plato, Symposium Some hung-over Greeks had doubt Over what love was all about Was virtue correct? Or trading wisdom for sex? But “Forms!” was Socrates’ cop-out. Old Testament (Two verses for the price of one!) When God said “Let there be light,” He showcased all of his might. He plagued Pharaoh with flies, Made the Red Sea dry And then gave Job quite a fright Job and job are capitonymic words Like Polish and polish, or Herb and herb And though this doesn’t have much to do With the story of that unfortunate Jew It does make the story a little absurd. New Testament So God was feeling frisky, decided to be a bit risky. Got in bed with Mary, of course he did not tarry! You know the rest of the story.
During finals, people stay up late and then talk a lot about how late they stayed up. But there are some people who stay up all night, every night—not just when they have a Sustainable Development paper due. In a three-part series we're calling the Graveyard Shift, Bwog hangs out with people 'til dawn and gets sleepy. Below, Erin O'Brien spends the night at WKCR listening to Sun Ra. On Tuesday nights, while you are likely asleep in your suite, or possibly burning the midnight oil in Butler, the Night Train is chugging along in Lerner. In the wee hours of the morning just after Election Day, Sweet Willie Roll Bar leans back from the mic and starts talking excitedly about the artist now playing on the airwaves. “This is the Sun Ra song I was talking about. It is so ridic!” He is talking to his intern, a freshman by the name of Spencer, who has his nose buried in his studies while oversized headphones cover his ears. The Sun Ra song is called Lanquidity, and it is, Bwog confirms, pretty ridic. We are in what is called the master control room of the WKCR radio station, located past a buzzer and up a flight of stairs on the 114th end of Lerner. It is 3:30. Sweet Willie, a.k.a. junior Willie Avendano is presiding over his show “Night Train.” This is his third year hosting the show. Willie is also the head of the Latin Music Department, and his knowledge of music is encyclopedic. We are just on the tail end of Psychedelic Hour, which runs from 3am to 4am. In an adjoining soundproof room, Anabel or Ace, the future station manager and head of jazz, is studying, while bespectacled Hambone lolls on the floor. They call this room the “moo aquarium.” DJ names mean a lot at WKCR. To have a nickname bestowed upon you is a great honor, as programmer Amalia laments she has not received one as of yet. Ben Young, the director of broadcasting and operations for the station, is the only one that seems to control the nickname-giving. His nickname is Ham Beauty Apparel, or HBA. It is now 4 a.m., and Ace and Hambone come in to bid Willie a good evening. He proudly declares to Ace: “The Train is riding hard.” Hambone cracks a knowing smile as he steps through the door, “Keep the dream alive.” Willie has another hour to go. After detailing the better points of a song entitled, “Free Your Mind, and Your Ass Will Follow,” he returns to musing about Sun Ra. Apparently Phil Schaap, their adviser and general Svengali, had a slightly harrowing experience with the musician several years before. Schaap, also known as El Varshkar, apparently was hanging with Sun-Ra one night in his tour bus, and unfortunately fell asleep. Upon waking, he realized the vehicle was in motion, and much to his dismay he surmised he was in Massachusetts. He was able to convince Sun-Ra to take him back to New York and Columbia by bribing him with the promise of his favorite flavor of ice cream. The clock strikes 5 a.m., and the sun has not yet risen. The Night Train has come to a stop, and now the Daybreak Express is getting ready to hit the track. Willie starts the day off with some Miles Davis, as Charlie Hack a.k.a. Shak Attack, comes in to take over the decks. Before heading off to home and bed, Willie stops to chat with him about rapper Sam I Am. Willie emphasizes his words with his hands as he raves, “He’s so ill dude.”
We've got you covered! Good luck, sophomores and anyone else fortunate enough to take the CC final today! 
Grad students spend a lot of time talking about binaries, which, if you think about it, is sort of fitting. Being in grad school is a kind of middle ground, and binaries are everywhere! Think about it: you’re not quite a student, but certainly not a professor; you want to be friendly to undergrads while cultivating an aura of endless and foreign mystery; you spend all your time at school, but probably don’t live here. For many graduate students, this difficult, liminal existence extends to the realm of footwear: the dress sneaker. You know, those bizarre leather-and-rubber hybrids stuck in limbo. What dress sneakers want to say: “Hey! I’m formal and stylish! I know that I’m a professional, but I like to be able to run around if I have to!” What dress sneakers actually say: “I couldn’t decide which shoes to wear. I spent so much on textbooks that I couldn’t afford sneakers and loafers. Yes, I know that you’re probably not going to give me your number.” The dress-sneakered grad student spends a lot of time smoking hand-rolled cigarettes outside Avery (curiously, he doesn’t spend much time inside the library), and is often seen with any of the following: black windbreaker, messenger bag, loud scarf, copy of Of Grammatology. We don’t mean to pass any sort of personal judgment—it’s easier to think of the dress sneaker as the logical extension of the grad student’s highly theoretical existence. Grad school is definitely a tightrope, and all structures are highly contingent and hegemonic, or something. But that doesn’t give you an excuse to wear dumb shoes; some binaries, it seems, just aren’t meant to be collapsed. Take that, post-structuralism! Text by Sam Schube, illustration by Hannah Kloepfer 
Public Safety has just confirmed that a yet-unidentified man passed away due to natural causes in a Columbia-owned building on 113th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam, across from Watt. The man was a Columbia alumnus from the Class of 1964.
 We, oppressed Humanities students, have discovered, through our weeks of crazed paper-writing, that Microsoft Word doesn't know anything about anything. If "precolonial" isn't a real word according to our computers, college is a lie. Here are some words Bwog was punished with that red squiggly line for writing recently. Add your own in the comments. Mugabe Historiographical Problematize Pwned Detente Freedpeople Radicalization Bwog Blub Precolonial Reappropriate Francophonie Monarchial Expositional Aristotelian Your name, so you don't accidentally turn in a paper with the name "Amish Brandenburg" Heteronormative Appomattox Bacchae Aeneid Flyting Priapus Antagonization Privateering Commodification Heteropatriarchy Gauls Orientalism Recontextualize 
The New York Times published a story today that calls last week's bust of a drug ring involving Columbia students "unremarkable, but for one thing: Ivy League clients." Below, we highlight some relevant new information that our (full disclaimer!) very own Eliza Shapiro helped report: The original anonymous call to Crime Stoppers that prompted the investigation happened towards the end of the Spring '10 semester, "leading the police to begin an investigation that focused on one Columbia student in particular: Harrison David."  There is still no public information about the context or content of that call. Harrison David "unwittingly led undercover officers to everyone else charged in the indictment." He connected an undercover cop to his dealer, Miron Sarzynski. Most of the drug purchases were in "relatively small amounts," such as an ounce of marijuana or "a few pills" or Adderall or ecstasy. Concerning disciplinary actions resulting from things such as the smell of marijuana, Shollenberger says that Columbia's "threshold of proof is much lower than law enforcement’s for us to move forward." However, he noted that it is not Columbia's policy to actively search dorm rooms for drugs. Shollenberger also commented that the rise in the recorded number of disciplinary actions taken as a result of drug usage possibly went up recently due to recent changes in policy, such as increased training for RAs. Some personal info about the suppliers: Lagares, a supplier of cocaine to David, operated a Mister Softee truck. Sarzynski and Asper, marijuana suppliers from the East Village, were dating and eventually "planned to start a juice and health food business one day." On her boyfriend, Asper says: “Miron is small potatoes. I thought the police had bigger fish to fry.” The Times also notes that given the depth "notorious New York City drug cases, these suspects seem somewhat unremarkable," and that "illegal drug use is an issue on virtually all university and college campuses in the United States, and Columbia is no different." 
Our second installment of Graveyard Shift finds Diana Clarke hanging out with Gamal, late-night/early-morning coffee vendor on 114th Street. Remember: other people stay up late, too. Good luck studying. As students stumble home from Butler in the wee hours, they’re likely to pass a man stocking his coffee cart on 114th and Broadway with fresh donuts and bagels. His name is Gamal, and he’s been parked on that corner every weekday morning for the last fourteen years. In that time Gamal, who’s from Egypt, has made “a lot of friends here,” he says, along with all the regulars he knows from his job. And it’s a crowd as international as any at Columbia: people from the Middle East, Africa, Sweden. When asked if he sees a lot of students at his cart, Gamal just answers “Yeah,” adding “Everybody here is nice with me.” But as for his feelings about the neighborhood? “It depends on the customer, you know?” Although apparently he’s pretty well liked: “A lot of people come here and make interviews with me” he says. “Everybody’s happy” that he’s worked here a long time, and he says that their tastes are so different that everything in his cart is popular. But he’s not interested in any of it. “For me? Nothing,” he says. “Otherwise, I’d eat everything. I like everything from another cart.” And that business model appears to be working for him. Yes, chatting with the regular customers and seeing the students is fun, but Gamal’s final word is this: “I like everybody here, you know, because I make money from them.”
 #bingo { margin:0 auto; } #descbox { width:558px; padding:5px; border:1px solid #666; background:#eee; height:84px; } #desc { margin-top:0; } Originally, Bingo was a lottery game called "Il Giuoco del Lotto d'Italia" invented and played in Italy around 1530. Usually, Bingo is a game played by your great aunt. Today, Bingo is a game that will make your procrastination dreams come true. Here's how to play: sit in Butler. Look at the game board. Scroll over each square to read its description. Look around you. When you observe something that corresponds with a square on the board, click that square to fill it in. When you get five in a row, stand up, shout "BINGO!" and do a little dance. Then pat yourself on the back and feel accomplished that you actually did something while in Butler. And just like at Pleasant Oaks Community Center, each time you play is a whole new experience. Every time you refresh this page, the board randomizes and the positions of the squares change. So play a new game every time you're in Butler, and good luck with finals! Description Move your mouse over a bingo square to read its description. 
 Just not you! A girl on Broadway, to a group of friends: "I was so drunk I put my face on pizza."
We're stuck in Butler too, wishing we were back in elementary school when all we had to do was color in the circles and not calculate their velocities relative to the Sun as they hurtle through space. Holding fast to the spirit of youth, we've created a cootie catcher. Now this toy you once used to judge your friends will help you ace your finals. Well, kinda. Click the flyer below for instructions on how to make your very own Bwog Fortune Teller or click the fortune teller to see a larger version! 
 Another vintage post from our archives for you to contemplate while holed up in the library... With classes completed and a weekend now free to bemoan our misery, Bwoggers weigh in from Butler Cafe/salon: what's worse, studying for finals or writing papers? Papers Remember: every essay is an open book test. With class notes, a few highlighted passages, and the wisdom of Wikipedia, writing the final paper for that morning lecture you haven’t graced with your presence since October becomes a manageable feat. For the overachiever, a few days of advance planning gives plenty of time to skim a book or two on an exhaustive syllabus.  After a night's work, you're an experton Early Modern thought – or, at very least, you're an expert on Descartes, whose Meditations on First Philosophy clocks in at around 70 pages– and your professor will be awed at your profound insights.Whereas the finals studier, settling down to confront that stack of unread books the morning before the test begins, will probably forget everything he wished he knew about Hobbes as soon as the clock starts ticking. That’s another thing – essays are free of the stomach-churning anxiety that reminds you of the night before the SATs.  And that nervousness doesn’t make you work faster, it only makes you stall.  It’s not high school anymore, and we’re out of testing practice. Remember how you used to fire out short answers about the Monroe Doctrine?  Remember how you used to diagram the stages of anaerobic respiration?  Remember how you used to make flashcards?  Just look at you now: struggling to make a simple comparison between Aristotle and Aquinas.  Pathetic.  Don’t mourn your lost youth and do what we came here to do: argue, debate, and use enough pretty language to hide what you don’t know. Finals Finals are the godsend of the procrastinating humanities student. You read, er... skimmed, er... sparknoted all those books, but more importantly you sat through class and based your bullshit comments on the synopsis there given by the one person who read all of The Republic. They say you'll remember an idea if you really engage with it - well, you have! You sat at that seminar table, didn't you? Now all that's left to do is to review, and you've got plenty of time, the test is tomorrow. It's past midnight? Ok, technically it's today. The test is in two hours. One hour. Not ready? Too bad, you can't make up an excuse to turn this paper in late, even if it has the potential to be a masterpiece (once you start it). You have to show up to that test. And chances are you'll do fine. And even if you don't, 2 hours of studying will probably get you a passing grade, while two hours of writing a paper will probably only get you half a paper. This is about time management, Butler zombies. Ok, so the more technically or linguistically minded among us might not get many organic compounds or Italian verbs memorized in 2 hours. But think of your theoretical other option - in an alternate universe, you'd be writing a paper about the development of that Italian verb (or worse, writing a paper in Italian) or a research paper on the use of Vomitoxin, Uranocene, or Fukalite (yeah, those are real organic compounds). But if you have a final, you'll probably be asked at most to identify what type of compound Dinocap (also real) is in. And even if you don't prepare in advance, you know you can - exams that test you on the whole of a psychology text book, for example, are easy to read ahead on. No "here's you paper topic, due in 72 hours." No one will argue that computer science concepts are easy, but would you really rather be writing a paper about them?
While working as a professor, the Activist is forced out of his/her/non-gender- specific-pronoun’s natural habitat. Best suited for the front lines of some genre of consciousness-raising event, this experienced and opinionated speaker captures the class with what seems at the time to be an extremely relevant argument against society’s unnecessary gendering of bath products. The Activist Professor sits crisscrossed on the floor of your Philosophy and Feminism class, speaking brilliant words that, though you don’t understand, leave you feeling oddly invigorated and prepared to fight the evils of Wal-Mart. The Activist Professor’s choice to wear aggressively comfortable shoes confirms their dedication to the issues. The younger Activist (read: T.A.) often comes equipped with a few extra piercings, tattoos written in Sanskrit, and if students are lucky, a strand of neon blue or pink hair. These all act as visual tools to help reaffirm the Activist’s strong activist-y beliefs (in what? who cares!?). Each extra piercing represents the young Activist’s growing hope to “just have a conversation, you guys” about free-range farming and the rise of evangelical Christianity in the United States. The Activist is very serious about the issues. All of the issues. Do you share with your professor an interest in fighting for the rights of sex workers? Have you seen your professor give a speech at an event for the Human Rights Campaign? Does your professor inexplicably wear Birkenstocks to class everyday? If yes, congratulations…you have an Activist Professor. This is what college was like in 1994, we guess. Text by Lily Icangelo, illustration by Hannah Kloepfer
Black Verizon LG cellphone with slide-out keyboard possibly dropped between 116th station and River Hall. Reward offered. Emailcmd2159@columbia.edu if found.
Freshpeople! You tired, you poor, you huddled masses gathering to take the Frontiers final today: we promise, college isn't always like this. To provide some last-minute assistance, here are some haikus sent by one of your own. If you have other haikus, Frontiers-related or otherwise, leave 'em in the comments. Good luck, friends! Two distributions Significantly different? Check the error bars Making assumptions We're not being judgmental Just reasonable Living on islands You might meet a relative No alternatives Saw a shooting star? If you are a dinosaur Your end is coming. Spiral galaxies Beyond ours, more are lurking future cannibals? Action potentials The currency of our thoughts Small spikes make big waves 
Bwog has hopped, poked, and swiftly skimmed, but now we’re inviting other writers into the Bwog Bubble. We think there’s lots of fantastic campus journalism out there that sometimes slips under the radar. In the spirit of Enlightenment salons from centuries past, we present our newest feature, BwogSalon. Bwog asked the editors of each publication on campus to send us a teaser article from their most recent issue—something distinctly representative of their point of view, but still accessible. Below, check out Carlos Blanco's piece from Sanctum: The Undergraduate Journal of Religion at Columbia University. You’ll make your fave French intellectual and your spiritually searching sister proud. I Got It from My Mama I was pretty young when I realized my family was poor. I think it had something to do with seeing what my family had versus what the American media told us we should have. We didn’t have a second-story house, there was no pool in our backyard, and going out to eat meant a very special occasion. But, while my family saw our share of struggles, every Sunday during mass, my mom would donate twenty dollars to the collection pin. Now, I know twenty dollars is not a hefty amount of cash, but, to a seven-year- old kid, twenty dollars was the world. Thoughts of the things I would have bought—Pokemon cards, toys, and candy—would haunt me as I saw my mom give her weekly tithe. But, more than lamenting the things I missed out on, I never understood why my mother gave up her hard-earned money to St. Bernadette’s, and it often angered me. I just couldn’t wrap my head around the hypocrisy: how come the Church needed more money than we did? If God was so powerful, then why should we have to help him?  It was all the more perplexing, given how much those donations affected us; most Sundays, my mother would quietly pat my head and tell me we couldn’t even afford to buy donuts on the way home, like the other kids.  My mother’s actions only seemed to reinforce some of the doubts I began to have about religion in general. During my first year at Columbia, my financial situation stood out with a new starkness against the backdrop of mostly wealthy students that surrounded me.  It reinforced how poor I was, and I have to admit that, once again, I felt ashamed. Back home, the kids in my community tended to reach an understanding: they knew they had to cut corners and find creative ways to be active that didn’t involve spending.  I couldn’t say the same about Morningside Heights. My first group of friends at Columbia loved to spend money. I was newly liberated and having a bankcard didn’t hurt, so I tried my best to keep up with them and to leave the limitations of my childhood behind. Inevitably, I couldn’t afford frequent sushi dinners and to see every concert or new movie, as my newfound Manhattanite lifestyle demanded. I felt defeated, and, at the same time, terrified of missing out. I had another very scary realization during my first semester of college as I struggled to fit in: Columbia University breeds classism. We don’t like to say it, but, in reality, these institutions of higher learning exist to replicate the privilege that established them. If you’re poor here, it means you have to invent your social life, not just buy it.  Columbia did its best to make sure that, as a student of color, I would have the resources I needed to feel empowered, but not as a student of low income. Truthfully, it was a bitter moment when I realized how out of place I felt during my first semester.  But, after making some pretty embarrassing admissions to my mother over winter break about my spending, I resolved not to succumb to those social pressures any longer.  I had lost sight of the values with which I was raised.  Money became solely about satisfying my own exaggerated material “needs” and not about helping to ease the pain, and dire situations of others. It was also the year I realized why my mother—despite our struggles—donates money every week to the Church. I had grouped together the Catholic practice of tithing with all the other traditionally Catholic rituals in which my family engaged.  Many of them seemed thoughtless and repetitive. Many of them I don’t practice on my own when I’m at school.  But I understood that it had been a mistake to group my mom’s contributions to charity with the rest of the things with which I grew up, because supporting the poor doesn’t have to depend on religious affiliation. My mother donates money because she understands what it’s like to be poor.  It’s the same reason why she gives money to people on the street or tips annoyingly well at restaurants:  she grew up in small-town Texas in a poor Mexican family. But, just because she’s been able to provide for herself, doesn’t mean she could forget her community. When my mom makes a donation, it doesn’t matter that we’re poor or that we’ve struggled—what matters is that someone will be fed or clothed or given something special. In reality, actually knowing what it’s like to be poor can be one of the most powerful catalysts for charitable activity. As I learned at Columbia, many of the privileged people with whom I was surrounded dedicated a much smaller percentage of their ample time and resources than my mother did back home, despite their advantages. I haven’t always been the devout Catholic I was raised to be, but, despite a few missteps, the values of social justice I learned from my mother have stayed with me. I may not be able to afford the luxuries available in Morningside Heights, but I’m doing significantly better than a lot of people, well enough to contribute my share. My mother gives a damn. And now, so do I.
As long as schools like Columbia champion the “sink-or-swim” school of language instruction, you will inevitably come into contact with, whether in fulfilling your requirement or just being intellectually curious, the Language Professor Who Does Not Speak English. This professor can exist in any language department. The idea of this professor is that you are supposed to appreciate him/her over time, but usually, at least while you are still in Elementary I, he/she will be the source of continued frustration that you will not experience again until you actually make it abroad (if you ever do make it abroad). What this professors will lack in bilingualism, however, he/she will generally make up in authentic cultural knowledge, due to the generally recent move from his/her country of origin. You will probably at some point resent this teacher until you remember that one of your Elementary I classmates is planning to move to the country of said language and teach English there as soon as the semester is over, at which point you will feel like a hypocrite. Conversely, this professor may speak limited amounts of a strange and original hybrid of English with his/her native language. Text by Hannah Goldstein, illustration by Chloe Gogo
CUZ THERE AREN'T. ANY. Or in Butler. And no one is gonna let you forget it. Observe: Signs from left to right read: "This Room is in use!," "DO NOT DISTURB!," DO NOT TOUCH CHALKBOARD PLEASE," "OCCUPIED!" and "TAKEN."
Bummer-ama in Sunday Styles today: Carol Anne Riddell and John Partilla got married last month after meeting in their children's pre-K class and then leaving their respective spouses for each other. Oof! But the real news: they had their first date at O'Connell's, which is, as a physical entity, the opposite of Love. Riddell and Partilla also had their wedding after-party there. The world...it's upside-down! *name that tag quote
In the wake of the repeal of Don't Ask Don't Tell, the issue has resurfaced about the banning of the ROTC (haven't a clue? everything you need to know about the Reserve Officers' Training Corps here) on Columbia's campus. This has been a contentious subject in recent years on campus. Here is a brief history: ROTC left Columbia in 1969, due to fallout resulting from ROTC presence on campus after Vietnam War. Some context on how to understand the "myth of the ROTC ban" andand what language to use when discussing ROTC. Read up on the Solomon Amendment, which allows the Secretary of Defense to deny federal grants, including research grants, to universities that prohibit ROTC on their campuses. Here's the full text of the Solomon Amendment. Since that time, students who want to participate in the program have enrolled at St John's or Fordham's sites. Several students take part in ROTC every year, including BC Senior Natalie Lopez-Barnard, who described her experiences in a Spec op-ed last month (as did Izumi Devalier in a 2005 issue of the Blue and White). In late 2001, an ROTC advocacy movement started at Columbia, led by Sean Wilkes, a Columbia student enrolled in ROTC, and Eric Chen, a veteran. PrezBo issued a statement on military recruitment at the Law School in 2002 here. In 2005, the University senate overwhelmingly voted against the restoration of the program on campus, by 51 votes to 13 (not 3!), with 5 abstentions, principally because of objections to the military's "don't ask don't tell" policy. The issue resurfaced again in fall of 2008, when it emerged that student councils were organizing a referendum on the Navy ROTC program on campus. PrezBo, who had voted against the motion in 2005, issued the following statement in response to the topic being raised by John McCain at ServiceNation in fall 2008: In 2005, the University Senate voted overwhelmingly against formally inviting ROTC onto campus.  Senate members may have had a variety of reasons for their votes, but the record and official reports make it reasonably clear that the predominant reason was one of adhering to a core principle of the University:  that we will not have programs on the campus that discriminate against students on the basis of such categories as race, gender, military veteran status, or sexual orientation. Under the current "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy of the Defense Department, openly gay and lesbian students could or would be excluded from participating in ROTC activities.  That is inconsistent with the fundamental values of the University. A number of our peer institutions have taken a similar position. In the run-up to the student debate, there was a considerable media frenzy from both sides, including professors who published pro and anti statements in the Spectator. After contention over the student poll, the issue eventually died down. Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, gave a talk on campus in April 2010 addressing the ROTC debate. There's a video of the helpful Q&amp;A on ROTC here. When the renewed debate over DADT gained momentum this fall, there began to be more murmurs about the possibility of reinstating ROTC in the event that the policy was repealed. In his September fireside chat, PrezBo affirmed: “if DADT is repealed, ROTC may be invited back.” In October it emerged in student councils that the University Senate was once again thinking of reviving the issue. The University Senate recently compiled an overview of ROTC and its Columbia history and supplemental materials. In response to yesterday's repeal of DADT, PrezBo issued the following statement: This is an historic development for a nation dedicated to fulfilling its core principle of equal rights. It also effectively ends what has been a vexing problem for higher education, including at Columbia -- given our desire to be open to our military, but not wanting to violate our own core principle against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. We now have the opportunity for a new era in the relationship between universities and our military services. Picture via advocatesforrotc.org
There was a time, not too long ago, when being at Butler at 4 AM meant something was wrong. Matthew Schantz, Mahima Chablani and Brian Wagner remember that time. In our third and final installment of Graveyard Shift, Bwog takes a stroll around Butler just before the sun comes up and finds lots of people sleeping. Good night, and good luck. Butler Library at 4 AM is much like you would imagine Butler at 4 AM. In the main lobby, only the faint crackle of the radio and grumble of the power cleaner are audible. The desk guard squints at a crossword puzzle through bloodshot eyes, occasionally chatting with a fellow guard. A grad student peaks into the Butler Cafe, sees its interior unlit, shrugs to herself, examines the store hours, and crawls back to her Butler nook. A few disheveled students exit, a few disheveled students arrive. One student says “Goodnight” to the guard, pauses as he opens the doors, turns his head back to the guard and says, “Or good morning, I guess.” The guard chuckles. In room 209, 10 desperate students try to study, each sporting a different drink. There are the sodas--Mountain Dew, Sprite, and even a 2-liter bottle of Ginger Ale. Some are kicking it old school with classic juices like Snapple and Tropicana, while others sport pseudo-healthy drinks like Vitamin Water and Life Water. Two girls sitting next to each other sip iced Starbucks lattes (Butler newbies). One boy clad in a flannel shirt sleeps next to an empty can of Red Bull. Another boy, taking a break from his work, comes to the front of the room, putting his head on a comfy chair and feet on a table. Fifteen minutes later, he opens his eyes to read a text and goes right back to sleep. Beneath a yellow flier warning of laptop theft lie three unguarded laptops. Two tables are sprinkled with Starburst and Splenda packets- traces of a Butler past. Late night Butlerers are paranoid. The moment after one Bwogger sits down on a table behind a man typing on his computer, the man immediately moves to another part of the room, but leaves his wallet and bag behind. Shady business on the computer perhaps? Or maybe the guilty pleasure of Facebook? Things are altogether not too different in the Reference Room. Only a few stragglers remain, and the tired looks in their eyes betray their former productivity. Three or four students stare blankly at their laptop screens, while another more devoted student sips a Red Bull and munches on Wheat Thins in an effort to remain functional. The room is more silent than anyone who has ever been there during the daytime can imagine, and within half an hour, only one or two student remain, as the ever thinning crowd takes it in turns departing for the cold, lonely, pre-dawn walk of shame back to their dorms. In addition to observing and breathing the 4AM Butler lifestyle, your sleepless Bwoggers learned some assorted tidbits of general graveyard shift knowledge. Late-night students are habitual; the same students study and sleep in the same places on the same days of the week. As the semester rolls on, these students bring more and more items, like toothbrushes and blankets, to their nightly home. 3AM to 8AM are the most peaceful and sleeper-friendly hours; sleepers are mostly concentrated on floor 3 (good to note if you’re ever sexiled). Most importantly, if you want to avoid walking in on some steamy intoxicated romance (or find it, you creep), don't go to Butler stacks floor 8, especially on a Thursday night. A final note: One guard mentioned being verbally assaulted after asking a couple canoodling around in the stacks to move. Now he doesn’t say anything to Butler lovers, hoping they will have the decency to leave on their own accord when he comes in to clean. Respect the Butler custodial staff. It’s fine to have extracurricular fun in Butler, but when someone comes a sweepin’, it might be time to relocate. 
Finals got you down? Then you can verbally vent your frustrations by participating in the Primal Scream. The guide for new students: If your clock or watch is not auto-synced to the NIST's Cesium Fountain Atomic Clock (i.e. the Internet), make sure you've set it correctly. When in doubt, Bwog recommends a cell phone for superior accuracy. At midnight, open your window or go outside. . Loudly. It should sound like this. Morningside Heights residents will wonder if you've been "skewered," apparently. Keep it short. Some of you will be tempted to scream for more than three minutes. Ignore this temptation. 
A Broadway view of Primal Scream: And click for a recording of a few brave souls who screamed in Butler 403: primalscream. Lest we forget a year ago right now: Good luck this week, friends! We can do it.
That was fast! The Student Affairs Committee of the University Senate has just announced that it will form a task force on ROTC starting in the spring semester in light of yesterday's DADT repeal. Next semester, the task force will hold open hearings on Columbia's military engagement and conduct a survey on ROTC. The Senate states that their top priority is that "the student voice is heard. Thus, this will be a student-driven, not a faculty-dominated, process." Student Affairs Committee of the Columbia University Senate Forms Task Force on Military Engagement NEW YORK, December 20, 2010 — The Student Affairs Committee of the Columbia University Senate announced today the formation of a Task Force on Military Engagement in light of the U.S. Congress’s recent repeal of 10 U.S.C. § 654 (commonly termed “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”). The Student Affairs Committee is the mandated body to lead the discussion on the Reserve Officers Training Corps. The Student Affairs Committee will govern the task force and continue the Senate’s work in handling issues affecting Columbia University students and the military. One of the major military issues affecting students is whether or not the University should formally participate in a Reserve Officers Training Corps program. During the spring semester, the Task Force on Military Engagement will: Hold University Senate hearings open to the University community. Conduct a survey with respect to Reserve Officers Training Corps. Serve as a resource by providing fact-based information about the issues involved. Dates for the public events will be announced by the beginning of the spring term. Tao Tan, CC ’07, MBA ’11, chair of the Student Affairs Committee announced the appointment of Ron Mazor, CC ’09, Law ’12, as chair of the Task Force. Other members of the Task Force are drawn from across the Student Affairs Committee and include both undergraduate and graduate students. “The Senate’s top priority is that the student voice is heard. Ron is deeply familiar with the culture and academic environment at Columbia, particularly its undergraduate programs. We are fully confident he will use this, along with his knowledge of law and procedure, in a way that uphold fairness of process, and that best represents the student body,” Tan said. Since the fall semester, the Student Affairs Committee’s governing principles with respect to examining military engagement are: Our top priority is that the student voice is heard. Thus, this will be a student-driven, not a faculty-dominated process. We will take no action until and unless “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” is repealed legislatively or judicially. We will take no position on Reserve Officers Training Corps at present, until and unless student body opinion is gauged. For further information about the Task Force on Military Engagement, or to provide feedback, please contact the Task Force at rotc-taskforce@columbia.edu.
If history was written by the victors, then there are plenty of botched psychology experiments that go untold. Psychology is, after all, a soft science, which might explain its tendency to attract English and Comparative Literature dropouts. If anything, someone has to knock some sense into a student body brought up on Plato’s Theory of Forms. Behind a suppressed chuckle of self-satisfaction and a cultivated aura of comradeship, Dr. Strangelove embodies every contradiction inherent to an introductory psychology course. He stands post next to the double-door entrance to his lecture hall and casts a knowing glance at every student that enters, hoping to somehow ingrain himself as your future psychotic manifestation. Dare trot in late to class, and he will publically acknowledge your Freudian subconscious. Dr. Strangelove knows every gimmick in the book, because he effectively wrote the book. By the semester’s end, Dr. Strangelove’s lectures degenerate into horrific art house cinema. One particularly heart-wrenching clip involves an infantile subject, “Baby Albert,” conditioned to violently fear white bunnies (spoiler alert: the baby was never reverse conditioned!). Somehow, though, I learned to stop worrying and love psychology. Text by Ricky Raudales, illustration by Suzanna Buck
According to the New York City Department of Correction, Harrison David has just been released from the Manhattan Detention Center after thirteen days in prison. All five of the students arrested in "Operation Ivy League" have now been released but not yet tried. Bwog is waiting on comment from David's lawyer. Update, 2:21 p.m.: Samuel Feldman, Harrison David's public defender, says that he has not heard from David in several days. According to Feldman, this means that David has hired a private defender. Update, 2:47 p.m.: According to Kati Cornell from Special Narcotics, Harrison David does have a new lawyer, Matthew Myers of Myers, Singer and Galiardo LLP. Myers' bio says that his "practice principle" is, "Weak people believe in luck. The strong believe in cause &amp; effect." Cornell confirms that David has been released on bail, and specified that it was David's father who furnished bail.
 Bwog received this Auto-Tuned gem by Ben Kaplan, CC ’14. "The Finalz Song" deals with the trials of Butler, the Bible, and fighting for survival. A sample lyric: Just better get the flashcards out your calculators and all them granola bars out and do not think I'm going home until the starz out we about to do this shit until we pass out... "Mc wilf" (if that is your real name...) left his "Butler Library Rap" video in the comments. Making Jay-Z proud, he abandons autotune. save me i hate this can barely stay awaked i think im goin crazy cause i feel like gettin naked this page is outrageous, tell me i can make it alma mater daughter tell me why hast thou forsaked me, i'm gonna get a C, silly me, i shoulda dropped this class down in kent 203 but now i know i'm here gotta stay gotta fight still i fuckin hate butler in the middle of the night Speaking of Columbia-related lyrics, Lisa Cammett, BC ’78, has composed a rap in protest against the the University's disposal of books. “Columbia University simply throws away thousands of tons of usable office furniture, computers, and computer parts, office supplies, recyclable journals, and most tragically of all, books, many of which are not at all outdated and are in excellent condition—every year,” she explains. The song is part of her personal campaign to save Columbia's used books. Driven to Rap I never did hear of a white woman rapper But in truth, I could not be much unhappier Caucasian… and living there in the “Hood” How clear my Alma Mater isn’t doing what she should As a child they told me: “Never throw away a book” I want the world to know what that bad school took They took away the chance to read 10,000 author’s works Dumped treasure in the trash like a bunch of jerks! I can’t remain silent as the time goes by I can’t stand still as I ask myself why Should I put my education on the shelf? If books are just garbage I must ask myself: Why did I learn all that?  I’d like to cry Inside at nighttime staring at the sky Barnard College teaches a philosophy That every forest is a left and every leaf is a tree CHORUS When knowledge is gone, it may be gone for good And let’s not forget that paper’s made of wood To throw away books kills trees and minds And shows disrespect for all humankind Verse 2 Columbia University Has a department of ecology They’ll tell you the rainforest’s there for you and me Forest protects biodiversity With all those animals, we’ll live longer, see? Forest protects cooler temperatures, too A cooler earth is better for me and you Alaska’s breaking up, we’re burning fast That’s fossil fuels, oil, coal, and gas We have to conserve and recycle, too To live longer, respect nature through and through Corporations send waste to Africa, too I want books sent instead between me and you Verse 3 Why throw educational materials away? All this wealth will be gone someday! No time to tell what I found in the garbage To the poor and disadvantaged, it would have been a harvest So will we teach our kids that what we’ve learned Is that a dollar saved is a dollar earned? The opposite actually will be true We consumed it all, there’s nothing left for you! The computer’s down for good, we’re out of il The future isn’t here for us to spoil! Civilization depends on education, you see And not one bit less on every single tree! What will we teach you with, you sad-eyed child? “Dig in the landfill,” she said—It’s not too wild! I know what they call garbage because I’ve been through it If you believe in social justice, DON’T LET THEM DO IT! CHORUS Lisa is lobbying for the establishment of a Columbia University book and journal adoption/donation center "where the precious intellectual knowledge too many of us here take for granted could be shipped to libraries, schools, and cultural institutions in other parts of the United States—or the world."  Look out for a profile of Lisa in the next issue of the Blue &amp; White. Photo via Wikimedia Commons 
A wise man once said, "Nobody said it was easy/no one ever said it would be so hard." Here is some funny stuff people have done in the last few days, because, you know, it's rough out there. 
SoBe, that lizard-themed cousin of Vitamin Water, is handing out free bottles (none of that sample size bullshit!) on Broadway between 113th and 114th. Bwog picked up a "lean and mean" apple cranberry elixir packing a whopping 5 calories. Update, 6:28 p.m.: A commenter observes there is no more juice blend. SoBe it. 
Update, 2:25am: Cowabunga, you can start to see it now! Send in any photos you take of the eclipse, people gazing skywards, eclipse parties... or whatever you crazy kids do during a lunar eclipse to tips@bwog.com! You should definitely go out tonight! In an educational way duh! Take a break from napping studying in Butler and join redShift and the Columbia Astronomy Department on college walk to watch the total lunar eclipse from 1:30-4am! It could be an evil omen, or it could just mean free hot chocolate and telescopes to watch the sky with. To all you intrepid explorers,  head to the roof of SIPA for sweeping views. A couple months ago they starting locking the doors (womp womp), but we trust you're stealth enough to find a way. Plus, it's one more thing to check off your bucket list. Now go forth and bask in the glory of the heavens! 
When all through the library, Not a student was stirring, not even in 209. When, what to my wondering eyes should appear, A man dressed as Santa, giving little treats to CCers and Engineers! 
People said some funny stuff while they watched the Lunar Eclipse last night. One man, all within a minute, on Low Plaza: "The moon is bleeding! The moon is disguised as Mars. The moon is hiding from Venus." More questions and observations from the 150-ish people gathered to watch the sky eat itself: (At 2:05 AM) "We're just waiting for the world to end. I think we've got another hour." "Dude, did you pregame the Lunar Eclipse?" "I'm so cold. I definitely should have worn underwear tonight." Eclipse photos by Peter Sterne and anonymous tipsters, man asleep under Butler mural by Mariela Quintana
Keri Blakinger, Cornell '11 was found with six ounces (roughly $150,000) of heroin on Sunday. She was arrested in Ithaca. Yeesh!
Things to remember! Use Carsplit on your way to the airport-- you'll save money and make new best friends. Write CULPA reviews now that exams are fresh in your mind-- you're helping the next generation! Teamwork! Friendship! Etc.
 Bwog has hopped and camped in libraries, but we’ve never actually explored their contents. The Columbia libraries are a treasure trove of exciting history, so with the help of our lovely librarian friends, we’re going to highlight some hidden jewels. In this installment of BiblioBwog, Karen Green, Ancient &amp; Medieval History and Graphic Novels Librarian (what a combo!), tells us about a few of her favorite things. Green was recently selected as a judge for the 2011 Eisner Comic Awards, "the Oscars of of the comics industry." She'll also be featured in the upcoming issue of the Blue &amp; White! Favorite room to camp in: KG: I would never camp in a room (she said piously) because that is SO INCONSIDERATE. But I think my favorite room is actually 202, because the ceiling is so so so beautiful. When I was a grad student, that room was used for book processing, and no one could see into it except for brief glimpses of the ceiling. It was like Alice, down the rabbit hole, looking longingly into the door of the garden of bright flowers and cool fountains. And now I can see the whole ceiling whenever I like. NICE. Favorite physical part of the library, apart from the books: KG: I love the lobby mural. I like a picture one can unpack. I love the Empire State Building and the Hayden Planetarium in the landscape, and that fact that the "masses" are carrying a hammer and a sickle.  And that "Columbia" looks like Cher. But the lobby mural is probably tied with the ceiling relief under the chandelier that's in the Butler Circulation lobby: the Columbia seal flanked by the NYC skyline. Nobody even knew that was there before the renovation, it was hidden beneath so much soot and smoke and dirt. I love looking up at it. I also wrote this little piece for the Butler Blog about the inscription inside the Reference Room, so I'm fond of that, too. I do love decorative flourishes! Favorite Resources: KG: The best friend that no one knows enough about yet is LibX, a Firefox plug-in that allows you to search CLIO from anywhere with just the click of a mouse. This can make life so much more effortless, and it makes using resources like Google Scholar more effective, as it can take you more quickly to full text. Then there's that Serial Set. So much historical government information to be mined from that, and you have no idea how hard it used to be to use, when you had to learn the right indexes to use in the Reference Room and then figure out how to find the right volume in the stacks. Now, it's as easy to search as Google. But I mostly love databases that offer a lot of searchable texts combined with images of the original artifact. So, something like EEBO, where you can look up "Curiosities and wonders" as a subject term and find things like this. I have that image (right) hanging on the wall of my office. EEBO stands for Early English Books Online, and includes searchable full text of every book published in English before the year 1700. It's just got RICHES. Another, similar resource is Medieval Family Life, which has scanned, full color images of letters from 5 medieval English families, along with full transcriptions, annotations, and historical notes. So, for example, this 1440 letter from Agnes Paston to her husband, William: To my Worshipful Husband William Paston, be this Letter taken. DEAR Husband, I recommend me to you, &amp;c. Blessed be  God I send you good tidings of the coming, and the  bringing home, of the Gentlewoman, that ye weeten (know) of from Reedham, this same night according to appointment, that  ye made there for yourself. And as for the first acquaintance between John Paston and the said Gentlewoman, she made him Gentle cheer in Gentle wise, and said, he was verily your son; and so I hope there shall need  no great Treaty between them. The Parson of Stockton told me, if ye would buy her a Gown, her mother would give thereto a goodly Fur; the Gown needeth  for to be had; and of colour it would be a goodly blew, or else  a bright sanguine. I pray you to buy for me two pipes of gold. Your stews do well. The Holy Trinity have you in governance. Written at Paston in haste the Wednesday next after “Deus qui errantibus;” for default of a good secretary, &amp;c. Paston, Wednesday Yours AGNES PASTON.            about 1440. 18 H. VI. We are in this letter acquainted with the first introduction of a young Lady to the Gen- tleman, intended for her husband, and are informed that she “made hym gentil cher in gyntyl wise:” but it appears somewhat extraordinary, that being the Heiress of a family  of rank and fortune, any intimation should be given to the father of the Lover of pre- senting her with a Gown, and especially as “the Goune nedyth for to be had.” How awesome is that?? 
A tipster spotted this remarkably eloquent note in McBain, addressed, "To the wookie on floor 8." Jeez. I am posting this note as a gentle warning that your shower etiquette is sub-par. Few people actually enjoy communal living, and I think, given your behavior it's not hard to imagin why I'm sure by now it has been made clear to you that no one is happy with going into the shower to discover your hair all over the walls, floor, and drain. Here, I am going to give you the benefit of the doubt because you are a Columbia student and could not possibly be that lazy or inconsiderate of others, and assume that you, too, have an aversion to your hair. While I can empathize, I maintain that it is your hair and, thus, your responsibility to clean. If you are unable to get yourself to clean it, here are some helpful suggestions that might fix the problem: 1) Get a brush, brush your hair before you shower. 2) Look into Locks of Love, shaved heads on women aren't so bad and they'd appreciate your hair more than you seem to. 3) Stop using the showers. If you don't amend your behavior by next semester, I will let you know now that notes will not be the end of my efforts to get you to stop. Remember, I am a Columbia student as well, which should suggest to you how clever and creative I might be when pushed. If you've taken anything from CC, it cannot possibly be that one should treat others as they would like to be treated. I am prepared to teach you a value of that timeless doctrine.
You're almost over the finals hump, so revel in Christmas cheer! Below, an eclectic assortment of dorms decked out for the holidays. Want your own decorations on Bwog? Send us a pic: tips@bwog.com. If Charlie Brown taught us anything, it's that no Christmas tree is too modest. We'll be your Linus and love it anyway. Bwog is also holding its first baked creations contest. We know you guys have serious baking expertise, so show off your skillz! A video by J-schooler, David Alexander, on a Morningside Heights Christmas Tree Night Guard: 
Bwog asked some of our favorite people what they want for Christmas ("Happy Holidays is what terrorists say"). Sir Mike of Carman Hall: "Life." Elizabeth from the Hartley Hospitality Desk wants a semester in Istanbul. Amy from HamDel wants "maybe flowers," and asked Bwog what we want for the holidays. Zak of BwogWeather wants to go to Canada this summer with Pat and Jasmine, for my parents to condone me devoting my time in Hong Kong to becoming a deadly assassin and martial arts expert, 4 new pairs of boxers and matching socks, and the rest of my time at Columbia to be as fuckin' sweet as this last semester. Pat of BwogWeather wants everyone at Columbia to know how special they are. I love hearing how people are making a difference at our school and in the world ... it really is amazing to see such talented people brought together in one place. Sure we can joke about hating school, but I really love seeing people in action. Everyone here is so enthusiastic and so passionate about what they do. I really hope everyone realizes this and doesn't stress about finals. Gareth Williams said, "Well, nothing. I already have everything I want," as he smiled and shrugged with his hands in his overcoat pockets. Karen the Librarian: "Same thing I want every day--for more undergraduates to come let us show them how we can make their lives easier!" Benny, Hewitt grillmaster would like your love. And a nice sweater. Gerry Visco: "Huh...nothing. Well, actually for people to stop saying shit about me on the internet.  I already get enough of that.  Or maybe some clothes.  Or if you have a crazy costume, drop it off." 
Halp! More numbers! Some fun facts about this year's crop of CC/SEAS Early Decision applicants: Columbia received a total of 3,229 Early Decision applications this year (final after adjustments) 632 students, or 19.57% of the ED pool, were admitted 696 students, or 21.55% of the ED pool, were deferred to the Regular Decision pool ED applications increased 8% from the previous year’s total of 2,983 And a word from Jessica Marinaccio, Dean of Undergrad Admissions and Decider of the Fates: “The largest number of Early Decision candidates in our history applied to Columbia College and Columbia Engineering this year, resulting in an 8% overall increase in applications. This is the first cohort who applied to Columbia using The Common Application and Columbia Supplement, and we were thrilled to provide even greater access to students from a variety of backgrounds. From towns of 600 people in the Midwest to large cities in the Middle East; from students who are the first in their families to go to college to students who will be the third generation in their families to attend Columbia; from students who grew up blocks from Columbia’s campus to students who have never been to New York City before – students are joining us from every corner of the world and from every ethnic, religious, and socioeconomic background. We eagerly anticipate the dynamic contributions they will make in our classrooms, on our playing fields, in our science and engineering labs and on the Columbia and global stages, and we look forward to reviewing the Regular Decision applications of students seeking to join them in Columbia’s Class of 2015.” Some statistics for the Class of 2014 here.
On December 7th, 2010, five Columbia students were arrested for allegedly dealing marijuana, LSD, cocaine, Adderall and ecstasy. Four of the five students arrested were members of fraternities. They were arrested after allegedly selling drugs to an undercover cop. This is a story you now know well. Exactly thirty-seven years earlier, on December 7, 1973, five Columbia students were arrested for allegedly dealing cocaine and marijuana. All five of the students arrested were members of two fraternities: Beta Theta Pi and Delta Phi. They were arrested after allegedly selling drugs to an undercover cop. This is a story you may not have heard before. Bwog heard the story from an alum who was a freshman in 1973, and found the Crimson article which confirmed the details. The harsh Rockefeller drug laws, which had gone into effect just months before the 1973 arrest, maintained a "one strike and you're out rule" for drug dealing. All five students spent time in infamously brutal Sing Sing Correctional Facility in Ossining, New York. Bwog is still digging up all the details we can find on this, but—good gravy!—history repeats itself we guess. Update, 12/24: Here's a Times article from December 21, 1973, on the two students arrested for dealing cocaine. Both students were on the wrestling team and members of Beta. The students—because there aren't enough coincidences in this case—were unrelated and named Sean O'Neill and Robert O'Neill. They sold four ounces of cocaine to an undercover cop who posed as a  student and moved into the Beta house. The other three students were Richard Becker, a senior charged with selling four pounds of marijuana to the undercover agent, Nicolas Delancie who was the President of Delta Phi and sold 15 ounces of marijuana, and Roman Luis, a sophomore charged with selling marijuana and cocaine.
About 5'10, dark smoldering eyes, and dimples that would make Zac Efron feel inadequate. Last seen receding into the distance through a hazy mist of heartbreak. If found can you please return him to the John Jay dorms, I will be waiting with open arms. There will be a reward.
 That is all.
We hope your Christmas morning isn't like this. Sleep late, be happy, eat Chinese food (we are!), etc. It's been a long semester. 
Crazy snow of apocalyptic proportions ("thundersnow"?) hit New York yesterday. Assuming your family is already getting on your nerves, here are a few glimpses of Columbiana to help you forget the hell of finals and idealize school again. Bwog woke to the sound of sleds scraping along the sidewalk. Hot cocoa in hand, we're heading to the Hill. Night photo by Patrick Stahl, others by DH
On Monday, New York Magazine published a six-page piece on Harrison David, one of the five Columbia undergrads arrested in Operation Ivy League. Both David and Miron Sarzynski, the dealer who lived downtown, were interviewed, as well as many anonymous sources alleged to be clients, friends, and classmates of the students. Some important lingering issues were addressed: Gravity of the arrests: "David and the four other students who were arrested weren’t running an organized drug ring so much as catering to various niches of the marketplace, police say, in a loosely coordinated way." The 'drug ring': "Like Macy’s and Gimbels in Miracle on 34th Street, the five friends would allegedly send customers to one another now and then—but if this was a cartel, it was extremely low-key (no one has been charged with conspiracy). “It wasn’t like people were saying, ‘If you want this drug, go to this guy,’” says one customer. “You had to know in order to know.”" The NYPD's methods: "The busts weren’t without glitches—they got Klein’s room at Psi-U wrong, because he’d traded rooms with someone on his floor. For a moment, frat brothers have been heard saying, the wrong man had an NYPD gun pointed in his face." Undercover cops: "The police sent an undercover officer to try to make some buys—a young-looking guy with long dirty-blond hair who went by the name of John. Friends of the accused students don’t seem to remember John. He apparently wasn’t posing as a student and didn’t attend classes or have friends at the school." The university's involvement: "According to the city’s Special Narcotics Prosecutor Bridget Brennan, the university was unaware of the entire operation until shortly before the bust. The police, it seems, didn’t want to have to get Columbia involved in helping to establish his cover." The university's reaction: "The university has yet to take action on the five students’ enrollment status." David's financial troubles: "David says he got $37,000 in financial aid each of his first two years, but needed to pay $54,000 in tuition and living expenses ... Drug dealing helped close some of the rest of it." “Why do you think I have to do this shit?” he told police when they picked him up. “My dad won’t pay tuition.” (His father has subsequently said he has contributed “since day one.”) David's links with Sarzynski: "Sarzynski says it was through an NYU student dealer who had a high opinion of David, and a source close to David says it was via a close friend of David’s at Columbia. In any case, they met in June, when David was living in Hell’s Kitchen." "Had David not stepped up the level of his enterprise or run into Sarzynski, it’s unlikely the police and Columbia would have ever been involved, however opportunistic or unprotective their subsequent actions may have been." Typical punishment: "Typical bail in a first-time nonviolent drug offense is usually around $5,000. But David got $75,000, Coles $40,000, Klein and Wymbs $35,000, and Vincenzo $30,000. A few of their lawyers privately floated conspiracy theories—not just that Manhattan Supreme Court Judge Michael Sonberg wanted to make an example of some Columbia kids but that the judge was feeling political pressure because of a case from a few weeks earlier."
 Columbia makes four (six if you include two counts of James Franco) of The Times' 110 Things New Yorkers Talked About in 2010. Averaged (kinda), this makes us the 71st most talked about thing, up there with 4Loko, and the fact that 'BFF' is now in the dictionary. Here are our rather sordid claims to fame: 50. Columbia Business School has to remind its first-year students to brush their teeth and use deodorant before a job interview. 67. The valedictorian of this year’s graduating class at Columbia University plagiarized part of his speech from a YouTube video posted by the comedian Patton Oswalt. 75. Five Columbia University students are arrested on charges of selling an array of drugs at several fraternity houses and other campus residences. 92. A Columbia University professor is accused of having a consensual incestuous affair with his 24-year-old daughter. Columbia is having quite the year. Does this put us on equal footing with NYU? 
Woosh! Before finally bidding farewell the most awkwardly named decade ever, please allow a moment to reflect on the madness that was these past few months. Starting tomorrow, the overwhelmingly talented, lovely and British (expect some 'u's in words where you don't usually see them) Claire Sabel, CC'13, will be your Bwog Editor. Claire will reign over this website with tag-queen, Yiddish-master and exactly who we are talking about when we say Bwog is actually a person, Carolyn Ruvkun, and reporting/Internet/headline Emperor David Hu, who will ensure not only that this website exists everyday but also that, in the words of Jay-Z, the best of our todays are the worst of our tomorrows. A promise to you: the world has not seen a triumvirate this capable since Octavius, Marc Antony, and that other one. Thank you, always, for reading, for commenting, and for tipping. We are always here for you, Columbia-galaxy, and thank you for being there for us. Editing Bwog this year has been an honor, a privilege, and a delight. Love, Eliza The semester began with technological innovations, most importantly our own, but also MTA's. The rest of the neighborhood remained fairly recognizable. Commencement was sweaty and on video. '14ers were more prepared for their new lives than ever before - equipped with our definitive guide to safe sex and a healthy ("These will not be the best years of your lives") dose of cynicism. Nor was NSOP's theme the least of the mysteries. The rest of September saw celebs Rufus and JGL, equally coveted Wi-Fi, the launch of BwogWeather (DVD box set coming soon!) and the announcement of pre-professional degrees. We thought that petty crime, and the undercover arrest at the bookstore would be the only notable entries in the annals of Morningside Misdemeanors, and that the Zenawi protest would be the major news of the semester--ha! Also we realized that we live in a jungle. Meanwhile the Vag chronicles continued. Let us here pause for a moment to consider the veritable PrezBo Renaissance that took place this fall, with the return of his Twitter, and his public appearances with naked men, Kofi Annan, and the deans (who are crazy thrill seekers!!). And so it was decreed that he shall live on for 5 more years. Barnard also received a newcomer: we asked and you commented, and thus A-Hinks was born. Anywayz...As October came around, the Center for Palestinian Studies was opened, UFOs were sighted, and Obama's presence requested. The city experienced a freak heat wave, and Halloween fell on a Sunday, making it one of the boringest ever - but y'all still looked fly! The leaves turned as November rolled in and Pinnacle morphed into something weird. Weezy was freed, and we unrealistically hoped he would come for the first ever fall Bacchanal. Gender had a field day when Open Housing finally got off the ground and Judith Butler's arrival was announced. Anticipating WikiLeaks, Bwog broke its own exposé of The Social Experiment, and scandal abounded when Representative Rangel was found guilty of ethics violations. Harry Potter happened hardcore as did 4Loko. Thus buoyed by sentimentality, we gave sincere thanks. With the weirdness of Mickey Avalon in Roone, came the cold, and the almost-snow (if only it'd been this) ...And then came drug busts. Operation Ivy League was insane, providing limitless fodder--and let's not forget David Epstein--for the Butler hordes to talk about, as reading week flew by and suddenly finals were upon us. The last nail was placed in the coffin of Manhattanville opposition, just as the Northwest Science Building, aka M-Ville: The Prequel, finally opened. The extent of the drama may or may not explain the bitches goin crazy, but regardless, the news kept coming. With the repeal of Don't Ask Don't Tell, the issue of ROTC on campus resurfaced yet again, and a new Task Force was organized. On the second-to-last night of finals, the end of the world came and went, as did Santa. Finally, we took a deep breath and wished for life, love and sweaters. 
There's something comforting about having identical resolutions every single year. In the spirit of futility/solidarity/peace and blessings, Bwog staff presents its collective resolutions for the new year. Add your own in the comments. Happy 2011!!! Food &amp; Drink Drink more water, fewer caffeinated beverages Learn to drink hard alcohol again Stop eating cereal out of the box and actually pour a bowl - with milk and a spoon! Use at least half of the 150 meals Barnard makes me buy Learn to like eating fish Learn how to make a Tofucken to prepare for the next Thanksgiving Diversify my food choices (read: eat less Milano) Eat more tomatoes Eat better Eat more fruit so that my hands don't turn green like that one time freshman year Cook more Learn to be a better cook Learn to cook a few things well Understand every single spice in my spice rack Learn to cook meat Learn to flip an omelette Make dinner for people Cook for my family and friends ever now and then Finally fill out my HamDel "VIP Gold Punchcard" and get a free sub Health &amp; Sanitation Break in the sneakers I bought one year ago and have yet to wear Run with a buddy Become one of those people who "need" to run everyday Become an athlete, or at least go to the gym Work out more, get my bod back Join some sort of club sport to get my fitness back Learn how to do a headstand See if it is physically possible for me to tan Brush my teeth and wash my face before going to bed after coming in from a night out Choose tea over double shot lattes, stairs over elevator, and fruit over fries Go to bed when I'm tired Deportment Make my bed every day Mend clothes by hand Learn grace Stop tripping over my own feet all the time Stop being such a dorky dancer Immediately fold my clothes after taking them out of the dryer so they don't get wrinkle Make my bed and brush my hair every morning Wear less spandex Morality Dig up some school pride Buy something from the Barnard store Don't judge Enjoy outdoor activities/stop judging people who enjoy outdoor activities Make more of an effort to stress religious observance in or at least reconcile it with with college life Actually save money when I make it, instead of eating at Milano Thoroughly understand how the American government works Adventures Go on more adventures Get drunk and go on adventures Break down structure Stop planning so much Take advantage of CUarts benefits and go 'splorin Leave Morningside Heights more often Go to a play, any play! See every play for the rest of St Ann's Warehouse's season Get swipe access to the Barnard tunnels Go to Flushing Chinatown Locate the source of my room's funky odor Learn to drive OH MY GOD yes learn to drive. If I can legally drink before I can legally drive... well, that's just silly Optimism Say yes more often Fill my iTunes library with more positive music Smile more Laugh more Stress less More positive attitude generally get my life in order Conquering Fears Stop running away from insects Go to office hours. I have all these brilliant profs who've set aside time to talk to students like me. Corollary resolution: stop being such a wuss. Learn how to not do anything and be OK with it Stop being afraid of the phone/wean myself off Gmail-dependence We Live Our Lives on the Internet/Smartphones Explore the internet better Have a 100% reply rate on emails. Make more phone calls instead of texting all the time I like phone calls too- many more of those Def use the phone! The ability to complete a task on the computer without digressing to youtube/facebook/gmail Back up Learn how to use my Droid School &amp; Work Accept the fact that I will never get any work done in my room No more unproductive late nights Actually pay attention in Spanish class/learn more than just the words to Shakira songs Go to at least half of my French classes Practice speaking French more Stop starting large papers 24 hours before they are due Actually finish long-term projects rather than letting them sit and fester Remember that more time spent working during the week means more time partying on the weekend Convince a senior in high school I like to apply to Columbia Lie to a visiting senior in high school about some aspect of Columbia life Study on a park bench and imagine it's a movie montage Go to more on-campus lectures Find some balance between classes and things I like Get a job and/or internship this summer that actually pays a livable wage Leisure Read for pleasure Go to a relaxed, somewhat unfamiliar bar alone and see what kind of people I meet (be Alex Muhler) Go to the movies more Write for fun more often Read for pleasure during the semester Finally finish reading Infinite Jest Photography Take more pictures Take lots of pictures of friends and family Be less afraid to ask people if I can take their picture Not want to turn everything into a photo op for a Facebook album Make Friends Talk to PrezBo, just once, Make friends with Anna (the Heights bouncer obvs) Actually make plans with those people you casually run into and say you'll get lunch with Go to 1020 sometimes Try to make friends with my professors Becomes bffs with a professor Meta Tip Bwog Write a bajillion things for Bwog (as should you all!) Stop spending so much time obsessively making lists of what I should do and just do it 
 Overheard before Bwog’s final final: Guy: So did you read that New York Times article today— Gal: Dude, it’s finals. I have no fucking idea what’s going on in the world... Guy: Never mind then. Girl, it’s okay, we sympathize. Between the finals frenzy and holiday hullabaloo, Bwog basically forgot it was a national citizen. But meanwhile the lame duck Congress wasn’t actually that lame—dare we say it soared like an eagle? Democrats, though shaken by loss of control, cooperated and compromised. Apparently, lots happens when congresspeople stop procrastinating/filibustering because they want to go home for Christmas. And according to Republican Sen. Kyl, the respect of Christmas was on the line. Post "shellacking," Obama and his jolly elves delivered, as they racked up points on the legislative scoreboard. Read on if you feel it's finally time to get your brain wheels rolling again. P.S. Bwog probably shouldn’t be your go-to source for national news, so we’ve Wikipedia'd everything because you were going to anyway and added an assortment of amusing links. If you think we left out an important reference or opinion, tell us and we'll add it in: tips@bwog.com. Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010: This fight has been terribly complicated. After the Democrats passed their healthcare bill this spring, the Republicans, led by Sen. McCain, made a vague vow to filibuster all Democratic legislation unless Bush tax cuts were extended. Democrats reluctantly agreed to continue tax cuts for those making over $250,000 in exchange for a grab-bag of stimulus plans: $56 billion in unemployment insurance extensions, payroll-tax cut and a business-investment tax cut. This was one of the most bipartisan, yet controversial legislative efforts of this year, but surprisingly, when the final whip counts went around, it was the Democrats who had trouble getting votes in line. Austan Goolsbee, White House Chairman of Economic Advisers and spookiest name award recipient, explains the compromise on the "White House White board.” Note: they didn’t choose a chalk board. Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010: After failing to amend this year’s Defense Authorization bill with a provision that would repeal DADT, Sen. Lieberman introduced the straight up repeal bill.  Republicans valiantly filed for a filibuster, but the cloture motion was passed 63-33, and the final vote came to 65-31. Back in the day, the West Wing covered the DADT debate and Colbert took himself to task in Formidible Opponent. New START: The new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty would reduce the nuclear stockpiles of the United States and Russia and resume the inspections frozen when the old START treaty expired last year. Despite support from former Republican Secretaries of State and other national-security big wigs, the Senate GOP wasn’t on board at first. McCain succeeded in playing politics with nuclear superpowers until Sen. Reid finally got minority leader, Sen. McConnell, to bring the treaty up for a vote. With a count of 71-26, including 13 Republicans in favor, the nuclear arms pact was approved. Perhaps some recognized the bilateral treaty was potentially more effective than the current early detection system. James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act: Passed over Republican filibuster, the bill provides $7 billion in financial aid and healthcare for 9/11 first responders. Dr. No (Sen. Coburn) attempted to block the funds because he didn't think it was worth adding to the deficit. Still, championed by NY democratic senators Gillibrand and Schumer, the act passed the Senate with a voice vote. What's more, the NYtimes credits comedian Jon Stewart, the "modern-day equivalent of Edward R Murrow,” with the bill's success. A few months ago, Stewart's pal Rep. Anthony Weiner put on quite a show in the House. Then during the Senate debate, the Daily Show host campaigned for Zadroga while none of the other news outlets were even reporting on it. The Atlantic has a helpful roundup of the "bill’s lessons.” Food Safety Modernization Act: The food safety bill expands the reach and regulatory powers of the Food and Drug Administration so you won’t eat e coli. Most significantly, the legislation gives the F.D.A the teeth to order, not just request, recalls of contaminated food. If you never want to eat again, watch the documentary Food Inc. (you can stream it on Netflix!), which exposes the FDA’s failure to check the massive corporations that control the food industry. Poll Palooza: Only a month and a half after the midterm election, public opinion seems to validate these late initiatives. A recent CNN poll tracks Obama's approval rating at 56%. Congressional Democrats are more popular (44%) than congressional Republicans (42%).  On lack of cooperation, 46% blame Republicans versus 28% against Democrats. Fun Filibuster Facts: Republicans broke the filibustering record in this session of Congress. Now Senate Democrats wanna revise the rules. In a letter to Majority leader Harry Reid, they proposed a few alterations to the sacrosanct and stalemate-inducing practice. Dems suggest filibustering shouldn't simply require  a single senator to raise his hand, but a majority. If you're interested in this "irritating but vital tradition of the senate," the Economist explains its history. Jimmy McMillan is running for President: The man behind "The Rent is Too Damn High" party is taking aim at the White House.  He plans to run in the Republican primary, but has said he'll drop out of the race if Obama appoints him for some federal job.  Ah, the spoils system.. And so it goes.
In the past 4 days there have been three break-ins on campus, purportedly all committed by one mysteriously agile burglar. Here's what the Public Safety alert said: Three burglaries have occurred on campus since the evening of January 1, 2011. In each case, the suspect attains access into the building, by scaling a wall to an upper floor, and entering through an unlocked window. I have included a photo of the suspect for your information. If you observe him on campus, call Public Safety immediately, at 212-854-5555. Please remember to close and lock your windows at the end of the business day. If you arrive at work in the morning, and notice your workspace has been tampered with, or the office seems to be in disarray, call Public Safety immediately. Please refrain from touching any items that may have been moved around until an investigation is completed. An e-mail to the Computer Science Department counseled vigilance: "I saw him in the Mudd building lobby yesterday so he's targeting our school. He 's been climbing in through windows so make sure you keep yours closed and locked." Update: Here is a second alert that Public Safety has released, detailing how a burglar in Pupin and Hamilton "gained entry by using a fire extinguisher to beak the glass to the main suite door." After contacting Public Safety, Bwog has learned that Schermerhorn is a third building that was broken into but not mentioned in any alerts.
A sneaker blog has posted a preview of a new Columbia-themed shoe, one of an upcoming series from New Balance featuring Ivy League schools. The site show pictures of the earth-toned (Brown's are brown, Princeton's are beige) sneaker, which has an "interpretation of the school crest on the tongue in two tones of blue (though not Columbia blue)." The footwear appears to be sturdier than a running shoe, embellished with elements reminiscent of a hiking boot; perhaps the shoe is meant to be one of those 'fashion statements.' It's ... perplexing. 
Bwog received very sad news today about a recent death in the Columbia community. Hank McVicar, SEAS '10, died in a car accident on January 3. We offer our deepest condolences, and our thoughts are with Hank's family and friends. At this difficult time, Columbia offers resources for support: you can contact the Center for Student Advising at 212-854-6378, Counseling and Psychological Services at 212-854-2878, the Office of the University Chaplain at 212-854-1493, Nightline at 212-854-7777, or Residential Programs at 212-854-6805. We welcome you to share memories of Hank respectfully in the comments.
Last night, Bwog received a tip that there appeared to be some people who were arrested on College Walk. Spec now reports that two children attempted to rob a 19-year-old student outside Butler a little after 8:30 p.m., and these children were then arrested by NYPD. When asked for a statement last night, Public Safety informed Bwog that there was "activity on College Walk, but we have no comment on the situation." Stay tuned for updates. If you have any pertinent information, please let us know at tips@bwog.com.
Have you ever noticed how time seems to run so much more slowly when you're not drinking 9 cups of coffee a day and putting half of that energy into being passively aggressive? Bwoglines leisurely returns with a first installment: a feast of not-strictly-topical links, and context—something we all wish we had more time for. You could learn something! Thursday’s episode of the Colbert Report (remember when?!) featured Neil deGrasse Tyson, big deal astrophysicist and GSAS alum. When he’s not demystifying the movement of the tides, Tyson directs the Hayden Planetarium (totally worth visiting, by the way) and hosts PBS’s scienceNOW.  So remember how Pluto used to be a planet? Well, Tyson led the charge against Pluto’s planet status by refusing to include it in the Hayden’s solar system exhibits. For the record, Pluto’s a “dwarf planet” now. It’s tough being tiny. Tyson the galactic gospel also has a top-notch Twitter feed, featuring sub-140 character gems like “stunning thin crescent Moon this night, suspended in the western sky” and “solve one mystery and the universe presents another: which came first, the chicken salad sandwich or the egg salad sandwich?” Another scientist story: NYTimes Mag interviewed Physics prof and string theory specialist Brian Greene for the annual Ideas issue. Greene on the definition of intelligence: “Intelligence is the ability to take in information from the world and to find patterns in that information that allow you to organize your perceptions and understand the external world.” We especially liked his defense of eggheads: “Is it maligning to be called an egghead? I strive for it,” said Greene. “We’re on this planet for the briefest of moments in cosmic terms, and I want to spend that time thinking about what I consider the deepest questions.” By the way he also collaborated on an opera with Philip Glass. Way cool. Just one more reason computer scientists are going to take over the world: they double as hair stylists. Director of Columbia's Computer Graphics Group, Eitan Grinspun, and his grad student groupies perfected the animation for Rapunzel’s endless mane in the new Disney flick, Tangled (Quentin Tarantino's 4th favorite movie of the year!). Grinspun and his compsci cronies have helped Pixar, Disney, Weta and Adobe with all of their CGI (computer-generated imagery) needs. A fascinating NYTimes article describes the beauty of their “mathematically principled approaches” over the the old-school trial and error style of animation. Math… it’s “gorgeous!” An artistic impression of Pluto based on Hubble Space Telescope generated images via Wikimedia 
In case you forgot the second round of spring registration begins today! Photo via Wikimedia
 Snowpocalypse 2011! Blizzardgeddon 2: Electric Boogaloo! In case you haven't heard, the worst snowstorm this year has ever seen will hit New York tonight and bring a whopping... eh, 6-10 inches of snow. But still, perhaps learning from Mayor Mike, Columbia is taking a few more precautions this time, issuing the following alert. Friends on campus, take note: The University expects to maintain normal business operations tomorrow, Jan. 12. However, given the probability of significant snowfall, only the gates at 116th Street at Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue will remain open on the Morningside campus starting Tuesday evening. We encourage everyone to check back here for updates about the University’s status and schedule. Should there be any weather related closures or cancellations, they will be posted on the Columbia homepage at www.columbia.edu and the CUMC homepage at www.cumc.columbia.edu. Alternatively, you may call 212-854-1754 for the Morningside campus or 212-305-7300 for the Medical Center for updates. As if our campus had a lot of shortcuts to begin with...
Peter Sterne snapped these delightful shots of campus last night. In case you haven't noticed, Bwog loves snow—remember when?! In an effort to recapture a small amount of that epic rejoicing, we'd like to collect a multitude of snow pics—either from campus if you're back already, from elsewhere in New York, or your own hometown if it's covered in a blanket of beautiful white. Go forth and frolic! Snow angels, icicles, igloos, we'll take 'em all at tips@bwog.com. Let this astounding shot from Spokane, by Bwog's Evergreen Correspondent Mark Hay, be your inspiration: 
Another snowstorm, another reason to love New York and Columbia. As they did during the storm last year, the kind folks at The Colbert Report reached out to Bwog, letting us know that the "odds are good" of getting standby tickets for the day's taping of the show. Your friends made fun of you for coming back early... but now who's laughing! Ha ha! (You are. At the taping of The Colbert Report.) Full tip with details: Hey Columbians! It's that time of year again! Due to heavy snowfall last night, we over at “The Colbert Report” think that today will be a great day to head on down to the show for standby tickets. Standby tickets are not guaranteed, but the odds are good considering the heaps of snow outside. Besides, school hasn't started yet, so what else are you doing? Come on down! The Colbert Report 513 W. 54th St New York, NY 10019 Standbys should sign in around 4:30pm, but then they don't have to be back until 6pm (meaning you can go and get warm during the interim). The taping ends around 8:30pm. Standbys must bring a government issued photo ID (like a driver’s license or passport). You must be at least 18 years old to see the taping.
CubMail got a makeover today, but not the part you're thinking about. Its home page has a new design that is "more in line with the style of the new University home page," which should officially roll out later this week. The new login screen features some smooth transitions and glows, and when you type in your UNI, your name and basic directory info show up, just in case you were in the middle of an existential crisis. But once you log in, you're greeted with the same familiar CubMail interface you've come to know and... well, know. We encourage everyone who actually knew about this redesign before this post to join us where the grass is greener. After all, the real news here is that people still use CubMail. Here's a side-by-side comparison of the new and old designs, for nostalgia's sake. 
Registration officially lasts until the 28th! That gives you 6 days before classes even start and then 10 more to refresh SSOL every minute to get into Hiking. Bwog has received numerous requests and inquiries for the best classes to take at Columbia, and the obvious people to turn to are you, dearest readers. In the spirit of the Bucket List and Senior Wisdom, please leave nominations for the class you'd most encourage someone not to miss and why in the comments.
 Columbia has announced the next step in its plans for Manhattanville. In the wake of a $100 million donation earlier this year, the architecture firm Diller Scofidio + Renfro has been chosen to design the new Business School. The first architects to win a MacArthur Fellowship will draw up plans for two buildings, some of first to join the Jerome L. Greene science center on the new campus. In a press release issued yesterday, Diller stated: "Our challenge is to support Columbia's progressive new approach to business education with architecture that participates in pedagogy and that animates a public center within the new campus and its richly layered social and industrial context." Although DSR might be more familiar to you as the architects of the High Line, (part 2 opening this spring!), as well as Alice Tully Hall and that cool grass thing at Lincoln Center, the firm has previous connections to the University. Two of the three partners have Columbia degrees: Scofidio has a BA in Architecture, Renfro, a Masters. The firm's profile also states that they are in the process of designing a tower for the Medical School. The rest of the projects slotted for the initial phase of Manhattanville expansion are new homes for SIPA, School of the Arts, and for the Columbia Secondary School for Math, Science and Engineering, a public school for high-performing students in Upper Manhattan that opened in a temporary space in 2007, as well as renovations to the University-owned buildings on the south side of 125th Street: Prentis Hall and faculty apartments.
Bwoggers are a nostalgic bunch. As much as we’ve adopted an Empire state of mind, we’re fiercely loyal to our hometowns. New York may be the greatest city in the world, but the snow here gets grimy way too quickly. So, until break comes crashing to a close, we’ll be taking trips down memory lane with a series of back-to-your-roots blurbs—some essays resurrected from the Blue and White and a few more current creations. Warm and fuzzies abound! In this first installment from the B&amp;W feature that inspired all this hometown nostalgia, Lauren Glover defends Pittsburgh, PA. And of course, feel free to send in your own anecdotes and photos to tips@bwog.com In October, TIME magazine published an article saying that my hometown, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was “in better position to withstand downturn than many other places.” However, it was no brilliant bit of economic planning that was saving Pittsburgh from the recession. Pittsburgh’s economy has been floundering for the 20-odd years since the collapse of the local steel industry, so when the national economy began to plummet, Pittsburgh just had a relatively small distance to fall. We Pittsburghers loved this, and not just because it meant we were doing OK in comparison to the rest of the country. The idea that the city’s middling status was ultimately beneficial sums up how we always have felt about our hometown. Our city is not a booming metropolis, but by God, we are fiercely proud of it. “Why?” you East Coast metropolitans may ask. “Isn’t Pittsburgh another one of those generic middle-of-the-country cities, like Cleveland?” First of all, no, and never compare us to Cleveland again. Pittsburgh is the overcast urban oasis of the Ohio River Valley. It’s the kind of place where you can run into 11 friends in three blocks. We eat French fry sandwiches, and speak in a local dialect that foreigners find totally indecipherable. If you and your friends want to go to a football game, yinz need to go dahntahn t’see dem Stillers play at Heinz Fill’d. Get it? The Steelers, unlike French fry sandwiches, are an incontrovertible point of pride. In a city that is eager to celebrate its insular idiosyncrasies, imagine the effect of resounding, national victories. In the run-up to the Steelers’ conference championship game against the Baltimore ravens, our mayor legally changed his last name from Ravenstahl to Steelerstahl. After the Super Bowl, as if to one-up the mayor, the City Council temporarily renamed the entire city Sixburgh—a reference to the Steelers’ six Super Bowl wins. How could I not go home? That Sunday night, I ran through my slushy hometown, screaming and whipping a piece of yellow terry cloth above my head, and I was not alone. Thousands of my fellow Terr’ble Tahl-wielding citizens took to the streets, beaming with the knowledge that the rest of the country would understand how great we always knew our strung-out Steel town was—if only for one night.
Bwog's beloved weatherman Pat Blute was on design guru Nate Berkus' show yesterday! What can't he do? Updated with comment from Pat: "The reason I was on the show was because I was the STA Travel World Traveler Intern for 2008 - so the episode featured items I bought while on that trip around the world in 81 days. Nate had a lot of great design tips and it was awesome to chat with him on his show. If anyone wants to see his design advice in action, stop by Ruggles." 
In the spirit of vicariously experiencing snowy delights in NYC and beyond, we bring you a second installment of tales from homeville. Mark Hay writes from Spokane, WA. And of course, feel free to send in your own anecdotes and photos to tips@bwog.com Years ago, while making some repairs on my childhood home with my father, I peeled back layers of wallpaper to the wood beneath. I was surprised to find writing on the wood, and as I scraped away paste and paper I realized the script was an address stamp. My home, I learned, like almost every other in my neighborhood, was the mushrooming aftermath of World War II, built for GIs in search of a quiet life, but built out of the same airdropped crates that supplied them on their island hops through the South Pacific. I wondered for a moment what these crates had dropped into, what this scorched mark on the wood was, or that gash—where the crowbar pried open the lid, or something more sinister. I brushed away the thought and whitewashed over the wood. Still the life of the house became more visible to me. I noticed more the holes in the ceiling of my bedroom, the remains, we had been told, of shotgun blasts. At night, as wind shook my window in its pane and cables rubbed groaning against the rafters, as mice skittered above my head in the space between the roof and the ceiling, I worried about ghosts. For years I slept poorly until the bulk of my superstition faded. But now I come back to the same house, and I cannot sleep. I think it is because now the entire town is full of the wraiths of history for me, and I cannot silence them. I grew up in the city of Spokane, WA, towards the Idaho border. But to call it a city is nearly a farce. There is a city center on the site of an old mill town, but it is easy enough to forget where I live, several miles away on the edge of the Palouse, a blasted stretch of the big empty rippled with hills and farms. But before the plains and hills, there is the bluff overlooking Latah Valley, a sharp drop through clusters of pine trees upon which several cars yearly impale themselves or around which they wrap at the behest of their drunken or careless drivers, some of whom I once knew. Driving along the bluff at night, looking at the clustered lights in clear cuttings amidst the pine forests, it strikes me as funny that these small towns are ostensibly part of the city of Spokane. That is all this place is—small towns, each distinct in architecture and nature, growing outwards and butting against each other, bound by knots of strip malls developing along the arterial roads connecting them. We refer to these neighborhoods like individual entities: I live on the South Hill, but I have friends who live in Browne’s Addition, and I rarely make it out to Hillyard or Felony Flats. Some are not even English speaking, as they are dominated by our large Russian speaking Slavic population, the source of my education in Cyrillic script and filthy Ukrainian slurs. And the neighborhoods think of themselves as independent, sometimes voting for their own autonomy from the government of Spokane, like the Valley did not long ago. Between the neighborhoods, patches of woods not yet touched by developers mark off the old barriers, but they are vanishing. The woods I played in as a child have turned into a nursing home, a low-rent apartment complex. People flee and rebuild regularly here as neighborhoods eat themselves. The epidemic of recreational methamphetamine production burns the flesh and the conscious of those who produce it, and the old Victorian houses they appropriated as labs in Pleasant Valley or in the pre-war heart of my own neighborhood decay with the flesh of their owners. Skeletal men with matted hair and discolored hands, yellowed and sometimes glinting white with nearly exposed bone, patrol the edges of these blights, glassy eyed living dead, and they draw daily closer to my own home. In a city that sleeps heavily before midnight, they are often the only beings creeping over the streets as lights flash red. Death of neighborhoods, of friends and acquaintances, of the woods and the open spaces, it is spreading all over this city, but that is not why I am leaving town today. These are not my ghosts—those I am driving towards today as I pull past the city limits north of Wandermere and onto Highway 395. To the north is my other home, fifty miles away, in the town of Chewelah, WA. Cresting the hill just outside of town, one sees all there is to see: a railroad track and a pile of minerals by a factory with broken and rusted windows, and just beyond a shriveling town of 2,000 jammed between craggy mountains that today hide their peaks under a layer of fog. My mother moved here about a decade before, and I followed. I had to. In 1995, my mother suffered a stroke. It nearly killed her, but she lived, albeit having lost the use of the left side of her body and, whether through brain damage or the shock of the incident, also having lost a great deal of her mental capacity. Her house in Chewelah was in ill repair and could only be heated by use of a woodstove. She could not split wood, and she could not peel back the barn doors to shelter her car from the heavy winter snows. So every weekend I would drive up, sometimes to find her in the dark, the power having been shut off after she had been unable or unwilling to get the mail for a week and missed a utility payment. The sight of this town, the smell of burning pinewood, it reminds me of those years living from one Social Security check to the next, learning how to balance finances and pay bills before my time. I was sheltered from a life on welfare alone by my second self in Spokane, but the shame and anger of those checks never leaves. Nor does the rage at those who would mock you and your family, call you lazy or a drag on the economy. I feel violent discontent as I pull onto King Street. Pulling up outside of my mother’s apartment, a government development from the economic crisis of the 1970s fixed to the income of the resident so long as they prove their inability to live above the poverty line, I see the electric wheel chair outside. I want to cry, but I choke it back, using it to force down my heart as it tries to beat its way out of my throat. Every time I come back, she is worse. She can barely walk anymore, confines herself mostly to the chair. Today she will tell me about the decay of her legs, about the pains, and she will reminisce about the days when I sat by a woodstove in the winter reading. Snow dusting pine trees, the slight green from below impenetrable and blinding whiteness, fog rolling down hills into valleys, clumping and uneven. Even the barren Palouse, the semi-deserts beyond the forests, it is more beautiful now than I remember it being. Even the decay of the city and its slow transformation fascinates me as an increasingly alien observer. But these knifing winds and broken and brown needles underfoot are teeming with spirits and with dread meaning for me. When I left Spokane and Chewelah, I left behind my mother. I abdicated a duty I had put upon myself to care for her, to make sure that she used the life she had salvaged. I remember times when she was getting better—the first day she was able to feel in her left arm again, when her speech grew more coherent. And now I look at what has happened since I left, at the wheelchair. The first time I came back home, driving along the bluff, my father turned and looked at me. “You know there’s nothing for you here, right?” he said. “Your future isn’t here.” He’s right. My life isn’t in Spokane anymore, nor in Chewelah. And I know my father and my mother are both proud and happy that I have found a new life, that I am growing into a man somewhere that can nurture and shape me in more profound ways than this place could have. But coming back here, looking at that wheelchair, I have to ask myself, is the man I am becoming worth it? Can I look at myself, what I have become in these past years, where my life is headed, and say it was worth that wheelchair and all the obligations I left behind in these forests and hills? These are the ghosts I cannot shake. This is the one thing left for me at home—the ripping and maddening question what have I become? And can I justify it by what has become of what I left behind? Looking at that wheelchair and then at myself in the rear-view mirror, I can’t say with any certainty that I can.
 The look of the future is here! Following this week's earlier redesign of CubMail's login page, Columbia's home page got its own makeover today. Eye candy and gloss abound, and nifty transitions are hidden everywhere. Some parts of Columbia's online presence still remain unchanged though, notably the undergraduate admissions and financial services pages. And because we're still on the last legs of break, here's some nostalgic Conan for ya: 
 Not everyone is deterred by our delinquency! According to Spec, Dean Jessica Marinaccio, Decider of Fates, reported that the admissions office received a whopping 34,587 regular-decision apps this year. Following a record number of early applicants, that makes an overall 32% increase from last year in total applications to Columbia. Marinaccio announced in March that Columbia was going to switch to the Common App, which is probably the most significant factor in the increased volume. Admissions prepared for the onslaught by "increasing staff and improving technologies." We are sure that these measures will produce only the finest of future Columbians, and we wish all 34,587 potential '15ers the best of luck. Honestly we probably couldn't get in now... Photo via Wikimedia
Help yourself to some more newsy musings from Bwog's cluttered Columbia Bureau desk. We proclaim this edition loosely linked by the theme of exploring. Baxter Wood “drives around in a big truck,” listens to free university lecture podcasts and blogs about his “reeducation.” It’s learning for the sake of it! Recently Wood reviewed a lecture from Richard Bulliet’s History of the World to 1500. “Blerg,” says the cynic, “why shell out tuition when I can get it all for free?” It’s about the experience, man. The latest in Lokomotion: The drink that once fueled your drunken debauchery will now literally be fuel. MXI is recycling and converting unused Four Loko into ethanol. It seems our favorite endlessly chronicled drink is trading up from party machines to actual machines. Ever since Bwog saw that Hey Arnold episode about the sewer king, we’ve been weirdly obsessed with mole people and tunneling. Columbia alum Steven Duncan explored “the wilderness below your feet” in a five-day tour of the NYC’s subterranean skeleton. The Urban Spelunker even stopped by his alma mater—not for the hallowed halls but for the treacherous tunnels. Spelunkin’ Duncan and his cronies headed to Avery for some much needed sleep: “we descend to the basement and crawl through a narrow tunnel lined with steam pipes. Fifty feet on, a ladder rises to a dirt-floored boiler room. Damp heat, clanking steel. We spread our bedrolls, say good night. Voices overheard—sounds like a French class.” What a badass. This may be the first time Butler goggles have led to true love, but remember we have a pretty good track record with the Vows section. Bwog's heart is warmed. A year on from the devastating earthquake in Haiti, two Columbia professors from the School of Public Health comment on the country's transitions in a feature from Scientific American: "There has been a massive influx of international volunteers and organizations... But those actions are largely short-term, and what will make a real difference is jobs and governance." says Richard Garfield, a professor of clinical international nursing. Sandro Galea, chair of the epidemiology department remarked that "the central public health concerns are in many ways the central reconstruction concerns." And to top it all off...Nicole Bleuel, SEAS '14, and her freshpeople friends made this for the Heifer International video contest. Bwog bump: "Like" her video and help her win a summer trip to Latin America, Eastern Europe or Africa! Image via Wikimedia
In this latest installment of tales from homeville, we hear from two corners of the US: Idaho and Florida. Varsity rowing correspondent Sylvie Krekow writes from Sun Valley, and enviably tan correspondent Lily Icangelo reports from Lake Worth. As always, you're more than welcome to send in your own dispatches via tips@bwog.com. Sun Valley, Idaho I'm from Idaho. Yes, we have internet. No, I do not live on a potato farm.  I live in Sun Valley, the ski resort known for "America's first chairlift!" but really, it's just a small town full of beautiful mountains and aging trophy wives whose favorite things are Bogner and Botox (although my mother is a lovely woman and should not be included in this description).  Because it's a tourist town, around the holiday season there are many people around who drive excruciatingly slowly in oversized rental cars. They also clog the ski runs by attaching leashes to their children and holding onto them as they bomb down the green circle runs.  I actually didn't go skiing this break though, because it was so cold -  on New Year's Eve it was negative 18 degrees as I left my house. My parents made me pack 2 extra coats, gloves, and hats in the car with me before I left for a New Years party ("just in case the car breaks down and you have to wait for the police to come pick you up!").  For the record, I was going to a friend's house 5 minutes away. Lake Worth, Florida I grew up in an area of the word where your grandparents most likely own a condo. Palm Beach County, Florida is famous for beautiful beaches, housing the elderly in the winter, and messing up the 2000 presidential election. But whereas visions of retirement communities and slow drivers might pop into your head when referring to places like Boca Raton and West Palm Beach, I see constant summertime weather, the Atlantic Ocean, and the quirky characters who make up my hometown. I live in Lake Worth, an adorably eccentric little beach down that every year puts on a street painting festival, a gay pride parade, a reggae fest, and many other artsy/bohemian type events. Lake Worth holds a number of strange records, including the fact that it houses the largest population of Finnish people outside of the Scandinavian Peninsula. My town is also known for being incredibly gay friendly, a trait that many places in the south cannot claim as their own. Most of my neighbors are gay couples, our City Manager is an openly transgender woman, and the large number of rainbow flags that hang in the store windows of our downtown area warms my heart every time I come home. It is nice to live somewhere where you know that everyone is loved. My parents never planned on staying in Florida. We moved here from Boston when I was 18 months old after my father was accepted into the law school at the University of Miami. My mother was livid about the move. As an artist she felt that Florida would be completely uninspiring to her work—devoid of any character or quirk. As it turned out, Florida was anything but lacking of quirk. Jon Stewart has called Florida “our silliest state” and as a Florida resident I must say that I completely agree with his statement. But there is nothing wrong with silly. I live for silly. Florida doesn’t take itself too seriously and neither do I, which is in my opinion the only way to live.
A Bwogger discovered this mysterious note, reading “Anton Ivanovich Denkin. Move white army troops in strategic position around St. Petersberg (alla Petrograd). Granted.” Long-distance risk? Not exactly, Model UN is in full force this weeked. Overachieving high schoolers swarm campus! Bwogger and CMUNCE member Conor Skelding tells us committee notes aren’t always so PC. He received a rose note (yeah, they get roses…) asking to "invade Djibouti (pronounced ja-booty) with help of Greece." But calm down children: another Bwogger’s high school was kicked out of its Model UN conference thanks to a racy note. Apparently not everyone cares to invest in Djibouti. Oh kids these days…
 Hidden behind this mass of hustlin' and bustlin' New Yorkers on 112th and Broadway is a man giving away free flavored beverages. Points to whoever can guess what they are!
In this next installment of tales from homeville, hear from Daily Editor Liz Jacob on the much-maligned Long Island, and read a submission from New Mexico-native Simon Rimmele. Other reader dispatches are more than welcome. Send your photos and anecdotes to tips@bwog.com. Roslyn Heights, NY I live on Long Island. Specifically, I live in a small pocket of Roslyn Heights called the S-Section, where all the street names begin with—you guessed it—the letter “S.” Quintessentially suburban, the S-Section boasts lanes with names like Strawberry, Sycamore, and Snapdragon—cute, yet terribly impractical. Located on Shepherd Lane is the S-Section Park, which features only a child-sized jungle gym and bucket swing set. It used to have adult-size swings, but town officials removed them, hoping to discourage neighborhood teens from loitering (read: smoking pot, which they still do anyway). In this winter season, my house, with its traditional Santa Claus standing guard at the front door, is one of very few decorated for Christmas. When my family and I first moved to the S-Section, our neighbors’ lack of holiday cheer astounded us. Later on, however, after receiving kind invitations to join the local synagogue (our last name is Jacob­­—misunderstandings abound), we realized that we were surrounded not by Grinches, but rather, by Jews. Albuquerque-ish, NM I’m from Albuquerque. Actually I’m not from Albuquerque. I’m from a tiny little town that’s not even close to New Mexico’s best and only metropolitan area (here defined as place with buildings rising more than three stories and presence of Trader Joe’s). But in the same way New York City is New York,  Albuquerque is New Mexico. So I’m from Albuquerque. If you’re already acquainted with the Duke City it’s either because you flew there before renting a car and going to “quaint” and “so beautiful”  Santa Fe, or because you watched many episodes of COPS before our mayor unceremoniously evicted the show’s camera crews for obvious reasons. My parents for one refused to let me go to college there because “have you seen what happens on that show?” More recently, AMC’s quite good. Breaking Bad gave those who missed COPS’ glorious daytime run a similarly criminal introduction to my city. Albuquerque has a character both undefinable and unpronounceable. Our regional dialect is nothing but countless attempts to find a suitable and practical nickname for a city with three ‘u’s and two ‘q’s. My favorites are ‘buque (say like bouquet, but stress the first syllable) and the stop-consonantal ABQ (ah-b-ke). Trapped by the insanity and inanity of Texas and Arizona to the east and west, the unbearable naval-gazing earthship denizens of Santa Fe and Taos to the north, and Mexico to the south, Albuquerque has to fend for itself. As a population of nomadic Air Force families, native Americans, semi-native ranchers and east coast retirees we are bound by the sense that “we’re all in this together,” even if we don’t quite know what “this” is. So I guess I don’t know what makes Albuquerque special. I can’t even work in a cheer for a local sports team because we only have the minor league Albuquerque Isotopes, who themselves moved from Springfield in the mid 1990s. If there’s one thing we all have in common its our love for green chili (our biggest export!), which you’ll just have to experience for yourself. The weather’s always nice, the drainage canals are great for skateboarding, and if you’re into film making we have great subsidies for that too. And even if you can’t make it in person, you can always see Albuquerque every Wednesday night on the AMC channel.
 At last night's Golden Globes, the rich and famous came together to celebrate themselves, while us normal people gawked and asked "who they wore?" Gervais hurt some feelings, Helena Bonham Carter wore two different shoes, and The Social Network took home 4 pretty trinkets. (We love you, Aaron Sorkin!) This week in brouhahas, Amy Chua's WSJ article, "Why Chinese Mothers Are Superior," ruffled feathers. Ayelet Waldman (better knows as wife of our author-crush, Michael Chabon) responded "In Defense of the Guilty, Ambivalent, Preoccupied Western Mom." Finally, Chua "retreated"-ish in the NYTimes Sunday Style section. Apparently she does let her daughter have sleepovers after all. Just be thankful your moms don't air your dirty laundry so publically (WSJ, NYTimes). It's a tough job market when even Jobs can't keep his job (SFChronicle). In a Newsweek article, linguistics prof John McWhorter aruges, "the world's de facto international language will continue to be English." (Newsweek) The Jets won suckas! After all the smack, our boys stepped up. Bring it on Steelers! (ESPN) And in the spirit of dead beats, we loved this obit for former Columbia prof Matthew Lipman. He conceived what was then a radical idea: teaching children philosophy (NYTimes).
Tomorrow begins a new semester, but you still have all of last semester's books lying around and none for the Spring. Have no fear! In this "Information Age" we live in, there is a smörgåsbord of methods for dumping old books and purchasing new ones, and we've compiled a list of them for you. Online: The Staples Amazon's new book prices generally beat the bookstore, and they let you choose from a wide selection of sellers for used books. Its main perk is Amazon Prime, which is free for students for one year, and gets you free two-day shipping and $4 one-day. Most new books and some used ones are eligible for Prime. Half.com is run by Ebay, so this makes selling with them a lot easier. Their prices are often comparable to Amazon's. Online: Your Classmates' Ventures There have been a lot of homegrown online book-selling services springing up lately, and these have the benefit of being created by your fellow students for exclusively the Columbia community. Hurray entrepreneurism! Dormslist is probably the biggest seller on this list. They boast over 550 listings and even a party at Campo. A neat feature is "Book Alerts," where you are notified by email if anyone puts a book you want up for sale, and they can also search other online sellers if you can't find anyone on campus selling what you want. AlmaMarket doesn't have as many listings as Dormslist, but they also don't require registration to post a listing and allow you to sell more than just books. You know, so you can get that big blue bean bag you've always wanted. We So Smart is a new service that centers around the notion of a student profile and schedule. It has the handy the ability to copy-paste your entire schedule on Courseworks into a textbox and see what books you need and if any fellow students are selling them, but there are just a handful of listings so far. MoreBeerMoney.com just got started a few days ago. This is a price comparison site that enables you to find the cheapest option (and hence afford more belgian-style wheat ales) from the major purveyors, and also utilizes courseworks to build book lists. Offline: Flyering Don't forget about the time-tested tradition of plain ol' flyering! Benefits include exercise. Here are some tips for those brave enough to try and figure out how to type sideways on Microsoft Word: How to type sideways on Microsoft Word: Go to Format -&gt; Text Direction and choose your desired direction. Make little tabby things on the bottom: Cutting will probably take the most time, but it really helps. Be sure to include contact info and what you're selling, in case people take your tab and forget. Know your audience: Don't bother flyering Carman or John Jay if you're trying to sell a book for a 4000-level course. For really obscure classes, consider flyering only the building the class takes place in. Include a picture of your book: It takes 10 seconds to Google it, and it will make what you're selling instantly recognizable. It's also helpful to say what course the book is for. Offline: Book Culture Book Culture has the advantage of having everything immediately available in one place. Often you can choose between buying new or cheaper used editions, but their buy-back policy leaves something to be desired. They will not purchase older editions of textbooks, and do not offer particularly generous terms. The charming scruffiness of the staff may soften the blow.
last seen 1/16/10. Could be around JJ/McBain/Ec need to find asap ach2149@columbia.edu
In our last hometown tale from the March '09 issue of the Blue and White, Katie Reedy defends her beloved Buffalo. And for those who've already moved back to school, we recommend this essay/love letter—perhaps the ultimate hometown piece. Friends, you're living in the best city in the world. If you’ve ever talked to a Buffalonian, you’ll have heard some tall tales. “There were seven feet of snow,” she’ll say, “and all the trees on the street were cracked in half. Children were impaled by icy branches; people froze to death in their cars. And this was in October.” The audience stares in disbelief. It’s true that in mid-October 2006, a snowstorm hit Buffalo so hard it knocked out power for half a million people for several days. It’s also true that thousands of still-leafy trees shattered under the weight of the snow, some people died of cold, and some were struck and killed by branches. But stating these facts doesn’t do the catastrophe justice. Embellishment is necessary to convey reality. Vincent Gallo’s Buffalo’66 is often written off as improbable kitsch by disbelieving critics. But Buffalonians know better: the red-white-and-blue sweatpants (Bills colors), the motel in the middle of what seems to be a junkyard, and the college student betting money he doesn’t have on the football team aren’t cinematic flourishes, they’re all parts of Buffalo life. It’s hard to imagine Buffalo as the once-gleaming “Queen City”—the consort of new york at the turn of the century. Although the entire Buffalo region contains 1.1 million people, the city limits circumscribe a mere 300,000; in 1950, double that number filled the city. The net population growth since 1890 has been zero. We wish this were not the case. We wish inept politicians hadn’t squandered millions of aid dollars on a bogus subway running above ground on Main Street, shuttered as a result of the train making shopping traffic impossible. We wish that McKinley hadn’t been shot here in 1901. That the Bills hadn’t lost four Super Bowls in a row. That Niagara Falls wasn’t a tawdry trap, at least on the American side. That redlining hadn’t carved the city into ethnic and racial pockets so deep that only the Catholic Church can bridge the divides. We wish, but most of us don’t act. We move to the suburbs; we leave town. We grow tired of the cold, and the false promises, the languor and the religiosity. Those who choose to stay are rewarded with a city that grows more familiar the more it shrinks; you’ll run into your doctor at a massive art party at an abandoned railroad terminus. And there are many rewards for the few who move to Buffalo: plenty of cheap space to create good things and live simply, not to mention a short drive to super-globalized Toronto, exquisite art galleries, unlimited fat-based delicacies, gorgeous Victorian houses, and Olmsted parks lying around like ignored nuggets of gold. Yet whether born and bred, or moved and transplanted, every Buffalonian understands, intuitively, an underlying fact, born of desolate scenery made palatable with human warmth: the wheel of fate turns quickly. In the meantime, eat up—the wings are getting cold.
Chris Coles (CC ’12), Harrison David (SEAS ’12), Adam Klein (CC ’12), Joseph Stephen Perez (aka Stephan Vincenzo, CC ’12), and Michael Wymbs (SEAS ’11), who were arrested in Operation Ivy League, will appear in a hearing tomorrow at the Criminal Term of the Supreme Civil Court on 111 Centre St., beginning at 9:45 a.m. Bwog will update you with information as we receive it.
The five students arrested in December for drug-related charges will be represented by high-profile criminal defense attorneys, who have previously represented the likes of the Wu-Tang Clan and Temeka Lewis, one of the defendants from the escort service patronized by former governor Eliot Spitzer, DNAinfo is reporting this morning. Jose Stephan Perez will be represented by Peter Frankel of Wu-Tang renown, and more recently Jets wide reciever Braylon Edwards. Marc Agnifilo, of the Spitzer case, will defend Chris Coles, and Adam Klein will be defended by Alan Abramson. Kati Cornell, Director of Public Communication from Special Narcotics, confirmed in December that Harrison David had also replaced his public defender with a private attorney, Matthew Myers of Myers, Singer and Galiardo LLP. Michael Wymbs's lawyer is confirmed to be Michael Bachner. Here's a roundup of the charges from the original NYPD report: Student Charges Chris Coles Intercultural House CSCS* 5th – 2 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 1st – 1 ct. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 3rd – 4 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 4th – 1 ct. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Harrison David Alpha Epsilon Pi CSCS 2nd – 1 ct CSCS 3rd – 1 ct Criminal Sale of Marijuana 3rd – 6 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 4th – 2 cts. Criminal Nuisance 1st – 1 ct. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Adam Klein Psi Upsilon CSCS 5th – 2 cts. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Jose Stephan Perez Pi Kappa Alpha CSCS 5th – 4 cts. Criminal Sale of Marijuana 3rd – 1 ct. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. Michael Wymbs East Campus Housing CSCS 5th – 6 cts. Criminal Nuisance 2nd – 1 ct. * Criminal Sale of Controlled Substance
 The latest in New York City hawk drama: Lola, one member of the red-tail hawk power couple, has flown the coop. Meanwhile Pale Male is canoodling with a younger chick. We trust Hawkma’s soaring above all the scandal. (NYPost) Whoah! We beat Cornell?! Major Kudos to men’s B-ball. (Spec) Apparently we’re “academically adrift." In a new study, social scientists prove that most college students learn virtually nothing—display no improvement “in critical thinking and complex reasoning”—after 2 years of school. Columbia Sociology Prof, Shamus Khan, responds ominously in GOOD Magazine: “College is a place where already advantaged youths spend four years enjoying themselves, and upon completion, they receive considerable rewards for having done almost nothing.” Basically, he argues, we’re not working (our leisure time has increased) and we’re not learning, so what are we doing here besides putting our already rich selves in a position to make more money later in life? Still, Khan doesn’t think his efforts as a professor are totally futile, but “it won’t be long before the effects of no work, all play and a little learning are keenly felt by our society.” Womp womp. On an unrelated note, he has a Twitter! (CityRoom) In honor of your return, check out NY Mag’s “The Greatest New York Ever,” a compilation of the greatest New York year, musical, mayor, TV show athlete, building, novel, film, song… you get the point. Welcome back to the city that celebrates itself like no other! We missed you, friends. (NYMag)
David Hu reports straight from the court Today's hearing was a "calendar call," and not that much really happened. In a hearing that lasted about 30 minutes the students were all called forward but none of them spoke. The lawyers of each of the defendants conversed directly with the judge, but no new information was publicly announced. Superseding indictments will be filed, which means changes were made (and typically added) to the original charges. This is done since the information on hand sometimes changes between the time of the original indictment and trial, for instance someone may admit to something they didn't before or the circumstances might change. The new indictment will take place on March 1st. Update, 1:56 PM: According to DNAinfo, Harrison David's lawyer says that David has suffered enough and should not do jail time. Time in jail "pales in comparison to the damage that's already been done," Myers said. David is in Florida living with a DoC friend of the family in search of a "more structured environment." Myers plans to request a jail-free plea deal from the Office of Special Narcotics. Update, 2:51 PM: Bwog contacted Michael Bachner, attorney for Mike Wymbs.  According to Bachner today was a "routine court appearance in which the court sets down schedules for defense lawyers to file motions."  Bachner added, "We'll be making efforts to have Mr. Wymbs' case transferred to a treatment court."
 New semesters bring new absurdity. On the first day of class, those crazy geniuses who walk among us young folk spice up the classroom with their funny, strange and wise words. Share your professors' most outrageous openers in the comments. 'Tis a tradition! And keep sending the semester's silliest to tips@bwog.com. Image via Wikimedia
 Oh the weather outside is...miserable in every possible way. After Bwog fell face first in a puddle of slush, Bweatherman emeritus, Pat Blute, served us farm-fresh scrambled eggs and offered this comment: "Suck it Roker." Grab your galoshes and stay dry, friends!
We asked and you answered. Below, read the list, compiled from all of your comments, of classes to take before you graduate. The classes are separated by department, then professor, with a separate section for Global Core. Bolded classes are being offered this semester. Go shop and get inspired! American Studies: Andrew Delbanco, Foundations of American Literature Anthropology: Rosalind Morris, Mythology Art History: Rosalyn Deutsch Astronomy and Physics: Jacqueline Van Gorkom, Beyond the Solar System Biology: Solomon Mowshowitz, Immunology Biology: Nataliya Galafiankis, General Physiology Chemistry: James Leighton, Organic Chemistry Civil Engineering: Jose Sanchez, Engineering Graphics Classics: Gareth Williams, Selections From Latin Literature: Horace Core: Mark Lilla, Lit Hum; CC E3B: Jill Shapiro, Explorations in Primate Anatomy Economics: Xavier Sala-I-Martin, Intermediate Macroeconomics Economics: Sunil Gulati, Principles of Economics Electrical Engineering: David Vallancourt, Intro to Electrical Engineering; Digital Information Era English: James Shapiro, Shakespeare II, Shakespearean Poetry English: Erik Gray, Victorian Poetry, Romantic Poetry English: Nicholas Dames, The Victorian Novel English: Edward Mendelson, Critical Reading, Critical Writing English: Brent Edwards, Jazz and the Literary Imagination English: Stephen Massimilla, Modernist British Fiction History: Alan Brinkley, America since 1945 History: David Rosner, Social History of American Public Health History: Kenneth Jackson, History of the City of New York History: Samuel Roberts, Race, Technology and Health in US History History: Eric Foner, United States in the Era of Civil War and Reconstruction Linguistics: John McWhorter, Intro to Linguistics Mathematics: Mu-Tao Wang, Differentiable Manifolds Mathematics: Dave Bayer, Linear Algebra Philosophy: Christia Mercer Physics: Brian Cole, From Quarks to the Cosmos Political Science: Andrew Nathan, Chinese Foreign Policy Psychology: Catherine Monk, Abnormal Psychology Religion: Peter Awn, Islam Sociology: Shamus Khan, The Social World Spanish: Francisco Rosales-Varo, Intermediate Spanish I; Spanish Pragmatics Visual Arts: Thomas Roma, Photo I Visual Arts: Jon Kessler, Sculpture II Visual Arts: Rirkrit Tiravanija Women's and Gender Studies: Lila Abu-Lughod, Women and Gender Politics in the Muslim World Women’s and Gender Studies: Beck Young Global Core Anthropology: The Rise of Civilization Anthropology: Mahmood Mamdani, Major Debates in the Study of Africa Center for Ethnicity and Race: Intro to Comparative Ethnic Studies EALAC: Gregory Pflugfelder, Cultural History of Japanese Monsters Religion: Michael Como, Intro to East Asian Buddhism
 The newest issue of The Blue &amp; White hits newstands this week! Enjoy previews on Bwog. Chalk it up to convenience, comfort, or pride— whatever the reason, athletes at Columbia seem to spend an inordinate amount of time padding around campus in logo-tagged sweats. But when homecoming weekend rolls around, footballers and field hockey players alike can trade in their standard issue sweats for more typical Ivy League garb: the letterman sweater. The Columbia letterman sweater is the paradigm of classic collegiate apparel—white wool knit crew necks emblazoned with a big Lion’s-blue “C” across the chest. It’s just the sort of thing thing a Columbia man of the 1920s might have worn, before squash and backgammon were replaced by protesting as default campus activities. Though this preppy staple would be a surefire hit with current Columbia students—natty and historically-minded dressers, all—the letterman sweater is conspicuously absent from the Columbia bookstore. That’s because it’s a privilege reserved only for varsity athletes—and only for some athletes, at that! Initially, the sweaters were given as an award for letter winners, with criteria varying from sport to sport. In the everyone-gets-a- trophy 1990s, the Athletic Department began awarding varsity letters (actual chenille Cs) to student athletes who had participated in 25 percent of a given sport’s varsity contests, sweaters to all those who had played a sport for at least three years, and lion-engraved watches to four-year varsity athletes. The sweaters, though, were a long-standing tradition: “I have spoken to alumni from the ’40s and ’50s who still have their letterman sweaters,” Jackie Blackett, the Department’s Senior Associate Athletics Director, said in an e-mail. The sweaters are largely funded by the NCAA, Blackett added, which allocates funds to schools across the country for what she called “student-athlete well being issues”—insert your John Jay dining hall joke here—and teams distribute them at their respective end-of-season gatherings. Though Natalia Christenson, CC ’11 and captain of the tennis team, has yet to wear her sweater, she said athletes are proud of what they signify, and even wear them beyond homecoming: “My best friend and teammate wears hers on a regular basis,” she said, “but it’s usually to her job in Dodge.” These beauties sit locked up, lonely until the end of the year. While this correspondent overheard a few jealous homecoming attendees plotting to liberate a few sweaters, such action might not be necessary. Having endured enough pestering, Blackett is looking into designing a different version to be made available to the student body. The Blue &amp; White knows what it wants for Christmas 2011—do you? - Sam Schube
This morning, Public Safety emailed an alert, describing the mugging of a student this past Saturday outside of McBain. The email included the location and time of the mugging, along with pictures of the suspected assailant. However, the alert failed to mention any sort of exceptional violence, even though the victim, Mason Fitch, CC ’12, tells Bwog that the attack seemed "much more violent then similar muggings I remember from the past." The assailant, he recalled, "tackled me from behind and started hitting me" before he "kicked me in the face" and finally threatened to "slice me." Mason also mentioned the unusual and concerning time of the mugging: 1pm in the afternoon. This comes as the latest (and maybe most violent) event in a string of incidents at Columbia during break: the three campus break-ins and an attempted mugging of a student by two kids on College Walk. We wish Mason a speedy recovery. See the full security alert with pictures of the suspect here, and compare the accounts of the Public Safety announcement with a fuller version of Mason's story below. Public Safety: On Saturday, January 15, 2011, at approximately 1:10 pm, A Columbia University student was the victim of an assault and robbery on 113th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue. CCTV review by CU Investigations showed the victim walking south, with the suspect shown below following him from 114th and Broadway. After the incident, the suspect ran east on 113th Street and then south on Amsterdam Avenue. Mason Fitch, CC '12: I was mugged on 113th just after 1pm - only steps away from McBain. I really feel like everyone needs to know about this since it was so unusual - it was 1pm, right off of Broadway on 113th, and much more violent than most of the muggings I remember from the past.  I was walking from my dorm, Broadway, to pick up lunch at Symposium when the guy (young, black, 5'10 or so, black jacket w/ red hoody underneath, red and white sneakers) tackled me from behind and started hitting me as he searched my pockets for my wallet and phone. When he couldn't find it, he got back up, kicked me in the face several times, got back on top of me, and threatened me that he would "slice me" if I didn't give him my phone, at which point I relented.  He took my wallet and phone. The NYPD was called, and I ran into McBain to tell the security guard to alert Public Safety.  Though I didn't request it, the NYPD called paramedics to meet me at the police station.  I haven't been given any updates, but I assume they haven't caught him. On Saturday afternoon, a student was mugged outside of McBain. Only this morning did Public Safety send an alert to the student body. The alert mentions location and time of the mugging, along with pictures of the suspected assailant, but it doesn't mention any of the violence. However, the victim, Mason Fitch, CC ’12, tells Bwog that the attack "was much more violent," the victim told Bwog, "then similar muggings I remember from the past." The assailant, he recalls, "tackled me from behind and started hitting me" before he "kicked me in the face" and finally threatened to "slice me." Of course, this is only the latest (and most violent) robbery to occur at Columbia over break. Don't forget about the string of campus break-ins (http://bwog.com/2011/01/05/swiper-no-swiping-2/) and that attempted mugging of a student by two little kids on College Walk (http://bwog.com/2011/01/08/alleged-attempted-robbery-results-in-arrests/). Yes, it seems that crime has invaded our little Columbia bubble. Maybe someone should call Sudhir Venkatesh (http://www.sudhirvenkatesh.org/books/gang-leader-for-a-day)? Read the full email from Mason and the Public Safety announcement after the jump!
 Bloomberg: Bloomberg is to give his 10th State of the City address today, where he will address issues of education, crime, housing, and politics, as well as announcing a plan to make it legal to hail livery cabs. (City Room) Operation Ivy League: Harrison David is reported to be in the custody of a retired correction officer and family friend in Florida. His lawyer, Matthew Myers said his father believed "was the best environment to place his son in, with a close family friend and a disciplined fellow." (Daily Intel) Ridiculous arrests: A researcher at the Earth Institute was arrested yesterday after hopping on the luggage conveyor behind the check-in counter in order to make his flight. (NYPost) Lolcats: Oh Park Slope. A pedestrian was spotted with a cat strapped to their back in a "semi-transparent cage-bag hybrid." Perhaps that spare laundry basket could be refitted for such a use... (Gothamist) Weathermen: Stephen Fybish, CC '57 and UWS resident, keeps a daily journal of the weather for every day, and records reports on cassette tapes. His meticulous knowledge of NYC's weather patterns over the past 50 years lead him to believe that there could be more snow yet. (Capital) Image via Wikimedia
Barnard students just received an e-mail announcing the resurrection of Greek Games, one of "its oldest and most beloved traditions." An contest of "beauty, myth and rhythm" whose events included chariot and torch racing and literary competitions, the Games have not been held since annually since 1968, although they have been sporadically revived a handful of times. It may sound like a ridiculously wonderful renaissance (we highly recommend you check out the references from WikiCU), but let's not forget that chariot racing and absurd classics events have been standard fare even in recent years. Strong beautiful women in slow motion: Full e-mail below! Dear Barnard! We hope you're enjoying your first few days back on campus. We are excited to announce that Barnard has decided to bring back one of its oldest and most beloved traditions: Greek Games! Greek Games is a Barnard tradition that began in 1903 when the Class of 1905 challenged the Class of 1906 to an informal athletic contest. Signature events included a chariot race, with chariots pulled by teams of 4 students, and a torch race. The games, a central part of Barnard campus life, were held annually until 1968. We invite you to help us bring back this two day celebration by joining one of our six planning committees: Class Competition, Events, Finance, Food/Giveaway, Outreach and Publicity. The variety of choices ensures that each and every one of you will have the chance to participate in a way that interests you! If you're looking to get involved on campus, even for the first time, and aren't sure how, this is a great opportunity. Below is the link to apply, and applications are due THIS SUNDAY, JANUARY 23rd at 11pm. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xg_RhYB8gXJVUdJbbCloz6_h6Xs_gNySqxReMk_ZGZc/edit?hl=en&amp;authkey=COKslAM If you have any questions feel free to email us at dr2377@barnard.edu or jab2262@barnard.edu. We look forward to working with you this coming semester! Best regards, Jessica Blank and Diana Rastegayeva Greek Games Committee Chairs
With large SYA and SEA Semester stickers. Probably in Milbank or Mathematics. Email ajg2169@barnard.edu if found, please.
Black and gold PNY Optima 8GB SDHC memory card. Some of the pictures feature a boy in a Syracuse tshirt, a newborn baby, a concert, bowling, and a girl in Central Park. eas2215@columbia.edu
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. It's only the first week, so the list is a little short, but have a gander---who knows what you’ll find! Wed, Jan 19 “The Future of Public Health: Innovation” Alumni Auditorium Black Building, Medical Center Campus, 4:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Roberta B. Ness “Parallel Processes: Paintings by Jing Chen—Opening Reception” Russ Berrie Medical Science Pavilion, Medical Center Campus, 5:30 pm – 7:00 pm Thurs, Jan 20 “Biological Embedding of Adverse Childhood Experiences” 305 Russell Hall, Gottesman Libraries, Teachers College, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Andrea Danese “Tracking Climate Models: Advances in Climate Informatics” 214 Mudd, 2:45 pm – 3:45 pm, Claire Monteleoni “Our Army: Soldiers, Politics and American Civil-Military Relations” 707 IAB, 4:15 pm – 5:45 pm, Jason Dempsey “Democracy in Latin America” 1501 IAB, 6:00 pm – 7:30 pm, Dante Caputo, Jose Antonio Ocampo, John Coatsworth, and Maria Victoria Murillo “Cinema Thursday: La France” East Gallery, Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Film Sun, Jan 23 “Free Socalled Concert” Rennert Hall, Kraft Center, 10:00 pm – 1:00 am, Socalled (Josh Dolgin) 
Bwog just caught wind of an unfortunate email from the Public Safety VP--there is no hot water or heat. For 4-6 hours, it'll be like New Amsterdam in olden times! Update, 4:50 pm: It's back! no more excuses for your stench... To the Columbia Community at Morningside: Please be advised that we have experienced a failure of a high-pressure steam line which effects the distribution of steam for the Morningside Campus. The emergency repair of the University’s steam system will necessitate shutting down the steam system immediately. We have contractors on site to make the repairs. As we make the emergency repairs, there will be no heat or hot water service on the Morningside campus for the next 4-6 hours. We will update you if there is any change. James F. McShane Vice President for Public Safety
 Keep a look out this week for the latest issue of The Blue &amp; White. You can also read it on Bwog! Enjoy a second Blue Note about printmaking at Columbia and soon-to-come features, including an interview with Edwidge Danticat and an investigation into Columbia's role in world government. The Internet’s do-it-yourself ethos grants expertise (or a passable imitation) to anyone willing to Google it. As a result, it’s tough to find an officially ordained “master” of most things. In a world of eHow and self-taught amateurs, there is something quaint about the term ‘Master Printer.’ It is the name given to the artisan in charge of the printmaking shop at Columbia’s LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies, located in Dodge Hall. The spacious, well-lit facilities have all the trappings of a professional shop, from traditional relief and intaglio printing to digital imaging. It is both glitzy downtown gallery and musty seminar room, serving students, professors, and big-deal New York artists alike. Chiefly, though, the Center is a space for artistic exploration. The four artists-in-residence annually given free reign over its resources do not usually have printing experience. “Typically the artists aren’t printmakers themselves so they tend not to have the knowledge and the tools to create prints,” explains Kari Higdem, CC’10, the current assistant to Tomas Vu-Daniel, the artistic director of the Center. Here the Master Printer steps in, advising, assisting, and in some cases producing the final print with the artist. Such an expert, who has experience with all types of machinery and all the different types of printing, “is very rare, especially one that wants to work in an academic institution,” notes Higdem. Former Master Printer Chris Creyts left the Neiman Center on good terms earlier this year, but he has been impossible to replace so far. Although filling Creyts’ shoes will be difficult, filling the artist residencies at the shop never is. The opportunity for unlimited creative freedom is preferable to contracts with private printshops, which exert more control over the sales of work created than Columbia does. Access to Columbia’s other facilities, too, can be an unparalleled offer. During her time here, for example, American sculptor and printmaker Kiki Smith borrowed the astronomy department’s telescope to take pictures of the moon. Other artists simply relish the chance to work. The South African artist William Kentridge -- the subject of a major retrospective at MoMA last year -- became a resident in 2003. He was assigned a studio in Watson, the little-known hall on 115th Street that houses Columbia’s studio spaces, and worked side by side with undergraduate artists and MFA students for almost a year. When it comes to the fruits of their labor, Columbia gives Neiman Center artists a deal that benefits both parties. The artists keep half the editions they produce in the shop, while Columbia keeps the other half for sale to galleries and private collectors. Higdem sees this equal deal as the key to the innovative projects that come out of the studio, “at other studios they’re helping them print but they also want them to sell... Because is run by artists, we’re open to trying everything and new things, and we’re not as concerned with selling.” This creative license makes for adventurous and eclec- tic undertakings that demand attention in the world of art, humble though they may appear hanging small gallery across from the Dodge branch of Blue Java. —Claire Sabel
 The first round of Phi Beta Kappa inductees were announced tonight! Illustrious inductees to PBK, the “nation’s oldest academic honor society,”  were elected last Fall, and will be initiated on January 27th.  More smarty-pants members will be announced in May. Bwog extends a hearty congratulations to all! Abraham Allison Stephen Blair Bradley Collins Gregory Cox James Dawson Anna Feuer Samuel Frank Qiujie Guo Samuel Johnson Katherine Lupica Emma McGlennen Jacob Miller Anne Minoff Michael Mirochnik Alexander Perry Jason Pflueger Hechen Ren Jenny Shen Joanna Wang Dasha Wise 
 Bwog subscribes to the belief that no one should have to pay for food at college. Go stick it to the man at tonight's first free food event of the semester! Hillel promises free fondue and other snacks on the third floor of the Kraft Center (606 W. 115th, across from Schapiro). It starts at 9pm so get there early! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 Real World Big Deal News: the House voted to repeal the health care reform law yesterday. Whether you think health reform is godsend or a communist plot (or you just don’t care), it definitely affects you. Last March, we tried to make sense of the student-specific policies, so here’s what you’d be losing. But the Dem-controlled Senate probably isn't going to side with the House, and Obama would veto the repeal. Meanwhile, Rep. Weiner taught us a drinking game (NYTimes). Crisis mode! Dreams die, as we wither away in college and major in Mad Men (The Week). Unfathomable story of the day: A woman stolen as a baby from (Columbia-affiliated) Harlem hospital in 1987 reunites with her fam. Take it away, NYPost… A morning cup o’ Woody Allen (New Yorker). A lovely obit on Sargent Shriver, founding director of the Peace Corps, VP candidate and architect of LBJ’s War on Poverty. Even Bono offered a a tribute (NYTimes). Image via Wikimedia 
The Frites 'N' Meats food truck is chillin' under the Amsterdam overpass. For those fed up with Morningside's standard fry fare, Frites 'N' Meats boasts Belgian double fried frites, Balthazar's bread, and 5 types of cheese. Truthfully, we're not sure how we feel about brie on a burger, but these guys look promising. Update (11:41): The truck has moved to 116th and Broadway. They promise to be on Amsterdam or Broadway every Thursday from now on. 
Last night Bwog received a copy of Mayor Bloomberg's public schedule. He's slated to appear at the Northwest Science building café at 11:30 this morning. We wonder what he's announcing! Update, 12:21: Mike B will launch the NYC Urban Technology Innovation Center, a sustainable tech initiative. Columbia is one of 3 schools partnering with the City to work on research for the new project. And one commenter tells us Columbia students helped out last semester. Look at you guys changing the world! *PUBLIC SCHEDULE FOR* *MAYOR MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG* *THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 2011* **11:30 AM     Makes Announcement* Columbia University Northwest Corner Building – 2nd Floor 550 West 120th Street at Broadway *MANHATTAN** * **Q &amp; A to follow. *
 The first Greenmarket of the semester is up and running! Needless to say, it will become more bountiful as the clime warms, but there are still plenty of delicious looking apples and other tasty treats (apple cider, apple donuts...) and some new vendors! Thursday 1/20: Both bakers, Merediths and Buon Pane, are expected back from vacation so don't make other plans for breakfast or lunch American seafood and Broadway Acres should be back this week also While you were away D+J Organics was added to the market with certified organic greenhouse vegetables so stop by and see what is growing on Long Island this time of year! This Sunday, 1/23, we are expecting: The return of Beth's farm Kitchen, Mookshood Nursery (organic greens) and Raindance farm. Don't forget EBT and Debit are accepted 8am to 2:30pm on both days.﻿ Winter, by Giuseppe Arcimboldo via Wikimedia
Your prayers are answered! Lily Icangelo spotted these in Hewitt. 
 From the latest issue of the Blue &amp; White, Editor-in-Chief Liz Naiden's essay explores the impact of a changing New York on Columbia students. In a voice completely devoid of irony, say the following sentence out loud: New York used to be different. This is certainly true—the city has changed dramatically, especially over the last 20 years—but to put it in such earnest, simplistic terms is trite. I still remember the genuine laments of friends from far away, who arrived as freshmen in New York City only to discover it was not the city they had expected. By their first spring at Columbia, they had gotten tired of talking about their romanticized yearning for an older, less gentrified New York. They eventually realized that Columbia professors and students, scholars and journalists, young arrivals and seasoned New Yorkers alike have been mourning the loss of “old” New York for at least two decades. The gentrification of New York has become a subject reserved only for academic settings and those ironic, casual conversations at parties where everyone giggles, gives a knowing nod, and then looks away. We may no longer sincerely admit it, but nostalgia for an older, grittier New York is something that a lot of the city’s young people share, on and off college campuses. It is one reason that so many of us are drawn to neighborhoods like the East Village, Williamsburg, Bushwick, and even Harlem—these places still allow us to imagine a past that was less shiny and commercial than most of New York is today. It is hard not to feel nostalgia when you walk through neighborhoods that have undergone intense “Disneyfication”—the creation of the sterile, over-advertised, consumer-oriented aura that now defines places like Times Square and most of Chelsea, Greenwich Village, and SoHo. The word “gentrification” was first used in the 1960s to describe the physical rehabilitation of London’s working-class neighborhoods. The flurry of renovation and new construction completed in New York since the late 1980s was fueled by the recovery of the city’s economy from decades of deep depression. Since then, money from a new global economy—anchored on Wall Street—has paid for the changes we see on the street. We sense a vague absence as we walk in the city today, what CUNY sociologist and gentrification scholar Sharon Zukin calls a “loss of authenticity.” But our investment in this nostalgia distracts us from the more important changes gentrification has wrought. The same economic forces that have remade the built environment of New York have put pressure on young people like us to make money or leave. Of course it costs more to live in a city that is, by any metric, more comfortable. Nevertheless, this nostalgia blinds us to the fact that when we leave college, we will pay a much higher price to live in New York than people our age did 20 years ago. Since the majority of Columbia students have been living in the city for fewer than five years, we aren’t even expressing nostalgia, per se, when we lament the gentrification of New York. It is better to call it nostalgia-by-proxy: a yearning for something we never knew. Despite being a native New Yorker, I am the guiltiest of all my friends. I remember New York 10 years ago, but not 20. Like many people, I’ve put together the details I remember and the small transformations I witnessed, with things I’ve read or heard, creating a nuanced vision of the past—a New York that was somehow thicker, more stimulating, and more real than the one I live in now. A lot of young people who hang out in the East Village, where I grew up, have created their own mythology of that neighborhood and its history. Part of the mythology, though, may stem from the knowledge that living in the East Village is so expensive now. It is something to hope for and work hard for; something that drives your desire for a professional job with a decent salary. I do not know exactly how many Columbia students stay in New York for the first few years after graduation, but it must be a fair number. The East Village isn’t everyone’s goal, but by the time Columbia students begin to compete for jobs in the city, we’ve gotten a rough sense of how much it costs to live within 30 minutes of Manhattan—a lot. A recent New York Times article, titled “The Price 20-Somethings Pay to Live in the City,” went to the trouble of collecting stories about the money, space, and amenities young people are willing to sacrifice to be in New York. Most of us, General Studies students excepted, have never supported ourselves on our own for very long. Because of our eagerness to participate in the cultural, intellectual, and economic life of New York City, we must come to terms with the necessity of the entrylevel professional job immediately after graduation. It’s that or grad school. We haven’t quite dealt with this reality consciously, though, because we’ve forgotten (if we ever knew) that it used to be much easier for young people to live cheaply in New York. New York has always been expensive, but as gentrification has changed the city physically, the cost of living here has increased dramatically. Scholars of globalization, especially Columbia’s Saskia Sassen, have explained this trend in New York and other “global cities” as a result of the dominance of global corporations over the world economy since the 1980s. They need to be based New York, in no small part because of their reliance on the professional services—financial, legal, and consulting—that are also located here. As a result, the amount of money flowing through the city today is not 10 times more than in 1980, but 10 orders of magnitude more. The implications of this vast increase in cash flow become clear if you consider the so-called “global professional class,” those who work for a multinational corporation or in an industry that serves those corporations’ needs. They have the money to buy an apartment in Manhattan, a more expensive silk button-down, and artisanal cups of coffee. Their million dollar salaries support cultural institutions, stimulate luxury industries, and drive up the price of everything they buy, especially housing, to the disadvantage of younger people. But a richer, cleaner, often safer city, like our post-Giuliani New York, by opening more shops and high-end services, also attracts a mostly white upper-middle class and middle class population, the majority of whom would have been found hiding in the suburbs for most of the late 20th century. People of color, rich and poor, have traditionally been concentrated in inner cities. However, the attraction of revamped, gentrified American cities like New York has recently brought white, well-off people back into the city in droves, a phenomenon nicknamed “reverse white flight” by the Huffington Post. Over the past few decades, urban living has become not only safe and convenient, but also become culturally appealing—or, if you will, cool. Before the return of demand for housing in American inner cities, young people could and did live in run-down neighborhoods cheaply. They weren’t pushed farther and farther from the center of town like young people—and all of those who can’t pay high rent—are today. It is now too expensive for many people to live or shop in Manhattan, or even near it. This pattern is typical of European cities: the rich live in the center of the city, near the culture and the action, while the poor are pushed toward the edges. Why should this matter to you? Since when did young become synonymous with poor? If you’re an ambitious student graduating from Columbia, it certainly doesn’t have to be. Even if you claim you won’t make any money in your chosen profession, you’re likely to be entering a field with cultural or intellectual prestige, where you will interact in an upscale professional setting and social world despite your salary. Though perhaps no different from other high-caliber schools, the competitive job-seeking that Columbia undergrads engage in makes it seem like a professional lifestyle is not just one of many options—it is an imperative. Intellectual capacity and worldly ambition are not the only factors driving us toward this desire for professionalism. We fear irrelevance and poverty. The average Columbian is not well acquainted with either, but Columbia and New York City have also taught us to fear non-success and to equate it with failure. One of the reasons is that it is no longer easy in New York to live on the pay from a part-time service job, get a cheap place, and relax, think, and experiment after college. And so we are taught to have a plan and a trajectory, or else. When I say “experiment,” I don’t mean with different careers. We’ll all have a dozen in our lives, says some over-quoted statistic. But New York used to be full of young people who weren’t sure if they wanted to be writers, or artists, or musicians, but who got a cheap place and messed around with their creative impulses for a few years after college. There is a place for those students who already know they want to go into music, or visual arts, or writing—those who are already competing for recognition in those fields, and who may begin to find pay for their work soon after leaving school. They will survive the difficulties of being twentysomethings in the city that the Times describes. But those who just need a little money and some physical and mental space to play with paint, or a guitar, won’t find it in New York today. They will have to do their dabbling somewhere more hospitable to their youth and indecision. We may lose a few who would have made great contributions to New York’s culture and creativity. But what about those who never would have made it—the mediocrities? Don’t we lose something when they leave New York? And have we not lost something at Columbia when we worry constantly about competing for entry-level professional jobs, because we’re taught that if we want our own space outside of a parent’s house, that is the only option? Once we arrive at Columbia, privileged in our education if not in other ways, are we all effectively choosing pre-professionalism? You’d better hope so, because if you want a place in the society you see around you, you’ll have to work harder than anyone to get a job that will guarantee you a place in the new New York City.
Another week, another installment of Morningside minutiae. Behold the delightful and disastrous details of dining and decorating! Latest coverage on the controversial Lerner chairs: support your slouch with new corduroy cushions!  Bwog decrees they're cooler than the other side of the pillow. Carpet cleaning at SIPA. But so much has been swept under the rug... Milano men--we love you dearly, but this makeover is the worst! Sure, it's aesthetically appealing--like a tiled Roman bath— but think of the children! Back in the day, two separate checkout spots guided hungry sandwich eaters seamlessly to a designated exit door. The new fancy countertop blocks off the exit, so everyone is forced to enter and leave through a single door. And if the sandwich line gets too busy, people lurk by the door and create a huge traffic jam. Rant over. But when you hand Bwog our M7 with that glint in your eye, we forget our frustration and indulge in the magical wonder that is a Milano sandwich. LIKE to the tenth power. Dining Deals: Vegetarian fave, Zen Palate (warning website music!), is opening on 105th. To celebrate, they're offering a half price entre if you buy one full price. Someone start MorningsideVegan.com please Like free food, but not: Havana will give you $50 worth of food for $25. 
Professors will say anything to get you hooked, and Bwog is sure that these characters will still have full classes come March. Keep sending in the hilarious, horrifying and otherwise memorable to tips@bwog.com John Collins, Metaphysics "I’m a bit of a maverick. Well, not like Sarah Palin. I’m an unarmed maverick." Ovidiu Savin, Calculus III "If you guys don’t want to come to class because it’s too boring, that’s okay. Just drop off the homework upstairs." Allan Blaer, Mathematical Methods of Physics "When you don’t know what to do, be wise and linearize." Deborah Mowshowitz, Introductory Biology II: Cell Biology, Development &amp; Physiology "The makeup session will be optional, but to try and get more of you guys to go to an optional class, I’m going to be discussing the sexiest topic I can think of: cancer." Marcellus Blount, African American Literature II "I don’t like the Columbia Bookstore. But I know some of you do because you can—what’s that word—you can “flex” there. I don’t know what that means. But I thought I’d say it anyway." Jennifer Zwarich, Introduction to the Study and Theory of Film "Boobs are an inherent part of this course." Jacob Alexander, Molecules and Matter: Fundamentals of Chemistry "Your calculator is a tool, your textbook is a tool, your instructor is a...resource." Michael Como, Buddhism: East Asian "I’ve noticed that Columbia students have an amazing ability to make things more complicated than necessary." Timothy Frye, Political Economy of Development "Today, your minds want to save the world. After you graduate, you’ll probably forget that, and you'll be crunching numbers on Wall Street and figuring out how a 0.5% gain equates to your new summer house in the Hamptons." Tristan Lambert, Organic Chemistry II "Your brain is using organic molecules to learn organic chemistry. Did I just blow your mind?" Sunil Gulati, Principles of Economics "This guy is David Beckham, one of the most beautiful men I have ever seen." Samuel Spinner, Literature Humanities "This is America. We only accept extreme opinions. If you’re a moderate, you can go to Canada." Jonathan Vogel, Intermediate Microeconomics After a student asks for the median scores on the final: "So last semester I told my class. And then I found out about culpa.info...what’s written there is probably wrong." Christopher Conlon, Econometrics Giving an example of a discrete random variable: "How many Four Lokos you had last weekend." Adam Cannon, Intro to Computer Science/Programming-Java "I’m going to lie to you. I’m a teacher; that’s what I’m paid to do. I’m not going to deceive you. I’m going to lie." Samuel Roberts, Historical Theories and Methods "So you all want to be professors? Don’t do it, kids." Peter Awn, Islam “If you’re going to do something so STUPID, so morally reprehensible… wear a condom”. Marc Spiegelman, Introduction to Applied Mathematics His cell phone rings during class: "Hi sweetie, I’m teaching."
 Most people don't come to SEAS to "fall in love with celebrity culture."  But Jared Eng, SEAS '04, left Columbia reaching for the real life stars. Dubbed "the nice Perez Hilton" in an NYTimes profile, Eng writes the wildly successful celeb gossip blog, Just Jared. (NYT) The Sundance film festival kicked off last night. If you can't find time to jet over to Utah, many of the films are available on Youtube. (Sundance) Chuckle at this ridiculously accurate parody of a NYTimes most-emailed story. Fact: the most popular stories on the NYTimes website usually relate to college, parenting and/or Jewish things. (The Awl) A massive pre-dawn NYPD and FBI sweep resulted in the arrests of over 100 mobsters. This "superbust" leads to "superindictments" and not so super problems. (Slate) Image from JustJared.com 
The Northwest Corner Building is officially a thing! Rumor has it, the fancy uber high-tech new café opening Monday will serve Joe Coffee and use iPad cash registers. Oh yeah and yesterday it hosted Bloomberg. Alex Jones was there! Mayor Michael Bloomberg visited the "Northwest Corner interdisciplinary research building" yesterday morning to announce a new environmental building initiative, the NYC Urban Technology Innovation Center.  The center will connect the academic collaboration of (among others) Columbia, CUNY and NYU, and companies offering new greener technologies, with interested building owners. IBM Research is also a partner in the project, contributing its mad skills in "cloud computing, real-time analytics, and supercomputing." (!!) Data about the effectiveness of the technology will be centralized and available to all paying members of the center, which will be located at Columbia. The hope is that companies will be attracted to the innovation-friendly environment and move their operations from California to New York.  Bloomberg envisions this new support for emerging technology as an important part of his effort to diversify and reinvigorate New York City’s economy in the lasting wake of the financial bust. “But what does that mean for us students?” you may innocently ask.  The answer: not much, unless you are a SEAS freshperson.  There are some, as of yet unspecified, plans to integrate Gateway with the new center, but Dean Peña-Mora did not elaborate on that point.  So for the CC-going folk, just rest assured that Columbia is a part of some fancy IT stuff that might save the planet.  Although, Bwog could go for some global warming right about now...
Head over to the Lerner ramps for soft-baked snickerdoodles, courtesy of the good people at Nightline. Bonus: they're giving out pens. But not just any pens. As picky pen users, we decree these ones glide exceptionally well. This is the kind of pen that your friend would lend  you and then you'd "accidentally" keep. Nightline Peer Counseling is open every night 10:00 pm-3am at 212-854-7777
Free miracle berries and an array of sour things to miraculously transform them, from 3 to 4:30 in three locations: Broadway Lobby, McBain First Floor Lounge, Ruggles Basement. Flavor tripping courtesy of Residential Programs. 
Our resident culinary expert, Matt Powell, has a different suggestion for fighting those start-of-semester blues.  Read on for his take on the best way to keep your heart and soul warm. The first Thursday that I was back from break, I was wandering through the Farmer’s Market and the fish stand seemed to be calling to me. Although the mussels tempted me, I opted for the live clams. It has always been a tradition at my house to have clam chowder during the winter months, but this year, I did not go home for the break. I needed my clam chowder! This time, though, I was going to make it fresh. (We shouldn’t fear live preparations. They’re tastier!) Clam Chowder (Serves 8) Ingredients: 24 small clams ($10 from the farmer’s market) 4 slices of bacon, diced 1 onion, diced 2 tbsp. flour 2 bay leaves 2 large Russet potatoes, about 1 lb., cut into ½ inch cubes 3 C heavy cream 1/3 C sherry or cognac Salt and Pepper to taste Tabasco Sauce to taste ½ C fennel fronds, chopped (optional) ¼ C Italian parsley, chopped (optional) Bread, sliced and toasted (optional) Directions: 1. Sort through the clams. If you see any opened clams or any cracked shells, throw them out. Wash the clams of any grime on the outside with cool water. Place the clams in a large pot. Cover with the clams with water. Bring the water to a boil. Place a lid on the pot and reduce the heat to a simmer. Allow the clams to simmer for 5-8 minutes, until all of the clams have opened up. After the time is up, check the clams. If some are not open, continue to cook for 2 more minutes. If some of the clams still have not opened, throw the unopened clams away. Using a slotted spoon, remove all of the opened clams to a bowl for later use in the soup. Save the cooking water. 2. In a large soup pot, cook the bacon until done (8 minutes). Remove cooked bacon to a paper towel-lined plate. Save the grease. Add in the diced onion and sauté for 5-7 minutes. Add in the flour and stir to coat the onions. Cook for 2 more minutes. Add 3 cups of the clam water to the onion-flour mixture. Stir until the consistency is like cream, 5 minutes. Add in the bay leaves. Add in the potatoes and simmer until tender, about 15 minutes. 3. While the potatoes simmer, take your cooked clams and separate them from their shells (you can save the shells for presentation if you like). Roughly chop the clams. In a saucepan, warm the cream (but do not boil). Once the potatoes are tender, add in the cream and the clams. Simmer for 2-5 minutes. 4. Add in the sherry (or cognac), Tabasco Sauce, and the salt and pepper to taste. (You shouldn’t need too much salt.) 5. Serve in soup bowls with fennel fronds and parsley as garnish. Bread goes on the side.
 In the new issue of the Blue &amp; White, Sarah Camiscoli chronicles one woman's crusade to save Columbia's discarded books. “There used to be a joke when people answered the phone in the Geography Department,” says Lisa Cammett, BC ‘78, “They said, ‘Rocks and maps!’” Outsiders might miss the irony of the greeting, but Cammett—a geography major herself—explains that the field is often misunderstood as dry talk of continental divides and topography when it actually is “about exploring the relationship between the earth’s resources, economics and human beings.” For Cammett, this exploration has yet to end. After spending 27 years in the administration of the Columbia School of Social Work, she is taking action to mend what she believes to be a gaping chasm between the earth’s resources, human life, and social awareness. And how will she seal this rift? Well, Cammett rescues used books. Sporting a tight, steely pony tail and rolled up sleeves, Cammett spends hours pounding the pavement of Morningside Heights. Her tools are modest—stacks of books, a plastic water jug-turned-donation jar, faded petitions addressed to President Lee Bollinger—but her ambition is not: she’s devoted herself to finding homes for used books trashed by Columbia professors and students. The stacks of books that Cammett carries around with her, however, hardly make up a shelf out of the vast library of used books that fills her apartment on 122nd Street. She also has an offsite annex—a unit in Manhattan MiniStorage—for what doesn’t fit at home. But she doesn’t mind giving up the space in her living room. To her it’s a small sacrifice made on behalf of greater social justice, the “dying planet” and its “lower income” peoples. She sees rescuing used books from waste paper baskets and giveaway piles as a way to save trees and knowledge while keeping that revolutionary spirit alive. It would be wrong, however, to assume that Cammett is driven by the same impetus that inspires today’s green movement. Her devotion to the lives of used books comes from a more personal place. “My father, who died a couple of years ago, was a historian and a bibliophile,” she explains. “My mother loves to tell that there were only two times I got a smack. One was when I ran into the street, and another was when I tore out a page from his book because I wanted attention.” Although she always respected her father’s love for books and was environmentally aware, these interests didn’t coalesce until she randomly stumbled upon a copy of her father’s book in the trash in 2004. Cammett became incensed when she discovered that professors and administrators at the School of Social Work were being urged to “purge, purge, purge” before they moved offices from 113th Street to their current facility on Amsterdam. She knew she had to do something. “I put my job in jeopardy by going through the big plastic bags,” she explains. In her eyes, throwing out so many used books only helped to propagate the social and ecological damage that the University claims to be helping to prevent. “Perfectly good books,” she says, that could have been recycled or donated were dumped into the trash. When she personally tried to deliver the cache of books she rescued from the sidewalk to Butler and other university libraries, they could only take “a few hardcover classics.” The majority were left with nowhere to go. After facing rejection from other local libraries, Cammett began setting up cartons outside of her office, visiting used bookstores, and offering her textual treasures to street vendors. When naysayers in her office would challenge her with “you’re supposed to be doing your secretarial work,” she says she would counter, “What does everyone else do when they’re done with work?” In an attempt to connect with like-minded individuals on campus, Cammett joined Earth Co, the predecessor of today’s EcoReps. But she didn’t find the activists she was hoping for. “They did more potluck dinners than they did anything else,” she remembers. “They never missed an excuse to get some beer.” Nostalgic for the political fervor that rocked Columbia’s campus into the late 1970s, she became infuriated by what she sees as a lack of seriousness from her contemporary student counterparts. Proposals for politically correct forms of speaking out, like “corn husk cups for the frats” maddened her, so she pushed for a hunger strike and similarly radical forms of protest. She was rejected. “I felt like saying, ‘What are you smiling about so much?’” she says. “I simply didn’t understand why there wasn’t a sense of alarm. It seemed like they simply hadn’t seen enough of how much suffering and how much damage there is in this world to take what they were doing seriously.” She was asked to leave the student group after her harsh critiques of what she saw as wasting time to “play nicey nice.” Not easily disheartened, by Labor Day 2004 Cammett had over 2,000 books—an amount which prevented her and her seven cats from moving about her living room. “I am going to give them away,” she decided then, “I’m going to pass out these leaflets with my rap song.” She planted herself on Low Steps, handing out used books to curious students, collecting several hundred signatures for her petition, and reading out her rhymes: “When knowledge is gone/it may be gone for good/and let’s not forget that paper’s made of wood/to throw away books kills trees and mind/and shows disrespect for all human kind.” Her beats won her an article in the Columbia Spectator and a meeting with the Office of Environmental Stewardship later that year. Upon meeting with the Office, Cammett was informed that the “Give and Go Green” initiative was already in place to deal with used books. Discarded materials were stored and recycled in an area she calls “the anus of the university”—a disposal and storage garage on 118th and Amsterdam. Unsatisfied with this solution, she notified the Office, pointing out the bins inside of the “anus” were not effectively distributing books to those who had a need for them. In response, the Office granted her permission to sift through the piles and take what she could. And she did—so much so, in fact, that she decided to cough up $600 a year for storage and transportation in order to avoid throwing any of them away until she could distribute the books herself. Cammett ultimately wants the university to establish an on-campus used book and donation center, and she’s collected several thousand signatures in support of such a facility, “where the precious intellectual knowledge that too many of us here take for granted could be shipped to libraries, schools, and cultural institutions in other parts of the United States or the world.” She wants President Bollinger’s approval and even would like her project considered for a small space in the forthcoming Manhattanville campus. In the hopes of securing a meeting with Bollinger, she has written a letter, hand-painted the margins with floral vines, and had it mounted in a gold frame: “Has word about my petition to you reached your ears?” the letter reads, in part. “What can we do with these books? Will the university take the responsibility for this? ... I pray that it will ... Can I have a meeting with you?” But its delivery will have to wait, as her unpleasant dealings with some lower-level administrators have made her unwilling to approach Bollinger without more support and awareness. Still, she’s holding out hope. Flipping through reams of signatures collected over the past seven years, Cammett believes she’s helping to make a difference in the world. “I made a wonderful discovery,” she says. “All across the political spectrum... nobody believes it’s a good idea to throw out used books.”
Daylight hours are still so scarce that once it gets past 5 o'clock, every lampost counts. Bwog mourns the death of this brave Furnald warrior. 
Sports news, for real! Hudson Taylor, Columbia’s new assistant wrestling coach, is pretty awesome. A three-time all-American wrestler while at the Division I University of Maryland, Taylor is also ardent supporter of LGBT equality in athletics. While we at Bwog don’t know what a lot of sports-related terms mean for sure (all-American? Division what?), we can tell he has very impressive credentials. He picked up some press over the break for a video contribution he made back in September to the "It Gets Better" project (Obama did it too!), advocating support for athletes who face discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation. In college, Taylor supported renowed LGBT advocacy group, the Human Rights Campaign, by wrestling with their logo on his helmet. Now Taylor makes an individual effort to encourage equality and respect for all athletes, through his own website, Athlete Ally, where athletes, parents, coaches, and fans alike can sign a pledge to join the cause. There's a lot of negative news out there, but we like to think the compassionate people prevail. 
 Four Columbia professors have been elected fellows of the American Academy for the Advancement of Science. (Columbia) According to a recent Rolling Stone Interview, Weezy won't be coming back to New York, stating "they'd have to give me U2 money" to lure him back. Start fundraising Bacchanal! (Boombox) Kraft created a vending machine that chooses food for you based on your facial expression. Bwog hopes that Kraft can bring this technology to our old friend in Lerner. (Gawker) Starbucks is proud to announce they will start selling their largest drink to date- the trenta. The behemoth beverage packs 31 liquid oz., making it larger than the average capacity of the human stomach. The drink has already debuted in 14 states and should hit shelves here by May 3rd, hopefully in time to make an appearance during finals week. (LATimes, National Post) Image via Wikimedia
Bwog is delighted to present to you the first fruits of what is sure to be a beautiful friendship between Saturday Morning Cartoons and illustrious cartoonist and God O' Bacchanal Jody Zellman. Interested in joining the parade? Cartoonists, artists and illustrators always welcome! Sign up via editors@bwog.com By Jody Zellman
Another semester, another overhaul in the confusing world of Barnard food politics. Bwog breaks down the changes in Dining Services. Lunch Take-Out: Taking a cue from friends across the street, Barnard Dining Services announced in an email that the new Lunch Take-Out program will be sort of similar to John Jay’s. “When you enter the cafeteria and have your ID card swiped, you will need to print your name and time of entrance on a log-in sheet at the check-in counter,” they wrote. We predict this traffic jams galore. During the 11:30-3:00 lunch period, students will use take-out containers to package their lunches. But because of the new option, “the to-go coolers with pre-packaged salads and sandwiches will no longer be available.” Womp womp. Why now?: Dining Services director Al Sorbera explained that feedback from students spurred the development of the to-go option. “"We work closely with the students who serve on the SGA Food Advisory Board, whose members provide feedback on dining services at the College,” he wrote. “Last semester, the students let us know that the previously provided To-go boxes were preferred over the pre-packaged products.” They really do listen! Rumors Dispelled and What’s to come: Although Sorbera says no other changes are currently in the works with Barnard’s meal plan, rumors are swirling that Barnard access to Ferris Booth will soon be restricted. Sorbera says this is inaccurate, but, when Bwog approached the employee at Ferris Booth’s entrance on Tuesday, she mentioned that Barnard students are no longer allowed to eat breakfast there. For now, lunch and dinner are still permitted as long as students have meal plans. She didn't know why these changes were enacted. Oof, it's tough out there in Barnard dining land. In the mean time, eat strong and beautifully! 
 Culture editor Brian Donahoe plumbs the zeitgeist in the Blue &amp; White's regular feature "Man About Town." The newest issue of the Blue &amp; White is on news stands now! It has been joked about since, well, the Millennium, but after a solid decade, our society has finally decided that it is time to embrace the ’90s. Though it may be a desperate grasp at that familiar sense of irony that has characterized all the nostalgic trends of our epoch, it seems curiously genuine this time around. The Blue &amp; White’s Man About Town first came to this realization in September, after having received invitations to two unrelated “croptop”-themed parties in the same weekend. Then, recently, during a campus band’s performance of Nirvana’s “Smells Like Teen Spirit,” he brought up this new trend in conversation. While friends argued— not entirely without reason—that this is nothing new, that ’90s nostalgia has been gradually percolating through popular culture for years, he maintained that what we are seeing now is happening on a wholly unprecedented scale. As the debate unfolded, the song concluded and the band began to lead the crowd in friendly banter about Pogs, those oh-so-’90s plastic discs that have not been seen or heard from since the Clinton administration, before breaking out in Weezer’s “Sweater Song.” And so the Man About Town’s point was made. Then there was the trailer for the upcoming film Friends With Benefits, in which *NSYNC’s own Justin Timberlake and Mila Kunis (who, as a cast member of the now-defunct That ’70s Show, is no stranger to decade specific nostalgia) play two twenty-somethings arguing over whether “Closing Time” was or wasn’t performed by Third Eye Blind (Third Eye Blind!) as the ballad rocks on in the background. It’s by Semisonic, but this is hardly the point. The point is that, in 2010, we have undoubtedly entered a decidedly new phase of ’90s nostalgia. The argument that such a trend is merely the natural progression from a previous fetishization of the ’80s, as a younger generation gains ascendancy in “the culture,” might seem logical enough, but the Man About Town, always with his ear to the ground, suspects something else is at play. In a YouTube video by the comedy group DrCoolSex that has recently been making the rounds and racking up a million hits, we are treated to a mock-trailer for Doug: The Movie, in which a college-aged Doug, from the eponymous Nickelodeon classic, returns to Bluffington to find the world of his childhood changed for the worse. Judy chain-smokes on breaks from her minimum wage job, Porkchop is dead, and Patti is dating Roger. Today, faced with horrible job prospects and an overwhelming array of societal crises, financial or otherwise, the generation that grew up watching Doug before AYSO games yearns to return to the bygone era of Bluffington, with its booming economy and confident American culture, without the onus of too-tight lycra and too-big hair. Yet, they are also the generation that were adolescents in the Aughts, the decade that fully embraced ironic decade-specific nostalgia. As a result, they see themselves as too jaded to actually admit missing the ’90s, and instead funnel their energies into the brand of nostalgia that let us, sort of, relive the quirkier ’60s, ’70s, and ’80s—artificially faded Ramones T-shirts are an industry unto themselves. But when conversation turns to cartoons, pop music, and midriff-bearing garments, emotions are sincere. Our Man presumes to speak for a generation in saying: in a way that no one in 2007 ever felt about the drab ’80s, everyone under 30 wishes, in their heart of hearts, that it were still the ’90s.
 In Hidden Talents, Bwog exposes your classmates as the weird and glorious wunderkinder they truly are. Hannah Goldstein profiles Sarah Tully, BC '13, also known as That Girl Who Beat You at the Irish Dance World Championships. And if you know anyone with a hidden talent, let us know at tips@bwog.com! Sarah Tully leads a double life. The first Sarah Tully is a laid-back, easygoing Barnard sophomore who leads "Consent is Sexy" workshops and majors (tentatively) in linguistics. The second is a team captain, a dance teacher, and a rehearsal director. The first jams to Vampire Weekend, Kate Nash, and Modest Mouse. The second jigs to the bagpipe and plays the Irish bodhron drum at a studio in Midtown. One is a Chicagoan, born and raised. The other is (recently - congrats!) an Irish citizen. Since there is little available dance practice space on campus, Sarah Tully’s Irish-dancer alter ego stays, for the most part, hidden from the Columbia population. But what she lacks in visibility here she makes up for in glory on the international stage---Seriously. It started out in first grade. After falling in love with a performance at Chicago’s annual “Celticfest,” a then seven-year-old Tully began studying at the local branch of the Trinity Dance Academy. Soon she was performing and competing as part of the Academy’s company, even signing on for a three-week tour in Japan. In high school, Tully led her fellow dancers to victory at the World Championship in Scotland, beating the Irish at their own game as captain of the first American team to win the international title. Now Tully is one of the world’s elite Irish dancers in her age group and performs overseas every summer in countries across the world. From her previous trips to Bulgaria, France, Italy, and Belgium, she could probably spend a layover hanging out in the Star Alliance lounge of her choice with all her frequent flier miles. Once a week, Tully goes to practice at the Broesler Academy in Westwood, New Jersey, for an intense session she likens to “a hybrid of rugby practice and a ballet class.” There she executes drills of 250 sit-ups and practices routines in “hard shoe” and “soft shoe,” both of which are required in competitive settings. Back at Columbia, though, Tully is just a normal girl. Rather than returning to Ireland for the seventh time, she plans to study abroad in an Arabic-speaking country and polish her language skills. She has undoubtedly checked off an impressive amount of Irish-dance boxes in her years, from a cameo on the "Today" show to a performance with company-mates at the AMNH Whale Room and a dance piece created by a choreographer from Stomp. However the nineteen-year-old Tully draws the line at the ultimate cliché: “I won’t do Riverdance,” she says firmly. In that respect, one might say the jig is up, but something tells us the world has not seen the last of the second Sarah Tully.
Just before the end of the semester, the Student Affairs Committee of the university senate announced a task force on ROTC. Coming just a day after the repeal of Don't Ask Don't Tell, they seemed remarkably reactive. "Last semester we had an inkling that there could be action by the government in this year about 'Don't Ask Don't Tell,' so the student activities committee wanted to be prepared in the event that there was a repeal," Ron Mazor, the student Co-Chair of the Task Force confirmed. Senator Mazor, CC' 09 and Law School class of '12, was tapped to be the chair of that committee, on account of his "good looks" (funny!). He's never been involved with ROTC issues before, but came to Columbia in 2005, just after the senate last voted on the issue, and for the 2008 undergraduate referendum. He said he honestly didn't know what the senate's stance was this time around (2005's results were 51 against to 13 for reintroduction), nor did he have a sense of the general student opinion, but definitely felt that the repeal very much changed the circumstances: "DADT was really, as well it should have been, a motivating and driving force behind decisions regarding ROTC." The task force is launching a website soon, and organizing three successive town halls in February, in venues that can accommodate over 400 people. Although the total attendance of town hall meetings in 2005 was only about 200, Mazor believed there might be a difference this time around, now that senior administrators including Dean Moody-Adams and Provost Steele have expressed "very very strong interest" in being a part of the meetings. There will again be a student poll, open to all the undergraduate schools, and SIPA. In contrast to the senate's vote, the 2003 student poll saw about 65% voted in favor, and the 2005 2008 poll on NROTC found students were nearly divided 50/50. Once the website is launched, the dates of the meetings will be announced. For now the issue has yet to really gather steam, once it does we will certainly tell you! Further thoughts? The task force is actively soliciting community members opinions via  rotc-taskforce@columbia.edu. Mazor adds: "Our open submission policy is a key part of our outreach, as we want to make sure that everyone in our community who cares about ROTC will be able to express their opinion."
 Because Antoine Dodson is getting his own show! Bwog predicts several new techno remixes to follow. (NY Daily News) And, kids these days are getting high on bath salts! No, seriously! (Gawker) And also, there are primates on College Walk! Well, not exactly. But there were. Sort of. One 2011 Sundance documentary explores the experience of a chimpanzee named Nim Chimpsky (ha!) whom Columbia-researchers attempted to teach to communicate in the 1970s. (LATimes) And last but not least, cat hoarders in Brooklyn! Two Williamsburg fifty-somethings who were busted last summer for detaining and torturing almost 100 cats just became the first couple indicted in NY for animal-hoarding charges. (NYPost) Just kidding—there’s one more reason! It’s the season of exploding manholes! There have been at least nineteen manhole fires since New Years Day, says ConEd. Cue double entendre here. (NYTimes) Image via Wikimedia
Earlier this week, we compiled your profs' most outrageous openers, but then you sent in a few more gems. Below, the stragglers of this semester's silliest: Laura Kay, Stars, Galaxies, and Cosmology "When sending me an email, send it to this address. My other address is filled with spam, mostly regarding body parts that I do not have." Erik Gray, Literary Texts, Critical Methods "I would argue that you do not enjoy reading because it reminds you of sex, but that you enjoy sex because of reading. You might object, but I ask you, which did you do first?" E’mett McCaskill, Abnormal Behavior "If someone comes to class pantsless with just a t-shirt on, are they displaying signs of abnormal behavior? Or are they just hot?" Claudio Lomnitz, Ethnographic Imagination “Do you mind if I shut the door? It’s paranoia….I don’t want to ever have my back to an open door…. it’s a South American thing.” Lejla Kucukalic, Science Fiction “…and film theorists such as Tom Gunning, referred to the reactions to these very early films as ‘an aesthetic of astonishment.’ There was no plot at all, people were just there to see something new and amazing, simple moving images on a screen utilizing new and exciting technology. This tradition lives on today, in Avatar.” Robert Jervis, International Politics "I am going to make fun of some countries: France and Canada. Also, I will make fun of  New Jersey...How can I get through a 75 minute lecture without a snide comment?
You decide! Spotted in the Columbia bookstore: 
The latest issue of The Blue &amp; White is on campus newsstands now, and we’ll be posting all the articles on Bwog.  “At Two Swords’ Length” is a feature presenting opposing opinions on an issue. This month, Adam Kuerbitz and Liz Naiden deliberate on whether you ever truly have a minute. Affirmative I was about to print out my final paper for “Dinosaurs and the History of Life”—long name I know, but I just call it Dinos for short (and, I mean, it is a pretty legit class, ‘cause you know it fulfills the science req and all). I wanted to take that sustainable development class but it met like five times a week, and I was like, “Fuck that, I need my me time.” So, wait, where was I? Oh, so yeah, I was all about to print this paper, when I get a text from my buddy being like “Sorry, man, can’t do Top Chef tonight. Last midterm tomorrow. I’m so stressed!” I was pretty bummed about that, ‘cause there was going to be this Quickfire Challenge about fancy ramen. But you know what? It’s O.K. My role in our friend group is just to chill people out. All my friends back home told me how stressed out everyone on the East Coast would be, but I knew I’d never be like that. And it’s not like I’m not ambitious. I take five classes, and this semester I’ve been doing stuff with the Chillin’ and Grillin’ Society, and I’m even thinking about applying for this internship in Brooklyn or something. I just don’t let those things take over my life, and I have no qualms about pointing it out when other people do. Take my roommate, for instance, who was—no joke—having hot flashes the other day because he was upset over a stupid cover letter. And I was like, “Hey, I’m only going to be 17 percent stressing about this cover letter I’ve got to write,” and then I told him to flip on the Lakers game. I may have to skip Christmas dinner with my family to finish writing that, but I’m just not going to deal with that right now. Or like a couple weeks ago, one of those cute girls from Greenpeace stopped me on the street. She just looked so perky with that clipboard and T-shirt, so what’s the harm in talking to her for a while? I mean, I totally support gay marriage. We talked so long that I ended up being late for a class, but I just told the professor the subway came late. Plus, the canvassing girl and I are going out for coffee next week. Extra-shot soy lattes. See? Only good things can happen when you take a minute out of your day to talk to people, especially the cute ones. Well, mostly good things. I admit I did miss some details about our seminar paper because I was late. I tried to talk to my friend Liz who’s in the class too—she always ignores my Gchats, so I tried to track her down in Butler—but she’s barricaded herself into a cubby behind a wall of books and empty Red Bull cans. Whatever, I’m not that worried about it. These things always get done somehow. She wouldn’t tell me anything about the paper, anyway, so I just told her to chill out. Which she did not. I saw her after her Harvard Law interview the week after, and of course Liz dressed like Hillary Clinton complete with the lemon in her mouth and stick up her ass. It turns out her interviewer didn’t ask her to watch Monday Night Football and have beers with him. Guess that’s what happens when you don’t even have a minute to strike up a conversation.﻿ —Adam Kuerbitz Negative No, I don’t have a minute, you useless post-collegiate fuck-up. Argh, he almost knocked over my extra-shot skim latte with that insipid GreenPeace clipboard. OK, deep breath Liz, calm down, charity organizations are important parts of our society. I truly believe in tolerance. I truly believe in tolerance. (For this mantra, Harvard interviewer, I will never forget you!) I try, I really do, but it’s so fucking hard to be tolerant of someone who obviously is collecting signatures on the street because he got Bs in college, and who asks such a ridiculous question. Do you have a minute? Seriously? Do you see these headphones? This focused stare? Just below eye level of the people walking towards you, unwavering, accompanied by the clippiest power walk I can muster without breaking out into a run. I think that makes it pretty clear that I have somewhere to be. I never, ever have a minute. Take today: I have to run a meeting of the Inter-Columbia Young High Achieving Mentors Society, then make it to my professor’s office hours, schedule an interview with an ambassador for the piece I’ve been asked to write for a very prestigious undergraduate publication, and only after I’ve worked out do I have any time scheduled to go to Butler! I thought about switching my Butler time and my gym time actually, but as I was poised to move them around in my Blackberry calendar I reconsidered (it was SO much easier on the old Palm Pilots… ah the days). If I get a cubby seat I might be able to do better than my 1.8-page-per-hour standard while writing this paper! So here’s what I’ll do: I’ll first set my Gchat status to “SUPER BUSY, INTERRUPT IN EMERGENCY ONLY” (otherwise people don’t really respect the red icon, since it’s usually red) and I’ll set about planning my night. All caffeine, water, and snacks go on the shelf of the cubby desk, while books for my advanced graduate seminar paper are stacked at the upper left hand corner of the main surface. My planner is laid out prominently by my right hand. I could not BELIEVE one of my friends the other day- Adam, that loafer – just sidles up to me and says, “I knew you’d be here, Liz. You always are when you’re being all stressed out! You’re even more stressed out than usual right now, aren’t you? You know what you need to do? You need to cheeeeeeeellllll brah.” Yes, Adam, you know I’m stressed out, and so you come find me to distract me? That makes sense. No, you came over here to show off just how relaxed you are, despite the fact that finals are a less than a week away, and you must have some paper deadlines coming up too—we’re in that seminar together that you keep being late to. You just have to criticize those of us who really care about our work and our commitments, don’t you? —Liz Naiden Illustrations by Louise McCune 
With brown leather straps. Contains red wallet, ID, two pairs of gloves, a scarf, and a Leica Minilux camera. Lost in Mel's last night. Email yp2272@columbia.edu if found, please.
 Psst- What's that you're working on? Rousseau? More like Rou-soooo boring. The Aeneid? More like Ae need a break from this book. Legacy of the Mediterranean? More like Let’s-get-zee hell out of here. Don't read? SEAS? More like if I do any more of this problem set I’m going to have a SEASzure. Phew! Put down those books and come to the Bwog meeting tonight at 7 PM in the SGO on Lerner 5, where we promise free food, friendly faces, and a few bad puns. XOXO, Bwog Image via Wikimedia Commons.
 Once upon a time, coyotes roamed our fair campus. Now the wild canines have migrated to faraway Queens County. (Gothamist) It sounds like a dream, knowing precisely when the next subway will arrive. Now, thanks to Alex Bell, a SEAS grad student, there's an app for that. (NY1) Richard Paul Richman (what a name!), alum of both the Law and B-Schools, donated a cool $10 mil to establish the Richard Paul Richman Center for Business, Law, and Public Policy. (Columbia) A shiny new interdisciplinary science building calls for a shiny new coffee shop. Starting today, Joe the Art of Coffee - dubbed "schmancy" by one Bwogger - will be dishing out caffeine at the intersection of Pupin and Chandler. Review forthcoming! All you native New Yorkers, bid a solemn farewell to the Super Bowl hopes of the J-E-T-S. "RALLY BITTER END" quoth the Post. (NY Post)
 From some of the folks who brought you the good stuff of NOM^3 comes a new on-campus, student-run sustainable food providing venture--4local, a student run business looking to cater to one of your four (coincidence? probably) basic survival needs with simple and downright tasty food. The crew at this punnily named outfit, who cook almost entirely from the EC townhouse suite of one of their team members, will be dishing out food starting today. 4local will be serving one meal a day with an entrée, side and dessert for $8. All payments are now at pick-up, in cash and credit card, although anyone interested in continuing to use PayPal can get in touch with a 4localite. Serving starts on the ramps of Lerner at 12:30 PM on a first-come, first-served basis, so hurry over with a friend for partially free food--bring someone who hasn't ordered from them before and you'll each get a $2 discount on a meal that week.  On the menu for today: Lasagna (vegan and non-vegan option, made with homemade pasta of course) Caesar Salad (homemade croutons, with parmesan or a vegan nut topping) Tiramisu (or local fruit) A bwogger notes: "doesn't look that appetizing in the picture, but it's actually pretty good. The lasagna isn't particularly warm, but I'm tasting what I think is butternut squash, which is interesting for a veggie lasagna. Tiramisu is proving difficult to serve neatly, but it's quite delicious all the same--super creamy with a nice hit of espresso. The caesar salad is just a caesar salad." And that's not all! Stay tuned for yet another on-campus, student run venture in the works: THE CO-OP, a non-profit café and grocery that will also serve as a new community center for students to engage with issues of health and sustainability. 4localites are currently collaborating with FeelGood and Core Foods, and by the end of the semester hope to source organic, locally-grown and ethically produced food to provide groceries, hot meals, and prepared foods to Columbia students at affordable prices. 
One of the greatest perks of an Ivy League education is having all sorts of guest lecturers and talks hosted right on campus. Yet many of these great talks are not publicized enough. Enter Bucket List, a weekly feature that aggregates these events in a single location that will hopefully make you realize, like Bwog has, how special our campus is. Our recommendations for this week are below; the full list is after the jump. We know you're just getting used to lectures again, but have a gander—who knows what you’ll find! Recommended: Tues, Jan 25 “Spidey Sense? Bah! Sensitive Trees and the Environmental Histories They Reveal?” 417 Schermerhorn Hall, 12:15 pm – 1:00 pm, Neil Pederson “The Net Delusion” 1302 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Evgeny Morozov “Violence: Shit, Vomit, and the Pit” 106 Hartley Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Africa-Diaspora Literary Society Discussion Wed, Jan 26 “Information Effects and Human Rights Data: Is the Good News about Increased Human Rights Information Bad News for Human Rights Measures?” 1302 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:45 pm, Ann Marie Clark and Kathryn Sikkink Thurs, Jan 27 “Quarto’s Third Annual S&amp;M (Submit and Mingle) Night” 501 Dodge, 8:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Student Readers Fri, Jan 28 “Cosmic Fireworks: The Explosive Deaths of Massive Stars (Followed by Guided Stargazing)” Pupin Hall (Follow the Signs), 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Maryam Modjaz Full List: Mon, Jan 24 “Foreign Policy Priorities of Ukraine” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, H.E. Okeksandr Motsyk “The Hanumans in One: Rasiks and Yogis in Early Modern Bhakti” 208 Knox Hall, 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm, Patton Burchett Tues, Jan 25 “Spidey Sense? Bah! Sensitive Trees and the Environmental Histories They Reveal?” 417 Schermerhorn Hall, 12:15 pm – 1:00 pm, Neil Pederson “The Net Delusion” 1302 IAB, 12:30 pm – 2:00 pm, Evgeny Morozov “Triangulating Taiwan: Multiple Perspectives on a Contingent Transformation” 963 Schermerhorn Hall, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, John E. Willis, Jr. “Heus tu, rhetorisce: Gellius, Plutarch and Cicero on Roman Study Abroad” 616 Hamilton Hall, 4:10 pm – 5:10 pm, Joseph Howley “Queer Theory Workshop: ‘My Spirit’s Posthumeity’ and the Sleeper’s Outflung Hand: Queer Transmission in Absalom, Absalom” 701 Greene Hall, 4:20 pm – 6:00 pm, Kevin Ohi “Violence: Shit, Vomit, and the Pit” 106 Hartley Hall, 8:00 pm – 9:30 pm, Africa-Diaspora Literary Society Discussion Wed, Jan 26 “Information Effects and Human Rights Data: Is the Good News about Increased Human Rights Information Bad News for Human Rights Measures?” 1302 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:45 pm, Ann Marie Clark and Kathryn Sikkink “The Role of Centralized Sanctioning and Legitimate Authority in Public Goods Provision” 707 IAB, 12:15 pm – 1:30 pm, Guy Grossman “U.S.-North Korean Relations: Where Do We Go from Here?” 918 IAB, 4:30 pm – 6:00 pm, Joel Wit “Faith Misplaced: The Broken Promises of U.S.-Arab Relations: 1820-2001” 1512 IAB, 6:00 pm – 8:00 pm, Ussama Makdisi Thurs, Jan 27 “The Dayton Accords: Are They Inconsistent with European Perspectives for Bosnia and Herzegovina” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Muhammad Sacirbey “De-Racializing Rawls” 716 Philosophy Hall, 4:10 pm – 5:30 pm, Charles Mills “Writing Nonfiction Dialogue” 413 Dodge Hall, 7:00 pm – 8:30 pm, Stacy Schiff “Cinema Thursday: Roberto Succo” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Film “Never Again for Anyone” 304 Barnard Hall, 7:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Hajo Meyer, Hatem Bazian, Hedy Epstein, and Dawud Assad “Quarto’s Third Annual S&amp;M (Submit and Mingle) Night” 501 Dodge, 8:30 pm – 10:00 pm, Student Readers Fri, Jan 28 “Humanitarian Work in a Changing Climate: On the Ground with the Red Cross in Asia” 918 IAB, 10:30 am – 12:00 pm, Alex Mahoney, Pablo Suarez, and Kristy Kelly “Kyrgyzstan’s New Parliamentary Democracy: Opportunities and Challenges” 1219 IAB, 12:00 pm – 1:30 pm, Karganbek Samakov and Kuban Taabaldiev “Declaring Mother’s Day in Russia: Laws and Decrees in a Super-Presidential System” 1219 IAB, 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm, Thomas F. Remington “Biomarker Windows on Marine Production and the Sedimentary Record” Monell Building Auditorium, Lamont-Doherty, 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm, Ann Pearson "Visual Arts: Winter Lounge—Arts Exhibit Opening Reception” 310 Dodge Hall, 5:00 pm – 7:00 pm, Art Exhibit “Cosmic Fireworks: The Explosive Deaths of Massive Stars (Followed by Guided Stargazing)” Pupin Hall (Follow the Signs), 7:00 pm – 9:00 pm, Maryam Modjaz Sat, Jan 29 “L’Adaptation, De La Page A L’ecran Et D’une Culture A L’autre” Buell Hall, Maison Francaise, 10:00 am – 4:00 pm, Philip Watts, Sophie Queuniet, Marie-Helene Koffi-Tessio, Samuel Skippon, and Pascale Hubert-Beibler 
 Last night's CCSC meeting began at 8:03 instead of the usual 8:05 because there was a general consensus that it was important to get back to watching the Jets game as soon as possible. Brian Wagner, Bwog's sideline reporter, has the latest. The Council began with a review of its autumnal accomplishments. 9 resolutions were passed: of those 6 were implemented, 2 should go into effect in the coming weeks, and 1 will require more work during the semester. A grab bag of updates followed: Bacchanal is reportedly close to determining who will be performing this year, but is keeping quiet. Fancy new publication racks for Lerner have been chosen and should be ordered soon. An update on the CUEMS situation is in the cards for next week. Last but not least: 7 of 9 proposed dining changes proposed have been put into practice, including a new à la carte take-out window at JJ’s Place - which everyone should check out and tell all their friends about, otherwise it will be taken away again if it isn’t deemed popular enough. That would be sad. At one point several side conversations broke out and were brought to an abrupt end by an exasperated cry of “JETS GAME!” that brought everyone back to the business at hand. The Office of Multicultural Affairs has teamed up with Mayor Bloomberg for the Love Love Hate Hate Campaign, which opposes hate crimes of all natures and stands in support of diversity, equality, and acceptance. Asked to support the initiative, CCSC voted in favor. Finally, the Council was given a preview of the various issues it is aiming to tackle this semester: Gmail vs. Cubmail (aka Cubmail sucks), refining the Global Core, discussing the fallout of Operation Ivy League as it relates to Housing Guide/Drug Policy/Judicial Affairs, streamlining the convoluted process of University Space Reservation, trying to make sense of and simplify the restrictions regarding alcohol policies at group events, extending Hamilton’s hours (so the CC-ers can have somewhere to go read poetry and wear scarves or whatever it is they do late at night while the engineers are working in Mudd), create deadlines for final grades (since many people are under the impression that there actually aren’t any), and Service Learning. Finally, the Council will decide whether it is prudent to take a stance on ROTC. The meeting clocked in at just over 40 minutes and everyone was left early. That’s all, folks. Go Jets! . . . oh wait. Too soon? 
 In the latest issue of the Blue &amp; White, contributor Michael Adame chronicles the prohibition. Yeah, we know you still have some in your fridge. There’s not much more to be said about Four Loko; blogs and newspapers alike have breathlessly chronicled the overly social beverage’s quick march into oblivion. In the depths of this frigid winter, Four Loko has vanished, and we are from here on out frozen and alone. And yet a dash of hope remains. Several enterprising freshmen (who, for fear of retaliation from authorities legal, academic, and familial, remain unnamed) recently organized a rescue expedition to a local distributor of the drink. Suitcases in tow, they bought “cases upon cases on the cheap” as a preventative measure ensuring future “shwasty fun,” as one hoarder crowed. The group espouses a particularly topical brand of libertarianism, decrying what they see as unacceptable overreaching of an unaccountable government. “It should not be up to the government to decide what is and is not good for us to put into our bodies,” a Four Loko-ite explained. “We should be able to make our own decisions based on personal responsibility and common sense. Four Loko is composed of FDA-approved substances. In a sense, if it is banned, it seems logical to ban other things that are not good for us in large doses—Big Macs, Sonic Blizzards, John Jay food, etc. Why is the government not banning these things?” She also added that to ban anything that is so “fizzy, fast and fruity” is exceedingly nefarious. After the Four Loko ban went into effect, one fraternity hosted a party commemorating the drink’s reign on campus. These thrifty brothers also deployed wheeled suitcases and backpacks on a border-crossing Loko run, but refused to divulge the source of their secret stash. A spokesman for the party (CC ’13, name withheld as, “My mom reads Bwog!”) told this reporter, perhaps justifying the nature of the evening, “Four Loko deserves a place in everyone’s household. This is America. Banning it here, it will only increase binge drinking. Plus, it forces us to go to Connecticut or New Jersey. New Jersey!” New Jersey aside, there’s something funny about the nature of these protests and the way they perfectly mimic what passes as America’s latest culture war. In a poetic twist, the Columbians up in arms aren’t quite the lefties of yore; instead, they more closely resemble the Tea Partiers, unhappy with airport security procedures and the authoritarian behavior of the Food and Drug Administration. Perhaps this strict small-government logic would take hold on campus if the drink in question weren’t so, you know, disgusting. While one generation finds in the ban inspiration for their age appropriate anti-authority rallies, more experienced members on campus view this hoarding and mourning as utterly boring. Rosario Quiroz, CC ‘11, offers that despite her reputation as “the go-to person for Four Loko in my group of friends...in all honesty, it does not do much for me.” She does admit that since the announcement of the ban she has Lok’d up on the sweet nectar at least twice, taking advantage of an 8-for-$20 deal. As student desperation grew, driving up prices in neighborhood bodegas, Quiroz balked and stopped hoarding (although her roommate does maintain a closet for this exact purpose). “I refuse to pay more than $2.50 for the drink. was disgusting but convenient. R.I.P. Four Loko...I’m ready to get back to vodka.” And so perhaps this is how it all ends: radical dissidence gives way to cold, hard capitalism, while the faithful stock up as if for the end of the world. The rest of us, meanwhile, return to a familiar alternative: the $12.99 handle of Nikolai from International.
 The Northwest Corner Building needs a new name. Seriously ("this location of Joe will also soon offer beer and wine"), we can't just wait around for somebody to donate enough money to change it - we need to take action. So Bwog calls upon you, brave readers, to generate a witticism of the highest order and leave it in the comments! We'll put the best ones in our poll and then you will have played a part in making something a thing.
Dearest friends, The staff of The Blue &amp; White (pictured at right) requests that you join us for our first meeting of the year! We convene tonight, Monday night, at 9:00 p. m. in the basement of St. Paul's Chapel. We'll talk first about our magazine (which you've been reading on Bwog all week) and how you can get involved, and then discuss your witty and most stimulating ideas for our upcoming issue. New writers, illustrators, and copy editors are especially welcome! As always, class snacks will be provided. We very much hope to see you there! Sincerely, The Editors.
Found on street at 8 PM on 1/18/11 near 116th and Broadway. Correctly ID the brand and it will be returned to you. cmd2159@columbia.edu
Huzzah! It's new, it's now, it's...Bwog Events! Please direct your attention to our super spiffy events sidebar, courtesy of Bwog tech guru Hans Hyttinen. Click on the Events on Campus link and, by the magic of the Internet, you'll be taken to a snazzy Google Calendar of events run by students groups. Upcoming happenings are listed directly above for reference. Submit to the calendar with the online events form, or if you're still feeling nostalgic for the ol' backwards days, email events@bwog.com. We'll keep posting the Bucket List every Monday with recommended academic events and lectures sponsored by departments and other University-affiliated organizations. The Bucket List link on sidebar will lead you to the most recent post. Every Thursday, we'll have a weekly arts round-up with separate sections for on-campus student-run productions, department-run events, Miller Theatre offerings, and off-campus Columbia performances. To get on this list, e-mail editors@bwog.com. "But Bwog," you say, "my event deserves more than a mere mention on your round-up or a silly spot on your calendar." So buy an ad! It’s only $10 per day. Buying a Bwog ad is like flyering in a place where thousands of people pass by everyday without wasting paper! And if you want a more official justification, email ads@bwog.com and ask about our uber-fancy media kit. As always, if you have any questions, don't hesitate to ask us: editors@bwog.com.
 No, it's not just Butler Wi-Fi... Courseworks is down! According to CUIT, they're doing "emergency work," but everything will be back to normal at 11pm. So hurry, that's about 22.5 more music videos you can watch guilt-free! Update, 12:36 AM: Relax and go back to work!  Courseworks is back up.
Black and gray with the Coach logo. Lost in John Jay. Email ghb2113@columbia.edu or call (707)-812-8761 if found, please.
 All sorts of plans grace the headlines today: President Obama is to lay down his blueprint for economic recovery tonight. (NYTimes) Blueprint appreciated: Barnard's Diana Center is the recipient of the American Institute of Architects 2011 Honor Awards for Architecture. Someone who knows the blueprints of NYC: Columbia University's Professor Kenneth T. Jackson (of midnight bike ride fame), Professor in History and the Social Sciences who also really loves spaghetti. (NY Mag) A lesson in planning--a blueprint gone wrong: How not to peddle information from Disney. (NY Post) Image via Wikimedia
Good morning! Bwog's pal at CUPS, Shamm Petros, shot this picture of your classmates hurrying to class through the thick flurries. Please please wear earmuffs today, and keep sending snowshots to tips@bwog.com. 
Zoe Camp reports from this week's SGA meeting Representatives from Bacchanal mentioned that this year's concert will likely use all of the allotted funds provided by both BC and CC. The headliner for Bacchanal has been picked at the desired price, but there's no word on who it is. The details haven't been finalized, but there may be a concert planned in conjunction with WBAR. Students can now check out books at the Barnard Library for the entire semester! Longer hours at the Barnard Weight Room- 12:30 to 10 p.m. as opposed to the previous 4 to 10 p.m. There was interest expressed in initiating a pre-election soapbox to discuss problems and concerns. There will also be more town hall meetings this year. Possible guests for 2011 SGA meetings: the usual suspects—Dean Hollibaugh, DSpar, directors of facilities, etc. Greek Games are tentatively planned for mid April. A general interest meeting is to be held next Tuesday, 7-8 p.m. The Barnard Blood Drive is going to be held on Friday, February 4th from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. There's a shortage of O positive blood—and blood in general—so donate! 
Sean Zimmermann reports from the first ESC meeting of 2011. Since Senior Class VP Eric Hirani is graduating early, Senior Class President Amanda Tan announced that she will accept applications to fill his position until end-of-day on January 28th. Class council VPs are chosen internally by current members of the class council, along with two other members of ESC's E-Board. Kamal Yechoor, SEAS '11, runner up for Senior Class President last year and Class President from 2007-2010, announced that he intends to run for the position. has withdrawn his name. Good news, everyone! SEAS Senator Tim Qin reported that the registrar will now publish exam schedules “as early as possible.” In the past, the registrar did not release exam schedules until late in the semester because the schedules occasionally need minor changes. Qin reports the register will now release this information earlier... Whether or not you'll be able to book your flight in time still remains to be seen. JJ’s Place will now offer à la carte items for students without dining plans. This responds to a common complaint since JJ’s switched from a pay-per-item grill/mini-mart to a dining hall at the beginning of last semester. 
Watch Hawkma serenely tear at the remnants of her latest victim (RIP, unsuspecting city pigeon). Your mild fascination and disgust will probably not be enough for your attention span to hold out for the whole minute and ten seconds of video, but check it out anyway: Their vicious lacerating techniques may appear the same, but is that really grounds enough for us to believe this bird is our Hawkma?
While Mr. Gump might beg to differ on the issues, life, and chocolate, tips from around campus have given us a pretty good guesstimate of what boxed goods you'd find awaiting you, depending on the day of the week. 
Bwog likes to hop, and we encourage you to do the same. Amid the craziness of the EC courtyard lies the glorious Heyman Center for the Humanities. Last night they released the full Spring 2011 lecture schedule, featuring intellectual heavy-hitters like David Harvey and James Fenton. You should go! You get to snuggle up to smarter superiors and sometimes they have good snacks. Complete Schedule of Events Spring 2011 THOMAS CROW &amp; TIM GRIFFIN "Whither Contemporary Art?" Wednesday, 26 January, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center CHRISTOPHER RICKS "Just Like a Man? Dylan and the Charge of Misogyny" Tuesday, 8 February, 7:00pm Sulzberger Parlor (3rd Floor, Barnard Hall) Co-sponsored by the Barnard Forum on Poetry and Poetics JOSEPH KOERNER "Enemy Painting: Carl Schmitt and Hieronymus Bosch" Thursday, 17 February, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center JAMES FENTON "Representations of Childhood" Wednesday, 23 February, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center Co-sponsored by the Department of English JAMES FENTON A Poetry Reading Thursday, 24 February, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center The Edward Said Memorial Lecture: AHDAF SOUEIF Title TBA Tuesday, 8 March, 6:15pm Second Floor Teatro, Italian Academy ASHIS NANDY "Gandhi in Our Time" Wednesday, 9 March, 6:15pm Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center DAVID HARVEY, SITARAM YECHURY, PRABHAT PATNAIK, JAYATI GHOSH, C.P. CHANDRASHEKHAR, &amp; DUNCAN FOLEY "What Does 'Imperialism' Mean in an Age of Global Finance?" a symposium over two evenings Monday and Tuesday, March 28 and 29 Time and Location TBA JOSEPH STIGLITZ, PRABHAT PATNAIK, Y.V. REDDY, &amp; KAUSHIK BASU "India During and After the Global Financial Crisis" Wednesday, 30 March, 12:00pm 301 Uris Hall Co-sponsored by the Committee on Global Thought The Lionel Trilling Seminar: NGUGI WA THIONG'O Title TBA Friday, 1 April, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center The History and Theory Lecture: JOAN SCOTT "Cilo's Unconscious" Commentator: Ben Kafka Monday, 4 April Time and Location TBA Co-sponsored by the Consortium for Intellectual &amp; Cultural History STEFAN COLLINI "The Idea of the University: Newman and Now" Monday, 11 April, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center CHARLES LARMORE "What is Wisdom?" Discussants to be announced Wednesday, 20 April, 6:15pm Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center Co-sponsored by Villa Gillet ROBIN BLACKBURN "Marx and the United States" Thursday, 21 April, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center JOANNA PICCIOTTO &amp; ANNE-LISE FRANCOIS "Science, Religion, and Aesthetic Experience in the Light of the Secular" Monday, 2 May, 6:15pm Second Floor Common Room, Heyman Center Co-sponsored by the Department of English EDWARD ALBEE in conversation with Evangeline Morphos Tuesday, 3 May, 6:15pm Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center
 Edwidge Danticat was born in Haiti and graduated from Barnard in 1990. The success of her early semi-autobiographical novels and short stories has made her one of the most prominent writers to come out of Morningside Heights and an important figure in the Caribbean Diaspora. Although Danticat has been busy on tour for her new collection of essays, Create Dangerously: The Immigrant Artist at Work, she found a moment to speak with the Blue &amp; White's Managing Editor Emerita Mariela Quintana about her work, her community, and her home. FYI: Danticat will be speaking at the Brooklyn Public Library this Thursday night at 7pm! It's free! Blue &amp; White: What is the art scene like in Haiti now? How has it changed since the January Earthquake? Edwidge Danticat: After the earthquake there was a momentary pause because a lot people lost their family members and they had to worry about the business of survival. But soon some of the writers were blogging about the earthquake and about what happened to them. And immediately artists were writing and painting. The week of the earthquake itself, on the cover of The New Yorker was a painting by Frantz Zephirin, a painter from Haiti. What he shared with other artists is that they all immediately started to use what they to get out a broader sense of the catastrophe. For the writers, it was words. One of the things that was a lot more visible this time around was that the people who lived in Haiti were able to tell their stories to the rest of the world with the new social media, including the artists. The people who have always written have continued writing, but many people who have never written before have started writing some for personal relief; some for their children, you know, as a response therapy. So, yes, art is alive and well in Haiti. B&amp;W: As a Haitian-American writer how do you view yourself in relation to Haiti? In the USA, you are certainly one of the more prominently known artists coming from and writing about Haiti – do you identify yourself as the artistic voice of Haiti or is this a label you recoil from? ED: My feeling is that I am one of the many voices from Haiti. I know the community and I am part of the community. I see myself as one of many others. I don’t see myself as the artistic voice. I try to when I can, as best as I can, bring attention to other voices. B&amp;W: When writing about the earthquake, who is your intended audience? Are you writing for the people of Haiti, for the people here in the USA, for yourself? ED: All writers write for themselves, or at least everyone says it and it’s probably true. So when I write, my primary audience is myself. I write because I’m interested in myself. And I write to explain certain things to myself, really. That’s who I see as my audience. And then for everyone else who wants to be there and part of my life and a part of this process too. But I ultimately write as a way of understanding things better. B&amp;W: So was writing about the earthquake a means of recovery or mourning for you? ED: Oh yes, it was a way of participating in the larger mourning. I lost family members in the earthquake, so it was a means of dealing with the need to mourn for them. That’s the only way I had. When I lost my father and I lost my uncle, I found that that was one way of healing. So when you’re part of a larger healing process with dozens or hundreds of people, you go back to your roots and begin to collectively tell a story. B&amp;W: One theme you touch on in Create Dangerously is the inability to actually leave Haiti or home though you have actually physically left. What accounts for this dislocation? Where do you consider home? ED: Home is sort of wherever I am at this point. (laughs) I consider Haiti my home island. I have a lot of family there. I feel very connected to it. I’ve lived in the north where I also have family. So that’s some sort of home too. I think one thing is that when you’re young and you leave the place where you were born, it becomes clear in your mind that home is wherever you end up. It’s not that I’m extremely passive about home, but at this point I do feel like I could make my home anywhere. I take it with me. What makes home are these attachments, these familial attachments, friendships and memories. If you have that, wherever you are you can make it home. B&amp;W: Is this something that you find unique to your own personal experience? Or something that is shared with other people or artists in transition? ED: No, it’s not unique at all. Especially these days, where migration is such a part of people’s lives. And even people who never leave the country they are from, who don’t cross national borders, who just move from rural to urban or urban to rural. I think everyone has that feeling. But I’m not in anguish, I’m not agonizing over it because I have my work. Making my work is home and I create home in my work. I take whatever that is with me. Is it a particular piece of ground or a particular state of mind? I don’t think so because I’m not attached to anything in that way. B&amp;W: This notion of the diaspora gets thrown around a lot in academia how does it translate to real life? How does it translate to art? Is it something you’re conscious of or try to avoid? ED: The notion of the diaspora is real in the sense that when you’re physically away from the place you were born, then you immediately become part of a larger community of people outside the country you were born. Haiti is interesting because it’s a mixed bag. Everyone who lives in Haiti has a family member who lives in the diaspora. Whether they’re in Miami, Brooklyn, the Dominican Republic. Unfortunately, there becomes a homeland-diaspora friction, which in the end is a family affair. There are lots of people who leave Haiti to support their family financially, so that becomes a push and pull. And in the midst of all these social and academic notions of diaspora, there’s also transnationalism and the fact that you can create your own identity once you leave. And that you can get to New York and get past the diaspora. But even then, you can still be a part of it. Even if you feel like the diaspora is far away and that you’ve gotten past it. In that sense, there is sort of a transnational diaspora. B&amp;W: Your name often is associated with other literary celebrities of the Caribbean Diaspora Junot Diaz, V.S. Naipaul to name a few—does being a part of this group motivate you to speak for people of the Caribbean or the people of Haiti? ED: There’s nothing telling me I need to speak for the people of Haiti. They can speak for themselves directly. I think it’s very dangerous to say or to feel you’re speaking for anyone. I’m not speaking for anyone, I’m expressing my own individual view of the world, of my world, of Haiti, of my situations and it happens in some cases that you record the experiences of others. I think that’s certainly what Naipaul is trying to do and Diaz too. It’s what everyone is trying to do. No one is trying to form people. No one can. We tell our individual stories in the hopes that we can tell part of a larger story. A lot of people may tell different pieces of it, I know Junot and I know for a fact that he’s not trying to tell the story of another and Naipaul in his writing is certainly clear about that. We each have very individual experiences that converge. Each of us is trying to create work that somehow emerges out of both our individual experiences and our communal experiences in hopes that it in some way tells a larger story. But we’re not trying to speak for an group. B&amp;W: One theme that comes up in both Breath, Eyes, Memory and more recent works is silence and the need to break silence. This manifests itself both in specific character traits and on a broader national and political level what compels you to write about, or against, silence? ED: I spent the first twelve years of my life under a dictatorship, my parents had as well, and spent much of their adult life under a dictatorship. Silence was a big part of that. There was so much you couldn’t say. Then I had the personal experience with my uncle who was a minister who fled Haiti after Aristide’s departure. For him, that was ultimately born of the possibility or the hope of working against silence. So all of those experiences, both personal and political if you will, the experiences of the larger community, the managing of silence, you know, what do you say in the face of a dictatorship, how do you say it, all of that was something I wanted to explore in my work. How does the artist get around that silence? B&amp;W: How do you feel about recovery? Where should we look for hope? In continuing aid, support from abroad, the involvement of celebrities like Wyclef Jean and Angelina Jolie? ED: We should put our hope in the Haitian people. I was telling people if we want to support Haiti, then we invest in initiatives that empower Haitians. There’s no one in Haiti who thinks there’s a magical solution. But there is so much ingenuity and so much will and motivation. They work wonders with very little. So when we work with organizations that empower Haitians to help themselves, that’s when we have the most hope. That’s pretty much how the country’s been maintaining itself for the past two hundred plus years, simply by Haitian people supporting other Haitian people. B&amp;W: Do you see the trauma the earthquake caused as draining energy away from these empowerment efforts or reinvigorating them? ED: In some quarters, it’s a motivating factor and motivating greater effort and awareness. In the diaspora, for example, outside of Haiti, you have more people wanting to get involved. More people are looking for ways they can contribute to the country which is great. Unfortunately, it also opens up new avenues of exploitation...There are certainly plenty of people who see this as an opportunity to make money in Haiti. They see the potential of billions of dollars coming in without thinking about the welfare of the people. B&amp;W: Is this non-profit organizations or specific individuals or political figures? ED: In a lot of cases it’s aid groups, in other cases it’s government. Haiti is primarily supported by NGOs. That’s something that’s been okay and we do have some invaluable NGOs. But if we had a more positive relationships between NGOs and progress, in the local sense, then we would have a different country. B&amp;W: In the context of development, how feasible is sustainability for Haiti? ED: In the past, whenever the Haitians have tried to develop on their own, they get their legs cut out from under them. Years ago, during President Clinton’s presidency, he encouraged Haiti to cut tariffs and import rice from the American South. It may have helped farmers there and provided Haiti with cheap rice, but it destroyed farmers here. Now we have no means for agriculture and agricultural development. It’s like every time we try we’re undermined. B&amp;W: Are topics of sustainability, progress, and politics on people’s minds and in their conversations and something that works its way into your writing? Or is it reserved for political discourse among legislators and policy makers? ED: It’s all connected. Much like it is here, politics, the everyday and writing, for me, is connected. You can write a novel about anything, no matter how political or technical, that affects a person’s life on daily basis. In Haiti, this is even more so simply because it’s a smaller country. And so political issues have a local resonance in everyday life. B&amp;W: When you sit down to write, where do you find inspiration? Current events? Your family life? Moments of introspection? Or does it change on a day to day basis? ED: I definitely have an idea way before I sit down to write. Even though the sorts of things I write about deal with people and what they’re thinking about and how they relate to their environment, they can go beyond me and beyond my head. It can start from a moment of dialogue. Or it can start from something that occurred from something I’ve seen or something I’ve read. Writers are like sponges. Something you read about now can be something you end up writing about five months, ten months, ten years down the road. B&amp;W: Do you have ideas for a next project or are you taking a moment to let your mind settle? ED: I never let my mind settle because I think, and fear, it’s settling all the time. I’ve been working on a book of fiction for about five years, so on January 1, on 1/1/11, I’ve told myself I’m going back to it.
Bwog welcomes you inside our brain as we experience the new Joe... "It's like Soho, except cleaner (for now). A Mac-lover's refuge! But no outlets and they'll probably need more tables. The chairs are surprisingly light (don't weigh much). Flooded with sunlight with pick-up sticks molesting peripheral vision from above." "Espresso drink sizes are 8 and 12 oz, regular coffee drinks are 12 and 16 oz due to the milk to coffee ratios. Coffee is very flavorful, 10 cents more than Oren's and you can get in a bowl or a mug. ...And the to-go cups have smiley faces!" "This latte is quite mellow and smooth (almost delicious, infinitely drinkable) compared with their au lait, which tasted like coffee, water, and milk instead of coffee and frothed milk." "Tiny spoons, they're cute! Amelie soundtrack is playing. Everyone's happy." "For Joe's staff, coffee is not just caffeine fuel, but an art form created in a chem lab. They're impressively obsessive. Berets and ironic mustaches abound!" "They got a 26 in Zagat a few years ago." "They're hiring if you know how to do latte art . They're also offering some kind of barista courses. Free cupping Thursday 3pm, where you savor the beans. Like a wine tasting or something, but just with a funnier name." "The scones have no sugar." "iPad cash registers. I wondered where they would put the money? The iPad's not connected to the drawer though. Cashier reminiscent of Jennifer Aniston. She agrees that 212 coffee is horrendous." "Escalators to campus level!!!!!!! First escalator in an academic building." "Coming soon: BEER AND WINE."
 You are invited to watch the State of the Union Address with CPU, the "only non-partisan group on campus," and eat their free pizza. From them: Loud cheers, snarky comments, and polite applause are all welcome. Stop by tonight from 9:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m at the Lerner Piano Lounge.
Snow promises great things and while scattered cries for a snowball fight didn't materialize today, we do have a few pictures of the sights the fresh snowfall brought with it. Photos by Evelyn Warner. Stay warm and sweet dreams, all.
Reward!!!! Contact as3761@barnard.edu
 Lawmakers are considering a ban on the use of electronic devices while crossing streets.  Should we hold hands too? (NYT) A peach-faced lovebird, native to southwest Africa was found in Morningside, and nobody knows where it came from. (DNAinfo) Good news for B-school kids: apparently MBA job opportunities are on the rise.  (Bloomberg) A trophy-for-everyone: 57% of NYC restaurants got an 'A' letter grade.  Some people like it, some don't.  (NYPost) A Bronxman's car was seized by police on account of his son's crime, so he drove it back home from the precinct and is mad he got arrested. (FoxNews) Image via Wikimedia
 A Bwogger passing by Wien this morning noticed this peculiar new addition to its architecture: the door on the right now has a large crack in its window and is covered in caution tape. One Wiener we spoke to said it wasn't bad it enough for cold air to seep in, but it is still pretty unsightly. And we note that the last thing residents of Wien probably want to see when walking outside is their door yelling "caution" at them, as if hurtling them into an existential crisis---but we digress. (Although seriously, be cautious there today, kids! It's like a real blizzard or something.) Theories abound (snowball? battering ram?), but if you have any concrete info about this, please let us know in the comments. In other door-related news, the gates at Carman are locked: not sure how creative you can get with those, but calculate this into your walk to class! Update, 11:32am: Columbia has now issued a Weather-Related Update, noting all the gates that are closed: Earl Hall, Chapel, CEPSR, Carman, and John Jay. The school plans to remain open today and tomorrow. While maintenance looks like they're doing a great job this morning keeping walkways snow-free, just remember to take a little extra time and stay safe out there! Update, 1:10pm: The gates at 120th are closed too. Update, 3:29pm:  Caution tape!  Even that weird gate by Fayerweather is closed. Photos by EQ, MMT
Since midterms are far off, Bwog knows you've avoided the sad place of Butler.  Hopefully you've only felt that singular blast of hot air in passing, rather than embraced it.  Hopefully you've only seen the dreary denizens thereof, rather than been one.  Whatever your Butler predilections, Bwog reminds you that Butler is both very alive as well as very, very rancid.  Behold the Red Stripe left on the benches, and unmentionables on Butler 5.  The semester has started. 
Bwog just received word that there is (good!) free food at CCE right this minute, so go swoop in like vultures!  Email below: Due to a canceled event tonight in Low, there is now a ton of food available for the taking at CCE. Stop on by East Campus for some delicious food! Liz King Assistant Director, Programming Center for Career Education, Columbia University Update, 1:01 PM: The free food has been identified as "healthy stuff" composed of carrots, hummus and "random veggies."  The same anonymous tipster on the scene reports it is "hardly a ton...a small table spread."
Here's the first QuickTix summary of the decade! Tickets sold for on campus events this week: 611 On campus events on sale now: The Colored Museum: January 28th &amp; 29th, 2pm, 7 pm &amp; 8pm, Lerner Hall Black Box, $5 w/CUID, Tickets. Columbia University Dance Marathon 2011: January 29th-30th, 1 pm-7 am, Lerner Party Space, $10, Tickets. Egg and Peacock 24 Hour Theater Festival: February 5th, 8 pm and 11 pm, Lerner Hall Black Box, FREE, Tickets. Tickets sold for off campus events this week: 2204 Off campus events on sale now: John Gabriel Borkman at BAM: February 2nd, 7:30 pm, $27.25, Tickets. Nixon in China: February 9th, 8 pm, $28.50, Tickets. Wicked: February 15th, 7 pm, $58, Tickets. Spider-Man: February 16th, 8pm, $47, Tickets. Nixon in China: February 19th, 8pm, $48.50, Tickets. Met Opera: Armida: February 23rd, 8pm, $28.50, Tickets. 
FYI from CUIT: According to a message posted on the homepage, Courseworks will be down from 8 PM to 12 AM tonight.  Worry not, friends!  The IT powers that be say Courseworks is "working well," but just needs some tweaking to "increase performance."  So download that assignment now!  No need to  wait 'til ten o'clock and be a Procrastinating Patty!  Remember, last time Courseworks went down it took CUIT a bit longer than expected to get it back up, and we don't want any unrest.  Full message below: CourseWorks and Sakai will be unavailable TODAY Wednesday Jan 26th 2011 from 8 PM to 12 AM. At this time CourseWorks and Sakai will be moved to their own dedicated database servers. This is being done to ensure service reliability and increase performance. CourseWorks and Sakai are working well now and we continue to closely monitor them. We regret the inconvenience this will cause (01/26/11 8:40am) Update: According to its homepage, Courseworks will NOT be down for maintenance tonight after all. See the update below. 
The veteran Thinker faces a cold-blooded challenger.  Unfortunately the newcomer's fate may be out of his hands: it's supposed to rain soon. 
You’ve heard of them. You may have seen them—pet them even. But to be certain, you have lived under their ever present shadow of doom. Bwog speaks of cats. And not just any cats, but the cats that live in the grocery stores, bars, and coffee shops of our dear neighborhood. You know you’ve spent hours in Butler looking at stupid cat pictures/videos, so read a little about the feline overlords of 10027. Hungarian Cat As indie as the average Hungarian customer, the Hungarian cat leads a life of quiet (and ironic) desperation. The cat is rumored to avoid phonies, and approaches only those who have read Pablo Neruda in the original Spanish. Better leave that Twilight and Shel Silverstein at home. This cat wants to hand roll a cigarette and talk some Nietzsche. Milano Cat The grey and skinny Milano cat is very friendly, but you must approach slowly and in plain sight. After living in a cramped shop with 4-6 giant gourmet sandwich makers, the cat is understandably very quick to get out of your way if you are walking towards it. The cat can usually be found peering out from behind the cheese section, but has been known to venture as far out as the bread roll case. Patrick Ryan’s Cat(La Salle and Broadway) This cat lives a dangerous life, and is thus rarely seen. Patrick Ryan’s is that place where you go and get way too drunk and always plan on going back but–let’s be honest–is too far North. The Patrick Ryan’s cat dodges trashed regulars and ventures outside into the dark alleyways and cold streets. Morton Williams Cat Not much is known about this cat, but it is probably expired and overpriced. Photos above by CS &amp; AJ. Here are some gratuitous cat pictures. 
 Bwog decrees the 2011 battle has begun. Get your asses out there! Go get 'em! Remember, as of right now, classes aren't canceled, but the University does say that "conditions are subject to change."
 PoliticalLine: Our very own Jeffrey Sachs (director of Columbia’s Earth Institute) did not approve of Obama’s State of the Union Address. Media caught up with him on a bus from Zurich to Davos. That’s usually where Bwog goes, too, to express disapproval. (WSJ) HawkLine: Apparently we’re not the only news outlet with a thing for hawks. While comforted by this recent outburst of hawk-news, we’d like to think that Hawkma could take either one of these guys in a pigeon-eating contest, or whatever it is that hawk drama consists of. (CityRoom, NPR) EconomyLine: Columbia’s $6.5 billion endowment performed the best out of all Ivy League endowments last year. Yale’s was the worst. Ha. (Bloomberg) JealousyLine: Speaking of other schools, we thought we should break it to you early that NYU has a snow day, while we do not. Blerg! (NYU) StressedFreshmenLine: An annual survey of college freshmen reveals today’s record levels of stress, compared to the past 25 years. We feel that this excess of stress can be attributed to lack of snow days. And, also, because school officials don’t use Columbia’s (best performing!) endowment to buy a lot of snacks, and then keep them in accessible places around campus, all the time, though we try to compensate for this. (NYT) Image via Wikimedia. 
As you awake this morning to news of no snow day, we will attempt to comfort you with some cool pictures of Columbians frolicking around college walk (wearing varying degrees of appropriate snow clothes). 
Oops! Today's page seems to be missing from the almanac! (We did discover, however, a page of the Facebook variety - they have joined our good friend International in the realms of social networking.) However the farmers market is open, with 5 farms expected. It's a good day for cider and donuts! 
 Because of the snow, Dining has confirmed that a couple changes in the normal dining facility schedules will occur today. Take note: Ferris Booth is closed The cafe on the ground floor of Dodge is closed (though we only went there for James Franco sightings, anyway!) Cafe 212 is open The cafe in Butler is open John Jay opened at 9, and will remain open through 8 pm Image via WikiCU.
 Two Business School students with those CBS backpacks, in front of Lerner: "Everywhere that's not in Uris seems so far away..."
 Right now! Go find the CU Dems in front of Low to low-cate some free hot chocolate. And in case you were wondering about the ruckus in Butler 209 last night, it was all part of the Dems flyering campaign. Moral of the story: You'll never get real work done in 209.
 The Columbia location of Joe will be having a free "cupping" event today at 3 pm. After turning on our Safe Search settings, Bwog learned that a "cupping" is what coffee aficionados call a tasting event.  So head over to the Northwest Corner building (everyone hates its name!) this afternoon for good coffee and bad jokes about fondling.
 A few months ago, Malcolm Gladwell discussed social media's limits in a New Yorker article with the above subtitle.   Journalist and researcher Evgeny Morozov may not share Gladwell's beloved frizzy halo of hair, but they both recognize a dark side of internet activism. Evgeny Morozov spoke at the Journalism School on Tuesday about The Net Delusion, his recent analysis of social technology in authoritarian regimes. Bwog's resident Online Security Expert Jason Donenfeld reports... Having most probably just finished Dawkin's The God Delusion, an anxious audience murmured in fear of having their new deities of Facebook and Twitter crushed. After working for NGOs that promoted “new media” for social justice, Evgeny Morozov began to suspect that organizations like his own were doing more harm than good. He saw evidence not just of government censorship, but also of governments paying bloggers to publish propaganda and large government projects to scour social networks to learn how best to squelch opposition activists. Eventually he left his organization to investigate just how much an impact–for better or for worse–the Internet has had on activism in authoritarian countries. Morozov claimed that our fundamental incorrect presumption about the Internet is what he called the “dictator’s dilemma”: either a country can keep the Internet out, and thus exclude themselves from the global economy, or they can let the Internet in and be eventually usurped by protestors well organized through websites like Twitter. In reality, however, autocratic powers have figured out how to let the Internet in without the supposed massive undermining consequences, not just through firewalls and censorship–as in the case of China–but through tracking and surveying. Governments can easily learn which activists are associated with one another, what their plans are, how they acquire funds, and the like. There have even been reported instances in which governments have crawled Facebook for pictures of an anti-state protest, and then created a fake “crowd-sourcing” website that encouraged viewers to identify their “friends” in the pictures. Arrests came swiftly after. In Belarus, the government went so far as to request a cellphone company to query the identities of all cellphone users who were located in a particular square during a protest. And just last week in Tunisia, the government attempted to access protestors’ Facebook accounts. Of course, Morozov made sure to remind us that our own government undoubtedly has similar interests. Just as he mentioned this last fact, the girl next to me logged onto Facebook and updated her status with an enthusiastic blurb about what an honor it was to see Morozov in person, most likely feeling particularly witty at her own self-aware irony. But it is a real issue, asserted Morozov, while looking directly at each of the fifteen others wielding social technology as he spoke. The US is pushing a diplomatic agenda of Internet freedom, while at the same time actively spying on its citizens at home. Their programs for promoting freedom through technology are also not well thought-out. The US designed a program for Mexico whereby witnesses of drug violence could send a text message to a special number to report the crime. This plan received wide positive media coverage, when in reality, no actual cellphone carriers in Mexico were willing to support the service, because they were unable to ensure the anonymity of the messages. The carriers were aware that criminals could easily intercept these messages, a small fact the US government and the media chose to ignore. In general, the US media, according to Morozov, lacks the “critical rigor” to speak sensibly about the real effects of the Internet. Last year’s protests in Iran received intense media coverage for being a “Twitter Revolution”, when in reality, there were only sixty tweeters located in Iran. The rest of the tens of thousands of tweets were generated by media coverage. We all left feeling slightly dejected that our treasured way of wasting time might possibly be responsible for the continuation of authoritarianism around the world. On the elevator downstairs, I looked up at a depressed crew of journalism PhD students and gleefully asked, “So are you all going to tweet about it?” I received nothing but double-death-stares, until the doors opened and one particularly embarrassed girl murmured, “I tweeted during the lecture. I didn’t know what else to do. I had to.” On the same day, Twitter was credited as being an enabler of massive demonstrations in Cairo. The following day, Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook was hacked.
Try your hand at whipped cream tossing, tonight at 8 pm in the first floor McBain lounge. We can only hope that what happens in McBain stays in McBain, and with colossal self-control, we will now end this post. Plus: To pre- and postgame all that tossing of whipped cream, head to the third floor of Hillel (606 West 115th St.) for free challah braiding and tasting (or should we say cupping?). The festivities, hosted by Columbia's Challah for Hunger group, will occur from 5 to 7ish. The litmag Quarto will also have lots of free food at it's annual S&amp;M (what is it today?!) reading, at 8:30 in 501 Dodge.
 You might not know the following figures—but you should. In Campus Characters, the Blue &amp; White introduces you to a handful of Columbians who are up to interesting and extraordinary things and whose stories beg to be shared. If you’d like to suggest a Campus Character, send us an email at editors@theblueandwhite.org. Magazine contributor Helen Bao profiles Brendan Hannon, CC '11. A sure-fire way to find Brendan Hannon, CC ’11, is to follow the sunshine. Specifically, to follow the sunshine to Low Steps, where more often than not, Hannon will be sitting in one of his favorite tie-dyed t-shirts, strumming a mandolin, and asking you to sit next to him. “I’d say the steps are my legacy,” says Hannon, who identifies his occupation as “A Man of Leisure,” on his blog, Diary of a Brendan. As a New York City native, it may be that Hannon is just used to the weather, but he does stay out on the steps much longer than others who flee inside to Butler. “I draw the line at 50 degrees,” he says. Hannon’s fondness for the outdoors doesn’t stop at Columbia’s urban beach. His white-blond hair gives him away as a member of the Columbia Sailing Club, and he can often be found giving impromptu outdoor concerts with fellow members of Columbia’s bluegrass band, Lion in the Grass. “ is a really joyful type of music,” says Hannon in all seriousness. “Everyone who plays it is having a great time, and it’s hopefully contagious for the audience.” Hannon’s gusto certainly is contagious — in his third year as an RA, he boasts that his study breaks and events are the best on campus. Even the Res Life forms he’s required to write up are enthusiastic. “Paperwork and I don’t really get along, so I put ridiculous things in it,” he explains. These things include medieval spellings of words (“I threw a whole bunch of ‘e’s on the end”) and describing a weekly study break as involving a “magical war where people did battles against the demons of studying.” ResLife appreciates Hannon’s imagination — he was named last year’s RA of the year for the South Field block of dorms. And as RA of Carman 12 this year, he’ll graduate Columbia having only lived in freshman housing. “I’m a perpetual freshman,” Hannon says. “Minus the enthusiasm. I’m a jaded freshman.” Some of his jadedness may stem from a run-in with the law last summer, a bizarre tale involving a potato gun, maple syrup, and the Canadian Mounties. Last year, Hannon was arrested for firing a potato gun at a wall in Riverside Park, as one does. Justice was swift: Hannon spent a few hours in jail and had to appear in court. The charges were eventually dropped. But fastforward to that fateful day this past summer, before his good name was cleared. Hannon describes The Canadian Incident matter-of-factly: “I was on a road trip with a few friends to Nova Scotia. We wanted to eat maple syrup, you know, the usual, but then I was stopped at the border.” When asked by a border patrol officer if he had ever appeared before a judge, Hannon did the stand-up thing, and replied yes. As a result, he’s banned from Canada for 10 years. “I’m too dangerous for the Canadian wilderness,” says Hannon. European officials have yet to comment on the threat Hannon poses to their continent. While his brush with Johnny Law might suggest otherwise, Hannon is planning an auspicious future for himself. Right now he is looking into entry level positions as a geologist working in mineral exploration. “Eventually, I’d like to save the world, or at least contribute to its well-being,” Hannon wrote in an e-mail. For now though, he is affectionately known to three classes of freshman as the affable RA with the almost-white beard who always keeps the men’s room stocked with condoms.
After a few unfortunate experiences with a certain caffeinated alcoholic beverage last semester, we at Bwog decided to turn over a new leaf. Our New Year's Resolution? Keep it classy, baby. Indeed, Bwog has been sharing our appreciation of the more refined tastes of the Columbia culinary community for quite a while now. Today, however, we begin our journey into uncharted territory—the world of mixology. Join us as we explore fancy drinks with the Columbia Bartending Agency in our new weekly feature! This week, the CBA's Managing Director David Shiovitz introduces us to the Peanut Butter and Jelly: One of the first drinks I fell in love with is the Peanut Butter and Jelly.  The liquid form of the childhood favorite sandwich, this drink has all of the grown up sophistication of your typical cocktail, without the sticky mouth result.  This drink can be served shaken on the rocks (one of the CBA staff favorites), as a martini, or scaled down to a shot. Ingredients: ¾ oz Vodka ¾ oz Amaretto ¾ oz Frangelico ¾ oz Chambord 3-4 oz Cranberry Juice (to fill cocktail) Directions: Shake ingredients on ice.  For martini, strain into a chilled class.  For the shot form, use ¼ oz of each liquor and ½ oz cranberry and strain into a shot glass.
"Mark Zuckerberg's most valuable friend" and TED lecturer extraordinaire, Sheryl Sandberg, will speak at the Barnard Commencement. Girls, you're in for a treat. The Facebook COO is known for her superb speaking skills and business savvy. A tireless advocate for woman's leadership, Sandberg managed to pierce the Frat-boy bubble of Facebook and become Zuckerberg's go-to woman. Meanwhile, she juggles a family back home. On why we have too few female executives, Sandberg insists: "woman systematically underestimate their own abilities." Sure, many have discussed the career woman's balancing act, but it's still refreshing to hear someone explain it all so eloquently and genuinely. 
Bwog's new thursday feature, Where Art Thou?, is here to keep you posted on what's going on in the A&amp;E department in Morningside Heights. If you'd like your vegan performance installation listed, email us as events@bwog.com. A Midsummer Night's Dream, hosted by Columbia's School of the Arts at the Riverside Theatre. Tonight at 8 p.m. with talkback, showing through Saturday. Reserve tickets through email: pr@columbiastages.org. Free. WBAR's Spring Campus Showcase, tonight at 8 p.m. in the Diana Black Box. Free. Quatro's Third Annual S&amp;M Night, a reading of submissions for the Creative Writing Dept's litmag, tonight at 8:30 p.m. in 501 Dodge. Free. CU Dance Marathon 2011, tomorrow at 1 p.m. in Lerner Party Space. BTE's The Colored Museum, beginning tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Lerner Black Box and running until Saturday evening. $5 CUID, $6 Without. Jake Snider Band opens for Chiddy Bang, Saturday at 8 pm, Irving Plaza. Be sure to be on the lookout for upcoming auditions for theatre and dance groups, arts lovers! Bon weekend! Photo via Wikimedia Commons
 If you're not already too full and exhausted from all the Joe cupping, hot chocolate, challah braiding, and whipped cream tossing, then brace yourself for late night snacks! Between 11 pm and 1 am tonight, the Lerner Party Space will host a Columbia kickoff for the 2011 Relay For Life. So walk, jog, or stumble over from Campo for finger food (Spring rolls! Taquitos!) and mocktails.
With training shoes and track spikes. Email sae2117@columbia.edu.
Lip balm in the left coat pocket. Reward Offered. If found, please call 973-600-3840.
 New York schools are increasingly suspending students for even minor rule violations. Just ask Postcrypt. (NYT, Spec) Columbia econ celeb, Joseph Stiglitz, criticizes Obama’s economic policies while talking to media at Davos. Why does that sound so familiar? (Bloomberg) Criminal Sexting! Barnard TA, Igor Sorkin (of no relation to Aaron), was charged with texting naked pictures to a police officer posing as a 14-year-old girl. (Spec) Rachel Sterne, a 27-year old adjunct professor at the B-School, is now New York City's first Chief Digital Officer. Bwog hopes she'll let us add Bloomberg on Facebook. (Capital) Columbia has started administering OWL tests to some grad students. Next, there will be magical duels on the Steps. (PRLog) Another one of the countless reasons to deactivate Facebook: it will suck your soul dry... science proved it! (Slate) Columbia students get good grades! Keep studying, kids! (Spec) Image from Wikimedia Commons
Need to add a class? Well, fire up SSOL and get busy because today is the last day to add classes! Can't decide what to take? Bwog has suggestions for those planning to die or graduate soon and those who appreciate professorial wit. Don’t worry if you add a class today only to find out it requires real work. You can drop classes anytime until February 22nd. Unless you’re in SIPA. Image from Wikimedia Commons
 Huzzah! The votes are in and the winner of Bwog’s "Name the Northwest Corner Building Before Some Other Rich Guy Pays To" poll is... NoCo! Thanks to you, the Northwest Corner Building now has a name befitting its slick architectural style and the shmancy Joe's Coffee inside.
A roundup of yesterday's snow shenanigans: Check out a video of the the snowboarder here. Overheard at the scene: "Well that was anti-climactic."
Cold and tired? Let Bwog's resident culinary expert Matt Powell show you how to make a simple, delicious, and above-all warm meal in this week's edition of Cooking With Bwog. Tomato Soup (Serves 4) Because of the cold weather, my friend Hannah called me early in the day, asking for a simple soup recipe. (Clam chowder might be a bit complicated for some people.) We put together an easy, All-American dinner that is perfect for these chilly winter nights: Cream of Tomato Soup with Grilled Cheese. It’s just “like mom used to make”—except better! Plus, it satisfies that craving for tomatoes even though tomatoes are not in season. Ingredients 1 Large Can Diced Tomatoes 1 C beef broth 1 Small Onion 1 tbsp. whole cloves Salt and Pepper to taste Dried basil Pinch of baking soda 1 ½ C heavy cream Fresh basil, for garnish Directions Peel the onion, but do not chop it. Take the tablespoon of whole cloves and stick them into the onion. In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, combine the canned tomatoes, the beef broth, and the clove-onion. Bring this mixture to a boil and reduce to a simmer. Simmer with the lid on for 30 minutes. Once the 30 minutes are up, remove the clove-onion. Carefully transfer the contents of the saucepan into a blender. Blend the mixture carefully (Hot liquids expand in the blender) until smooth. Once the mixture is smooth, pour the contents of the blender back into the saucepan. Place the saucepan over medium-high heat again. Add in the spices. Stir with a wooden spoon to combine. Continue to stir while you add the heavy cream in a slow stream. (Adding the cream slowly will prevent the cream from curdling.) Taste the soup. Adjust the seasonings to your liking (I like to add a little cayenne pepper, personally). Serve in soup bowls with basil as garnish and with grilled cheese sandwiches. Grilled Cheese Sandwiches (Serves 4) Ingredients 8 slices of fresh French Bread 4 tbsp. butter, melted 4 tbsp. pesto 3 C grated cheese, your preference (I used a mixture of two Gouda cheeses.) 4 small handfuls of arugula Pepper Directions Brush one side of each piece of bread with the melted butter. (This will be the outside of the sandwich. Buttering the bread allows for that pretty golden-brown look.) On the un-buttered side, smear 1 tbsp. of pesto on 4 of the slices of bread. Distribute the grated cheese to the four sandwiched and place the arugula on top of the cheese. Sprinkle a bit of pepper on top of the cheese. Place the four other slices of bread on the top, with the buttered side on the outside. Grill your sandwiches on a portable grill or in a skillet over the stove. Serve immediately with your soup. 
Features Editor Mark Hay investigates how Columbia quietly influences world politics in the latest issue of The Blue &amp; White. Standing at the podium in the Low Library Rotunda at the 2009 World Leaders Forum, then-Prime Minister of Nepal Madhav Kumar Nepal began his address with a declaration of thanks to SIPA Adjunct Professor Jenik Radon. Most seated in the audience that day paid no attention to Nepal’s acknowledgments, but his expression of gratitude should have come as a bit of a surprise—by the standards of celebrity, the leader of an entire nation had thanked an associate professor, a near-nobody. It turns out Radon is far from a nobody in international circles. In fact, he helped craft the original Nepali Constitution in 1990, earning him the prime minister’s thanks that day in Low Library. He helped negotiate the construction of one of the world’s most important petrochemical pipelines, and he practically wrote Estonian corporate law. With such grand accomplishments, why, then, is Radon not more popularly known? Why is he not a Joseph Stiglitz or Brian Green? This lack of professorial fanfare is par for the course at Columbia, at least where internation achievements are concerned. The faculty directories of SIPA and the Law School and even the undergraduate schools are filled with D-list professors who have had A-list impacts on the world, so much so that a large portion of the world’s people today are living directly or indirectly under some form of Columbian authority because of professors like Radon and their students. It’s perhaps not surprising that Columbia could influence the world in such a way—as a worldclass institution, the University is well-equipped to produce movers and shakers—but it does so quietly. That may explain why most people will name Harvard and Yale when asked to name the universities with the most political influence. After all, Harvard and Yale dominate the Supreme Court, have played a part in educating every single major party presidential candidate since Reagan, and contribute a sizable portion of Congress’ membership—Harvard, for example, will send more alumni to the floors of Congress this year than Massachusetts will send congressmen. This is not to say Columbia grads have no political influence domestically. We won’t soon forget that night in 2008 when President Obama won in a landslide, of course, sending the campus reeling from that strange beast known as school spirit. We can also lay claim to Central Intelligence Agency Director George Tenet, US Attorney General Eric Holder, Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg. “Not a shabby record,” says SIPA Vice Dean for Academic Affairs Robert Lieberman. But to focus on domestic politics is to underestimate the true scope of Columbia’s influence—since the mid-20th century, the legacy of global governance at Columbia has been richer and more expansive than those of Harvard, Yale, and the rest of the Ivy League. As detailed in David C. Engerman’s Know Your Enemy: The Rise and Fall of America’s Soviet Experts, Columbia’s location in a global city like New York and its exceptionally strong Russian studies program made it an epicenter for training a generation of intellectual and political innovators. Many of the massive federal funds funneled towards Columbia went toward influencing pedagogy and impacting policy in the world, such that over the years, as Engerman notes, Columbia wound up besting Harvard in metrics like the number of scholars produced and government positions held by alumni to become one of the primary forces for democracy in national academia and in the larger world. With that top spot came plenty of responsibility, as Columbia had a hand in many of the major democratic experiments of the post-World War II era The now-defunct Republic of China, early Taiwan, portions of anti-Soviet Africa, pre-Soviet/Taliban Afghanistan, pre-Saddam Iraq—all of these nations hosted Columbia faculty and alumni in the highest levels of government, many of whom worked on constitutions and other policies that would far outlast their personal political power. Similarly, Columbia had ties to Soviet glasnost and perestroika through alumni in Mikhail Gorbachev’s administration, and the College, Business School, and Law School can be proud to have produced Li Lu, leader of the Tienanmen Square protests. And those aren’t even the biggest impacts Columbia can claim to have had on the world. Different academic niches within the university have wrought their own changes on global politics, reflecting a singular institutional culture that has dominated Columbia for several decade. These changes all point toward a drive to export Western academic formulations of development and democratization, with its most profound influence felt on the structures that rise above presidencies and prime ministers—the creation of documents and the institutionalization of ideals that have ordered the modern world. Here, the shining example is B. R. Ambedkar, Columbia alum and architect of the constitution of India, the document that has governed the operations and ideals of the world’s largest democracy for more than 60 years. Ambedkar’s constitution pays homage to its American counterpart with a strikingly federal structure and, at several points, nods to socialist forms of economic theory as well as debates over isolationism that were both raging in institutions like Columbia around the time Ambedkar was a student. Or consider our dear economist and Professor Jeffrey Sachs, who, before his leadership in sustainable development and the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals, was known as “Doctor Shock” for advocating his “shock therapy” macroeconomic policies in post-communist nations worldwide. His strategies—though steeped in the Cold War preoccupation with exporting Western economic growth models to promote democracy— instantaneously liberalized markets in countries like Bolivia, Poland, and Russia, for better or for worse. And this is to say nothing of Columbian sociologists like Seymour Lipset, whose theory that economic growth and improvements in standards of living promote stable democracy, have changed the ways policymakers develop and implement economic initiatives, foreign policies, and development plans. But these are just three people—the total scope of Columbia’s global governance is unfathomable. Every professor involved in SIPA, the Law School, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and Columbia College contacted for this piece indicated that Columbia has had even more of a hand in world politics than meets the eye. Many were able to list this scholar or that who impacted this constitution or that theory or gave birth to this field or that norm. But no one was able to provide a comprehensive list, or even an abbreviated list within his or her field. In part, this is indicative of Columbia’s lack of pomp and revelry concerning its success in determining the current shape of the globe. “CU doesn’t make much of international connections,” said Associate Professor of International and Public Affairs Maria Victoria Murillo. Based on her experience as a Ph.D. student at Harvard and a former member of Yale’s faculty, Murillo believes that “the development offices and administration at Harvard and Yale are always making the connection. Everyone knows about and it reinforces networks with funding that is specific and linking students and former alumni. I don’t see that here... even though SIPA at least should have tons of connections with policymakers.” According to Robert Jervis, the Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Affairs, Columbians pepper influential mid-level posts in governments the world over, but “CU has never built up the apparatus needed to track its graduates—that’s one reason our fund raising has lagged.” Not that there haven’t been attempts to build such an apparatus, though. Huber recalls that former SIPA Dean Lisa Anderson “once tried to compile info about” Columbia’s global influence, but never managed to complete a full document before leaving the university to accept a position at the American University of Cairo. It is admittedly difficult to calculate the global impact of an Ambedkar, or even a Radon. But it may be crucial to begin improving that tracking capacity if Columbia wishes to retain its seat at the head of the class when it comes to international influence. Harvard, for any shortcomings it may have on the global scale, still manages to pull in millions in alumni donations every year precisely because of such successful alumni networking. Even conservatively estimating, the political, economic, and social work of Columbians holds sway over at least one-fourth of the world’s population today. Not a shabby record at all. Whether we ought to be proud of that legacy remains a separate question. Certainly the recent disorder of Nepal, or the hardships often brought on by Sachs’s shock therapy ought to give us pause, just as the tenure of so certain presidents and legislators ought to give pause to Harvard and Yale. But for now, we may proudly say that the sun never sets on the empire of Columbian thought and influence—if only because we have no way of easily locating where the borders of that empire begin and end.
In a press release today, the University Senate announced a "comprehensive three-part process in the spring 2011 semester to address the Reserve Officers Training Corps and other issues related to the University’s engagement with the Armed Forces of the United States." The full press release is after the jump, but here are some takeaways: The eventual goal is to provide the Senate with information to adequately make a recommendation on Columbia's relationship with armed forces, including the issue of ROTC on campus. The Task Force has launched a non-partisan website with background history of ROTC on campus and information about what further actions could take place in the future. There will be a series of hearings held in February to provide a "forum for individuals to discuss the issues in an open and constructive manner." The hearings will take place on February 7, 15, and 23. On March 4, the Task Force will submit a final report reflecting student opinion to the Senate. NEW YORK, January 28, 2011—The Columbia University Senate Task Force on Military Engagement announced today a comprehensive three-part process in the spring 2011 semester to address the Reserve Officers Training Corps and other issues related to the University’s engagement with the Armed Forces of the United States. The goal of this process is to provide the University Senate adequate information and context to issue a recommendation on Columbia’s engagement with the Armed Forces of the United States by the end of the 2010-2011 academic year, including formal participation in the Reserve Officers Training Corps. The process will be non-partisan in nature with a focus on listening to the opinions of the University community. First, the Task Force has created a non-partisan information resource website. This website does not advocate for any side, but rather provides basic information on the Reserve Officers Training Corps program, its history at Columbia University, and additional ongoing exchanges with the Armed Forces of the United States. Relevant historical documents are also made available. The website may be found at http://www.columbia.edu/cu/senate/militaryengagement/. Second, the Task Force will hold a series of University-wide public hearings. These hearings will provide a forum for individuals to discuss the issues in an open and constructive manner. The hearings will be open to all Columbia University ID holders, and endeavor to address specific segments of the University community. Each hearing will be hosted by a major University leader. Details of the hearings are as follows: Monday, February 7, 2011 – Focused on the general University communityOpening remarks by Sharyn O’Halloran, Chair of the Senate Executive Committee 417 International Affairs Building (Altschul Auditorium), 8 PM – 10 PM Tuesday, February 15, 2011 – Focused on the undergraduate populationOpening remarks by Michele M. Moody-Adams, Dean of Columbia College 309 Havemeyer Hall, 7:30 PM – 9:30 PM Wednesday, February 23, 2011 – Focused on faculty and graduate studentsOpening remarks by Claude M. Steele, Provost and Dean of Faculties 417 International Affairs Building (Altschul Auditorium), 8 PM – 10 PM Third, the Task Force will actively solicit opinions from the Columbia community. The TaskForce welcomes all submissions and has established the rotc-taskforce@columbia.edu e-mail address to collect feedback, statements, and other reactions from members of the Columbia community. The Task Force will also distribute a poll to students of Columbia College, the undergraduate population of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, the School ofGeneral Studies, Barnard College, and the School of International and Public Affairs, to record opinions about Columbia University's engagement with the Armed Forces of the United States and the Reserve Officers Training Corps program. “By polling all schools that have had any level of student participation in ROTC in the past five years, we have tried to make the poll both broad and representative,” said Ron Mazor, CC ’09,Law ’12, and Co-Chair of the Task Force. “At the same time, we hope that our open submission policy will ensure that everyone in our community who cares about the issue will be able to express their opinion and provide feedback.” The Task Force will then submit a final report to the University Senate. The report will include a reflection of campus opinion and a comprehensive record of the debates, discussions, and reactions to the Task Force’s events. The report will be published and made publicly available prior to the University Senate meeting of March 4, 2011.
 Homemade PB&amp;J cocktails can be a lot of fun, especially if you're broke, but what if you want something a little more...classy? Thanks to Columbia Bartending, you can now get a taste of class even on a Four Loko budget. Luckily, the Columbia Bartending Agency is here to help. They're holding a free martini tasting at 9pm in Mathematics 312. Image from Wikimedia Commons
Imitating Wikileaks—it's a thing! Assange-wannabes across the globe are creating their own whistle-blowing websites. (Reuters) P. Diddy is being sued for $1 trillion by a woman in Los Angeles for, among other things, causing the 9/11 terrorist attacks, putting her son (who he apparently fathered) in the hospital, and stealing her poker chip worth "zillions of dollars." Bwog thinks people need to cut down on the hate. Diddy's just a bad boy for life. (NME) Recession? What recession? Goldman Sachs head honcho Lloyd C. Blankfein gets a hefty raise this year, moving up from a paltry $600K to a $2 million annual salary. Damn, it must feel good to be a banker. (DealBook) iPhone/iPad credit card swiping—it's a thing too! Yet another reason to love going to Joe's at the NoCo. It's cutting edge! (The Week) Kim Clijsters wins the Australian Open singles title! Check out more Australian Open coverage here. (NYT) Photo via Wikimedia Commons
Columbia University recently announced that Ralph Izzo, SEAS '79, will deliver this year's SEAS Class Day address. If you haven't heard of him, let it be known that Izzo is kind of a big deal. With a BS and MS in mechanical engineering and a PhD in applied physics, Izzo has graduated from Columbia quite a few times, so we imagine he's heard his fair share of Class Day addresses. As Chairman of the Board, president, and CEO of the New Jersey-based Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG), Ralph Izzo "makes things work for you." PSEG is a company that specializes in "safe, reliable, economic, and green energy," so Izzo takes his environmentalism very seriously. As Dean Peña-Mora states in the university press release, “Ralph Izzo is a national leader in the fields of energy, nuclear policy, and climate change, all areas that greatly impact the world today...He exemplifies how engineers are making a difference across the globe, helping to solve complex problems that we all are facing and making the world a better place in which to live.” On the whole, Izzo looks like a good guy, even if he is from New Jersey. Photo from Forbes.com 
Today, Columbia's Application Development Initiative (ADI) launches DevFest, a week-long technology/business development experience. The group plans to host a series of lectures and workshops, with guest speakers like Matt LeMay of bit.ly fame and Anoop Ranganath, the lead iPhone developer at Foursquare. Fred Wilson from Union Square Ventures will be present at the culminating "Demofest." As Bwog webmaster Hans Hyttinen tells us, "It's a big fucking deal." Head over to CEPSR's Davis Auditorium at 1 p.m. for lots of free food at DevFest's kick-off event—a Hackathon! Bwog hopes it's as exciting as it looked on The Social Network.
Bwog's Off-Off-But-Actually-On-Broadway Theater critic Matt Schantz reviews the semester's first Black Box production: As the lights went up in the Lerner Black Box theater, Rebecca Clark, CC ’13, invited the audience aboard the Celebrity Slave Ship and instructed them to fasten their shackles. The audience tensed, unsure if they should laugh or cringe. Much of the Black Theatre Ensemble’s production of The Colored Museum treads this line between comedic and grim, to great effect. The Colored Museum, written by George C. Wolfe, tells the story of Black America’s struggle with its identity through a series of 10 satirical vignettes. The scenes range in length, style, and tone, and the three student directors do an excellent job pacing them. Slower pieces, such as the haunting “A Secret Soldier,” are couched between more comedic, punchy scenes. The entire play runs a little over an hour, making each vignette short and sweet. The set is minimal; most scenes are adorned with little more than a boxes or a table. Costumes are more elaborate and just as effective, doing no more than contextualizing their respective characters. The lighting is simple. This leaves the audience to focus on the play’s greatest facets- the strong performances by each of its 12 actors and stellar directing. The Colored Museum’s best moments lie in the extremes of the tragicomic spectrum. Jessica Johnson, CC ’11, and Ann-Kathryne Mills, CC ’14, had the audience in stitches with their sassy banter as two wigs in “The Hairpiece”- a feat all the more impressive considering their bodies were obscured, leaving them to act with only their inflection and facial expressions. Walter Jean-Jaques, CC ’14, provided another comedic highlight with his animated romp about stage as the caricature of an extremely disgruntled man. Jonathan Dunn, SEAS ’11, acted the play’s most serious solo roles excellently and gave The Colored Museum a solemn core. In “Soldier with a Secret” his face was lit harshly from above as he haunted the audience with a war story. His final whispered lines elicited shivers. Tipsily toeing about the stage as Miss Roj, in “The Gospel According to Miss Roj,” he delivered a disturbing soliloquy on gay black culture spiced with just enough humor. Though less active than the other scenes in the play, Jonathan’s scenes kept the audience entranced with his mastery of voice and pace. Excellent student acting makes The Colored Museum’s dark humor shine. Whether looking for satirical commentary on black culture or just great student acting, look no further. Catch the show today at 2 P.M. or 8 P.M. in the Lerner Black Box. Tickets are available at the TIC.
It's Saturday morning (okay fine, afternoon—Bwog had a rough night). Enjoy the cartoons, friends. You can move onto reading actual words after you've had some coffee. Baby steps. Cartoons by Jody Zellman 
Lost yesterday in Butler. It has a red background when the phone is turned on. If found, please call 917-856-6580 and enjoy a reward!
More free food! The Middle Eastern Cultural Appreciation House (MECAH) is hosting a recruiting event for those interested in joining the house next year. Lots of free middle eastern desserts and tea will be served! 5pm in the first two suites on the first floor of Claremont.
Internship, schminternship! In Hidden Talents, Bwog exposes your classmates as the weird and glorious wunderkinder they truly are. Bwog's Jack-of-All-Trades Matthew Schantz brings you a profile of the high-flying Logan Donovan. Would you like to share your talent? Is your talent exposing other people's talents? If you satisfy one or more of these conditions please let us know via tips@bwog.com Logan Donovan is an engineering student at SEAS, but her suitemates introduce her as the “skydiving girl.” Her enthusiasm for the sport is obvious. While discussing her passion in a recent interview, I hardly had time to ask any questions as she interrupted herself to explain a specific piece of gear or drop me some lingo (airports are “drop zones,” a backpack is a “rig,” most dramatically, the sign up kiosk at a drop zone is a “manifest window”). Some people think of life in terms of money, or family, Logan thinks of her life in terms of jumps. She made her first jump a few days after her 18th birthday while flying over New Zealand. While for some, metaphorically flipping off gravity for the first time would be horrifying, Logan recalls her first jump with a grin. She remembers thinking to herself, “Oh that’s cool, I just wish I could do that every weekend,” but didn’t consider getting her license, a process that usually takes 2 to 3 months, at the time. It didn't take much longer for her to come around to the idea. She got it in two and a half weeks. Skydivers joke that once you get your license, you quickly lose touch with your non-skydiving friends. As Logan put it, jumping out of planes with strangers “creates an unusual bond.” Skydivers chat at the drop zone, exchanging tips and tricks, and at the end of the day “everybody stays, hangs out, and you’ll crash on somebody’s couch.” Thanks to their tight-knit communities, drop zones grow their own culture, often manifested in quirky games. At a drop zone Logan frequented in Virginia, jumpers set up a circle of cans for skydivers to compete to “take out as many soda cans with their feet as possible.” Another event is called the “swoop and chug.” The goal is to “land as close as possible to the cooler, grab a soda, and chug it. Your time is from the second you touch down until you finish your soda.” Currently, Logan frequents a drop zone outside of Poughkeepsie named “the Ranch.” Every Friday, divers compete for accuracy while trying to land on a target the size of a dinner plate. Winner gets free dinner. Logan’s enthusiasm for the sport coupled with her nonchalance in the face of freefall is contagious. By the end of my interview with Logan, I was eyeing the sky through Lerner’s glass façade and asking if the weather was good enough to skydive the next day. I’m not her only (potential) skydiving convert: Logan convinced her mom (who loved it) and had Dean Peña-Mora willing to jump with engineering students clutching a Columbia engineering flag before the general council said that it’s “not something the school is willing to do in terms of liability” (but, pleeeeasse PrezBo?!). While club requirements and logistics have kept Logan from forming a Columbia skydiving team, she is still more than happy to bring any daring souls with her to the Ranch. To contact Logan about skydiving, email her at cuskydiving@gmail.com. My first 6 Months of Skydiving from Logan Donovan on Vimeo.
